-- Bad Debt Seen at Decade High by Arcil in Dire Case: India Credit
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-02-05T06:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/bad-debt-seen-at-decade-high-by-arcil-in-dire-case-india-credit.html
Bad loans at Indian banks are headed
for a decade high as the slowest  economic  growth since 2003 and
 Asia ’s highest  interest rates  strain corporate finances,
according to the nation’s largest debt reconstruction company.  “This is the time to act as we are progressively heading
toward a dire situation,” P. Rudran, chief executive officer at
Asset Reconstruction Company ( India ) Ltd., set up by the
nation’s biggest lenders to reorganize non-performing credit,
said in a Feb. 2 telephone interview. “A significant part of
the restructured loans at banks may go bad.”  Bad debt plus restructured assets, a combined measure of
delinquencies that the central bank plans to put into effect in
2015, has exceeded 10 percent of total  advances , the most since
2002, according to the Mumbai-based body known as Arcil. Crisil
Ltd., the local unit of  Standard & Poor’s , says a weak economy
will fuel defaults and has cut ratings for 492 companies in the
six months through September, compared with 322 upgrades.  The average cost for insuring the bonds of seven Indian
issuers against non-payment for five years has climbed 16 basis
points from an 18-month low of 235 reached on Jan. 9, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. A
similar measure for Asian debt rose 6 basis points to 130 during
the same period.  Non-performing loans as a proportion of banks’ total credit
jumped the most in at least five years in the 12 months through
September to 3.6 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of India said in a
Dec. 28 report.  Slowing Growth  The monetary authority predicted that the economy will
expand 5.5 percent in the year ending March 31, which would be
the smallest gain since 2003. Bank  lending  in India has slowed
as cooling growth sapped demand and fueled concern about debt
defaults. Loans increased 16.3 percent in the 12 months ended
Jan. 11, according to the latest RBI data, compared with an
average pace of 24.1 percent in the past decade.  “Funds are blocked up in non-performing assets,” Arcil’s
Rudran said. “If this money could be recycled and put into
productive use, that will boost the economy. There is a dire
necessity to reduce stressed assets at banks.”  Arcil was the first of Indian asset reconstruction firms
that were formed after the parliament passed a law in 2002 to
help banks sell their bad loans and cut risk.  State Bank of
India (SBIN) ,  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  and Punjab National Bank each hold more
than a 10 percent stake in the company.  ‘Over-Leveraged’  Rising bad debt poses the biggest threat to Indian lenders,
billionaire  Uday Kotak , the controlling shareholder of Mumbai-
based Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., said last month. Loans to the
infrastructure and mining industries are particularly under
duress, according to Kotak, who is also managing director of the
Indian bank with the highest lending margins.  “The No. 1 focus and concern for the system, the banking
system, is rising bad loans,” Kotak, 53, said on Jan. 24 in an
interview with Bloomberg Television from the Swiss city of Davos
while attending the  World Economic Forum . “A lot of large
corporates have got themselves over-leveraged, and that’s where
the pain is.”  Indian companies’ borrowings surged to $82.1 billion in the
year through March 2011, from $52.5 billion 12 months earlier,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. After that  credit boom ,
restructured debt -- which gives firms a moratorium on payments,
longer maturities or lower interest rates to avoid defaults --
more than doubled in the year ended March 2012 to 2.2 trillion
rupees ($41 billion), according to Moody’s Investors Service.  ‘Specialized Job’  China ’s five largest banks, which account for more than
half of the nation’s lending market, had about 38 billion  yuan 
($6.1 billion) of renegotiated loans as of June, according to
their semi-annual earnings reports.  “Restructured loans are going to be a big burden on
banks,” said Rudran. “They will have to take steps to control
it, including sale of bad loans to asset reconstruction firms.
Banks can then concentrate on core businesses, which will be a
much better proposition than wasting time on a specialized job
like loan recovery for which ARCs have built a specialized
structure over time.”  An economic-policy overhaul by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government to revive growth may help improve corporate
finances and rein in stressed assets, according to Mumbai-based
brokerage SMC Global Securities Ltd.  Since mid-September, Singh has cut energy subsidies, opened
up industries including aviation and retailing to foreigners and
reduced taxes on companies’ overseas debt. More than 70 percent
of the companies in the BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  posted
earnings that beat estimates in the past month.  Policy Support  “Incremental slippages in banks’ asset quality are
expected to slow down in the coming quarters with the economy
showing signs of bottoming out,” said Vishal Narnolia, Mumbai-
based banking analyst at SMC Global. “The government’s renewed
focus on pushing infrastructure projects and removing
bottlenecks will help in recovering bad loans.”  A surge in rupee debt costs since 2009 also contributed to
the decline in  credit quality  in India. RBI Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao boosted the benchmark  repurchase rate  by a record 375
basis points, or 3.75 percentage points, through 2010 and 2011.
The rate, currently at 7.75 percent after two reductions in the
past year, is still more than double similar gauges of 3 percent
and 2.75 percent, respectively, in China and  South Korea .  Rupee-denominated five-year corporate  debt  rated AAA by
Crisil yield an average of 8.86 percent, according to
indications compiled by Bloomberg. Similar notes offer 4.84
percent in China. Ten-year sovereign bonds in India pay 7.93
percent, compared with 3.59 percent in China and 2.05 percent in
the U.S.  Rupee Yields  The yield on the 8.15 percent government debt due June 2022
slipped 1 basis point as of 12:02 p.m. in Mumbai, offering an
 extra  597 basis points over Treasuries. Indian sovereign notes
earned 10.6 percent in the past year in the best performance
among Asia’s 10 biggest markets, according to HSBC Holdings Plc
data. The rupee was little changed at 53.30 per dollar today.  “Asset quality at banks can’t be insulated from the
economy,” S.S. Mundra, Mumbai-based chairman and managing
director at state-owned  Bank of Baroda , said in an interview on
Feb. 4. “We are expecting challenges from non-performing loans
to continue for at least another three quarters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  