-- Bank of America Seeks Bigger Trades Through Block System
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-02-04T15:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/bank-of-america-seeking-bigger-trades-through-new-block-system.html
Bank of America Corp.  is seeking to
trade bigger blocks of shares for mutual funds and institutional
investors by finding new ways to connect orders across the
company’s equities-trading desks.  The bank will pursue larger transactions through a system
of messages indicating buy or sell interest that can be sent
among the different groups within the firm and executed
instantly, according to Jason Crosby, New York-based managing
director and global head of portfolio distribution. The tool
enables matches for institutions with private clients, the
firm’s cash and portfolio trading units, and derivatives desks
handling customer orders, he said in an interview.  Bank of America is focusing on long-term investors as
clients expand investments in individual companies relative to
exchange-traded funds and index products amid growing confidence
in the economic recovery, Crosby said. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  closed above 14,000 Feb. 1 for the first time since
2007.  Fidelity Investments , the second-biggest U.S. mutual-fund
company, last year also introduced a product geared toward
institutions seeking to buy or sell blocks of shares.  “The macro events we’ve been living through globally have
started to subside,” Crosby said. Clients are “looking to
single stocks for growth but can’t aggressively go into the
market” without driving prices higher or lower by their
actions, he said.  Stock Picking  The second-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets is counting on more
stock picking to boost interest in trading blocks on its
platform. Equities are responding more to company-specific
developments such as earnings and merger speculation after being
pushed up or down by events from the credit freeze to  Europe ’s
debt crisis to the stalemate in U.S. budget negotiations.  A gauge of how much the 2,073 companies in the  FTSE All-
World Developed Index (FTAD01)  swing in unison dropped 31 percent since
June, the biggest retreat since at least 1993, according to data
compiled by Societe Generale SA and Bloomberg last month. The
reading measures how much returns in individual stocks are
attributable to swings in the broader market.  Equity mutual funds also attracted $29.9 billion in
January’s first three weeks, more than for any full month since
2006, according to data compiled by the  Investment Company
Institute .  Block Trading  Fidelity, which started a dark pool called CrossStream in
2006, added a feature last year that allows institutions making
decisions based on a company’s fundamentals to trade with other
institutions and retail clients. Investors using BLOX can avoid
brokers, quantitative traders and high-frequency firms, Brian Conroy, president of the Boston-based company’s Fidelity Capital
Markets division, said in December.  “Within the last six months, block trading has increased,
Thomas Garcia, head of equity trading at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-
based Thornburg Investment Management Inc., said in a phone
interview. ‘‘One of the reasons for more interest is high-
frequency guys trying to get in front of your order and profit
from price moves.’’  Bank of America’s introduction of the messaging product is
part of a rebranding of its global equities division under the
banner Trader Instinct. Its MLXN dark pool, or private venue for
U.S. shares, is now called Instinct X. An upgrade to its suite
of algorithms, or automated strategies that allow clients to
break bigger orders into smaller bits funneled to exchanges or
other venues, will be introduced later this year, according to
Oliver Sung, a director in global execution services.  Automated Trading  Institutions currently trade blocks by calling sales
traders who make phone calls or send messages to other clients
that might be interested in the same stock. They may also route
to dark pools, which don’t display orders, or use algorithms to
buy or sell over a specified period of time.  Traders balance the need to accumulate or pare a large
position with the desire to avoid detection by certain types of
high-frequency firms in the public market. Automated trading
firms conducting data analysis that spot a buyer may drive
prices higher to profit from the move, or push prices down when
they identify a seller.  ”It’s a safer, less-toxic venue for our highest-level
institutional and private clients,’’ Crosby said about the new
block product. “There’s a fundamental shift in clients’
appetite for showing a little more information to get a block
done.”  Institutional Clients  The product, called Instinct Natural, will initially be
available to the firm’s 75 largest institutional clients, Crosby
said. It will be introduced later this quarter, with
transactions occurring through Instinct X. The company began
working on the project five months ago with the support of
senior management including Soofian Zuberi, global head of
equity distribution, Crosby said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , offers an
indications-of-interest service to customers seeking block
trades.  The bank’s focus on trading large holdings of shares for
institutions comes as it stresses customer relationships as a
way to expand its equities market share and spur revenue against
the backdrop of an improving economy.  Bank of America salespeople assigned to the biggest mutual
fund accounts were told in September to attend at least 30
meetings a month with clients, a move that riled staff,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter in
November. The memo from Zuberi told more than 500 workers to see
clients in person more often, rather than relying on e-mail and
phones, the people said.  Personal Relationships  The instruction showed the pressure Wall Street firms are
under to capture a bigger slice of institutions’ trading fees.
It also emphasized the importance of personal relationships to
generating revenue, Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in November.  The U.S. securities industry split $10.9 billion in equity
commissions from asset managers in 2011, the lowest fee level
since 2006 as average daily volume declined, according to the
most recent data compiled by Greenwich Associates. Declining
fees puts pressure on asset managers to consolidate trading
among their most important brokers to pay for stock research and
other services, Jay Bennett, managing director at the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based research firm, said last May.  Automated Strategies  Crosby, who reports to Zuberi and Ashok Krishnan, the
London-based global head of execution services, said clients
often use what are called schedule-based algorithms to execute
blocks. These are automated strategies that buy or sell a
certain number of shares or percentage of a stock’s volume over
a period of time, often randomly changing characteristics of the
smaller orders to evade detection by computer systems looking
for signs of institutional activity.  Bank of America aims to convince clients to let it seek out
blocks instead of using these strategies, or to employ both to
complete an order, Crosby said. The firm is talking to
institutions about whether they’d be willing to allow a period
of time prior to accessing liquidity venues outside of Bank of
America when the bank can seek block trades, he said.  Customers will be able to access Instinct Natural through
their equity sales trader or electronic methods. The bank will
track data from Instinct Natural shared across its desks, how
often people respond to messages indicating trading interest and
how stock prices move to ensure that information isn’t leaked
into the market, Crosby said.  “If someone receives an invite that there’s a counterparty
and there’s interest, we have to make sure they engage and don’t
misuse the information,” Adam Inzirillo, a director in global
execution services at Bank of America, said by phone. “Even
though it’s institution-derived, we have to ensure all
counterparties are acting appropriately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  