-- The Case Against Banking’s Case for Less Capital
-- B y   A n a t   A d m a t i   a n d   M a r t i n   H e l l w i g
-- 2013-02-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/bankers-arguments-on-capital-are-fundamentally-flawed.html
Wouldn’t it be nice if there was a
way to make banks safer, healthier and able to lend more? There
is a way, and it’s called equity.  If banks were less heavily indebted and relied more on
unborrowed money, also called equity or capital, to fund their
loans and other assets, they could avoid getting into financial
trouble if they incurred losses. They would be better able to
continue lending. And the financial system would be less
fragile.  Yet bankers fight regulation that would require them to
have more equity. They routinely claim that having more equity
would lower their return on equity. A lower return, they say,
would harm their shareholders and could make investment in their
shares unattractive relative to other industries. The suggestion
seems to be that society should be concerned with the banks’
return on equity and that, unless some specific return is
delivered to banks’ shareholders, we would all suffer. This line
of argument is fundamentally flawed.  The focus on return on equity (ROE) is deeply embedded in
the culture of banking. A typical statement in a leading
textbook, written by a prominent academic and former central
banker, is that bank capital “has both benefits and costs. Bank
capital is costly because, the higher it is, the lower will be
the return on equity for a given return on assets.”  False Claims  Such claims sometimes refer to the actual returns in any
given year, and sometimes to an average of returns. In either
case, the claim is false. If in some year a bank happens to earn
low returns on its investments, its ROE is actually higher if it
has more equity.  Even if the average return on equity is lower when a bank
has more equity, shareholders needn’t be harmed. In financial
markets, returns can’t be judged without accounting for the risk
taken, and the risk to shareholders is directly affected by the
amount of equity. In targeting high returns on equity, bankers
may actually benefit themselves while harming shareholders by
exposing them to risk without properly compensating them.  When banks borrow heavily, they increase risks to
shareholders, creditors and the overall financial system. In
doing so, they may harm the economy and hurt taxpayers. For the
bankers, however, borrowing a lot and avoiding equity may
provide fat bonuses if the risks turn out well, or if the risks
do not materialize for a while and high profits can be recorded,
without much of a penalty on the downside.  To understand the mechanics of ROE, consider the following
mortgage example. (You may want to get out a pencil and paper to
follow along.) A borrower -- let’s call her Kate -- buys a
$300,000 house and pays 4 percent interest on her mortgage. To
simplify, let’s assume that she pays all principal and interest
at the end of one year, at which point she sells the house.  If Kate puts down $30,000 and borrows $270,000, the 4
percent in interest amounts to $10,800 and she owes $280,800 on
her mortgage at the end of the year.  If she puts down $60,000 and borrows $240,000 at 4 percent,
her interest cost is $9,600 and she owes $249,600 at year-end.  Kate’s ROE is calculated by what she makes per dollar of
her initial investment, or down payment. For example, if she
puts down $30,000 and the house sells for $345,000 (a 15 percent
increase in value), she ends up with $64,200 after paying the
interest due and the mortgage. This represents a return of
$34,200 on her $30,000 investment, or 114 percent.  Upside, Downside  Let’s assume the very same scenario (the house sells for
$345,000 at the end of one year, and the mortgage  interest rate 
is 4 percent), except this time Kate puts down twice as much for
the down payment, or $60,000. In this case, her return on equity
is only 59 percent, much smaller than the 114 percent she would
earn if she put down only $30,000. The leverage created by
borrowing is wonderful on the upside, when the returns that are
generated for the borrower are higher than the rate paid to
borrow.  There’s a catch, however. What if the house declines in
value? In that case, Kate’s down payment must absorb losses
after paying her mortgage debt. For example, suppose the house
value declined by 5 percent, to $285,000. If Kate initially put
down $30,000, and pays 4 percent mortgage interest, her final
equity is $4,200 and her return on equity is minus 86 percent.
In other words, she loses 86 percent of her investment. If she
puts down $60,000, her final equity is $35,400. She loses 41
percent of her investment. Her ROE of minus 41 percent is higher
with more equity, not lower. In fact, the ROE is always higher
with more equity if the house increases in value by less than
the 4 percent interest rate.  The leverage created by borrowing magnifies rates of return
on the upside and on the downside. It magnifies the risk of each
dollar invested. The borrower keeps all the upside once debt is
paid, but on the downside, with less equity, it doesn’t take
much for the equity to be wiped out. Even with a 5 percent
decline in the value of the house, Kate has almost no equity
left. Should the house decline in value below the $280,800 that
Kate owes in the $30,000 down-payment example, she would end up
with no equity.  The same issues arise when corporations, including banks,
borrow. If a corporation uses more equity (the same as the down
payment on a house), its actual ROE will be lower in good times
-- when the assets earn more than the interest rate on the debt.
But losses and ROE will be greater when the return on assets
fails to cover the borrowing rate.  On average, of course, banks hope to -- and usually do --
earn returns well in excess of their borrowing rates. In such
cases, more equity and less debt will lower the average ROE of
the bank. However, a decline in average ROE doesn’t mean that
shareholders are harmed. Whereas shareholders receive, on
average, less return per dollar invested, they also bear less
risk. As a result, they require less in returns as compensation
for bearing risks.  Risk, Return  In financial markets, investors require lower returns on
safe investments, such as  government bonds , than on very risky
investments, such as new ventures. Shareholders are harmed by
having more equity only if the average ROE actually decreases by
more than the required ROE. The required ROE depends on the risk
to which shareholders are exposed, and that depends on the
extent of borrowing. The heavier the borrowing, the more risky
is the equity and the higher is the ROE that investors require
to compensate them for bearing the risk.  Bankers often announce high targets for ROE. They also tell
politicians, regulators and the public that shareholders
“require” them to strive to hit those targets. In the years
before the financial crisis,  Josef Ackermann , the chief
executive officer of Deutsche Bank from 2002 to 2012, repeatedly
said he would aim to achieve an ROE of 25 percent -- his idea of
a well-performing bank -- before taxes.  Targeting ROE presumes that it makes sense to use ROE as a
meaningful measure of performance, or of how managers benefit
shareholders. However, without taking account of the amount of
the bank’s indebtedness, and, more generally, of the risk in
each dollar of equity the bank has invested, ROE isn’t a
meaningful measure of performance or shareholder value. And if
no account is taken of the market environment, such as market
rates of interest, comparison of ROE with a given benchmark
isn’t meaningful. Implying otherwise is a fallacy, an article of
the bankers’ new clothes.  The average of Deutsche Bank’s pretax ROEs from 2003 to
2012 was actually just 11.7 percent. When a bank sets a target
that is way out of line with experience, it can’t reach that
target merely by becoming better at what the bank has done
before. Reaching the target may be possible only if the bank
takes large risks.  Compensation  Bankers may target high ROE because it affects their
compensation. If compensation depends on ROE, bankers have
direct incentives to take risks. Bank managers also have
incentives to increase borrowing because this tends to increase
the average ROE, especially if they can borrow at favorable
rates because creditors believe the government will bail them
out. As long as the gambles are successful, managers, and
possibly shareholders, gain on the upside. Losses, however, may
harm creditors and taxpayers. Even shareholders can be harmed if
managers go after high ROE with insufficient concern for risk.
Those shareholders who are more daring can take steps to
increase their average investment returns by themselves, for
example by borrowing on their own account to create leverage.  If bank managers find ways to hide risks for a while, for
example by trading in derivatives markets, investors and
regulators might not even be aware of them. By the time the
risks materialize, the managers may have already reaped the
bonuses.  The large ROEs that banks achieved before the financial
crisis triggered large bonuses for bankers, even as banks took
on significant risk and increased their reliance on borrowing.
When banks suffered large losses during and after the crisis,
however, bankers’ compensation didn’t decrease proportionally to
reflect the decline in ROE.  The ROE culture extends beyond the banks. Analysts and
journalists commenting on the quarterly or annual reports of a
bank will usually highlight the bank’s earnings and mention the
ROE but say little about risks. Risks are difficult to observe,
measure and explain in an accessible way. By contrast, earnings
and ROE figures provide precise numbers to discuss and compare.
The focus on ROE encourages excessive borrowing and risk taking
to benefit bankers. And claims that public policy should be
concerned with banks’ ROE are fallacious and should have no
place in the debate.  When bankers take risks, others -- besides their
shareholders -- are affected. Borrowing generally creates
conflicts of interest between borrowers and creditors. Borrowers
benefit from the full upside of risks taken, while creditors may
share the downside. This situation biases borrowers toward more
borrowing, making borrowing addictive and creating resistance to
the use of equity once debt is in place.  Addictive Borrowing  Because banks borrow so heavily, they are particularly
attracted to further borrowing. If depositors and other lenders
to banks believe that the government will make sure they will be
paid, borrowing is even more attractive to banks, because the
interest they must pay does not reflect risk. However, the
deposit insurance fund and ultimately taxpayers are affected by
the risk. Governments often step in to support banks using
taxpayer money, particularly when many banks are in trouble.  Risks to taxpayers are especially large when bank managers
follow similar strategies, so that many banks may experience
losses at the same time. Such herding behavior can be attractive
because it provides a way to deflect blame when things go wrong.
Excuses like “we all made this mistake,” or “we aren’t immune to
a crisis in the overall system,” are meant to reduce personal
responsibility. When many banks experience losses, the
government might feel compelled to provide support, making
herding behavior even more attractive.  Risk taking isn’t problematic if those who take risks bear
the full consequences and the risks don’t harm others. Such is
not the case in banking. Bankers are the main beneficiaries of
excessive borrowing and risk, benefiting at the expense of
others, without bearing the full consequences. Most important,
excessive borrowing and risk taking by banks are costly to
taxpayers and make the financial system fragile, endangering and
harming the public unnecessarily.  (Anat Admati is a professor of finance and economics at the
Stanford Graduate School of Business, and Martin Hellwig is a
director at the Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective
Goods in Bonn. This is the second in a series of three excerpts
from their new  book , “The Bankers’ New Clothes: What’s Wrong
With Banking and What to Do About It,” to be published Feb. 24
by  Princeton University Press . The opinions expressed are their
own.  Read Part 1 .)  To contact the writers of this article:
Anat Admati at  admati_anat@gsb.stanford.edu 
Martin Hellwig at  hellwig@coll.mpg.de   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  