-- Bank of Korea’s Moon Supports Keeping Rates on Hold for Now
-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-02-04T03:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/bank-of-korea-s-moon-sees-no-need-to-alter-interest-rate-for-now.html
Bank of Korea  board member Moon Woo Sik sees no immediate need to alter benchmark  interest rates  and
says it’s “too early” for any central-bank response to the
yen’s slide against the won.  “There are good reasons why people tend to be more
optimistic this year than last year,” Moon, 52, said in an
interview in Seoul last week. There’s no “important reason to
take monetary-policy actions quickly” unless the South Korean
economy declines further, he said.  Central bank policy makers meet Feb. 14 to set rates as
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  grapple with won
gains and the likelihood of economic and fiscal policy shifts
after the Feb. 25 inauguration of President Park Geun Hye. Moon
says business confidence and investment may gain in South  Korea 
as risks recede from Europe’s debt crisis and the so-called
fiscal cliff of spending cuts and tax increases in the U.S.  Policy makers need to “wait and see” as South Korea’s
economy shows signs of improving after already hitting bottom,
Moon said. “I don’t think we’re in a very urgent situation.”  The won extended gains after Moon’s comments, rising 0.9
against the dollar to 1,088.10 as of 11:22 a.m. in Seoul. The
currency strengthened 1.2 percent to 11.74 per yen.  Nuclear Test  As  North Korea  shows signs of preparing for a nuclear test,
Moon said that developments within that nation tend to have a
“very limited” effect on  South Korea ’s economy, including
small and temporary disturbances to financial markets.  While a rate increase is unlikely in the “very near
future,” it could become possible if the economy shows
unexpected strength and inflation picks up, Moon said. South
Korea is likely to “coordinate to some extent” when central
banks globally exit from loose monetary policies, he said.  In January, Ha Sung Keun was the lone member of the seven-
person monetary policy committee to call for a reduction in
rates. Governor Kim Choong Soo and his officials kept the
benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  unchanged for a third month
at 2.75 percent.  Moon’s view contrasts with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
last month forecasting an interest-rate reduction at the next
meeting after the central bank pared its forecast for this
year’s economic growth to 2.8 percent from an October estimate
of 3.2 percent. Analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc and  Barclays
Capital  predict no change.  Abe’s Campaign  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to expand
monetary easing and revive his nation’s economy is driving down
the yen, aiding exporters of electronics and automobiles who
compete with South Korea. The won has gained about 22 percent 
against the yen in six months.  “We have good reason to be worried about rapid
depreciation of the yen,” Moon said. At the same time, “it is
too early” for the  Bank of Korea  to consider taking any action,
he said, adding that policy makers willl monitor currency
volatility for any effects on economic and price stability.  The policy maker expressed concern about the likelihood of
increased welfare spending by the new president.  “On the one hand, it’s necessary but on the other hand,
it’s worrisome,” Moon said. “Simply giving money to people
does not help boost potential growth and it can jeopardize
fiscal soundness.”  Moon joined the policy committee in April last year for a
four-year term after teaching international economics and
finance at  Seoul  National University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  