-- Barclays Staff Recorded Undermining Client’s Deal: Lawyer
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/barclays-staff-recorded-undermining-client-s-deal-lawyer.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  employees were recorded
talking about going behind a client’s back to make a competing
bid for a takeover target, according to phone transcripts being
used as evidence in a lawsuit against the lender.  CF Partners (U.K.) LLP is suing Barclays in London over the
bank’s $173 million takeover of carbon-trading firm Tricorona AB
in 2010. CF Partners claims it hired the bank two years earlier
to work on a bid for Tricorona and Barclays then used
confidential information to make its own offer.  Transcripts of phone calls read out by CF Partners’ lawyer
Tim Lord indicate Barclays’ employees discussed buying Tricorona
as early as 2009, while urging caution because of an exclusivity
agreement with CF Partners.  “We could buy it,” one employee said in a call to
another. “We’ve done all the work.”  “Let’s not get ourselves in legal trouble,” the same
employee said in another call read out in court. “I wouldn’t
put anything down in writing” and even calls can be taped.  Aurelie Leonard, a Barclays spokeswoman, said the case is
without merit and the bank will fight the claim.  “Barclays never had an advisory relationship with CF
Partners,” Leonard said in an e-mailed statement. “Barclays
has traded carbon since 2004 and is one of the world’s largest
emissions traders” and, as a result, “already had a
relationship with Tricorona before it had any involvement with
CF Partners.”  Lord, who is seeking more information including additional
call transcripts to prepare a case, said at a court hearing
yesterday the Barclays workers were discussing “whether they
can get themselves out of the legal restrictions that prevent
them from doing this deal.”  Producing Evidence  The context of the recorded calls and validity of the
transcripts won’t be determined until a trial.  Barclays has tried to cooperate with evidence gathering
ahead of the trial, the bank’s lawyer Ewan McQuater told the
court. It has not “been guilty of persistent or widespread
failures” to hand over evidence, he said.  CF Partners, a London-based trading firm focusing on
renewable energy, commodities and power markets, wants damages
of least 82.4 million euros ($111.5 million), according to court
papers describing its claim. It is also suing Tricorona for
breach of confidence.  Barclays Chief Executive Officer Antony Jenkins has given
up his bonus for 2012 and promised to reform the bank’s culture
after revelations that traders tried to rig interest rates for
profit led to the departure of his predecessor Robert Diamond
and a 290 million-pound ($456 million) regulatory fine.  Barclays was initially approached for advice on financing,
before taking on other advisory roles, CF Partners said in the
documents.  CF Partners’ spokesman Kevin Smith declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  