-- Baring Swiss Bank for Rich Athletes Buys Asset Manager Coges
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-02-04T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/baring-swiss-bank-for-rich-athletes-buys-asset-manager-coges.html
Banque Baring Brothers Sturdza SA ,
the Swiss private bank overseeing the wealth of tennis players,
soccer stars and other athletes, purchased  Coges Corraterie
Gestion SA , an asset manager, to pool services for clients.  “It’s a very interesting combination,” Eric Sturdza,
president of the Geneva-based bank he established with the
descendants of John Baring in 1985, said in an interview at the
firm’s offices on Geneva’s priciest shopping street, Rue du
Rhone. “We share the same values and ethics.”  Swiss banks and money managers are competing for assets and
considering mergers as revenue slides and increasing regulatory
and compliance costs crimp profits. Private banks dropped to 161
in 2011 from 176 in 2006, heralding a gradual consolidation
process, PricewaterhouseCoopers AG in Zurich said in a  report 
last month.  While Baring Brothers Sturdza has excess capital it won’t
seek further acquisitions after the Coges deal and wants to
emulate the success of the  Morgan Motor Co. Ltd ., the U.K. maker
of hand-crafted sports cars, by staying small, Sturdza said  “Morgan stuck to its values in a niche market and they’re
still there and thriving,” said Sturdza, a collector of sports
cars and sponsor of an eight-time winner of the Le Mans 24-Hour
race,  Tom Kristensen . “Every year there’s a big waiting list.”  The future of Swiss wealth management hinges on firms
delivering services to clients that merit the fees, instead of
those that accumulate assets in the pursuit of higher earnings,
said Sturdza, who declined to disclose his firm’s funds under
management or details of the transaction announced today.  Ignoring Clients  Big banks have come undone by ignoring clients’ interests
in their quest for profit and that’s the wrong model for a
wealth manager, he said, citing the $59.2 billion bailout of  UBS
AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, and the $45 billion rescue of
New York-based Citigroup Inc., Sturdza’s former employer, in
2008 as examples.  Sturdza, 69, has run the Baring Geneva unit since leaving
Citibank in 1985. London-based Barings, which began 250 years
ago, was brought down in 1995 when rogue derivatives trader Nick Leeson lost about $1.3 billion through unauthorized bets. Dutch
bank  ING Groep NV (INGA)  acquired it for a token 1-pound fee.  The scandal, which scarred the City of  London  and caused 10
percent of the Geneva unit’s customers to flee, provided an
opportunity for Sturdza, a Romanian national educated in
Switzerland, who took a 30 percent stake in the Swiss unit and
bought out ING in 2005.  Family Heritage  It was “the luck of my life,” said Sturdza, who was
previously denied stock in Barings. He continues to market the
heritage of the bank and hangs oil paintings of the family by
British artist Ambrose McEvoy on the firm’s walls.  A former top 10 Swiss tennis player, Sturdza used his
sporting connections to build a book of clients from  Europe ,
Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, including athletes,
actors and restaurant owners. Swiss banks are forbidden by law
from identifying clients.  The acquisition of Geneva-based Coges adds 300 clients,
more than half of which are European, according to Coges Chief
Executive Officer Philippe Calame. The firm, which was founded
in 1984 by Calame’s family and has 10 employees, oversees
between 150,000 Swiss francs ($166,000) and 150 million francs
for each client, he said, without disclosing the total assets
under management at Coges.  “This is the best opportunity in a very difficult
environment where we can take out all the other guys who will
not be able to survive and don’t have the will to continue,”
Calame said.  Fees at Swiss banks declined since the financial crisis
while assets under management slumped 20 percent from 2007 to
2011, according to the PwC report, based on a survey of 100
banks. The average net margin, or net income as a proportion of
client assets, plunged to 7 basis points in 2011 from 35 basis
points four years earlier, PwC said. A basis point is one
hundredth of a percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  