-- Berkowitz Seeking Patient Capital Sours on Mutual Funds
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-02-04T11:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/berkowitz-seeking-patient-capital-sours-on-mutual-funds.html
The fund manager of the decade said
he’s moving beyond  mutual funds .  Bruce Berkowitz  said rules that allow mutual fund holders
to cash out anytime put his long-term investing style at a
disadvantage, according to an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Erik Schatzker , airing today. The rules also
prevent funds from owning too much of one stock, a straitjacket
for managers like Berkowitz who favor concentrated positions.  “Mutual funds are great vehicles,” said Berkowitz, 54,
who heads Miami-based Fairholme Capital Management LLC.
“They’re transparent. They give investors daily liquidity.
They’re highly regulated. But there are also constraints that go
along with that.”  As a result, Berkowitz said he’s considering alternatives
that would tie up investors’ capital for longer and free him to
buy as much of a stock as he wants. He’s also closing existing
funds to new investors as of the end of this month to prevent an
influx of capital that could dilute performance.  Berkowitz is raising money for a partnership that takes
minimum investments of $1 million, according to a January
regulatory filing. He declined to elaborate when asked whether
the new entity was meant to attract more patient capital.  “At this point, I can’t talk about it,” he said. “But
stay tuned.”  BofA, AIG  Berkowitz’s flagship  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  suffered its worst year
ever in 2011 as its holdings of shares in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  plunged. Both stocks
rebounded last year and led the fund to its best performance
against the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  in a decade. Investors
spooked by the 2011 results abandoned the $7 billion fund and
contributed to an almost 60 percent  drop  in its assets in the
two years ended Nov. 30.  “We want to make sure we have a shareholder base that
understands the long-term nature of what we do,” he said.
Investors in the fund have to “stay the course.”  Berkowitz has talked of finding longer-term capital ever
since customers pulled money from the Fairholme Fund during
2011, forcing him to sell stocks before he wanted to, said Kevin McDevitt, an analyst at Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   “Daily redemptions are a huge burden for money managers,
especially ones like him” who make big bets on a few stocks,
McDevitt said in a phone interview.  Liquidation Values  Berkowitz plowed capital into Bank of America and  New York- 
based AIG in 2010 as part of a strategy to “embrace the hated”
and buy financial firms he has said were “priced to die” after
being recapitalized by the government following the 2008
financial crisis. The bets accounted for more than half of the
Fairholme Fund’s assets as of Nov. 30.  Buying the stocks at a fraction of their liquidation values
ultimately may help the Fairholme Fund generate fourfold returns
on the investments over five to seven years, Berkowitz said.
Other investors missed that the fundamentals of the two
companies were improving in 2011 because they were concerned
about a possible double-dip recession in the U.S. and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis, he said.  Bank of America more than doubled last year as Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, sold assets, boosted
capital and worked through a book of faulty mortgages at the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender. AIG surged 52 percent in
2012 as the insurer bought back stock and exited government
ownership four years after a $182.3 billion bailout. Shares of
both firms fell by more than 50 percent in 2011.  Ranked Lowest  The returns on those stocks drove the Fairholme Fund’s 32
percent decline two years ago, when it was ranked in the lowest
 percentile  among large-value peers by Morningstar. The fund
surged 36 percent last year, ranking it in the group’s top 1
percent, according to data from the research firm.  The fund has posted an annualized return of 11 percent
after expenses since its inception in 1999  through  the end of
last year. That compares with 1.7 percent for the  S&P 500 ,
including reinvested dividends, according to a report on
Fairholme Capital’s website. That performance led Morningstar to
name Berkowitz the domestic-stock fund manager of the decade in
January 2010.  More than 80 percent of the Fairholme Fund’s assets were
invested in  six companies  as of Nov. 30. In addition to AIG and
Bank of America, holdings include a 13 percent stake in  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and  25 percent  of real-estate developer St. Joe
Co., the largest private landowner in northwest  Florida , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Berkowitz said his approach demands that shareholders be
patient because he’s prone to investing too early in stocks he
thinks will recover.  “I haven’t found the right technique or medication yet for
premature accumulation,” he said. “I just see it’s cheap. I
count the cash. I look at the intrinsic value of the company and
the price. And I think, ‘This is too good to be true.’ And I buy
and then it goes lower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  