-- Berlusconi’s $5.4 Billion Giveaway Vow Draws Monti’s Scorn
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-02-04T11:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/berlusconi-seeks-to-buy-votes-with-tax-cut-pledge-monti-says.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s campaign promise
to give Italian taxpayers a cash rebate of 4 billion euros ($5.4
billion) was criticized by Prime Minister  Mario Monti  as an
attempt to buy votes.  “We can call it a quid pro quo or even a friendly attempt
at corruption,” Monti said today in an interview with RTL 102.5
radio. “Berlusconi wants to buy the votes of Italians with the
money that Italians had to turn over to cover up the shortfall
left in the  public accounts  by Berlusconi, who governed for
eight of the past 10 years.”  The rivalry between Monti and Berlusconi, a three time
former premier, has escalated as  Italy  approaches parliamentary
elections Feb. 24-25. Monti replaced Berlusconi as premier in
November 2011 and imposed austerity to protect Italy from the
worst of the  Europe ’s debt crisis. Berlusconi is pinning his
comeback attempt on a pledge to roll back Monti’s budget rigor
and yesterday announced his plan for a tax rebate.  “That man there, Monti, increased unemployment by half a
million in 13 months of government,” Berlusconi said today in
an interview televised on La7. “These are the real things. Not
the baloney that people keep repeating.”  Paid in Cash  The tax rebate would be completed in cash or by a current
account deposit within a month if Italians return Berlusconi to
power, the former premier said yesterday at a press conference
in Milan. The refund regards tax payments on first residences
made by Italians last year on Monti’s new property levy, known
as IMU. Berlusconi had previously promised to abolish parts of
IMU.  Berlusconi, the most successful politician of his
generation, is gaining in public opinion polls even as he stands
trial on charges he paid a minor for sex and appeals a four-year
prison sentence for  tax fraud . His anti-austerity push has
resonated with Italians hurt by  recession  and weary of the tax
increases put in place by Monti.  Berlusconi, 76, closed the gap with front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani to 5 percentage points in an SWG Institute survey last
week. He has denied all charges in the sex-with-minor trial,
which also includes an allegation Berlusconi abused the power of
his office.  First Homes  The refund on last year’s tax on first homes, valued at
about 4 billion euros, will be covered through an agreement with
 Switzerland  with regard to taxation of financial activities in
Switzerland by Italian citizens, Berlusconi said. Such an
agreement will translate into proceeds of as much as 30 billion
euros plus 5 billion euros a year when at full capacity, he
said.  Berlusconi had previously pledged to finance the future
elimination of the IMU on first homes through raising taxes on
gambling, tobacco and alcohol. The three-time premier also said
today that he would support an amnesty for Italians who owe back
taxes and yesterday said he would eliminate a regional corporate
levy known as Irap in five years.  Support for Berlusconi’s center-right coalition rose 1.3
points in a week to 27.8 percent, while Bersani’s center-left
block fell 1.6 points to 32.8 percent, according to the SWG poll
released on Feb. 1. Monti, seeking a second term, is part of a
coalition that registered 14.2 percent support. SWG reported 30
percent of respondents as undecided or abstentions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  