-- BlackRock Sues Hidili for Bond Conversion Request Mistake
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-02-04T10:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/blackrock-sues-hidili-for-bond-conversion-request-mistake.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager, sued  Hidili Industry International Development
Ltd. (1393)  after a mistaken request to convert bonds of the Chinese
coal mining company into shares.  Requests to convert 104.6 million yuan ($16.8 million) of
convertible bonds due in 2015 were mistakenly issued by or on
behalf of two BlackRock funds in December, according to a
lawsuit filed in the Hong Kong High Court on Jan. 28.  Hidili knew or ought to have known that the request was
issued by mistake and therefore should be void, BlackRock Japan
Co. and BlackRock ( Singapore ), the investment managers of the
funds said in the lawsuit. The funds were entitled to have all
or some of the bonds redeemed on Jan. 19, according to the
lawsuit, and the conversion of the bonds should be set aside.  Hidili’s Hong Kong-traded shares have  fallen  13 percent
since Jan. 21, just before it warned investors of a substantial
decrease in after-tax profit last year from 2011 because of low
sales and selling prices in the second half as well as a
production halt at a coking plant.  The writ didn’t elaborate on how the mistake had been made.
Rowena Kwok, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for BlackRock,
declined to comment on any legal proceedings.  Hidili announced on Jan. 29 that two plaintiffs had sued it
in Hong Kong seeking to void an erroneous conversion of 104.6
million  yuan  of bonds into shares, instead of intended requests
for redemption.  The producer of coking coal said it was trying to verify
that it had been served with the writ and to seek legal advice
for it. The statement didn’t identify the plaintiffs.  The notes were part of a 1.7 billion yuan tranche of
convertible bonds sold by Hidili in January 2010.  Bondholders owning nearly 1.6 billion yuan of the
convertible securities submitted redemption requests and it paid
out 1.7 billion yuan to buy back their bonds on Jan. 21, Hidili
announced that day.  The case is BlackRock Japan Co. Ltd. and BlackRock
(Singapore) Ltd. v. Hidili Industry International Development
Ltd., HCA159/2013 in the  Hong Kong  Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  