-- Blinder Supports Bailouts, Thanks Pal Bernanke: Review
-- B y   D a n i e l   A k s t
-- 2013-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/blinder-supports-bailouts-thanks-pal-bernanke-review.html
Do we really need another book about
the financial crisis?  The economist Alan S. Blinder certainly thinks so. In
“ After the Music Stopped : The Financial Crisis, the Response
and the Work Ahead,” he says “the American people still don’t
quite know what hit them.”  Part of the problem, as he sees it, is that the Obama
administration has done such a terrible job explaining things to
the voters. He’s right about that, and he proves adept at doing
the explaining himself, making accessible the complex events
leading to the crisis and the ways in which policy makers
responded.  A former economic adviser in the Clinton administration and
ex-vice chairman of the  Federal Reserve , Blinder is especially
good at providing political context. Unlike some post-crash
commentators, he doesn’t unburden himself of utopian proposals
that have no more chance of adoption than  Greece  has of paying
off its debts.  If anything, Blinder is all too conscious of how  Washington 
works, and this is one of the most dispiriting aspects of the
book.  Do we really need both a Securities and Exchange Commission
and a Commodity Futures Trading Commission? Blinder doesn’t
think so, and he has a theory as to why they both live on:  “If you have multiple regulators, you need multiple
congressional oversight committees, each of which is a gold mine
for political contributions.”  Uncle Sam  Given his understanding of the dismal realities in the
nation’s capital, Blinder thinks  Uncle Sam  did surprisingly well
in coping with the crisis, and his book is an extended -- and
reasonably persuasive -- apologia for the bailouts, the Fed’s
unprecedented interventions and even the Dodd-Frank reforms
aimed at making a replay of the crisis less likely.  Yet at times the author is too circumspect. He seems to
think letting  Lehman Brothers  fail in disorderly fashion was a
terrible idea, but he never really comes out and says so. He
cites inadequate regulation as a factor leading to the crisis,
but lets Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  (a member of the Fed’s Board
of Governors from 2002 to 2005) off easy in this connection.  Indeed, the book must be read in the context of Blinder’s
longstanding friendship with Bernanke, his former Princeton
University colleague, who is thanked in the preface.  Critics of the status quo will find little to feast on in
such fare. Blinder doubts, for example, that we can effectively
limit bank size in a competitive environment, as opponents of
too-big-to-fail have demanded.  Volcker Rule  He has little faith in the new Volcker rule, a feature of
the Dodd-Frank reforms that bars federally insured banks from
trading for their own accounts -- and in doing so tries to ban
behavior Blinder says had little or no role in the crisis.  “If proprietary trading is chased out of heavily
supervised commercial banks,” he wonders, “where will it go?
To less-well-supervised investment banks? To totally
unsupervised  hedge funds ? Would that make the financial system
safer?”  On the other hand, it takes courage to defend government
actions -- such as bank bailouts -- that are so deeply unpopular
across the political spectrum. Blinder correctly emphasizes how
little time or precedent policymakers had, how dire the
consequences of even a single systemically important collapse
(Lehman) had been, and how cost-effective Fed and Treasury
actions proved ultimately to be.  Abject Panic  Memories are short, he reminds us, which is why it’s
important to recall the abject panic of 2008. In Blinder’s view
there’s little doubt that if Washington hadn’t propped up
financial institutions, ended the run on money-market funds and
pumped money into the economy to prevent even more joblessness,
the dismal recession would have been much, much worse.  There isn’t much that’s new here for crisis sophisticates,
except perhaps Blinder’s emphasis on the bond bubble that
predated the crash and a vivid chart showing that, adjusted for
inflation,  home prices  today are about the same as they were in
1890. His list of villains -- excessive leverage, appalling
banking practices, inept rating agencies and so forth -- is
otherwise familiar.  Lay readers, for their part, will wish the book were
shorter, and will occasionally be flummoxed by the references to
balance sheets and the like. They will also be depressed by the
portrayal of a national government heavily influenced by
lobbyists and unable to effectively address the tangled
foreclosure mess.  Fortunately, that’s not the whole story, for every reader
should come away with a sense of optimism as well. Blinder makes
a good case that, in the face of catastrophe, public officials
acted boldly, creatively and effectively.  The tragedy is that people don’t seem to get that. This
book is likely to help.  “After the Music Stopped” is published by Penguin Press
(400 pages, $29.95). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  (Daniel Akst writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and Jaime
Widder on  rock music .  To contact the writer on the story:
Daniel Akst in  New York  at  danielakst@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 