-- Boeing Sues Yuzhnoye, Energia Over Sea Launch Reimbursements
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-04T21:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/boeing-sues-yuzhnoye-energia-over-sea-launch-reimbursements.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  sued Ukraine’s Yuzhnoye
SDO and Russia’s S.P. Korolev Rocket and Space Corp. Energia,
alleging they owe $350 million in reimbursements for Boeing’s
investments in their failed Sea Launch Co. joint venture.  The two companies breached a contractual commitment to pay,
if Sea Launch failed, their fair share of the funding Boeing
Commercial Space Co. provided to create and operate the venture
they set up in 1995 to launch commercial satellites from an
ocean-based platform, according to a complaint filed Feb. 1 in
federal court in Los Angeles.  “Yuzhnoye and Energia owe Boeing and BCSC more than $350
million, with interest continuing to accrue daily,” Chicago-
based Boeing said. “Instead of paying claims to which they have
no defense on the merits, Yuzhnoye and Energia have decided to
stall and evade, forcing plaintiffs to chase them around the
world to secure payment of debts clearly owed.”  Sea Launch filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in June 2009
to stop attempts by Hughes Network Systems LLC to collect a $52
million arbitration award made in connection with a canceled
contract following a failed launching in 2007.  In 2010, Energia Overseas Ltd, a unit of Moscow-based
Energia, acquired a 95 percent stake in the reorganized company,
Sea Launch AG, which is now based in Bern,  Switzerland . Boeing
and Norway’s  Aker ASA (AKER)  own the remaining 5 percent, according to
the Sea Launch  website .  Command Ship  Sea Launch uses a launch platform and command ship based in
 Long Beach ,  California , that travel across the Pacific Ocean to
the equator from where commercial communications satellites are
launched into space.  Peter Stier, a spokesman for Sea Launch in Long Beach,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment on the lawsuit.
Representatives of Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine-based Yuzhnoye didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment on the
allegations.  The case is Boeing v. Yuzhnoye, 13-00730, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  