-- Bolshoi Artistic Director to Identify Acid Attacker
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-02-04T10:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/bolshoi-artistic-director-to-name-acid-attacker-bbc-says.html
The Bolshoi Theater’s artistic
director,  Sergei Filin , said he’ll identify who was behind an
acid attack last month that threatens his eyesight, once an
investigation is complete.  “I’m absolutely certain I know who did this,” Filin told
the British Broadcasting Corp. in a  phone interview  posted
yesterday on their website. “But I will only speak about this
when investigators are ready to announce this.”  Filin was discharged from the hospital today, RIA Novosti
reported. The former star dancer at the Bolshoi ballet company
was attacked with acid outside his home in the Russian capital
on Jan. 17. His face and eyes were damaged during the assault,
which he says was linked to his work.  Filin hopes to recover sufficiently to see his children, he
told the BBC. He has undergone multiple operations on his eyes
and plans to pursue treatment in  Germany . His right eye suffered
more than the left.  Moscow police will identify the suspects publicly only
after detaining and charging them, according to spokesman Andrei
Galiakberov.  “This is a case that’s generated huge public interest in
 Russia  and internationally given that it involves the Bolshoi
Theater and we’ll devote every effort to uncovering the
culprits,” he said today in an interview in Moscow.  Filin said that prior to the assault, someone tampered with
his mobile phones and hacked his e-mail and Facebook Inc.
account. He blamed the “psychosis” of one or more people who
wanted to cause him pain as well as remove him from the Bolshoi
for a long time because they opposed his management, according
to the  BBC  interview.  The police said last week they’ll use a lie detector when
questioning witnesses as they investigate the crime.
Investigators have spoken with the Bolshoi ballet’s principal
dancer,  Nikolai Tsiskaridze , as well as other employees of the
theater and Filin’s relatives and acquaintances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  