-- Bovespa Futures Fall After Brazil Inflation, Commodities Drop
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-04T11:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/bovespa-futures-fall-after-brazil-inflation-commodities-drop.html
Bovespa-index futures dropped after
consumer prices in  Brazil ’s biggest city increased more than
forecast in January and a drop in commodities dimmed the outlook
for raw-material producers.  Airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA may move after
saying its board will discuss on Feb. 8 which banks will lead
the initial public offering of its frequent-flier unit Smiles.
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil company controlled
by billionaire  Eike Batista , may be active after saying it will
release an output report “early this month.”  Bovespa-index futures declined 0.4 percent to 60,095 at
9:06 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.9894
per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of raw materials
fell 0.4 percent, the euro retreated and Spanish  government
bonds  declined as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  faced opposition
calls to resign.  Consumer prices in Sao Paulo as measured by the IPC-Fipe
index rose 1.15 percent in January, a report today from the
Foundation Economics Research Institute showed, which exceeded
the median estimate of 1.06 percent among 13 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  entered a bull market on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in
Brazil boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its
advance to 15 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.2 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 11 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 7.21 billion
reais ($3.63 billion) on Feb. 1, which compares with a daily
average of 7.34 billion reais this year through Jan. 31,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  