-- Brazil’s Swap Rates Drop on Outlook for Currency; Real Declines
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-02-04T20:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/brazil-swap-rates-drop-on-currency-forecast-real-little-changed.html
Brazil ’s shorter-maturity swap rates
fell as economists scaled back forecasts for the real’s drop,
boosting speculation that the central bank will delay increases
in borrowing costs as the  exchange rate  helps curb inflation.  Swap rates due in July 2013 dropped two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 7.06 percent at the close in Sao
Paulo. The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.9954 per dollar, the
weakest level since Jan. 28.  The currency will end the year at 2.05 per dollar,
according to the median forecast of about 100 economists in a
central bank survey published today, stronger than the 2.07 they
estimated a week earlier. The real rallied to a level beyond 2
per  U.S. dollar  on Jan. 28 for the first time since July after
the central bank intervened by selling $1.85 billion of
foreign-exchange swaps as inflation accelerated.  “Last week’s swap auction sent a strong message that the
central bank won’t allow the real to depreciate further,”
Darwin Dib, the chief economist at CM Capital, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo.  On Jan. 31, Brazil removed a 6 percent tax on foreign
investment in real estate funds traded on the stock exchange,
spurring speculation that inflows will sustain the real. Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said the previous day that the government
is ready to block exaggerated appreciation.  Today’s central bank survey incorporates the recent
“interventions in the real, which caused the currency to
appreciate,” Concordia Corretora economists led by Flavio Combat said in an e-mailed report.  Currency Intervention  Policy makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  The outlook for inflation is getting worse in the “short
term” while the economic recovery was less intense than
expected, the central bank said in minutes of its Jan. 15-16
policy meeting.  The best way to curb consumer-price increases is to keep
the  target rate  at a record low for a “sufficiently prolonged
period,” policy makers said. The central bank held its
benchmark at 7.25 percent for a second straight meeting.  Longer-term swap rates rose today after the Foundation
Economics Research Institute’s  consumer price index  for  Sao
Paulo  rose 1.15 percent in January, compared with the 1.06
percent median foreacst of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation  has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for 28 consecutive months. The
IPCA index of consumer prices rose 5.84 percent in December from
a year earlier, quickening from the 5.53 percent annual pace in
the prior month.  Inflation Outlook  Economists in the central bank survey lifted their
inflation forecast for the end of 2013 to 5.68 percent from 5.67
percent a week earlier. Swap rates due in July 2017 rose seven
basis points to 9 percent.  The economists held their growth forecast for gross
domestic product at 3.1 percent for 2013, compared with the
monetary authority’s estimate of 1 percent expansion last year.  President  Dilma Rousseff  seeks GDP growth of at least 3.5
percent this year, with an expansion probably accelerating in
the second half, O Estado de S. Paulo reported, citing a
government official it didn’t identify. The  Finance Ministry 
declined a request for comment from  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  