-- Bristol-Myers Diabetes Drug Helps Obese Adolescents Lose Weight
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/bristol-myers-diabetes-drug-helps-obese-adolescents-lose-weight.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s diabetes
drug exenatide helped severely obese teenagers lose weight,
according to a study that suggests a new use for some medicines
used to control blood sugar.  Exenatide, also known under the brand names Bydureon and
Byetta, enabled the teens to lose an average of 2.7 percent of
their body mass index over three months, according to the
results published today in the  Journal of the American Medical
Association Pediatrics.  The study had 26 severely obese
participants ages 12 to 19.  About  15 percent  of children and adolescents in the U.S.
are obese, and about 5 percent are severely obese, according to
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
Though statistically significant, the  weight loss  achieved in
the study was modest, said study author Aaron Kelly. Exenatide
might be used in combination with other weight loss medications
to achieve stronger results, he said.  “What it ultimately is going to take is combination
medical therapy,” Kelly, an assistant professor at the
University of Minnesota Medical School, said in an interview.
“The BMI reduction is not impressive, but it’s a step in the
right direction.”  BMI, is a measure of weight and height, with a 5-foot, 4-
inch (160-centimer) woman weighing 175 pounds (80 kilograms)
having a BMI of 30. BMI of 30 or more is considered obese, while
a BMI of 25 to 29.9 is considered overweight, according to the
National Institutes of Health, based in Bethesda,  Maryland . A
BMI of 40 and more is considered extremely obese. For a 5-foot-
6-inch tall adolescent, that would include those weighing 220
pounds or more, according to the Atlanta-based CDC.  $910 Million  Bristol-Myers acquired exenatide when it bought Amylin
Pharmaceuticals for $6.49 billion last August. The drug is
expected to generate $910 million in  sales  this year, according
to the average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Exenatide is from a class of drugs known as GLP-1 receptor
agonists. They act on the brain to reduce appetite, and also
slow the transit of food in the gut, making people feel fuller.
Danish drugmaker  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  sells a related product,
Victoza. Bristol-Myers, based in  New York , and Novo Nordisk have
clinical trials for obesity indications.  People with obesity are more likely to develop type 2
diabetes, cardiac diseases, and other chronic conditions that
can lead to illness and death later on.  Obese adolescents are a “population that’s very difficult
to manage with lifestyle alone,” Kelly said.  By the time
they’ve reached that weight, their brains may no longer be very
good at regulating appetite and fullness from food. They’re also
less likely to get weight-loss surgery, he said.  “If we can intervene early and change that trajectory, it
will very likely reduce that level of obesity in adulthood,”
Kelly said.  Study Results  Patients in the study were divided into two groups, half of
which got exenatide and half of which got placebo. After three
months, patients on the drug cut their BMI by 2.7 percent,
compared with 0.2 percent for those on the placebo. After three
more months on the drug, the study group had lost 4 percent of
BMI, on average.  The next steps will be trying out combination therapies to
move past a 4 percent BMI reduction, aiming for a 10 percent to
15 percent loss, Kelly said.  The study was supported by grants from the University of
Minnesota Clinical and Translational Science Institute and from
the U.S.  National Institutes of Health .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  