-- Brookings, A&E, Google, Valve: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-04T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/brookings-a-e-google-valve-intellectual-property.html
Most of the U.S. patents issued since
1980 are to residents of only 20 metropolitan areas in the U.S.,
according to  a study  released Feb. 1 by the  Brookings
Institution .  Silicon Valley’s San Jose has the highest per capita number
of patents, with 5,066 issued per million residents between 2007
and 2011, according to the study. Other patent-intensive regions
are the San Francisco/Oakland,  California , area, with 1,638
patents per million; the Austin, Texas, region with 1,503
patents per million; Poughkeepsie/Middleton, New York, with
1,820 per million;  Seattle /Bellevue, Washington, with 1,174 per
million; and the Research Triangle Park area of North Carolina,
with 1,164 patents per million.  The study also looked at metropolitan areas with the lowest
growth in patents from 1990 to 2010, and the biggest losers were
New Orleans and Baton Rouge, both in  Louisiana . Baton Rouge had
a loss of 5.3 percent, followed by New Orleans, with a 2.5
percent loss, according to the study.  Apple Gets Patent on Shake-to-Charge Tech for Mobile Devices  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and iPhone, received a patent
on a method of recharging mobile devices through the user’s
movement, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  Patent 8,362,751, issued Jan. 29, covers the use of printed
coils that can harness power through electro-magnetic induction.  The magnets move along a circuit board when the user moves
the device, creating en electromotive force along the printed
coils. Cupertino, California-based Apple said this could be done
by shaking the device or from movement generated when the user
walks or runs.  Apple applied for this patent in June 2012, with the
assistance of Womble Carlyle Sandridge & Rice LLP of Winston-
Salem, North Carolina.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  A&E Can’t Stop Repeat of History in U.K. Dispute With Discovery  A&E Television Networks LLC, which airs the History
channel, lost a U.K. court bid to prevent a  Discovery
Communications Inc. (DISCA)  unit from using the word in the name of its
rival documentary television station.  Judge Peter Smith said evidence from viewers didn’t show
they were likely to mistake Discovery History for A&E’s History,
which used to be known as the History Channel.  “I do not see that any clear picture emerged from these
witnesses to show there was any possible confusion,” he said in
a written decision.  Discovery, which owns TLC and has a joint partnership with
Oprah Winfrey’s OWN cable network, is adding channels and
programming in new markets to counter slowing growth in the U.S.
Its international business, which accounts for a little more
than a third of annual sales, is growing faster than its U.S.
business, Chief Executive Officer  David Zaslav  said in December.  A&E argued at a July trial that it lost viewers and
advertising revenue because Discovery had tricked people into
watching its channel. Discovery filed a counterclaim to strike
out the trademark, saying that New York-based A&E wanted a
monopoly on the word history. The counterclaim was also rejected
by Judge Smith.  Michael Feeney, a spokesman for A&E in New York, declined
to comment. Jeremy Dickerson, Discovery’s lawyer, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail requesting comment on the
ruling.  Judge Smith, who said during the trial he enjoyed watching
historical television stations featuring “documentaries about
tanks trundling across the Russian steppe,” criticized evidence
presented by A&E.  The company’s lawyers interviewed viewers without telling
them until afterwards the information would be used in a trial.  “It seems blatantly unfair to the witness,” Smith said in
his judgment. “It is clear that statements were ‘finessed’ to
present them in a more favorable light,” without witnesses
understanding what was happening, he said.  Discovery, which also broadcasts the Animal Planet and TLC
channels, has 1.8 billion subscribers in 209 countries,
according to its website. A&E also produces the Hoarders and
Storage Wars television shows.  Google Submits Settlement Offer, EU Antitrust Chief Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  submitted an offer to European Union regulators
in a bid to settle a probe into whether the world’s largest
search engine operator discriminates against rivals, the EU’s
antitrust chief said.  “It has arrived,” EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia told reporters in Brussels Feb. 1. He said his officials
would now study the proposal.  Almunia had asked Google to submit concessions by the end
of January to address allegations that the company promotes its
own specialist search-services, copies rivals’ travel and
restaurant reviews, and has agreements with websites and
software developers that stifle competition in the advertising
industry. He first told Google in May that he wanted to settle
the case.  Google sent a “detailed proposal,” said Antoine
Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia. He said he couldn’t
anticipate if the offer was sufficient to allay antitrust
concerns or whether it would be sent to rivals and customers for
comments. If this market test is successful, the EU can make the
commitments legally binding. Such a settlement would avoid
possible fines against the Mountain View, California-based
company.  Google continues “to work co-operatively with the
commission,” the company’s Brussels-based spokesman Al Verney
said in an e-mailed statement.  An EU settlement avoids any decision on whether a company
broke antitrust rules. Companies can be fined as much as 10
percent of their yearly revenue if they break the terms of a
legally binding settlement.  “Any settlement must include explicit acceptance by Google
of its dominance and that it has damaged European businesses
through its anti-competitive practices,” David Wood, legal
counsel at ICOMP, a Brussels-based industry coalition that
includes  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , owner of the Bing search engine, said
in an e-mailed statement. Microsoft is one of the companies that
complained to the EU about Google’s search practices.  The EU is continuing to investigate Google over Motorola
Mobility’s use of injunctions, saying the situation in  Europe 
“is not the same” as in the U.S.  Microsoft and Apple Inc. have complained to the EU about
the company’s use of legal actions to seek sales bans of their
products. Regulators are also probing Google’s Android operating
system for mobile phones and tablets.  In 2010, the EU began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads. While
Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a quarter of the
U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95 percent of the
traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post in 2011, citing
data from regulators.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Valve Sued in Germany Over Restrictions on Resale of Games  Valve Corp. , the Kirkland, Washington-based maker of the
Steam computer games, was sued by the Federation of German
Consumer Organizations because of technology elements that make
it impossible for users to re-sell their games,  according to  the
PC Advisor computer news website.  A spokesman for the federation told PC Advisor that the
games are, in most cases, linked to a specific account and are
unplayable online without the key to that account.  The federation views this restriction as a limit on the
ownership of a game, according to PC Advisor.  The suit was filed in Berlin Jan. 30 after the company
didn’t comply with demands made by the federation in September,
PC Advisor reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Karyn Temple Claggett Named Associate Registrar of Copyrights  Karyn Temple Claggett was appointed associate registrar of
copyrights and director of policy and international affairs,
according to a Jan. 30  statement  from the U.S. Copyright Office.  Before she joined the copyright office, she was senior
counsel to the deputy U.S. attorney general, where she helped
manage the U.S. Justice Department’s Task Force on Intellectual
Property, and helped formulate the department’s policy on IP
issues.  She also previously was an attorney for  the Recording
Industry of America , and was in private practice with
 Washington ’s Williams & Connolly LLP. Temple Claggett has served
as a judicial clerk for Judge Nathaniel R. Jones of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.  Temple Claggett received her undergraduate degree in
English from the University of Michigan and a law degree from
Columbia University.  Rothwell, Figg Hires Robert Parker, Former ITC Litigator  Rothwell, Figg, Ernst & Manbeck PC hired Robert P. Parker
for its IP litigation team, the Washington-based firm said in a
 statement .  Parker  previously practiced at the international firm of
Baker & McKenzie LLP and New York’s Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison LLP.  He also served for three years as counsel to the chairman
of the U.S. International Trade Commission, which has the power
to exclude the import of products that infringe U.S.
intellectual property rights. Before he began practicing law,
Parker served as a judicial clerk for Judge Oscar Davis on the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  Parker has an undergraduate degree from Johns Hopkins
University and a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  