-- Buffett Gets $1.8 Billion in Investment Assets From Cigna
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-02-05T16:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/buffett-gets-1-8-billion-in-investment-assets-in-deal.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  is taking on as much as $4 billion in liabilities from
 Cigna Corp. (CI)  as the third-biggest U.S. health insurer seeks to
reduce risk from death-benefits and retirement products.  Cigna will pay $2.2 billion to Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire, according to a statement yesterday from the
Bloomfield, Connecticut-based health insurer. The transaction
will be funded with $1.8 billion in investment assets, $100
million in cash and an estimated $300 million tax benefit.  Buffett, 82, and his reinsurance chief Ajit Jain have
assumed obligations from insurers seeking to cut risk or narrow
their focus. The contracts give Berkshire’s billionaire chairman
and chief executive officer more funds to invest and make
acquisitions at the firm he’s built from a failing textile maker
into a company with more than 70  operating units .  Cigna investors have been “waiting on this for a long
time, so I imagine the reaction to it will be positive,”  David Windley , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in Nashville,  Tennessee , said
in a phone interview.  The health insurer climbed 3.2 percent to $60.19 at 11:31
a.m. in  New York . Buffett’s firm rose 0.9 percent.  Insurers Retreat  Investors including  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management
LLC and Guggenheim Partners LLC have been assuming assets and
liabilities tied to annuities as insurers retreat from the
business. Declining interest rates have made guarantees embedded
in the products more costly and weighed on earnings at companies
including  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and Genworth
Financial Inc.  Buffett has used insurance float, or the premiums collected
before paying claims, to fuel growth at Berkshire over the past
four decades. Jain has helped raise those funds, which totaled
$72 billion at the end of September, by cutting deals with firms
including American International Group Inc. and CNA Financial
Corp. to assume asbestos liabilities and sell protection for the
costliest natural disasters.  Life insurers took on what Buffett has called an
“ungodly” amount of risk and accumulated liabilities as
Treasury yields dropped below 2 percent, making it harder to
generate returns to cover the obligations.  Cigna CEO David M. Cordani said last month that his company
was ready to get rid of its death-benefits unit, which has been
closed to new business for more than a decade. Costs for
annuities fluctuate with  interest rates  and the uncertainty has
been a drag on Cigna’s stock, Windley said.  Earnings Forecast  Buffett is assuming liabilities from units that have about
435,000 active policies, down 10 percent over 2012, Cordani said
yesterday on a conference call. The sale will have no impact on
Cigna’s earnings forecast this year or its capital deployment
plans, said Chief Financial Officer Ralph Nicoletti. Cigna
expects to finish its payments to Berkshire “well before the
end of 2013,” he said.  Cigna said it will take a $500 million after-tax charge in
the first quarter tied to the transaction, according to the
statement. Cordani said the company will sell fixed-income
securities that are among the investment assets, and transfer
cash to Berkshire.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was Cigna’s financial adviser and
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP provided legal advice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  