-- Bugatti Dealer WBL Seen Sparking Bidding War: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-02-05T11:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/bugatti-dealer-wbl-seen-sparking-bidding-war-real-m-a.html
WBL Corp. (WBL)  is proving to be  Asia ’s
most lucrative takeover bet for traders thanks to its luxury
properties across China and its Bugatti and Bentley dealerships.  WBL, with real estate projects in five Chinese cities, last
week received an offer from  United Engineers Ltd. (UEM)  valuing the
Singapore-based company at S$1.1 billion ($888 million), topping
a proposal from fellow  shareholder  Straits Trading Co. WBL
yesterday closed 16 percent higher than the most recent bid,
indicating traders expect it to land the biggest price increase
of any deal in the developed Asia-Pacific region, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  United Engineers can afford to raise its offer 29 percent
to secure WBL’s high-end Chinese real estate, said CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. WBL, which also controls Nasdaq-listed electronic
component maker  Multi-Fineline Electronix Inc. (MFLX) , is so
undervalued that its property and car-dealership  units  alone are
worth more than the best takeover offer to date, according to
Malayan Banking Bhd.  “This may just be a start of a possible bidding war,”
Weiming Yang, whose clients trade stocks, commodities and
indexes at brokerage IG Markets Ltd. in  Singapore , said in a
phone interview. “There’s increased interest in big,
complicated conglomerates. The valuation should be higher.”  Model-T Fords  Anand Joseph, a spokesman for Straits Trading, a  126 -year-
old Singapore conglomerate that mines for tin and develops
property, said it would be “inappropriate” to comment on the
bidding process.  If United Engineers’ offer is successful, Chief Executive
Officer Jackson Yap said he will work with WBL’s  management  and
board to review its major businesses and assets, according to an
e-mailed statement. He also said that part of the attraction of
WBL is the outlook for property in  China . United Engineers
builds and develops properties in Singapore.  Mok Lai Siong, a spokeswoman for WBL, declined to comment
on the potential for a price increase.  Wearne Brothers Ltd., as WBL was previously known, was
founded in 1906 by Charles and Theodore Wearne and sold nailed-
together Model T Fords in Singapore, introduced the Rolls-Royce
to  Malaysia  and started the first commercial air service between
the two countries in 1937, according to its  website . After it
was shut down during World War II, the company entered
industries from double-decker bus services to computer design.  Chinese Revenue  WBL now generates almost half its revenue  in China , where
it develops residential and commercial property and sells Volvo
cars, according to its 2012  annual report . The company also owns
stakes in Multi-Fineline, and MFS Technology, which make
circuits for phones and laptops, and businesses that distribute
auto parts and provide engineering services.  Saying it sees “potential for continued growth” at WBL,
Straits Trading offered on Nov. 26 to buy stakes from other
shareholders at S$3.41 in cash or in exchange for 1.07 of its
own shares to raise its ownership to more than 40 percent.
Straits Trading then said it plans to buy the rest of the
company at that price.  Last month, a United Engineers-led group, including WBL
investor Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., offered S$4 in cash for
the 62 percent of WBL they don’t already own.  Bentley, Bugatti  United Engineers CEO Yap said WBL’s high-end residential
and commercial buildings can tap China’s rising affluence,
according to a Jan. 30 statement. The company also pointed to
potential cost savings across the construction and engineering
assets, and described the auto-dealership as a “potential
engine of growth.”  WBL’s car dealerships represent 11 marques in Singapore,
China,  Hong Kong ,  Indonesia , Malaysia and  Thailand . At home,
WBL’s largest auto market by revenue, the company’s brands
include Bentley, Bugatti and Jaguar.  Still, Chinese real-estate is the biggest draw to both
bidders, said Alison Fok, a Singapore-based analyst at Maybank,
as Malayan Banking is known. The property business may be worth
as much as S$972 million, almost equivalent to United Engineers’
current bid, a sum-of-the-parts analysis by Fok shows.  “The key attraction is the properties in China,” she said
in a phone interview. “These assets may be undervalued.”  WBL’s property assets stretch from  Shanghai  in the east to
the central city of  Chengdu , where the 895-unit Orchard Villa
residential project is set to finish in 2016. Property revenue
jumped 75 percent last fiscal year, company filings show.  Property Prices  New home prices in China rose for an eight consecutive
month in January, recording the biggest gain in two years,
SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real-estate website
owner, said this month.  Still, China’s government has attempted to curb the
domestic  property market  for more than two years, raising down-
payment and mortgage requirements. It also imposed a property
tax for the first time in Shanghai and Chongqing -- both sites
of WBL developments -- and enacted home-purchase restrictions in
about 40 cities.  Despite such measures, demand for high-end homes will
continue, WBL said in its annual report.  WBL is worth between S$1.42 billion and S$1.57 billion, or
S$5.04 to S$5.59 a share, depending on the value ascribed to the
Chinese property, Fok wrote in a Jan. 31 report. The car
dealership is valued at S$244 million, while the MFLX and MFS
stakes should fetch a combined S$345 million.  “Within a group like WBL, there’s an awful lot of hidden
value,” said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based director of
special situations at Religare Capital Markets. “It’s an old
Singapore conglomerate, encompassing a number of businesses that
evolved and were set up as part the original building of the
country.”  Breakup Value  WBL closed at  S$4.63 a share  yesterday, 16 percent higher
than United Engineers’ offer, giving the company a market
capitalization of S$1.26 billion. That’s the most that any
target is trading above its bid among deals valued at more than
$100 million in the developed Asia-Pacific region, indicating
traders expect WBL to fetch the largest increase to its takeover
price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The shares were unchanged in Singapore trading today, while
the benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  fell 0.8 percent.  United Engineers, which could offer as much as S$5.15 a
share for WBL without overpaying, may choose to sell the
technology business while keeping other divisions, said Lee Syn Yi, a Singapore-based analyst at CIMB. That would be 11 percent
more than yesterday’s closing price and 29 percent higher than
United Engineers’ current bid.  F&N Parallel  “The property would definitely be most relevant,” Lee
said in a phone interview. “The engineering side might be
relevant, too. My sense is that for the tech side, that could be
monetized.”  The pursuit of WBL mirrors in part the takeover battle for
Fraser & Neave Ltd., a fight that led to the biggest acquisition
of a Singapore-based company. Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi won control of the 130-year-old property and
beverage conglomerate with a S$13.8 billion bid.  With WBL, the buyers are backed by two Singapore families
that have faced off before: the Lee family on United Engineers’
side, and the Tan family with Straits Trading.  They competed for control of Straits Trading in 2008, and
locked horns when Straits Trading ousted WBL Chairman Ng Ser Miang at a shareholder meeting in January 2012, the Straits
Times newspaper reported at the time.  A face-off between the two in this case could lead to WBL’s
breakup as the two groups divide the company between them.  “There’s been a falling out between the key figures behind
WBL -- United Engineers and Straits Trading,” Foster said.
“There must be a lot of capacity for a partial breakup of WBL.
There are lots of possibilities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  