-- Bumi Rivals Both Claim Shareholder Interests With Opposing Plans
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-02-04T10:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/bumi-rivals-both-claim-shareholder-interests-with-opposing-plans.html
Bumi Plc Chairman Samin Tan and co-
founder  Nathaniel Rothschild  are as united by claims of putting
shareholders first as they are divided on how to get that done.  “My interests with the rest of the shareholders are
aligned because we are all the victims of the Bumi saga,” Tan
said in an interview with  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television.
“I’m the person who lost a lot more money than anyone else.”  Bumi has urged investors to reject plans by Rothschild, co-
founder with  Indonesia ’s Bakrie Group, to regain control of the
company by removing 12 of 14 directors and returning himself to
the board. The London-traded company, which slid 69 percent last
year as Rothschild and the Bakrie family fought for control of
its coal assets, is also seeking a separation from the Bakries.  Shareholders will vote at an Extraordinary General Meeting
on Feb. 21 over Rothschild’s motion to oust directors including
Tan and Chief Executive Officer Nick von Schirnding. Wallace King, the former head of  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , would become
chairman, while Brock Gill would be the replacement CEO.  “My interest here is to try to win this EGM and bring the
value back for the shareholders,” Tan said today in the
interview. “I am absolutely sure we will win.”  The creation of Bumi in 2010 bundled the assets of two coal
companies in a $3 billion deal. A boardroom feud and financial
probes in the U.K. and Indonesia have since prompted the Bakries
and Rothschild to seek to unwind their collaboration.  “I am still fighting for the regular shareholders,” the
financier said in a separate interview on Bloomberg Television.  $1 Billion  Rothschild said he had invested more than 120 million
pounds ($189 million) in the company and was proposing a
“serious, qualified, no-nonsense” board. Tan said he had
invested about $1 billion in the business.  Julian Horn-Smith, a senior independent non-executive
director at  Bumi (BUMI) , today called on Rothschild to return bonus
shares he was granted after the company’s creation.  There’s “growing pressure” from shareholders for the
financier to give back the stock, Horn-Smith said in a statement
that Rothschild described as “pretty extraordinary.”  Bumi said last week it was progressing with negotiations to
sever ties with the Bakries. An announcement on the separation
may come this week, Tan said today. He plans to quit as chairman
once the split is complete. “Assuming that we win, and I
believe that we will win this coming EGM, the process for the
separation is very, very close,” Tan said.  Bumi’s plan won’t achieve a full exit by the Bakries, said
Rothschild’s NR Investments Ltd. in a separate statement. “My
job is to provide an alternative from the status quo because the
status quo has been nothing short of a tragedy,” Rothschild
said. “We need a new management team and a new board.”  Bumi fell 0.2 percent to 356.7 pence by 10:19 a.m. in
 London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Singapore at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  