-- Caesars Rises on Plan to Sell Stake in Online, New Casinos
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-04T21:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/caesars-rises-on-plan-to-sell-stake-in-online-unit-new-casinos.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the
largest owner of U.S. casinos, rose the most in almost two
months after saying it may raise money by selling a stake in its
online operation and two other properties.  Caesars Growth Venture Partners will include Caesars
Interactive Entertainment shares, the Planet Hollywood resort in
Las Vegas and a project under way in Baltimore, the Las Vegas-
based company said today in a  filing . The unit would also own a
$1.1 billion note issued by a Caesars subsidiary.  Caesars Entertainment, controlled by  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  and TPG Capital LP, said the sale may bolster its
cash and improve its credit rating. The parent, with almost $23
billion in debt, will keep a “significant portion” of the
venture, according to the filing. The announcement was made in
conjunction with a debt offering.  “We are pursuing this transaction because we believe it
will improve our liquidity and credit profile, enhance our
distribution network and provide additional support for
potential new ventures,” the company said in the filing.  Caesars rose 12 percent $8.71 at the close in New York, the
biggest gain since Dec. 6. The shares had advanced 26 percent
this year.  Apollo Management and TPG Capital own about 70 percent of
Caesars stock. Paulson & Co. holds about 10 percent.  In the  filing , Caesars proposed selling $1.5 billion in
senior notes, due in 2020, at a 9 percent rate. Proceeds will be
used to repay outstanding term loans, the company said.  As part of the filing, the company also reported
preliminary fourth-quarter results.  Quarterly Results  Sales for Caesars Entertainment Operating Co. totaled $1.55
billion to $1.58 billion, the company said in the filing.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
totaled $325 million to $365 million.  The results topped estimates of $1.52 billion and $315
million by  Barbara Cappaert , an analyst with KDP Investment
Advisors Inc., and came as Caesars’ Atlantic City casinos closed
for five days during  Hurricane Sandy  last year.  Caesars sold shares to the public in February 2012 at $9
each. The company was taken private in a $30.7 billion leveraged
buyout by Apollo Global Management LLC and TPG Capital in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  