-- Cameron Reboots Greenest-Government Pledge to Lure Siemens
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-02-04T17:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/cameron-reboots-greenest-government-vow-to-lure-siemens-gamesa.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
renewed a vow that the government he leads will be the nation’s
“greenest ever” as he seeks to lure investment from renewables
companies including  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA.  Energy laws being debated in Parliament will give investors
the long-term clarity needed to plow money into Britain, Cameron
told industry executives today at the Royal Society in London.
That will help the U.K. secure a share of jobs and growth in “a
global low carbon sector set to be worth $4 trillion by 2015.”  Cameron came to power in May 2010 pledging the government,
a coalition of his Conservative Party and the Liberal Democrats,
would be the greenest in British history. The prime minister has
since been criticized by environmental campaign groups including
Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth for failing in that mission
by pursuing gas and rowing back support for onshore wind power.  “We can go to international investors and say ‘If you
invest in offshore wind, when you’ve built your turbine, at the
end of 2017, I can’t just tell you what you’ll earn for one year
or two years, I can tell you what you’ll earn for 20 years,’”
Cameron said. “Britain can get out there in the international
market and talk to investors and talk to the big companies --the
Siemens and the Dows and the Gamesas and others, and say ‘You
have got absolute certainty investing in this market.’”  ‘Extremely Reckless’  The Energy Bill’s introduction to parliament was preceded
by a struggle between Energy Secretary Ed Davey, who wanted to
set a goal to cut most carbon emissions from the power industry
by 2030, and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, who
opposed the target and has pushed for gas-fired generation as a
cheaper alternative to low-carbon renewable energy.  “Warm words are not enough: the prime minister must now
rein in his chancellor and the fossil-fueled policies that are
driving green investment away,” Friends of the Earth Head of
Campaigns Andrew Pendleton said today in an e-mailed statement.
“A decarbonisation target in the Energy Bill could be the key
to unlocking the U.K.’s huge renewable energy potential by
giving business the confidence to invest.”  Friends of the Earth in December called the U.K. gas policy
“extremely reckless” and said Cameron’s “stewardship of the
environment has faded.” Fellow environmental organisation WWF
last month criticized the government, saying it didn’t offer any
new policies on renewables or new leadership on climate change.  Schwarzenegger, Clinton  The right policies supporting a low-carbon economy could
add 20 billion pounds to gross domestic product, Rhian Kelly,
the Confederation of British Industry’s director of business
environment policy, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “When I became prime minister I said I wanted Britain to
have the greenest government ever, and I’m as committed to that
today as I was then,” Cameron said. “I want to go further.”  He spoke at what the government described as an “energy
efficiency mission launch,” including a video message from
former California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and a written
one from former U.S. President Bill Clinton emphasizing the need
to improve energy efficiency and supporting the U.K.’s efforts.  The government last week started its Green Deal program,
aiming to boost insulation in the nation’s 26.9 million homes,
improve their energy efficiency and lower household fuel bills.  The Energy Department says the program will more than
double insulation industry jobs to 60,000 by 2015. The Sun
newspaper said last week that just one person signed up on the
program’s first day, and they still had two weeks to withdraw.  The department isn’t counting applicants, a spokesman said.
The Green Deal website received 42,000 visits on its first day
and 24 companies have been authorized as providers, he said.  “This is a program we’re going to build over the months
and years ahead,” Cameron said. “It’s very important with
these big new programs to get the balance right. If you go off
with an enormous advertising bang, you won’t have the immediate
capacity to meet demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  