-- The Boy Scouts vs. the Supreme Court
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-02-04T23:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/can-boy-scouts-overrule-supreme-court-ruling-.html
Can the Defense Department overrule
the U.S. Supreme Court? Can the Boy Scouts of America? The short
answer is: Of course not. But a full response turns out to be
more complicated, and it offers a lesson for thinking about the
relationship between constitutional law and the evolving nature
of rights.  Here’s the lesson. We often think that our rights are
established by the Constitution and by the Supreme Court,
interpreting that document. True, the Constitution is
fundamental, but some of our most important rights, as we
understand and live them, are a product of changing social
values, which affect private institutions, public officials and
sometimes even constitutional law.  We are now witnessing two compelling examples: the recent
decision of the Defense Department to  allow women  to serve in
combat, and the Boy Scouts’ announcement that it will reconsider
(perhaps as early as this week) its longstanding national ban on
 gay members .  Let’s begin with a little history. In a 1981 decision,
Rostker v. Goldberg, a divided Supreme Court resolved one of the
most controversial sex-discrimination cases in the nation’s
history. The constitutional question was whether the federal
government could refuse to register women for the draft.  The government defended  male-only registration  with a
breathtakingly simple argument: The primary purpose of
registration was to ensure that people would be available for
combat, which was limited to men by law. In the government’s
view, registration of women would have no point.  Discrimination Accepted  Remarkably, those who challenged the law raised no
objection to the exclusion of women from combat. They took that
form of discrimination as a given. They merely contended that
thousands of registrants, if called up for military service,
would end up working in noncombat positions. They insisted that
to avoid unconstitutional sex discrimination, the government
should register men and women alike -- while also using only men
in combat.  By a vote of 6-to-3, the court sided with the government.
The court said that judges owed special deference to the views
of the military. It concluded that because the government wanted
the overwhelming majority of registrants to be available for
combat, it could refuse to register women.  In its 2000 decision in Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, a
divided Supreme Court resolved one of the most controversial
freedom-of-association cases in the nation’s history. New Jersey
had enacted a law forbidding discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation in public accommodations. The New Jersey
Supreme Court concluded that this law applied to the Boy Scouts,
who asked the Supreme Court to rule that New Jersey was
violating its  right of association .  By a vote of 5-to-4, the court agreed with the Boy Scouts.
It emphasized that the Boy Scouts believed that “homosexual
conduct is not morally straight,” and did “not want to promote
homosexual conduct as a legitimate form of behavior.” According
to the court’s majority, New Jersey was striking at the heart of
the Scouts’ deepest moral commitments.  In 1981 many people would have been astonished to hear that
in a little more than three decades, and without the slightest
pressure from the Supreme Court, the Defense Department would
allow women to serve in combat. Yet on Jan. 24 of this year, the
 Pentagon announced , with the full support of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, that the military is lifting its longstanding prohibition
on women in combat.  Prohibition Reconsidered  As recently as 2000, many people would have found it
unimaginable that in a little more than a decade, the Boy Scouts
would seriously consider eliminating its ban against the
admission of openly gay members. Yet on Jan. 28 of this year,
the Boy Scouts announced that it will re-evaluate its
longstanding prohibition and decide whether to allow local
troops to admit gay members.  True, the Boy Scouts’ decision has yet to be made, but the
very fact that it is reconsidering its prohibition attests to
the mounting consensus against discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation.  The broader lesson is that social movements and evolving
social values are responsible for many rights that Americans now
take for granted. The right to be free from sex discrimination
has become entrenched, but it did not really emerge until the
last third of the 20th century.  The individual right to own guns was a settled part of
American culture long before it was a settled part of
constitutional law; indeed, the Supreme Court didn’t explicitly
recognize that right until its 2008 decision in District of
Columbia v. Heller.  To a remarkable extent, disability rights have become
broadly accepted, as reflected in bipartisan support for the
Americans With Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008 (passed by
unanimous consent in both the Senate and the House of
Representatives). But the nation’s acceptance of disability
rights has nothing to do with constitutional law and everything
to do with changing social understandings.  Powerful though they are, the Defense Department and the
Boy Scouts of America have no authority to overrule the Supreme
Court. But it is an enduring feature of our constitutional
system that as they learn over time, public and private
institutions are free to endorse understandings of rights that
go beyond anything announced by the highest court in the land.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at Harvard University, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” forthcoming in 2013. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 