-- Ackman Canadian Pacific CEO Gets Deputy From National
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-02-04T21:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/canadian-pacific-hires-keith-creel-as-chief-operating-officer.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  hired
Keith Creel away from rival  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  and
named him president and chief operating officer to assist Chief
Executive Officer Hunter Harrison in his turnaround plan.  The companies reached a settlement to end their outstanding
litigation linked to Harrison’s move to Canadian Pacific last
year, Canadian National said in a separate release. Canadian
Pacific has agreed not to hire certain Canadian National
employees until the end of 2016, according to the statement.  Harrison, a former Canadian National CEO who took over
after activist investor  William Ackman  won a proxy campaign, is
gaining a potential successor as well as No. 2. The 68-year-old
chief executive, who is working to rid Canadian Pacific of its
status as North America’s least efficient railroad based on
operating ratio, told investors in December his future deputy
would get the opportunity to be CEO “in two or three” years.  “The announcement is a positive for CP in that it gives a
very clear sense of longevity to the CEO role at CP,”  Walter Spracklin , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto who
rates the stock sector perform, said in a note to clients. “The
negative would be the price paid by CP to lure Creel away from
CN, and the potential financial implication to CP shareholders
from the CP/CN settlement, if any.”  Canadian Pacific  fell  2.1 percent to C$113.38 at the close
in Toronto, while Canadian National fell 0.6 percent to C$95.14.
Canadian Pacific has increased 54 percent since June 28, the day
before Harrison took over, outstripping a 10 percent gain by its
Montreal-based rival.  Deputy Creel  Creel, 44, holds a marketing degree from Jacksonville State
University and completed an advanced management program at
Harvard Business School. He began his railroad career at
Burlington Northern Railway in 1992 before joining Harrison-led
Illinois Central Corp. in 1996. He and Harrison came to Canadian
National when the Montreal-based company acquired Illinois
Central in 1999.  Chief Marketing Officer Jane O’Hagan and three other
operations executives will all report to Creel, Calgary-based
Canadian Pacific said.  Creel being president and the decision to have O’Hagan
report to him is further indication that Creel will succeed
Harrison, said Spracklin, the RBC Capital Markets analyst.  Harrison took the helm at Canadian Pacific after Ackman got
then-CEO Fred Green removed. Canadian National then sued
Harrison and canceled pension payments, arguing that he had
broken a non-compete agreement with his former employer.  Operating Ratio  Since then, Harrison has trimmed his company’s adjusted
operating ratio, an industry benchmark that compares expenses to
sales, to 74.8 percent. That’s the worst performance among the
six Canadian and U.S. railroads that have so far reported
fourth-quarter results.  Canadian National said today it will announce Creel’s
replacement “shortly” amid “a deep bench of executive
talent.” Jim Vena, senior vice president of Canadian National’s
southern region, is one potential successor to Creel, according
to Benoit Poirier, an analyst at Desjardins Capital Markets in
 Montreal .  “We wish Keith success in his new role and are pleased to
turn the page with respect to the matter of CP’s hiring of CN’s
former CEO,  Hunter Harrison ,” Canadian National CEO Claude Mongeau said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  