-- McCain Won’t Support Any Effort to Block Vote on Hagel
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-05T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/mccain-won-t-support-any-effort-to-block-vote-on-hagel.html
Chuck Hagel’s chances of winning
Senate confirmation as President  Barack Obama ’s next defense
secretary gained momentum as Republicans led by  John McCain  said
they would oppose any attempt to block a vote on the nominee.  “I do not support a filibuster,” McCain of  Arizona  told
reporters yesterday at the Capitol. “I don’t think it’s
appropriate, and I would oppose such a move.”  Democrats control 55 of the 100 seats in the Senate, and
Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the Senate
Armed Services Committee, predicted last week that all of them
will back Hagel. In addition, at least five Republicans have
said they would help muster the supermajority of 60 votes that
would be needed to overcome an attempt to block a vote on him.  While Hagel is a former Republican senator, he has drawn
sharp criticism from McCain and other Republicans on a number of
issues, from his past opposition to unilateral sanctions against
Iran to his comments about the influence of what he once called
“the Jewish lobby.”  In addition to McCain, Republican Senators Susan Collins of
 Maine  and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska said yesterday they would
oppose blocking a confirmation vote. Senators Thad Cochran of
Mississippi and Mike Johanns of Nebraska have gone further,
saying they would vote to confirm Hagel.  Senator  Roger Wicker  of Mississippi has said he was
unlikely to support a filibuster threat.  “On Hagel, I can’t imagine that he would be
filibustered,” Senator  Saxby Chambliss , a Georgia Republican,
who said he is still undecided over how to vote on the
nomination, told reporters yesterday.  Panetta Testimony  Levin said last week that his panel may vote on Hagel’s
nomination to succeed the retiring Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  as soon as Feb. 7, sending it to the Senate floor.  Levin has scheduled a hearing that day with Panetta and
General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
to examine the deadly Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. mission in
Benghazi, Libya.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina
Republican who serves on the panel, had demanded that Panetta
testify before Hagel’s nomination moves forward.  At his confirmation hearing before the Armed Services panel
on Jan. 31, Hagel said that he supports the current,
multinational sanctions against Iran and that he should have
referred to “the pro-Israel lobby” instead of the “Jewish
lobby.”  McCain, a top Republican spokesman on defense policy, said
he hasn’t yet decided how he would vote on Hagel, a longtime
friend and fellow Vietnam War veteran.  McCain split with Hagel over the Nebraskan’s opposition to
the troop surge during the Iraq War. When Hagel declined at his
confirmation hearing to say whether the surge was a success,
McCain responded, “History has already made a judgment on the
surge, sir, and you were on the wrong side of it.”  Yesterday, McCain said he was “not happy” with Hagel’s
“failure to answer a really simple question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  