-- Chevron Gets Lithuanian President’s Backing for Shale Gas
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-02-04T12:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/chevron-gets-lithuanian-president-s-backing-for-shale-gas.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, won support from Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite for shale-gas exploration plans that some of the
country’s residents and lawmakers oppose.  Lithuania needs to find out to how far its shale-gas
reserves can go as an alternative to Russian natural gas,
spokeswoman Daiva Ulbinaite quoted the president as saying today
after a meeting with Jay Johnson, Chevron’s head of Eurasia,
 Europe  and Middle East exploration and production, in the
capital, Vilnius.  East European countries, including  Poland  and Ukraine, are
turning to shale gas in their efforts to lower energy costs and
their dependence on Russian supplies. Chevron in October bought
50 percent of a Lithuanian oil and gas recovery company and in
January submitted the only bid in a tender for shale-gas
exploration rights in the Baltic nation. Some landowners and
lawmakers have urged the government to halt the tender on
concern that the exploration process could contaminate ground
water.  “We expect to be able to engage with the local
communities” and assuage their concerns, Chevron’s Johnson told
reporters at the president’s office. “We’re very pleased with
the chance to help create Lithuania’s energy future.”  Reserve Potential  Lithuania, which wants to reduce it’s total dependence on
 Russia ’s  Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  for natural gas supplies, probably has
about 180 billion cubic meters of recoverable shale gas, KPMG
said in a  report  in May. That’s the equivalent of 60 years of
gas consumption in the country, at current usage.  Shale-gas reserves in Lithuania, at an estimated depth of 2
kilometers (1.2 miles), are twice as close to the surface as in
neighboring Poland, so should be easier and cheaper to extract,
KPMG said, citing geological studies.  Chevron will assist LL Investicijos UAB, the Lithuanian
company it half owns, with well design and seismic exploration.  “Our first step is the assessment of what the resource
potential is,” Johnson said. “At that point we report to the
government and we work with the government to determine any
future progress.”  Chevron recently opened an office in  Lithuania , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  