-- Chile Peso Declines as European Concern Spurs Demand for Refuge
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-02-04T14:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/chile-peso-declines-as-european-concern-spurs-demand-for-refuge.html
Chile ’s peso dropped to a one-week
low as political turmoil in Spain and  Italy  spurred demand for a
refuge in the dollar.  The peso depreciated 0.1 percent to 471.95 per U.S. dollar
at 11:14 a.m. in Santiago, its weakest level on a closing basis
since Jan. 28. Copper, Chile’s biggest export, fell 0.3 percent
in New York after rallying to a four-month high on Feb. 1.  “The peso should maybe have fallen a little bit more, but
copper is supporting it,” said Andres de la Cerda, a money-
markets trader at Bice Inversiones in Santiago.  Chile’s currency fell as Spain’s Prime Minister Mariano
Rajoy faced calls to quit after the newspaper El Pais reported
members of his party received illegal payments. The peso also
weakened after a poll showed former Italian Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi narrowed the gap with the frontrunner, Pier
Luigi Bersani, before elections.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
lowered bets against the currency to $671 million on Jan. 31,
from $4.3 billion a month earlier. Local investors, excluding
banks, had a $12 billion long peso position, down from $14
billion at the end of December. A long is a bet an asset will
gain value.  Local market participants expect the central bank will
intervene to weaken the currency should it appreciate beyond 470
per dollar, while international investors are less concerned,
said Eugenio Cortes, the head of currency forwards at
EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago.  The central bank last intervened in the currency market in
2011, buying $12 billion of U.S. dollars to weaken the peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  