-- China Five-Year Swaps Climb to Two-Week High as Economy Improves
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-02-04T09:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/china-five-year-swaps-climb-to-two-week-high-as-economy-improves.html
China ’s five-year  interest-rate swaps 
climbed to the highest level in more than two weeks after a
pickup in services output added to signs growth is gathering
pace in the world’s second-largest economy.  The non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 56.2
in January, the highest since August, according to data released
yesterday by the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics & Purchasing. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. The People’s Bank of China gauged demand
for sales of 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts this week,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions.  “There was better data on the economy, which brightens the
outlook and bolsters risk appetite,” said Chen Qi, a Shanghai-
based strategist at UBS Securities Co. “The PBOC will make sure
they will provide enough liquidity ahead of the week-long Lunar
New Year holiday” that begins Feb 11, she said.  The five-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repurchase rate, climbed two basis points to 3.80
percent in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate touched 3.83 percent, the highest since Jan. 16.  The central bank’s tendency to use short-term money-market
operations to control borrowing costs means changes in lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios can be less frequent, according to a
front-page commentary in today’s Financial News by Xu Shaofeng,
who wasn’t identified. Ratios were last cut in May, which was
the third reduction in six months.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, rose 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to
3.47 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That was the sixth gain in a
row, the longest run of increases since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  