-- China Services Industries Expand as Retailing Improves: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-04T03:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/china-services-industries-grow-as-retailing-boosts-recovery-1-.html
China ’s services industries grew at
the fastest pace since August as gains in retailing and
construction aid government efforts to drive a recovery in the
world’s second-biggest economy.  The  non-manufacturing   Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose to
56.2 in January from 56.1 in December, the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
& Purchasing said in a statement yesterday. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose, extending gains after
last week posting the biggest weekly rally since October 2011 on
optimism that China can sustain its expansion, with new  home
prices  rising in January by the most in two years. Strength in
services may assist a shift to a consumption-driven economy as
the government targets more sustainable growth and factory
output contributes to record pollution.  “A mild growth rebound appears on track,” said Ding Shuang, senior China economist with Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong .
“With downside risks to growth significantly reduced and
inflation expectations rising, policies may shift away from an
easing bias to a more neutral position.”  The Shanghai stock gauge rose 0.4 percent as of 10:12 a.m.
local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares gained 0.7
percent as of 11:11 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Ding estimates consumer-price gains will pick up to 3.5
percent by the end of the year from 2.5 percent in December
while economic expansion in the first half will accelerate to
more than 8 percent due to the impact of last year’s government
policies to support investment and infrastructure spending.  Growth Pickup  China’s  economy  grew 7.9 percent from a year earlier in the
last three months of 2012, the first acceleration in two years.
The pace may pick up to 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey last
month.  The federation’s  manufacturing  PMI released Feb. 1 showed a
fourth month of expansion and a separate gauge from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to the highest level in
two years.  HSBC and Markit will release their services survey tomorrow.
The index fell to 51.7 in December, the third straight decline.  Yang Yuanqing, chief executive officer of  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ,
the world’s second-biggest maker of personal computers, said in
a Jan. 30 interview that the economy should improve this year.
“Definitely I’m more optimistic on  China’s economy , China’s PC
market and the smartphone market as well,” Yang said.  Australia Inflation  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Australia ’s home-
building approvals unexpectedly declined for the second time in
three months in December while a private gauge of inflation
advanced to the middle of the central bank’s goal last month.
 Singapore ’s purchasing managers’ index probably showed a slower
pace of contraction last month, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Data to be published in  Europe  may show investor confidence
in the euro-area economy improved for a sixth month in February,
based on a Bloomberg survey of analysts. A U.K. construction PMI
probably showed a third month of contraction, according to
Bloomberg surveys.  In the U.S., factory orders probably rose at the fastest
pace in three months in December, and an index of New York-area
business conditions may show a lower reading for January.  The China  logistics federation ’s non-manufacturing index is
based on responses from purchasing managers at 1,200 companies
in 27 industries including banking, retailing, construction and
transport. A new seasonally adjusted series began in March 2012
and the data were revised back to March 2011.  ‘Obvious’ Improvement  The retailing industry saw an “obvious” improvement in
January, according to yesterday’s statement, while new orders in
civil engineering and infrastructure construction rose to the
highest since March 2012.  At the same time, the restaurant industry suffered from an
austerity drive by Communist Party chief  Xi Jinping  that
includes a ban on lavish banquets by government departments. The
sector’s business activity index fell 17.3 points from the
reading in January 2012 and the new orders gauge fell 6.5 points
to below 50, the statement showed.  Gauges of activity and new orders for commercial real
estate dropped below the 50 level that divides expansion from
contraction, indicating the  property market  is “entering the
low season,” Cai Jin, a vice chairman at the logistics
federation said in the statement. China will start its weeklong
New Year holiday on Feb. 9 when factories, shops and offices
shut as hundreds of millions of people return to their hometowns
for the festival.  Government Campaign  Data from  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  released Feb. 1 showed new-
home prices in China rose 1 percent in January from the previous
month, defying a prolonged government campaign to cool prices
that included raising down-payments and mortgage requirements.  An index of input prices in yesterday’s report rose 4.4
points to a 10-month high of 58.2, a rebound that is “a cause
for concern,” Cai said.  Inflation accelerated to 2.5 percent in December, the
fastest pace in seven months, while a measure of input prices in
the federation’s manufacturing PMI rose to a 17-month high.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in comments published Jan. 30 that China
can’t underestimate inflation “at any time.”  “Growth may weaken beyond the first quarter as policy
easing runs out of steam, but the government can’t loosen
policies further given the inflationary pressure,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong
Kong.  Slower Expansion  He estimates expansion may slow to 7.2 percent in the
fourth quarter from 8.2 percent in the first three months, while
consumer-price gains will accelerate to more than 3.5 percent in
the second half.  The contribution of services to the economy has grown over
the past decade as rising incomes have spurred demand for
housing, mobile phones and travel. Almost 36 percent of the
working population was employed in such industries in 2011, up
from 31.3 percent in 2005, government data show.  Services industries accounted for 45 percent of gross
domestic product last year, according to the statistics bureau,
up from 41 percent in 2003. The government is seeking to
increase the share to 47 percent by 2015.  “With the new leaders’ work on urbanization, the service
sector could be on a secular strengthening trajectory,” said
 Huang Yiping , chief emerging-Asia economist at Barclays Plc in
Hong Kong. “But overall growth should stay close to around 8
percent, which is probably the new normal.”  --Zheng Lifei, Daryl Loo. With assistance from Ed Lococo and
Zhou Xin in Beijing, Sharon Chen and Shamim Adam in Singapore
and Andrew Joyce in Tokyo. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  