-- CME to Shut K.C. Board of Trade, Boost Chicago Wheat
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-04T21:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/cme-to-shut-k-c-board-of-trade-boost-chicago-wheat.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s biggest
grain market, plans to expand futures offerings in wheat on its
Chicago trading floor on July 1 after closing the Kansas City
Board of Trade following a buyout.  “We knew this was coming, but the news is still a little
sad because it does mark the end of an era,” said Jason Britt,
the president of Central States Commodities Inc. in Kansas City,
 Missouri . The last day of open-outcry trading in the Kansas City
futures pit is set for June 28.  High-protein hard red winter wheat, used to make bread and
other food products, trades on the 156-year-old Kansas City
exchange and will add to CME Group’s contract for the soft red
variety, used to make cookies, cakes and multipurpose flour. The
shift is subject to approval from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Chicago-based CME Group said today in a statement.  CME Group, the world’s largest futures exchange, agreed on
Oct. 17 to buy the Kansas City exchange for $126 million. The
soft red contract has been trading on the CME’s electronic
platform since Dec. 3. The company was formed by the acquisition
of the  Chicago  Board of Trade by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
in 2007.  “The migration to Chicago should help to increase hedge-
fund trading volumes in the hard-red wheat contract and improve
spreading opportunities” between varieties, Britt said in a
telephone interview.  On Dec. 10, CME began offering the implied spread between
the two wheat grades.  Clearing Members  Twelve firms were listed as clearing  members  of the Kansas
City exchange on Jan. 22 including units of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., UBS AG and Archer Daniels Midland Co. Floor space in Kansas
City for CME Globex electronic trading will be open until the
end of September, CME Group said.  The daily volume of Kansas City wheat futures and options
averaged 20,818 contracts in January, up 16 percent from a year
earlier, CME Group said today in a separate  statement.   CME Group said volume on its agriculture futures and
options averaged 1 million contracts a day in January, down 2
percent from a year earlier. The company’s CBOT unit offers
corn, soybeans and rice, and its CME division trades cattle and
hogs.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , based in Atlanta, is the
biggest market for sugar, coffee, cocoa and cotton. The U.S.
unit also offers grain and oilseed contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  