-- Company in Fatal Bus Crash Got Numerous Safety Citations
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-02-04T20:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/company-in-fatal-bus-crash-got-numerous-safety-citations.html
The bus operator involved in a wreck
that killed at least eight people in  Southern California 
yesterday was cited for three dozen safety violations over the
past year, federal records show.  The company, Scapadas Magicas LLC of National City,
 California , scored worse than three-fourths of U.S. bus
companies in terms of maintenance, according to the U.S. Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s website.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood told reporters in
Washington today he has asked for a briefing from FMCSA head
Anne Ferro.  “We’ve taken a lot of fly-by-night bus companies off the
road,” LaHood said. “There’s always more to do when it comes
to safety. We can do more.”  The tour bus was returning to Tijuana, Mexico, from a
skiing day trip when it struck a car and a pickup truck at about
6:30 p.m., according to the  Associated Press . Eight people were
confirmed dead, while others may be discovered at the chaotic
crash scene.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  is sending
investigators and experts in motor-carrier operations to the
crash site, near San Bernardino, California, the agency said in
an e-mail today.  Past Citations  The company’s citations over the past year include
violations found in roadside inspections that were considered
serious enough to order buses off the road. These included
brakes out of adjustment; defective or missing axle parts; and
loose or missing wheel fasteners, according to the
Transportation Department agency. A call to the bus company’s
office seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned.  FMCSA completed its most recent comprehensive compliance
review on Scapadas Magicas on Jan. 9. It issued a
“satisfactory” rating, meaning the carrier was free to operate
in the U.S. without restriction.  Cracking down on unsafe bus operators made it onto the
latest NTSB “most-wanted list” of improvements.  The board last year wrapped up investigations of deadly
East Coast wrecks involving so-called Chinatown bus lines. It
has put renewed focus on poorly trained drivers, inattentive
management and the FMCSA’s inability to close companies with
known safety deficiencies.  Oregon Crash  Nine passengers were killed and 39 others injured in a Dec.
30 bus crash in eastern  Oregon  involving a Canadian company, Mi
Joo Tour & Travel. The driver in that crash had driven 92 hours
over a seven-day period, according to the Transportation
Department. Federal regulations cap driving time at 70 hours per
week.  The Transportation Department declared two of the
Coquitlam, British Columbia-based company’s drivers “imminent
hazards to public safety” and banned them from operating a bus
or truck in the U.S.  The California crash was the second serious bus accident
over the weekend. A charter bus carrying high school students
from  Pennsylvania  on a visit to  Harvard University  struck a
bridge in  Boston , injuring more than 30 people, with some
trapped inside the wrecked vehicle for hours, according to
police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  