-- Copper ETP Market Value Triples as Investors Bet on Recovery
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-02-04T16:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/copper-etp-market-value-triples-as-investors-bet-on-recovery.html
The market value of the only physical
copper-backed exchange-traded product nearly tripled in a month
as JPMorgan Chase & Co. gets ready to start its own fund for the
metal in the U.S.  The value of assets held in ETF Securities’ physical
exchange-traded copper fund rose to $48.8 million today from
$16.4 million a month earlier, according to  data  on Bloomberg. A
total of 6,012.605 metric tons of copper were held as of Feb. 1,
compared with 2,122.631 tons on Jan. 3.  “Many investors look at copper as one of the better ways
to play the global industrial cycle,” Nicholas Brooks, the head
of research and investment strategy at ETF Securities, said by
phone in  London  today. “With the  U.S. economy  showing clear
signs of recovery, and China also showing signs of recovery now
many investors are looking at copper as a key beneficiary of
this.”  ETF Securities started the world’s first exchange-traded
products backed by copper, nickel and tin in December 2010.
JPMorgan won regulatory approval last month for the first U.S.
exchange-traded fund backed by physical copper. The Securities &
Exchange Commission is scheduled to make a decision on  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) ’s proposed copper ETF on Feb. 22.  “Last week we saw very strong inflows again into the broad
industrial metals and copper,” Brooks said. “This trend
appears to be continuing. The data has been improving since the
third quarter of last year for both U.S. and  China .”  Copper for three-month delivery is up 4.7 percent this year
on the London Metal Exchange. The metal used in pipes and wires
climbed to a four-month-high of $8,346 a ton today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  