-- Ending Corporate Welfare One Program at a Time
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/corporate-welfare-is-target-rich-environment-for-savings.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  took
advantage of one of the largest audiences in television history
to address the residents of Greenwich,  Connecticut .  Well, maybe it wasn’t that straightforward. But by using
his  pre-Super Bowl interview  with  CBS News  to discuss  tax
reform , including the infamous carried-interest loophole that
benefits hedge-fund and private-equity managers, he signaled a
new willingness to do something about corporate welfare --
whether it is embedded in the  tax code  or embodied by government
policy.  If only saying something about it were as easy as doing
something. Some lawmakers have been trying to close the carried-
interest loophole, which allows investment managers to pay tax
of just 20 percent on their income, for years. Doing so would
raise a mere $2 billion a year, small change when the federal
deficit is close to $1 trillion. Even more intractable are the
bailouts, tariffs, monopolies, subsidies, no-bid contracts,
occupational licenses and loan guarantees that governments
routinely grant to businesses and industries.  The federal government directly  spends  between $75 billion
and $100 billion a year on everything from  farm subsidies  to
research grants. Include indirect benefits from things like
tariffs and  corporate tax exclusions , and the favors granted by
local and state governments, and the total is  much higher  --
probably more than $1 trillion.  Accounting Rewards  Oil-and-gas industry subsidies, for example, cost $8
billion a year. The accounting rule that rewards companies for
using the last-in-first-out form of inventory management is $7
billion more. Much of the $25 billion in federal farm subsidies
goes to agribusinesses, not family farmers.  The Department of Housing and Urban Development oversees
$16 billion in mortgage subsidies that fatten bank coffers. When
Congress finished the negotiations on Jan. 1 to avoid the fiscal
cliff of scheduled tax increases and spending cuts, it  tacked on 
more than $40 billion in tax breaks for such worthy causes as
filmmakers, rum distillers and racetrack owners.  Yet reciting this litany of government waste doesn’t
accomplish much. Nor does pointing out that Congress could
substitute corporate welfare reductions for most of the $110
billion of across-the-board cuts in defense and domestic
programs due to hit March 1.  Congress doesn’t cut corporate welfare because the
relationships and special access that companies cultivate in
Washington -- or as economists call it, the rent-seekers -- are
part of the quid-pro-quo between companies needing favors and
lawmakers needing campaign contributions. The givers and takers
transcend ideology and geography. The favors often grow out of
backroom deals. As such, they are the hardest form of  government
spending  to reverse -- unlike, say, a payroll tax cut or an
extension of  unemployment benefits , which mostly benefit people
without Washington connections.  There is a less cynical rationale, of course: One
lawmaker’s wasteful spending is another’s vital investment. A
$12 billion add-on to the fiscal-cliff measure, for example,
extended wind-energy tax credits, which Obama says are crucial
to the U.S.’s renewable-energy future. To many Republicans, they
are an expensive giveaway to General Electric Co. and Siemens
AG, two of the largest makers of  wind turbines .  So is the solution a matter of closing loopholes and
tightening deductions, as Obama says? From a policy standpoint,
yes; from a political standpoint, next to impossible.  Insulated Commission  What’s needed is a corporate welfare commission -- one
that’s insulated as much as possible from politics -- that would
do a better job of culling. It could operate much like the
military base-closing commissions, examining which corporate
welfare programs are worthy and which have outlived their
purpose. Congress would then be required to accept or reject its
recommendations within, say, 60 days.  Granted, a committee to take such decisions out of politics
is itself a politically dicey proposition, not to mention a
congressional cop-out. But lawmakers unable or unwilling to make
hard decisions could at least delegate their duties.  In coming days, we will suggest some corporate-welfare
examples that are ripe for such a commission’s review. The
result could be a smaller federal deficit, cleaner government
and less opportunity for  Washington ’s growing class of special
pleaders.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 