-- Crexus Investment Sued by Shareholder Over Annaly Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-04T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/crexus-investment-sued-by-shareholder-over-annaly-deal.html
Crexus Investment Corp. (CXS) , a
commercial-mortgage investor, was sued by a shareholder over its
proposed acquisition by the real estate investment trust  Annaly
Capital Management Inc. (NLY)   Parker Crowell, who owns about 85,000 shares of Crexus,
sued the company, its board of directors and Annaly Feb. 1 in
New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan , seeking to stop the
proposed acquisition.  The board breached its fiduciary duties by agreeing to sell
Crexus without first taking steps to ensure that investors would
receive adequate compensation and engineered the acquisition to
benefit themselves, according to the complaint.  A call to Crexus’s investor-relations department seeking
comment on the suit wasn’t immediately returned. Annaly
Capital’s investor relations-department didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the suit.  Annaly, the largest real estate investment trust that buys
mortgage debt, agreed to purchase the rest of Crexus for about
$872 million last week to expand its commercial-property
business.  Annaly, which already owns 12.4 percent of Crexus, plans to
pay $13 a share in cash for the remaining stock, valuing the
company at $996 million, according to a statement from the New
York-based REIT today. In November, Annaly bid $12.50 a share.  The purchase of Crexus is part of Annaly’s plan to broaden
its business after Federal Reserve purchases of government-
backed residential debt reduced yields in its main market.  New York-based Crexus, which Annaly started in 2009, has a
45-day period to explore alternatives.  The case is Crowell v. Riordan, 650358/2013,  New York  State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 