-- Dallas Fed’s Fisher Urges Cutting QE as Growth Picks Up
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-04T21:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/dallas-fed-s-fisher-urges-cutting-qe-as-growth-picks-up.html
Richard Fisher , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas , said he favors reducing the pace
of central bank asset purchases as the  U.S. economy  gains
momentum this year.  “As you approach your goals and things get better, you
reduce purchases,” Fisher said in an interview with  Kathleen Hays  on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage.” “I wouldn’t
go from Wild Turkey to cold turkey” in monetary stimulus. “I
wouldn’t have favored spiking the punch bowl to the degree we
have,” though it would be too abrupt to stop purchases all at
once.  Fisher, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
said he opposed the Federal Open Market Committee decision last
week to continue purchasing securities at the rate of $85
billion a month. Policy makers have pushed the benchmark
interest rate close to zero and expanded Fed assets to more than
$3 trillion to spur growth and reduce unemployment.  Fisher said he agreed with St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard , who said Feb. 1 he expects the U.S. economic expansion
to pick up enough to allow the Fed to reduce  purchases  by the
middle of the year. A reduction in purchases could be motivated
by either an assessment that quantitative easing hasn’t been
effective or that the economy gained momentum, the Dallas Fed
leader said.  Adjustment Space  “I would not advocate just stopping the program,” he
said. Slowing purchases “allows the market to adjust.”  Asked about how broad support is for a tapering approach,
Fisher said he couldn’t speak for the FOMC and policy makers’
views are released with the regular distribution of meeting
minutes.  Slowing purchases would represent a “compromise” between
those who opposed purchases and those who favor stimulus, said
David Milton Jones, chairman and chief executive officer of DMJ
Advisors LLC in Denver, in a separate  Bloomberg Radio  interview.  “I would suspect that there is a significant number of
FOMC members who are working in that direction as a
compromise,” he said.  The Dallas Fed president said he wasn’t concerned about
inflation for now, though he saw central bank stimulus
contributing to “signs of excess” in markets such as  junk
bonds , credit default swaps and private equity. The Fed needs to
be “on the balls of our feet, be on watch” for speculative
excesses, he said.  George’s Dissent  Fisher praised Esther George, president of the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City , who dissented last week in her
first vote on the central bank’s policy committee and has raised
concern about the potential for asset-price bubbles. George said
she was worried the record stimulus could pose the risk of
financial instability and a surge in inflation.  “We are clearly seeing improvement in the economy,”
Fisher said. An acceleration of growth to about 3 percent this
year is possible, led by improvements in housing and employment,
he said.  The Fed said last week that growth “paused,” following a
Commerce Department report showing the economy shrank 0.1
percent at an annual rate in the fourth quarter. Fed officials
said that growth will “proceed at a moderate pace and the
 unemployment rate  will gradually decline.”  Minutes from the FOMC’s December meeting showed that policy
makers debated when to end the monthly purchases of $45 billion
in Treasuries and $40 billion in mortgage bonds. The central
bank has pledged to continue the buying until the labor market
improves “substantially.”  Payroll Growth  U.S. employers added 157,000 jobs in January, according to
a Feb. 1 report. The unemployment  rate  climbed to 7.9 percent.
The annual pace of auto sales also climbed in January, and new
housing starts increased to 954,000 units at an annual rate in
December, according to Commerce Department data. The measure is
at its highest level since June 2008.  Fisher has been president of the Dallas Fed since 2005 and
will be a voting member of the FOMC in 2014. In 2011, he
dissented twice against efforts to push down long-term borrowing
costs and keep the benchmark  interest rate  near zero for a
prolonged period. He voted in favor of tighter policy five times
in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  