-- DCM Capital Puts Itself Up for Sale in Online Auction
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-02-04T15:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/dcm-capital-puts-itself-up-for-sale-in-online-auction.html
DCM Capital Ltd., which opened a
trading venue offering analysis of posts on social networks such
as Twitter Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  last month to help traders
gauge market mood, put itself up for sale in an online auction.  The company published a sale  prospectus  on its website with
a guide price of 5 million pounds ($7.9 million). The online
auction started today and ends on Feb. 18, DCM said. The highest
bid as of 3 p.m. was 1 pound. After the auction closes, the
winner will be asked to deposit 10 percent of the offer and DCM
will then allow access to its books for due diligence. Bids are
non-binding, the company said.  “Twelve months ago we put a team together to build the
world’s first social media, investor sentiment analysis trading
platform,” DCM said on its website. “Now we move onto our next
project, to successfully use social media to publicly auction
our company and innovative technology to the highest bidder.”  DCM Capital, a London-based company formerly known as
Derwent  Capital Markets , started a hedge fund using social media
to gauge sentiment in August 2011. The Derwent Absolute Return
Fund closed three months later.  Last month, the company opened a spread-betting platform
called  DCM Dealer  that included a feature to calculate sentiment
for individual stocks, indexes and commodities. An algorithm
gives securities a rating from zero to 100, where the top end
indicates the most positive feelings from social media.  The winner of the auction will get the entire issued share
capital of DCM Capital, its assets, intellectual property,
technology, trademarks, branding, domain names, licenses and
software, the company said in the prospectus.  An external spokeswoman for the company wasn’t immediately
able to comment. Calls to DCM Capital weren’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  