-- Default Risk at 18-Month Low as Confidence Climbs: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-02-04T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/default-risk-at-18-month-low-as-confidence-climbs-muni-credit.html
Investor confidence in U.S. municipal
debt is the highest since 2011, signaling more gains with local
governments showing the fewest defaults since at least 2009
while revenue recovers to pre-recession levels.  It cost the annual equivalent of as little as $172,000 last
week to protect $10 million of munis for 10 years through
credit-default swaps, according to Markit Group Ltd. data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the cheapest since July 2011. The
price of swaps for  California , which had its credit upgraded
last week for the first time in six years after forecasting a
surplus, also set an 18-month low.  The declining price shows investors in the $3.7 trillion
muni market view three bankruptcy filings last year by
California cities as isolated events running counter to the
trend of improving state finances. Defaults fell the past two
years, as the jump forecast in 2010 by banking analyst Meredith Whitney, chief executive officer of Meredith Whitney Advisory
Group, didn’t materialize.  “All of the fear has been wrung out of the market,” said
Bart Mosley, co-president of Trident Municipal Research in New
York. The declining credit-default swap price “reflects the
extent to which we fully moved past the  Meredith Whitney  era in
terms of scares about the market.”  Funds Lure  While investors such as hedge funds are among the biggest
users of the swaps, the contracts reflect sentiment across the
broader market. Yields fell in December to the  lowest  since
1965, and munis last month outpaced Treasuries by the most in a
year. Buyers added the most money in three years to muni mutual
funds in 2012, and invested about $4 billion more this month,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  The swaps are contracts in which an investor or bank pays a
fee for protection against a missed debt payment. The Markit
MCDX index consists of 50 contracts of muni issuers, excluding
tobacco and health-care.  The last time the cost was this low,  munis  were starting a
three-month rally, the longest since the same period a year
earlier. The contracts have dropped in price amid signs the U.S.
economy is strengthening, Mosley said.  U.S. hiring gained in January after accelerating more than
previously estimated at the end of 2012, Labor Department
figures showed last week, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average
 rose  above 14,000 for the first time since 2007.  Tax Flow  States have benefited from the recovery, with tax
collections increasing last year to above pre-recession levels,
according to the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government.  The cheaper contracts “reflect a bullish outlook on state
and local credits,” said Vikram Rai, a fixed-income strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “It’s in response to the
economy, the improving housing market and higher state taxes.”  The price has dropped about 40 percent from November 2011,
when Jefferson County,  Alabama , filed the biggest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy. It is also down almost a third from the start of
that year, following Whitney’s December appearance on CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes.”  The cost of protection jumped 14 percent in the three weeks
after Whitney forecast “hundreds of billions of dollars” of
defaults in 2011. The remarks by the analyst helped push
investors to withdraw the most money in two decades from muni
mutual funds.  2012 Defaults  Though widespread failures never occurred, munis defaulted
in 2010 and 2011 at twice the rate of the previous 39 years,
Moody’s Investors Service said last year in a study of bonds it
rates. In 2012, however, only 93 issuers defaulted on $1.7
billion in debt, the least for both measures since at least
2009, based on data from Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal
Market Advisors.  Tax-exempt bonds returned 7.3 percent last year and 11.2
percent the year before, the biggest consecutive gains in a
decade, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The gain came
even with the three California Chapter 9 filings and Jefferson
County’s bankruptcy.  “People are becoming more comfortable with the idea that
the municipal market is what we thought it was,” said Justin Formas, who follows default swaps as director of credit research
in  Chicago  at Bernardi Securities Inc., which manages $900
million in munis. “It’s a place where defaults are low and
payment of principal and interest is consistent.”  In trading last week, yields on benchmark munis due in 10
years rose the most since December, by about 0.16 percentage
point to 1.83 percent, close to the 2013 high, Bloomberg
Valuation data show.  Following is a pending sale:  SANTA CLARA COUNTY in California plans to sell $490 million
of general-obligation bonds as soon as Feb. 7 via competitive
sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. (Added Feb. 4)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  