-- Deutsche Bank Names RREEF Team as McCarthy Leaves Company
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-02-04T18:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/deutsche-bank-names-rreef-team-as-mccarthy-leaves-company.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest
bank, appointed the management of its unit that invests in real
estate and infrastructure seven months after scrapping a sale of
the business.  The nine executives will report to Pierre Cherki, who leads
the RREEF Alternatives division, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
said today in a statement.  John McCarthy , head of RREEF
Infrastructure, will leave Deutsche Bank as a part of the
overhaul, according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank is counting on RREEF and other parts of its
asset- and wealth-management unit, run by Michele Faissola, to
help boost profitability by 2015. The businesses faced client
money outflows last year as the company considered selling most
of its asset-management operations to U.S. money manager
Guggenheim Partners LLC before scrapping the deal in June.  Nadir Maruf and Hamish Mackenzie will replace McCarthy,
Deutsche Bank said.  McCarthy had proposed a  management buyout  for RREEF
Infrastructure, an idea rejected by Deutsche Bank, according to
a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified
because the discussions were private. McCarthy didn’t
immediately respond to a voice message left on his mobile phone
today.  Georg Allendorf will oversee real estate in Germany while
Todd Henderson carries out that role for the U.S., Gianluca
Muzzi for the rest of  Europe  and  John Robertson  oversees real
estate and infrastructure securities, according to the
statement. Theresa Gusman will be head of commodities, Michael
Luciano chief operating officer, and Mark G. Roberts head of
research and strategy, Deutsche Bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  