-- Dollar Bond Sales Slow as Lunar New Year Lead-up Quietens Market
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-04T05:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/dollar-bond-sales-slow-as-lunar-new-year-lead-up-quietens-market.html
Borrowers in the Asia-Pacific region
paused marketing U.S. dollar-denominated bonds for a second
consecutive business day as activity quietens ahead of Chinese
New Year holidays next week. Bond risk fell.  Note sales surged to a record $36.8 billion in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1999. That
compared with a monthly average of $7.1 billion in the 14-year
period. The cost of insuring Asian corporate and sovereign bonds
from non-payment fell to its lowest level since Jan. 30,
according to credit-default swap traders.  The window of opportunity before Chinese New Year is
quickly closing, and that suggests the primary pipeline will
slow this week, said Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit desk
analyst at Credit Agricole CIB. There will still be a few
issuers looking to access the market while more investors are
still at their desks, he said.  Markets in  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, will
close for Lunar New Year holidays Feb. 11 to Feb. 15. The
festival is also celebrated in Singapore and  Malaysia , shutting
markets for part of the week in those countries too. Average
yield premiums on dollar bonds in Asia rose four basis points to
 262 basis points  more than Treasuries Feb. 1, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes show. The gauge touched 245 basis points Jan. 7, the
least since May 2011.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan decreased two basis points to 113 basis
points as of 8:26 a.m. in Hong Kong, Westpac Banking Corp.
prices show. The gauge climbed 2.8 basis points in January,
rising for a second consecutive month, according to data
provider CMA.  Biggest Sale  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  National Australia Bank Ltd. sold the biggest bond last
month with a $2.5 billion three-part offering Jan. 14, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Melbourne-based bank’s $750
million of 3 percent notes due 2023 and sold at a 117 basis
point-spread over Treasuries were trading a spread of 123.9
basis points as of 3:08 p.m. in Sydney, prices quoted by
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. on Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped two basis points
to 117 as of 11:26 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac prices.
The benchmark is set to extend its decline this year to 10.5
basis points, after retreating for a fifth straight month in
January, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index fell one basis point to 128
basis points as of 9:28 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup
Inc. prices. The measure is headed for its lowest level since
August 2011, CMA prices show.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  