-- Dubai’s ENOC Will Buy 20,000 Barrels a Day of Qatari Condensate
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-02-04T14:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/dubai-s-enoc-will-buy-20-000-barrels-a-day-of-qatari-condensate.html
Emirates National Oil Co., Dubai’s
government-owned refiner, agreed to buy 20,000 barrels a day of
condensate from Qatar under an annual contract as it cuts fuel
imports from  Iran  because of international sanctions.  The fuel, a light hydrocarbon liquid found with crude oil
or natural gas, will supply Dubai’s Jebel Ali refinery, the
company known as ENOC said. ENOC signed a contract to buy the
fuel from Qatar International Petroleum Marketing Co., known as
Tasweeq, the companies said in an e-mailed statement today.  “We are looking to strengthen the volume of spot cargo
from third-party suppliers in the Gulf region and  Far East ,”
ENOC Chief Executive Officer Saeed Khoory said in the statement.
ENOC cut imports of condensate from Iran by 20 percent in the
second half of 2012 compared with the first six months of the
year, it said.  ENOC is seeking new suppliers of condensate to replace
imports from Iran because U.S. sanctions threaten financial
penalties for companies that trade with the country. ENOC, which
already buys condensate from Qatar, operates the 120,000-barrel-
a-day Jebel Ali refinery that processes condensate into jet
fuel, diesel and gasoline reformate.  Dubai, the commercial hub of the  United Arab Emirates , has
bought condensate from Iran, one of the region’s main suppliers
of the fuel before sanctions over  Iran’s nuclear program 
curtailed trade with the country.  The U.S. and European Union have targeted Iran’s energy and
financial industries to force a halt in a nuclear program they
say could be used to develop atomic weapons. Iran says it wants
nuclear energy for civilian use only.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  