-- The Disgusting Consequences of Plastic-Bag Bans
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-02-04T23:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/the-disgusting-consequences-of-liberal-plastic-bag-bans.html
Conservatives often point out that
laws, no matter how benign they may appear, have unintended
consequences. They can reverberate in ways that not many people
foresaw and nobody wanted: Raising the minimum wage can increase
unemployment; prohibition can create black markets.  The efforts in many cities to discourage the use of plastic
bags demonstrate that such unintended consequences can be, among
other things, kind of gross.  San Francisco has been discouraging plastic bags since
2007, saying that it takes too much oil to make them and that
used bags pollute waterways and kill marine animals. In 2012, it
strengthened its law. Several West Coast cities, including
Seattle and Los Angeles, have also adopted bans for
environmental reasons. The government of Washington, D.C.,
imposes a 5 cent plastic-bag tax. (Advocates prefer to call it a
“fee” because taxes are unpopular.) Environmental groups and
celebrity activists, including Eva Longoria and Julia Louis- Dreyfus, support these laws.  The plastic-bag industry, predictably, wants to throw them
away. It says that the making of plastic bags supplies a
livelihood to 30,000 hard-working, law-abiding, patriotic
Americans, many of whom have adorable children to support. It
cites a  2007 report  by San Francisco’s Environment Department
that said plastic bags from retail establishments, the target of
the ban, accounted for only 0.6 percent of litter.  Spreading Disease  Most alarmingly, the industry has highlighted news reports
linking reusable shopping bags to the spread of disease. Like
 this one , from the Los Angeles Times last May: “A reusable
grocery bag left in a hotel bathroom caused an outbreak of
norovirus-induced diarrhea and nausea that struck nine of 13
members of a girls’ soccer team in October, Oregon researchers
reported Wednesday.” The norovirus may not have political clout,
but evidently it, too, is rooting against plastic bags.  Warning of disease may seem like an over-the-top scare
tactic, but research suggests there’s more than anecdote behind
this industry talking point. In  a 2011 study , four researchers
examined reusable bags in California and Arizona and found that
51 percent of them contained coliform bacteria. The problem
appears to be the habits of the reusers. Seventy-five percent
said they keep meat and vegetables in the same bag. When bags
were stored in hot car trunks for two hours, the bacteria grew
tenfold.  That study also found, happily, that washing the bags
eliminated 99.9 percent of the bacteria. It undercut even that
good news, though, by finding that 97 percent of people reported
that they never wash their bags.  Jonathan Klick and Joshua Wright, who are law professors at
the University of Pennsylvania and George Mason University,
respectively, have done  a more recent study  on the public-health
impact of plastic-bag bans. They find that emergency-room
admissions related to E. coli infections increased in San
Francisco after the ban. (Nearby counties did not show this
increase.) And this effect showed up as soon as the ban was
implemented. (“There is a clear discontinuity at the time of
adoption.”) The San Francisco ban was also associated with
increases in salmonella and other bacterial infections. Similar
effects were found in other California towns that adopted such
laws.  More Deaths  Klick and Wright estimate that the San Francisco ban
results in a 46 percent increase in deaths from foodborne
illnesses, or 5.5 more of them each year. They then run through
a cost-benefit analysis employing the same estimate of the value
of a human life that the Environmental Protection Agency uses
when evaluating regulations that are supposed to save lives.
They conclude that the anti-plastic-bag policies can’t pass the
test -- and that’s before counting the higher health-care costs
they generate.  The authors argue, not completely convincingly, against the
idea that regular washing and drying of reusable bags would
solve the problem. They point out that the use of hot water and
detergent imposes environmental costs, too. And reusable bags
require more energy to make than plastic ones. The stronger
argument, it seems to me, is that 97 percent figure: Whatever
the merits of regularly cleaning the bags, it doesn’t appear
likely to happen.  The best course for government, then, is probably to
encourage people to recycle their plastic bags -- or, maybe,
just let people make their own decisions. Plastic-bag bans are
another on a distressingly long list of political issues where I
cannot see eye to eye with Eva Longoria.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  