-- Meat Inspections Face Cuts Without Sequester Deal, Vilsack Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-02-04T21:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/meat-inspections-face-cuts-without-sequester-deal-vilsack-says.html
The U.S. will need to reduce the
number of inspections at meatpacking plants unless Congress can
avoid threatened across-the-board spending cuts set to take
effect in March, Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said.  The cuts, totaling $1.2 trillion, are more serious than a
normal spending reduction because of the tighter time frame
involved in meeting targets for a fiscal year that would be
almost half over, Vilsack said today after a speech in
Washington. The U.S. Department of Agriculture is studying how
it would handle reductions, which would affect nutrition
programs as well as food safety and research, he said. Food
stamps are exempted.  “You’re going to have fewer inspections,” Vilsack said,
without saying whether staffing would be reduced. The
government’s fiscal year ends on Sept. 30.  The cuts, known as sequestration, were first included in an
August 2011 deficit-reduction deal designed to be so draconian
that it would push Democrats and Republicans to compromise on
taxes and spending. The plan would slash $600 billion in
Pentagon spending over a decade, reductions that Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  called “devastating.” Other agencies
would be responsible for the rest of the reductions. The lack of
an agreement is creating “major headwinds” for the economy,
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said last week.  The USDA is responsible for the safety of meat, eggs and
poultry products, with about 8,400 personnel inspecting the
nation’s 6,300 slaughterhouses and processing plants. The U.S.
Food and Drug Administration handles other products that account
for about 80 percent of the U.S. food supply.  Each year, contaminated food kills about 3,000 people and
sends another 128,000 to hospitals, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  