-- MEG’s Bitumen-by-Barge Winning Over Investors: Corporate
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-04T21:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/meg-s-bitumen-by-barge-winning-over-investors-corporate.html
MEG Energy Corp. (MEG) ’s plans to avoid a
pipeline bottleneck and record  discounts  for Canadian crude by
shipping oil by rail and barge are being rewarded by investors.  MEG, based in Calgary, is the second-best performer on the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX  Energy Index (STENRS) , rising 15 percent this  year 
and beating other oil-sands competitors including  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU)  and  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  The gain comes as MEG’s only
product, Canadian heavy crude, stands $30.50 below the U.S.
benchmark.  “We see a step change in production and cash flow as it
more than doubles capacity and starts to ramp up transportation
to the  Gulf of Mexico  that will result in dramatically higher
pricing,” said Andrew Potter, an analyst at  CIBC World Markets 
in Calgary, in a note. Potter says MEG is one of the bank’s
“top overall picks for 2013.”  MEG and other bitumen producers operating in Alberta are
wrestling with lower demand from their main U.S. market as
rising shale oil from reserves like the Bakken in North Dakota
flood refineries with oil supplies. A lack of pipeline capacity
is also limiting Canadian oil companies’ access to other markets
with higher prices such as  China .  Western  Canada  Select  traded  at $42.50 a barrel less than
West Texas Intermediate on Dec. 14, the most since Bloomberg
began keeping records. The discount has since narrowed to $31.50
a barrel on Feb. 1. The lower prices spurred MEG executives to
find ways to avoid the bottlenecks.  ‘Creative Solution’  “Many of us spent considerable time assessing the price
differentials between Canada and the North American mid-
continent and international markets,” said Don Moe, MEG’s vice
president for marketing in a Jan. 31 conference call with
analysts.  The “creative” solution Moe and colleagues devised
involves constructing a storage tank facility, a rail terminal
and setting up contracts with barge and railways to get future
production to markets where the company can match the price of
Mayan crude, a heavy blend comparable to Canadian oil-sands
output that traded recently at about $108, 64 percent more than
Western Canada Select, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  MEG will use barges to transport oil via the U.S. inland
waterway system, which includes the  Mississippi River  and
connecting waterways, to the Gulf of Mexico, said Moe. The stock
fell 0.3 percent to C$35.04 at the close of trading in Toronto
today.  MEG could have earned $15 more per barrel in the fourth
quarter if the new logistics arrangement, which will cost “well
under” $10 a barrel, had been in place, he said.  ‘Wake-up Call’  “People tend to underestimate the length of time that
these arbitrages can exist and they can underestimate the costs
that it can take to overcome these arbitrages and the level of
complexity,” said John O’Connell, a portfolio manager at Davis
Rea in Toronto, which has C$600 million ($600 million) under
management. The discounts have been a “wake-up call” for the
Canadian industry, he said.  MEG, which produces bitumen using steam-injection
technology, spent C$8.95 per barrel in the fourth quarter to
extract the tar-like substance from below the frozen soil of
northern  Alberta . The company  reported  a loss of C$18.7 million
compared with profit of C$91.1 million a year earlier.  Bitumen is processed into fuels such as gasoline and diesel
using a combination of upgraders and refineries.  While MEG, with production of about 32,000 barrels a day in
the most recent quarter, is adjusting to the pricing, others
have not. Larger producers are constrained by limits on volumes
of oil that can be moved by rail or barge.  ‘Extreme Weakness’  Cenovus on Jan. 8 said it plans to expand shipments by rail
this year to about 10,000 barrels a day to counter price
discounts. That’s a fraction of the company’s expected daily
production of between 180,000 to 196,000 barrels a day this
year, a figure that will rise to 500,000 barrels by 2021.  Pipeline bottlenecks are costing producers as much as $33
billion a year, according to a report by the Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce.  Fourth-quarter financial results from oil-sands producers
will be “the calm before the storm,” said CIBC’s Potter in a
Jan. 30 note. Earnings for the first three months of 2013
“could show extreme weakness for bitumen producers,” he said.  Cenovus, which can counter price discounts with its part
ownership of two refineries, reports fourth-quarter results on
Feb. 14. The Calgary-based company will report a 26-percent gain
in net income for the quarter, according to the estimate of five
analysts  compiled  by Bloomberg.  Smaller Producers  “In the short term, I think it’s a big deal for those
firms that don’t have downstream,” said Vijay Viswanathan,
director of research and portfolio manager at Mawer Investment
Management Ltd. in Calgary, which has about C$14 billion in
assets under management. “My sense is that those that are not
as strongly positioned, the smaller producers that don’t have as
healthy balance sheets, will probably find it difficult.”  Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. (COS) , the largest owner of Syncrude
Canada Ltd., on Jan. 31 said net income fell to C$221 million in
the fourth quarter from C$232 million. The company saw profit
margins erode in the final months of 2012 as the realized
selling price per barrel slipped 14 percent to C$89.99 from the
year-earlier quarter.  Suncor, the largest Canadian oil sands producer by market
value, will likely say fourth quarter net income fell 26
percent, according the estimate of five analysts complied by
Bloomberg. The company announces quarterly results after the
close tomorrow.  The discount is also being felt more broadly by the Alberta
government. Premier Alison Redford on Jan. 24 said the province
will collect C$6 billion less revenue in 2013 as a result of the
low price for Canadian heavy oil.  Keystone XL  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  is waiting for approval from the U.S.
State Department to begin construction of its $5.3 billion
Keystone XL pipeline that would link oil-sands production to
refineries on the  Gulf Coast , and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  is in the middle
of regulatory hearings for its Northern Gateway conduit through
British Columbia to the  Pacific Ocean . Even with a green light,
the earliest Keystone XL would be shipping crude is 2015 and
Gateway would come online about two years later.  With the prospect of a persistent discount, keeping costs
in check will also determine which companies will best survive
the current pricing gaps, said Bruce Edgelow, vice president of
energy at ATB Corporate Financial Services.  “At the end of the day, what’s going to really count is
the same thing that’s always counted, the low-cost producers get
rewarded,” he said in an interview from Calgary  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  