-- Mursi on Defensive as Police Abuse Claims Stoke Unrest
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-05T09:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/egypt-premier-vows-no-return-to-repression-as-mursi-under-fire.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi’s
government said it was committed to freedom after allegations
of police brutality threatened to fuel new violence in a nation
that’s yet to see calm two years after Hosni Mubarak’s ouster.  Mursi, already weighed down by criticism from an opposition
that has dubbed his seven months in office a failure, met
yesterday with top security officials and stressed the need to
respect the human rights. His premier, in remarks broadcast
nationwide, vowed there would be “no return to repression” and
urged citizens to stop watching inflammatory coverage of
protests and to get back to work.  Egypt ’s secular and youth activist critics contend Mursi is
giving authorities free rein to suppress protests and have
rejected calls for a national dialogue until conditions such as
a national unity government are met. His opponents also accuse
Mursi of failing to revive the economy and restore security, and
say he is selling out the nation’s broader interests to bolster
the influence of his Muslim Brotherhood backers.  There’s “no return to human rights violations,” said
Prime Minister Hisham Qandil. “This is not the preference of
the government or the head of government or the president of the
republic. This is the right of the Egyptian people whose sons
sacrificed their lives” in the revolt against  Hosni Mubarak .  More Protests  Even as officials sought to defuse days of tension that
gained new momentum with a video of a man stripped naked and
beaten by police in front of Mursi’s palace, fresh violence
erupted north of the capital and the culture minister submitted
his resignation, the state-run Ahram Online reported. It cited
an unidentified official as saying he decided to quit because he
was dismayed over the alleged beating of Hamada Saber that was
captured on film.  The protests in Tanta late yesterday followed the funeral
of an activist whose colleagues claim was killed by police while
in custody. Protesters attempted to storm the local police
station and other government buildings in clashes that left at
least seven wounded, the state-run Middle East News Agency
reported reported.  The outbreak of fighting in the city is the kind of unrest
that has kept the country’s economy limping at the slowest pace
in two decades since the uprising. Foreign reserves are down by
almost 60 percent and the Egyptian pound weakened to record lows
after the central bank introduced a foreign currency auction to
limit the drain on the reserves.  Emergency Measures  Already simmering tensions since Mursi’s election in June
boiled over after the Jan. 25 anniversary of the revolution as
protesters in Port Said demonstrated against death sentences
handed down by a Cairo court over a 2012 stadium riot that left
more than 70 dead.  That violence prompted Mursi to enact temporary emergency
measures in three Suez Canal provinces, triggering further
fighting. In all, at least 50 people were killed -- many from
gunshot wounds. Almost 600 police were injured in the fighting,
the  Interior Ministry  said.  The president, Egypt’s first democratically elected
civilian leader, has stressed authorities will deal with
lawlessness firmly while pledging to also uphold the right of
peaceful protest.  The assurances contrasted with the video showing a group of
riot police striking Saber, 48, amid clashes with protesters who
hurled rocks and Molotov cocktails at the palace in the capital
on Feb. 1. Adding to the doubts about the government’s
commitment to transparency was Saber’s initial claim the police
were protecting him -- remarks he later recanted.  The incident -- a day after the Brotherhood and its rivals
signed a deal to renounce the violence -- was seen by activists
and the opposition as an example of Mursi’s disdain for the
goals of the revolution.  This is not a government that violates the law or “orders
the killing of its citizens,” Qandil said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  