-- Egypt Said to Limit Exchange-Rate Moves as Ramez Fights Drop
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-04T12:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/egypt-said-to-limit-exchange-rate-moves-as-ramez-fights-drop.html
Egypt’s central bank set new
 exchange-rate  movement limits for the interbank market as
Governor Hisham Ramez, who took office yesterday, seeks to curb
the worst currency slump since the 2003 devaluation.  Starting today, the pound can move by a maximum of 1
piaster against the  U.S. dollar  from the weighted average
exchange rate at the most-recent dollar auction, instead of the
previous 0.5 percent band, according to central bank regulations
e-mailed to lenders and seen by  Bloomberg News . There are 100
piasters to the pound.  The currency has weakened 7.6 percent to a record since the
central bank started selling dollars at auctions on Dec. 30,
limiting the amount each bank can buy to stem the worst decline
in foreign-currency reserves since 2004. The regulator sold
$73.1 million at today’s auction at a weighted average bid price
of 6.6920 a dollar. The pound strengthened 0.2 percent to 6.7020
at 1:14 p.m. in Cairo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The move is part of the central bank’s efforts to limit
depreciation,” Anthony Simond, who helps manage $11 billion in
emerging-market debt at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  in London,
said by phone. “But no matter what the central bank does, the
depreciation trend will be hard to stop.”  No one at the central bank was available for comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  Reserves have plunged almost 60 percent since the 2011
uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  as foreign
investors sold government securities anticipating a currency
devaluation. “Policy uncertainty surrounding the currency means
there’s too much risk for foreign investors to be involved right
now,” Simond said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  