-- Egyptian Minors Are Denied Rights Amid Crackdown
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-04T16:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/egyptian-minors-are-denied-rights-amid-crackdown.html
Egyptian authorities have ignored
requests to provide cancer treatment for a 14-year-old Egyptian
boy being detained, while another was forced to watch a man
being raped, amid a crackdown on protesters, three human rights
groups and the father of one of the children said.  The cases are part of what activists say has become a
systematic rounding-up of minors during demonstrations.  Egypt ’s
security forces have also come under fire after footage shot and
aired during Feb. 1 demonstrations showed a man stripped naked
and being beaten by authorities.  The video of Hamada Saber’s alleged assault renewed
criticism of the  Interior Ministry , with opponents of President
Mohamed Mursi arguing he has allowed police to revert to the
same tactics used by his predecessor,  Hosni Mubarak .  At least 65 children were detained in the wake of Jan. 25
protests and clashes marking the second anniversary of the
uprising against Mubarak, according to Nazlie Hussein, a founder
of the No to Military Trials for Civilians group, a human rights
organization started after the Supreme Military Council assumed
power after Mubarak’s ouster.  Minors detained in Cairo and Alexandria “were denied food
and drinks, and were subjected to all kinds of beating and
torture” while in custody, Hussein said today. They weren’t
allowed to call their parents, many of whom spent six days
searching for their children, she said.  Cases of minors being detained and abused in custody were
also documented by the Hisham Mubarak Law Center and the
Egyptian Organization for  Human Rights .  Freedom of Expression  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil told reporters today the
government was committed to freedom of expression and peaceful
protest and was not, as portrayed by the media, one that
condones the killing of its citizens by authorities.  Hussein said another minor, a 14-year-old boy, remains in
custody in Alexandria after being arrested on Jan. 27 during
clashes near the security forces headquarters. The boy is late
for his chemotherapy, she said, citing his parents.  Hussein said lawyers had submitted requests for the boy to
receive treatment, and were notified by police they had not
received authorization to provide him with chemotherapy.  Interior Ministry spokesman Hani Abdel-Latif’s mobile phone
was turned off and calls to the ministry’s press office went
unanswered.  Hassan Yassin, a spokesman for the prosecutor general, said
they had received reports of only two alleged minors in custody
in Alexandria, including the boy suffering from cancer.
Prosecutors are currently investigating the reports and the ages
of those in detention, he said by phone.  “It’s not at all permissible, under any circumstances, to
keep in custody a child under the age of 15,” Yassin said.  300 Arrests  Egyptian police and military officers have arrested and
detained more than 300 children during protests in Cairo over
the past year, in some cases beating or torturing them, New
York-based  Human Rights Watch  said in a November  report .  “My son was beaten” and insulted by police and was forced
to watch a young man in his 20s being sodomized “in front of
his eyes in the detention cell,” Taiseer Mohamed Ali, the
father of a 12-year-old who spent five days in lock-up, said by
phone. It was not immediately possible to independently verify
the accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  