-- Emerging ETF Slumps as Oil Declines Sink Brazil
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-04T22:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/emerging-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-on-china-data-misc-surges.html
The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
exchange-traded fund  tumbled the most since November as oil’s
retreat weighed on benchmarks in  Russia  and  Brazil . Asian
equities gained after  China ’s services industries accelerated.  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, and OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA of Brazil slumped at least 1.5
percent.  Ayala Corp. (AC)  rallied to a record in  Manila , pushing the
Philippine benchmark to a record, after announcing plans to
invest as much as $200 million this year through its energy
unit.  MISC Bhd. (MISC)  surged the most in more than 14 years in  Kuala
Lumpur  after receiving a buyout offer. Sany Heavy Industry Co.,
the biggest Chinese machinery maker, advanced for a third day.  The iShares emerging-markets exchange-traded fund dropped
1.3 percent to $43.92 in  New York , the biggest decline since
Nov. 14. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed at
1,072.73, with 384 stocks rising and 362 falling. The  Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge  of 24 raw materials lost 0.8 percent as oil
retreated 1.6 percent in New York for its biggest slump in two
months. China’s services industries grew at the fastest pace
since August, the government said yesterday.  “You have a pullback in risk as a result of the political
jitters coming out of  Europe , which is taking precedence over
the healthier macroeconomic conditions in  emerging markets ,”
Aryam Vazquez, an economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York,
said by phone. “Many of these emerging market countries are
commodities producers, exporters and consumers, and anytime you
have a pullback in risk assets such as commodities, emerging
markets are going to feel it.”  Europe Uncertainty  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, jumped 10 percent to 19.95, the
highest level in 2013. The MSCI measure’s 100-day volatility
dropped to 9, the lowest since August 1997.  European stocks  fell the most in three months amid signs of
returning political uncertainty in Italy and Spain, the region’s
weakest economies. Russia’s Micex Index lost 0.8 percent, while
volume on the gauge was 13 percent higher than the 30-day
average. Benchmarks in the  Czech Republic  and  Hungary  slid at
least 0.9 percent.  Rosneft fell 1.5 percent to the lowest price in seven
weeks. Russia gets about half of its budget revenue from oil and
natural gas.  Brazil’s Bovespa index declined 1.3 percent, led by a 5.9
percent tumble by  Braskem SA (BRKM5) , Latin America’s largest
petrochemical maker. OGX, the  oil company  controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista , fell 3.1 percent to the lowest price
in more than four years after reporting a drop in average
production at its main field.  Chinese Gains  Orders placed with U.S. factories increased less than
forecast in December, reflecting a decline in non-durable goods
that partly countered gains in construction equipment and
computers.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.4 percent, the
highest since May 8, with volumes 31 percent more than the 30-
day average. Taiwan’s Taiex index gained 0.9 percent to the
highest close since March 30.  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index
added 0.3 percent, the highest close since March 2010.  China’s services industries rose as gains in retail and
construction aided government efforts to drive a recovery. The
non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed to 56.2 in
January from 56.1 in December, the National Bureau of Statistics
and China Federation of Logistics & Purchasing said in a
statement yesterday. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Philippine Surge  Sany Heavy Industry climbed 2.3 percent in  Shanghai  to the
highest level in six months on volumes 2.5 times the three-month
daily average.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 3.1 percent, the most since June
21. American depositary receipts of China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, tumbled 7.2 percent, the most in
a year, on plans to sell shares at a discount.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index jumped 1.9 percent, the
biggest gain among benchmark indexes in Asia, and the peso
approached a five-year high as expansion plans from companies
boosted confidence in the nation’s economic and earnings growth.
Ayala, owner of the nation’s biggest developer, advanced 4.1
percent to a record high.  “This rally stands on firm ground,” said Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps manage the equivalent of $3 billion at Manila-
based BPI Asset Management Inc. “Investors are willing to pay a
premium for earnings visibility and future prospects.”  Ruble Weakens  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost 0.2 percent
in its third day of declines. State-owned  Bank of Baroda  plunged
7.4 percent to lead losses on the MSCI emerging markets gauge.
Third-quarter net income at the Indian bank fell 22 percent to
10.1 billion rupees ($189.5 million), according to an exchange
filing. That’s less than the 13.2 billion rupees estimated by
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  MISC, the world’s second-largest liquefied natural gas
shipper, surged 17 percent, the biggest gain since September
1998. Petroliam Nasional Bhd., or Petronas, offered 5.30 ringgit
per share in cash for the remaining 37 percent stake in the
shipping unit, according to a stock exchange filing on Jan. 31,
valuing the deal at 8.8 billion ringgit ($2.8 billion).  Russia’s ruble weakened 0.8 percent versus the dollar, the
most since October. The rand declined for the first time in
three days as investors speculated the currency’s gain last
week, the biggest in almost four months, was overdone.  Energy Companies  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Energy Index (MXEF0EN)  lost 1 percent, the
biggest drop among 10 industry groups in the broader gauge.
Technology companies added 0.7 percent, the best performers. The
developing-nations measure has added 1.7 percent this year,
trailing a 4.6 percent increase by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The
emerging-markets index trades at 11 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s 13.6 times, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 276, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Japan ’s public pension fund, the world’s biggest manager of
retirement savings, may increase holdings in emerging-market
stocks and start buying alternative assets, President Takahiro Mitani said in a Feb. 1 interview in  Tokyo .  Under Mitani’s leadership, the Government Pension
Investment Fund began buying emerging-market assets in September
2011 and started purchasing shares in countries included in the
MSCI Emerging Market Index last year.  South Korea’s won led returns among emerging market
currencies, rallying the most in 14 months to 1,084.78 per
dollar in  Seoul . Moon Woo Sik, a Bank of Korea board member,
sees no immediate need to alter benchmark  interest rates  and
thinks it’s too early for any central bank response to the yen’s
slide against the won, according to an interview last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  