-- Employment Index in U.S. Eased as Jobs Harder to Get
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-02-04T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/employment-index-in-u-s-eased-as-jobs-harder-to-get.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. fell in January for the first time in four months as more
Americans said jobs were harder to get.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index decreased
0.1 percent to 109.38 from the prior month’s revised reading of
109.47, the New York-based private research group said today.
The measure increased 2.7 percent from January 2012.  Today’s report follows Labor Department figures released
last week that showed the U.S. labor market was healthier than
first estimated. Better employment opportunities would help
insulate consumers from higher taxes and lift the household
spending that drives the economy.  “Despite the dip in January, the Employment Trends Index
continues to signal a moderate improvement in the labor
market,”  Gad Levanon , director of macroeconomic research at the
Conference Board, said today in a statement. Still, “this rapid
pace of improvement in hiring may not continue in the coming
months.”  Employers added 157,000 workers to payrolls in January
after hiring a revised 196,000 the month before and 247,000 in
November, according to Labor Department figures released Feb. 1.
Revisions added a total of 127,000 jobs to the count in the last
two months of 2012. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose to
7.9 percent from 7.8 percent.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, it
can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before
the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months in
advance, the Conference Board said.  Weakening in six of the index’s eight components
contributed to the decrease in the overall gauge, today’s report
showed. In addition to those saying jobs were harder to get,
there were fewer job openings, while a greater share of
Americans said they were working part-time positions even though
they desired full-time employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  