-- Men at Greater Risk From Calcium Supplements Than Women
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-02-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/men-at-greater-risk-from-calcium-supplements-than-women.html
Use of calcium supplements leads to a
higher heart risk for men than women, a study found.  Men who took 1,000 milligrams or more of calcium
supplements a day had a 20 percent higher chance of dying from
cardiovascular disease then those who didn’t take the
supplements, according to research published today in the
journal  JAMA Internal Medicine . There was no similar link
between calcium supplement intake and death in women, the
authors said.  Today’s finding is the first to say the risk is more
significant in men, conflicting with previous reports that the
risk of a heart event linked to calcium supplements was about
the same for both genders.  “Our findings add to the evidence base,” Qian Xiao, the
lead author and a cancer prevention fellow at the  National
Cancer Institute  in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. More research is needed to “clarify the
underlying mechanism,” she said.  Researchers studied 388,229 men and women ages 50 to 71 who
participated in the  National Institutes of Health-AARP Diet and
Health Study . Calcium supplements were used by 51 percent of men
and 70 percent of women.  Over the length of the study, there were 7,904 deaths from
cardiovascular disease in men and 3,874 from women.  The Food and Nutrition Board at the  Institute of Medicine 
of the National Academies  recommends  that men and women ages 19
to 50 consume 1,000 milligrams of calcium a day. Women should
increase that intake to 1,200 milligrams at age 50 while men can
wait until age 71, the board has said.  “Calcium should preferably be obtained from foods. Good
sources of calcium include low-fat dairy foods, beans and green
leafy vegetables,” Susanna Larsson, an associate professor at
the Karolinska Institute in  Stockholm , wrote in an accompanying
editorial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  