-- Entergy, Stadium Manager Investigating Blackout
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-02-05T00:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/entergy-stadium-manager-investigating-blackout.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR)  and New Orleans
Superdome manager SMG are focusing on fuses and circuit breakers
that monitor the flow of electricity to the dome as they
investigate the cause of a blackout during yesterday’s Super
Bowl.  Entergy installed so-called switchgear equipment and
replaced transformers and back-up feeder cables as it overhauled
the stadium’s electrical systems to protect against blackouts,
 Michael Burns , a spokesman for the New Orleans-based utility
owner, said in a phone interview today. After Entergy completed
the work Dec. 21, the stadium held three major games without
incident, Burns said.  “We’re going to be working to find out what caused the
issue,”  Roger Goodell , commissioner of the  National Football
League , said at a press conference today. The  power failure 
wasn’t caused by the halftime show and won’t prevent the league
from returning to New Orleans for the title game, he said.  About half of the lights at the facility, which held 71,024
fans for the last NFL game of the season, went dark early in the
third quarter of what is historically the most-watched
television program in the U.S. every year. The failure halted
play for 34 minutes.  Shortly after the Baltimore Ravens returned a kick-off for
a touchdown to grab a 28-6 lead over the  San Francisco 49ers ,
equipment monitoring the electrical load into the stadium sensed
an “abnormality” and partially cut power to isolate the
problem, Entergy and SMG said in a joint statement today.  Post-Katrina Spending  Nine Entergy workers were testing and monitoring the
equipment with infrared sensor yesterday to ensure it wasn’t
overheating or malfunctioning. “Some electrical anomaly
occurred that we are still investigating,” Burns said.  Entergy is inspecting the equipment with its manufacturer,
which Burns declined to name, and is “also working with SMG to
determine what may have occurred on its end,” he added.  About $336 million has been spent on repairs to the
stadium, including its electrical system, following extensive
damage caused by  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005, according to
documents on the Superdome’s  website . The stadium was used as a
shelter for thousands of people after the storm hit.  Eric Egan, an SMG spokesman for the Superdome, didn’t
respond to phone calls and e-mails seeking comment. SMG is an
affiliate of  American Capital Ltd. (ACAS) , according to its website,
and also manages  Soldier Field  in Chicago and the Astrodome in
Houston.  PG&E Blackout  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  spent about $1 million upgrading power lines
running into San Francisco’s Candlestick Park after a December
2011 blackout during a nationally televised football game, Joe
Molica, a spokesman for the San Francisco-based utility owner,
said in a telephone interview.  The damage to the reputations of Entergy, which owns
Louisiana’s largest utility, and the Superdome may be more
costly than the actual repairs, Samuel Brothwell, senior
utilities analyst for Bloomberg Industries, said in a phone
interview.  “There’s an old saying: ‘There’s no such thing as bad
publicity’ unless you’re a utility, in which case you don’t want
any,” Brothwell said. “You don’t want to be the utility blamed
for a blackout during during the Super Bowl.”  Entergy declined 1.1 percent to $64.10 at the close in New
York. American Capital, based in Bethesda, Maryland, fell 1.4
percent to $13.11.  The game was watched by an average of about 108.4 million
viewers, CBS said in a statement today, citing  Nielsen Holdings
NV (NLSN)  data. It was the third most-watched championship ever,
following the prior two  Super Bowls .  “The power outage was an unfortunate moment in what has
been an otherwise shining Super Bowl week for the city of  New
Orleans ,” Mayor Mitch Landrieu tweeted. “In the coming days, I
expect a full after action report from all parties involved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  