-- Eramet Unit, Indonesia Agree on Some Contract Review Points
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-02-04T09:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/eramet-unit-indonesia-agree-on-some-contract-review-points.html
Eramet SA (ERA)  unit PT Weda Bay Nickel,
negotiating with Indonesia to set up a $5 billion nickel mine
and smelter, agreed on four out of six points in a government
review of the company’s mining contract.  Indonesia will allow Weda Bay to set up the mine and
facilities in an area greater than 25,000 hectares (61,776
acres), Thamrin Sihite, director general of coal and minerals at
the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry, said in Jakarta
today. In return, Weda Bay will build the smelter, use local
workers and services and continue its business under a new
mining license after its 30-year contract expires in 2028,
Sihite said.  Indonesia began reviewing all mining contracts in January
2012 to ensure they were in line with the country’s interests
and increased state revenue. A panel, set up to review the
agreements, has until December 2013 to complete its work,
according to a decree signed by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.  “We are still discussing state revenue and divestment,”
Sihite said. The government wants the company to pay higher
royalty and foreign shareholders to reduce their stake to 49
percent, he said. Eramet, a French mining group, and  Japan ’s
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Pacific Metal Co. own 90 percent of Weda
Bay. Indonesia’s state-owned miner  PT Aneka Tambang (ANTM)  owns the
remainder, according to the company’s website.  Weda Bay’s President Director Alain Bernard Henri Giraud
met with Sihite today to discuss progress on the contract
review, the energy ministry said in a separate statement posted
on its website. The company plans to build the project in
Halmahera island in Indonesia’s North Maluku province. It may
start operating by 2019, Sihite said.  Weda Bay will use 80 percent of its $5 billion investment
for smelter construction and the rest for developing the mine,
the company said in a statement today. It will employ about
2,300 workers, of which 65 percent will be locals.  Indonesia  limited exports of mineral ore in May 2012 to
boost revenue from higher-value processing at home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  