-- FTC Corrects Herbalife Statement After Probe Report
-- B y   K e v i n   O r l a n d   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-02-04T21:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/herbalife-drops-after-report-of-law-enforcement-probe.html
The Federal Trade Commission
corrected a statement that erroneously said  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  was
the subject of a law-enforcement probe after a report about the
non-existent investigation sent the supplement maker’s shares
down the most in a month.  The FTC, in responding to a Freedom of Information Law
request from the New York Post, should have said that it
withheld some information from documents posted online because
it can’t disclose consumer complaints obtained from foreign
sources if they request confidentiality, Frank Dorman, an agency
spokesman, said today in an e-mail. The FTC’s correspondence
with the newspaper, posted on the agency’s website, originally
explained the redaction by erroneously citing an exemption for
information obtained in a law-enforcement investigation.  The report sent Cayman Islands-based Herbalife’s shares
down as much as 12 percent today, the biggest  intraday  decline
since Dec. 21. The shares recovered the loss to close up 1.3
percent at $35.54 in New York.  Herbalife has been fighting allegations from hedge fund
manager  Bill Ackman , who said in December that the company uses
inflated pricing, misleading sales information and a complicated
incentive structure to hide a pyramid scheme. Ackman said he
thought the FTC or the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
would look into allegations he made about the company during a
Dec. 20 presentation in New York.  Dorman declined to comment on whether the agency is
investigating Herbalife. Any such investigation wouldn’t be
public, he said in a phone interview.  Voluntary Dialogue  Herbalife said today in a statement that it was unaware of
any regulatory interest or investigation other than a voluntary
dialogue it was having with regulators.  “For a direct-selling company of our size, we have had a
relatively low number of complaints to the FTC,” the company
said. “However, we take every one of them seriously and stand
by our record of doing right by our distributors and all
consumers of our products.”  Herbalife has repeatedly denied the allegations that it
operates a pyramid scheme, saying it is a retail-oriented
business that sells products with unique ingredients.  The FTC, responding to the New York Post, released a file
of  complaints  against the company. Consumers’ identifying
information was withheld from the complaints, which were not
necessarily verified by the FTC, the agency said in a letter to
the Post included in the documents.  Job Interview  In one complaint posted on the FTC’s  website , an
unidentified individual spoke of being pitched on Herbalife
products after expecting to be given a job interview to be a
nutrition coach, according to the documents. The person spoke
with a representative and was pressured to sign up. After giving
credit card information and a $59.99 payment, the individual
wanted to cancel the payment and was denied a refund, according
to the documents.  “I was tricked into thinking I was going to be a nutrition
coach, when it was really a distributor position for Herbalife
products that costs $59.99 to be part of,” the individual said
in the documents.  In other instances, an unidentified individual said the
company used “bait and switch tactics and is refusing to issue
a refund” while another said Herbalife resorted to “deceptive
marketing practices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  