-- Etihad Nears Jet Stake Decision as Investments Bolster Earnings
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-02-04T12:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/etihad-net-income-surges-as-growing-partnerships-help-trim-costs.html
Etihad Airways PJSC, the third-
largest Gulf carrier, said it’s closing in on the purchase of a
stake in Jet Airways ( India ) Ltd. after investments in four
other carriers helped triple full-year profit.  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad’s board will decide whether to go
ahead with the bid after completing due diligence in the coming
two weeks, Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said today. Net
income hit $42 million in 2012 and will gain this year, he said.  Etihad is targeting Jet as it builds what Hogan called an
“equity alliance” that already includes minority stakes in  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1) , Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd.,  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) 
and Air Seychelles Ltd. Etihad, which ranks behind Dubai-based
Emirates and Qatar Airways Ltd. in terms of traffic, said the
grouping collectively has 379 aircraft and serves 384 routes.  “No Middle East carrier has this reach,” Hogan said on a
conference call. “By investing in other airlines we have been
able to achieve scale and collectively reduce our unit cost.”  Sales gained 17 percent to $4.8 billion last year, with
revenue from partners contributing about $620 million, a 42
percent increase, Hogan said. Etihad has 41 code-share allies,
up from 29 a year earlier, including  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , with
which it signed a strategic accord in October.  Indian Potential  Emirates, the world’s biggest international airline, is
pursuing a more independent approach, and Etihad also has more
partners than Qatar Air, though the Doha-based company has
agreed to join the Oneworld group led by British Airways.  Hogan said there’s enough traffic to support all three
carriers, which rely more on passengers changing planes for
onward destinations than visiting the Gulf itself. He cited
Bangkok and  Kuala Lumpur  and London, Paris and Amsterdam as
examples of transfer hubs that are competing successfully.  The combined market of the Gulf Cooperation Council and
Indian subcontinent is also “huge,” Hogan said, with 40 million
Indians travelling overseas each year. The CEO visited  New Delhi 
last week for talks with the government on Jet and foreign
direct investment and said today those discussions went well.  “Over the next two weeks we will continue to work through
our due diligence and see if we take this step,” he said,
declining to specify how big the stake might be.  Fleet Savings  Savings from partnerships are being generated via measures
including jointly managing aircraft, as Etihad and Air Berlin
plan to do for future  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 fleets, having already
struck a joint deal with engine supplier General Electric Co.  Hogan said electrical faults that have grounded the
Dreamliner for more than two weeks will be overcome and that it
will prove to be “a great aircraft.”  At Air Seychelles, which was unprofitable in 2011,
management functions have been transferred to Abu Dhabi, cutting
costs, and the carrier will break even this year, he said.  Hogan said Etihad’s own expansion will continue, with four
destinations to be added this year plus 15 more aircraft, out of
about 100 planes that are due to arrive in the next seven or
eight years. Both traffic and the passenger total rose 23
percent in 2012, with the latter reaching 10.3 million.  Planes due for delivery this year require $1.5 billion in
financing, of which about $1 billion has already been raised to
pay for nine long-haul aircraft, the CEO said.  A request for proposals covering the remaining $500
million, which will mainly fund Airbus SAS A320 short-haul
planes, will be issued before April, according to Chief
Financial Officer James Rigney, who said Etihad isn’t planning a
 bond issue  and would prefer terms such as finance leasing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  