-- MetLife’s $2 Billion Deal Highlights Wheeler as CEO Candidate
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-04T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/metlife-s-2-billion-deal-highlights-wheeler-as-ceo-candidate.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, is expanding the portfolio of Americas head William Wheeler with a $2 billion deal, highlighting the potential he
may be the next chief executive officer.  MetLife’s agreement to buy  AFP Provida SA (PROVIDA)  from  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , announced Feb. 1, bolsters the New York-
based insurer’s presence in Latin America while trimming its
reliance on capital-intensive offerings.  Wheeler, who was chief financial officer during the
worldwide credit crisis, was named head of the Americas in 2011
as CEO Steven Kandarian revamped the insurer’s management
structure after MetLife acquired American Life Insurance Co.
Wheeler is pulling back from capital-intensive products such as
variable annuities in the U.S. and cutting costs as MetLife
seeks emerging-markets growth.  “The board wanted him to have operating experience before
considering him for the CEO role,” said Sean Dargan, an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd. “He’d have to be considered as a
leading candidate to replace Steve Kandarian.”  Wheeler, 51, would be MetLife’s second straight CEO to come
from a finance background. He was CFO since 2003, and worked as
a banker at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette before joining MetLife
in 1997.  “I love the job I have, and if I did this job well, that
would be a great capstone to my career,” Wheeler said in
response to a question about whether he’d like to be CEO. “The
job I have I really enjoy and I’m just trying to do the best I
can at it.”  Mandatory Retirement  Kandarian, who turns 61 this year, replaced Robert
Henrikson in 2011 as Henrikson neared the mandatory retirement
age of 65. Kandarian had been MetLife’s chief investment officer
for six years.  The Americas region, MetLife’s largest, has been challenged
by slow growth in the U.S., which was targeted for most of the
$600 million in cost reductions announced in May. MetLife said
in December it’s planning to cut variable-annuity sales by about
40 percent to as little as $10 billion this year. Wheeler
oversaw MetLife’s bank, which the insurer has been winding down.  Life insurers “value operations experience,” said  Jimmy Bhullar , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “He probably is the
next in line, potentially, to be the next CEO.”  Operating earnings in the Americas are projected to grow
1.5 percent this year, the slowest of MetLife’s three regions,
the insurer said in a  presentation  in December.  “The competitive environment as well as the growth
potential in most Latin American and Asian countries is better
than in the U.S.,” Bhullar said. “The growth in the U.S.
business is going to be relatively modest.” Provida is the
largest private pension fund administrator in  Chile , with about
$45.3 billion under management.  Managing Acquisitions  As CFO, Wheeler helped integrate Alico, the insurer with
operations in more than 50 countries that MetLife bought for
about $16 billion from American International Group Inc. He also
worked on the $11.7 billion purchase of Travelers Life & Annuity
from Citigroup Inc. in 2005.  After Kandarian was named CEO, Wheeler and William Mullaney, president of the U.S. business, were given stock-based
“special grants.” The awards were “in recognition of the
critical nature of their roles at the company and to encourage
them to continue with the company,” MetLife said in a 2011
filing. Mullaney later left after his position was eliminated.  Kandarian also appointed Michel Khalaf to head the  Europe ,
Middle East, and Africa region, and hired Christopher Townsend
from AIG to lead operations in Asia. Kandarian hired John Hele
from  Arch Capital Group Ltd. (ACGL)  as CFO in July. Steven Goulart was
promoted to chief investment officer in May 2011 to replace
Kandarian. He joined MetLife as head of mergers and
acquisitions.  Real Estate  Moves by Wheeler and Kandarian helped MetLife navigate the
financial crisis and its aftermath. MetLife divested real estate
near the market’s peak, including the $5.4 billion sale of
Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village in New York.  Wheeler built up protection against low interest rates in
the mid-2000s. In 2006, when the  yield  on the 10-year Treasury
rose above 5 percent, Wheeler boosted the insurer’s protection
against low rates to $37.4 billion, more than triple the
notional value of interest-rate floors a year earlier. Ten-year
U.S. debt now yields about 2 percent.  The insurer took in at least $1.5 billion betting on low
rates, “the easiest billion dollars we ever made,” Wheeler
said in 2009.  Wheeler earned an MBA at Harvard Business School, and
graduated from Wabash College in 1983 with a degree in English.
He’s on the board of trustees at the Crawfordsville, Indiana-
based liberal-arts college.  Wheeler’s Path  Wheeler was promoted to CFO for the institutional business
in 2000 and helped take the company public.  Even as MetLife scales back from capital-intensive
products, Wheeler said it is seeking to boost sales of some
coverage at U.S. work sites. MetLife may sell supplemental
health coverage via its employee-benefits business as President
 Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act creates demand. The insurer
is also boosting efforts to sell directly to consumers, he said.  “The challenge for us in the U.S. is with the low
interest-rate environment, the product pricing and the
guarantees we’re selling, we’re having to change,” Wheeler
said. “Being the former CFO gives me the ability to kind of
explain that and have some credibility about it, when we talk to
both our customers and our sales people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  