-- EU Court to Rule March 7 on Polish Suit Over Free Carbon Permits
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-04T11:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/eu-court-to-rule-march-7-on-polish-suit-over-free-carbon-permits.html
A European Union court is due to rule
next month in a lawsuit filed by  Poland  against the EU’s
regulatory arm over the method for allocating free carbon-
dioxide permits in the world’s biggest emissions market.  Poland sued the European Commission in July 2011, saying
the Brussels-based EU regulator failed to take into account fuel
mixes in individual member states when devising the carbon-
efficiency benchmarks. The standards, which are used to
determine the number of free permits for emitters after 2012,
are “more restrictive” than required to meet the climate-
protection targets, the Polish Foreign Ministry said last year.  The EU General Court in Luxembourg, the EU’s second-highest
tribunal, is scheduled to rule on the case on March 7, according
to the institution’s website.  At stake is the design of the 54 billion-euro ($73.3
billion) EU emissions trading system in the current trading
period, in which European governments will sell a greater
proportion of allowances than in the past eight years. The EU
adopted 52 benchmarks to allocate a dwindling supply of free
permits in the so-called third phase from 2013 until 2020.  The European emissions trading system, known as the EU ETS,
is the cornerstone of the 27-nation bloc’s policy to cut
greenhouse gases blamed for climate change by 20 percent in 2020
compared with 1990 levels. It imposes pollution limits on about
12,000 utilities and manufacturers, including  Electricite de
France SA , Europe’s biggest power generator and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , the continent’s largest oil company. One permit gives
the right to discharge one metric ton of carbon dioxide.  European Utilities  In the third phase of the ETS, which starts in 2013, west
European utilities will no longer get free allocations, while
some east European power plants will have to initially buy 30
percent of their permits at auctions. That amount gradually
rises to 100 percent by 2020.  The benchmarks are based on the average performance of the
top 10 percent of installations in 2007 and 2008. The most
efficient installations in a given industry won’t need to
purchase more allowances, while those that emit more than the
benchmarks will need to buy permits.  The methodology designed by the commission may “kill off”
utilities and manufacturers in Poland, which generates about 95
percent of its energy from coal, according to the Polish
government. The so-called benchmarking regulation has also come
under fire from steel producers, including ThyssenKrupp Steel
 Europe  AG and Voestalpine Stahl GmbH, who claimed it will result
in additional costs to the industry of around 5 billion euros.  The European Court of Justice last year declared
inadmissible two lawsuits brought by the steel companies, saying
that a complaint on the distribution of allowances should be
judged by a national court.  The case is: T-370/11, Poland v Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  