-- EU Carbon Gives Up Price Gains as Trading Jumps Near Session End
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-02-04T17:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/eu-carbon-gives-up-price-gains-as-trading-jumps-near-session-end.html
European Union carbon permits gave up
earlier gains amid an end-of-day trading surge and as nations
prepare to sell allowances at three more auctions this week.  EU carbon permits for December fell 2 cents to close at
4.32 euros ($5.85) a ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Certified Emission Reduction credits for December
closed 2 cents higher at 35 cents a ton.  EU allowances surged 27 percent on Feb. 1, the biggest one-
day gain, after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  endorsed
Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier ’s proposals to curb clean-
energy subsidies to keep costs in check. That may signal fewer
renewable projects, boosting demand for carbon, said analysts
including Eric Bickel at energy management company  Schneider
Electric SA (SU)  in Louisville,  Kentucky .  Trading volume today jumped to 3 million tons in the 10
minutes starting 4:30 p.m. in London, almost double the volume
in any other 10-minute period today, ICE data show. Earlier,
prices rose as much as 6.5 percent to 4.62 euros a ton.  Germany’s Merkel still may not support the European
Commission’s plan to temporarily limit the supply of carbon
permits to fix a glut, Jan Pravda, director of Pravda Capital
Trading in  Prague , said today by phone.  “Such a surge on the basis of such a fragile piece of
information is a testimony to the instability of the emission
market, which hangs its hopes on every shiver of a leaf,”
Pravda said. Permits will probably drop below 4 euros a ton by
the end of the week, he said.  Price declines “may be inevitable” amid weekly
oversupply, James Cooper, London-based analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said today in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  