-- EU Swaps Rules Opposed by Parliament Panel on Business Concerns
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-02-04T19:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/eu-swaps-rules-opposed-by-parliament-panel-on-business-concerns.html
A panel of European Union lawmakers
opposed draft rules for over-the-counter derivatives trading
amid concerns that the measures would burden businesses and
contravene EU law.  The European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee voted against the measures today in Strasbourg,
 France . Committee members dismissed warnings from Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial-services chief, that such a move may
leave banks and other financial firms at a “competitive
disadvantage” by forcing them to comply with competing sets of
national rules.  European lawmakers are concerned the draft technical rules,
which flesh out EU legislation from 2012, would force non-
financial companies to pass their trades through clearinghouses
even when the transactions aren’t systemically important,
according to documents on the Parliament’s website.  Global regulators are seeking to toughen rules for the $639
trillion market for OTC derivatives, which became a target for
oversight after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the rescue of American International Group Inc., two of
the largest traders in credit default swaps.  The EU Parliament committee’s verdict today sets the stage
for a vote by the full assembly, which has the power to block
the measures. The vote by the 754-seat Parliament has yet to be
fixed and could take place later this week.  Should the full Parliament exercise its veto, the European
Commission, with input from the European Securities and Markets
Authority, would need to make a new proposal for scrutiny by the
assembly and EU national governments. The Brussels-based
commission is the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  