-- Euro Weakens as Bond Yields Rise on Political Concern
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-02-04T22:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/euro-weakens-as-spanish-italian-yields-rise-on-political.html
The euro fell the most in a month
against the dollar as Italian and Spanish bonds slumped amid
political turmoil, damping demand for the shared currency.  The 17-nation currency dropped versus all but one of its 16
major peers as Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  faced calls
to resign after newspaper reports alleged he accepted illegal
cash payments. A poll showed former Italy Premier  Silvio
Berlusconi  closed the gap on front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani
even as he appeals a four-year prison sentence for  tax fraud .
The yen weakened beyond 93 per dollar for the first time since
May 2010. European Central Bank policy makers meet this week.  “The euro obviously has come off quite sharply,”  Fabian Eliasson , vice president of corporate foreign-exchange sales at
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “I would attribute that to some negative headlines
out of  Europe . Obviously, things can’t go up forever.”  The euro dropped 0.9 percent to $1.3514 at 5 p.m. in  New
York  after falling 1 percent, the biggest decline since Jan. 3.
The common currency reached $1.3711 on Feb. 1, the highest level
since Nov. 14, 2011. The euro slipped 1.4 percent to 124.84 yen.
The yen rose 0.4 percent to 92.38 per dollar after sliding to
93.18, the weakest level since May 13, 2010.  Rand, Ringgit  The rand lost 0.9 percent to the dollar as South Africa
posted a trade gap of 32 billion rand ($3.6 billion) in the
fourth quarter amid slowing global growth and mining strikes
that curbed exports. The currency weakened to 8.9150 to the
greenback.  Malaysia’s ringgit appreciated the most in a month as
recent losses were judged excessive. It fell last week the most
against the dollar in 16 months on speculation Prime Minister
Najib Razak will call an early election. The ringgit advanced
0.7 percent to 3.0950 per dollar.  South Korea’s won rose the most in 14 months against the
dollar after U.S. and Chinese reports added to signs of recovery
in the world’s largest economies and a Bank of Korea board
member said it’s too early for any central bank response to the
yen’s slide against the won. The won appreciated 1.2 percent to
1,084.78 per dollar.  The ECB, which has held its main refinancing rate at 0.75
percent since July, will make no change at its next policy
decision on Feb. 7, according to the median forecast of 58
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Central-bank President  Mario
Draghi  may make more dovish remarks at the meeting without the
central bank altering policy, according to analysts.  ‘Aggressive Tactics’  “If we enter a new macroeconomic environment with lower
growth and unemployment rising, policy leaders will resort to
more aggressive tactics,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York, said
in a Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene . “We’re not at
that point yet.”  Spain’s 10-year bond yield climbed to 5.44 percent, the
highest since Dec. 12, as Rajoy said the allegations published
in Spain’s biggest newspaper El Pais are unfounded. He met with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin today.  Italian 10-year yields rose as high as 4.49 percent, with
the additional yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of German bunds increasing for a fourth day, after Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said the spread may widen if Berlusconi,
also standing trial on charges he paid a minor for sex, is
elected this month.  ‘Convenient Excuse’  Political uncertainty “provided a convenient excuse for
investors to take some profit off the table,”  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business
Solutions, said in a telephone interview. “The broader theme
for the euro is caution ahead of the ECB meeting this week.”  Barclays Plc raised its forecasts for the euro against the
dollar to take into account last week’s gains. The euro will
drop to $1.32 in six months and $1.28 in a year, from previous
estimates of $1.26 and $1.22, strategists Raghav Subbarao and
Guillermo Felices in  London  wrote today in a note to clients.  The euro will fall to $1.30 by year-end, according to the
median of 60 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Implied volatility
from options trading shows the chance of it ending the year
below that level is 28 percent.  The yen rose against the dollar after a record 12 straight
weeks of declines as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s administration
presses the central bank to ease monetary policy further to beat
deflation.  Finance Minister Taro Aso said yesterday the government is
imitating his Depression-era predecessor, Korekiyo Takahashi,
who told the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to underwrite government debt to fund
deficit spending. “We can only learn from history,” he said.  The yen tumbled 16 percent over the past three months, the
biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 4.5
percent and the dollar dropped 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  