-- Soccer Fixers Targeted More Than 380 Games, European Police Say
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-02-04T14:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/european-police-say-more-than-380-soccer-matches-fixed-in-region.html
World Cup  and European Championship
qualifiers were among more than 380 professional soccer matches
targeted by criminals trying to fix games to generate more than
8 million euros ($10.9 million) in profit, according to the
region’s law enforcement agency.  An 18-month investigation, Operation VETO, found 425 match
officials, club executives, players and criminals in 15
countries worked to cheat. The games included international and
Champions League matches, Europol said today in an e-mailed
statement. Some investigations are continuing, it said.  “Europol and its law enforcement partners are committed to
pursuing serious criminals wherever they operate,” said Rob
Wainwright, director of Europol. “Unfortunately this also now
includes the world of football, where illegal profits are made
on a scale and in a way that threatens the very fabric of the
game. All those responsible for running football should heed the
warnings found in this case.”  Europol worked with police from 13 countries in the probe,
which ended last month. It looked at 13,000 e-mails and other
materials, and has led to several prosecutions, the agency said.
In  Germany , 14 people have been convicted and have been
sentenced to 39 years in prison.  World Cup and European Championship qualification matches,
two UEFA Champions League matches and several top-flight games
in European national leagues were among the suspicious matches
identified, Europol said. Another 300 matches outside  Europe ,
mainly in Africa,  Asia , South and Central America may have also
been targeted, it said.  Suspect Matches  “We have evidence for 150 of these cases and the
operations were run out of  Singapore  with bribes of up to
100,000 euros paid per match,” Friedhelm Althans, a spokesman
for Operation VETO from the police in Bochum, Germany, said in
the statement. “Even two World Championship qualification
matches in  Africa , and one in Central America, are under
suspicion.”  UEFA, soccer’s governing body in Europe, said it was aware
of the allegations and was working with Europol.  “Once the details of these investigations are in UEFA’s
hands, then they will be reviewed by the appropriate
disciplinary bodies in order that the necessary measures are
taken,” UEFA said today in an e-mailed statement.  The organizers were fixing games and betting on Asian
markets, the investigators said. While many were Asian,
connections to Russian crime groups also emerged, Europol said.  The information will be shared with international police
bodies, including Interpol, as part of the effort to crack down
on the criminals, Europol said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  