-- Euro Weakens on Italy, Spain Uncertainty; Aussie Declines
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-02-05T08:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/euro-drops-second-day-versus-yen-on-italy-spain-uncertainty.html
The euro fell against the yen,
following yesterday’s biggest drop since June, amid corruption
allegations against Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  and
uncertainty ahead of Italian elections this month.  The 17-nation currency halted this year’s climb against the
dollar before European Central Bank policy makers meet on Feb.
7. The yen rose against most major peers as investors bought
haven assets after Asian equities slid. Australia’s dollar fell
after the central bank kept  interest rates  unchanged while
saying the inflation outlook allows scope for further easing.  “The risks are to the downside for euro and a correction
back towards $1.34 seems very logical, given the speed with
which we’ve moved so far,” said  Robert Rennie , the chief
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney.
Purchasing euro-zone assets becomes difficult “once you start
to become concerned about the outlook for European politics.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to 124.46 yen as of 8:09 a.m.
London time from yesterday, when it dropped 1.4 percent, the
most since June 25. It declined 0.2 percent to $1.3485. The yen
advanced 0.1 percent to 92.30 per dollar after yesterday falling
as low as 93.18, the weakest since May 13, 2010.  Spain’s Rajoy, facing opposition calls to resign amid
contested reports about illegal payments, traveled to Berlin
yesterday as euro-area leaders schedule a series of meetings
this week ahead of a Feb. 7-8 European Union summit. The yield
on 10-year Spanish bonds climbed to 5.48 percent, the highest
since Dec. 11.  Italian Election  A poll showed former Italy Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  closed
the gap on front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani even as he appeals a
four-year prison sentence for tax fraud. Voting takes place on
Feb. 24-25.  The ECB, which has held its main refinancing rate at 0.75
percent since July, will make no change at its next policy
decision on Feb. 7, according to all 58  economists surveyed  by
 Bloomberg News . ECB President  Mario Draghi  may make more dovish
remarks at the meeting without the central bank altering policy,
according to analysts.  The euro slipped 0.2 percent in the past week, paring its
gain so far in 2013 to 2.3 percent, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes which track 10 developed-nation
currencies. The yen has dropped 6.8 percent since Dec. 31 and
the dollar is down 0.1 percent.  Stretched Crosses  “We’d gone one way for the whole month of January and all
those euro crosses were stretched,” said  Tim Kelleher , the
Auckland-based head of institutional foreign-exchange sales at
ASB Institutional, a unit of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA) 
“The risk is that the euro stays capped ahead of the ECB.”  The JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index , calculated based on
premiums on currency options, climbed to 9.3 percent, the most
since Aug. 2. It had dropped to a more than five-year low of
7.06 on Dec. 18,  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks declined 1.1 percent.  Australia’s dollar slid against most of its 16 major peers
after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at the half-century low of 3 percent.  “Aussie selling pressure stems from the comments that the
RBA made that inflation outlook gives scope for further
easing,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “The market has taken that to mean
the RBA is sitting ready to ease.”  RBC expects the next interest rate cut to come in the
second quarter, according to Trinh.  The so-called Aussie fell 0.2 percent to $1.0416. It
declined 0.4 percent to 96.06 yen, after touching 97.08
yesterday, the highest since August 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  