-- Levin Corporate Loophole Plan in U.S. Raises $200 Billion: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-02-04T14:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/levin-corporate-loophole-plan-in-u-s-raises-200-billion-taxes.html
Senator Carl Levin’s push to close
tax loopholes will target corporate deductions for stock options
and rates on investment income known as carried interest,
seeking to raise at least $200 billion by one estimate.  In a memo to Democratic Senate committee leaders on Friday,
the Michigan Democrat described proposals to end what he called
excessive corporate tax deductions, scrap the blended tax rate
for derivatives such as commodity futures and strengthen
enforcement of the tax code, Bloomberg BNA reported.  Levin -- chairman of a Senate investigations subcommittee
that has jurisdiction over offshore banking and tax practices
and federal waste, fraud and abuse -- plans to introduce a
measure called the Cut Unjustified Tax Loopholes Act.  Ultimately, he said he wants to attach the proposals to
Congress’s broader effort to avert deep budget cuts through
sequestration, due to begin in March.  The plan is estimated to raise at least $200 billion over
10 years, according to a person with knowledge of the details.
Levin told reporters he was sharing ideas with fellow senators
and had asked the congressional Joint Tax Committee to estimate
budget costs and savings for the provisions.  In the memo, which his office provided to Bloomberg BNA, he
said corporations pay an effective tax rate of 15 percent due to
various deductions and loopholes even though the top marginal
rate set in the tax code is 35 percent.  Thirty of the largest U.S. multinational corporations, with
combined profits of $160 billion, paid no corporate income tax
at all from 2008 to 2010, according to Levin’s summary.  “U.S. multinational corporations can use a myriad of tax
loopholes to keep their taxes far lower than their domestic
competitors,” Levin’s office said in the memo.  Options Deductions  Levin’s proposal would require that corporations take stock
option tax deductions at the time the options are shown in their
expenses and would disallow deductions greater than the expense
shown. Currently, corporations can deduct on their tax returns
more than their actual expenses on stock options, the only type
of compensation for which that is allowed, his office said.  That means corporations can report higher earnings to
investors and reduce or eliminate those earnings on their tax
returns. For example, he said,  Facebook (FB)  Inc. was able to book
stock options given to its founder at six cents per share and
later claim a tax deduction at $40 per share. Facebook was able
to take a $16 billion tax deduction when it went public, and net
loss carryforward rules will allow it to use the deduction to
lower its tax bill for years, the senator’s office reported.  A spokeswoman for Facebook had no immediate comment on the
senator’s statements.  Whether the stock options deduction constitutes a loophole
may be a subject of debate. An employee has taxable compensation
income tied to the value of the stock, and the corporation gets
a deduction for a corresponding amount, said Kenneth H. Bridges,
a certified public accountant with Bridges and Dunn-Rankin LLP
of Atlanta. That gives it parity, he said.  Blended Rate  To the government, the net revenue effect would be the same
if the corporation paid the compensatory amount to the employee
in cash, and the employee used the money to buy stock from the
company, Bridges said.  The legislation Levin envisions would end a favorable
“blended tax rate” that applies to certain derivatives.
According to his memo, the short term capital gain from some
derivatives, including commodity futures, is not taxed at the
long term capital gains rate, but at a blended rate of 60
percent long term and 40 percent short term, even if the
derivatives are held for seconds. The lower rate reduces taxes
by about 10 percent, his office reported.  Hedge Funds  Levin would end the exclusion of tar sands oil from the Oil
Spill Liability Trust Fund, which he said would recognize that
oil sands and other unconventional oils have become a more
significant part of the nation’s commercial energy industry. As
much as half of the oil shipped to the United States from  Canada 
in 2012 was from tar sands, and 30 percent of Canadian oil
produced in 2011 was from tar sands, Levin’s office reported.  Levin also proposed that hedge fund managers be required to
pay ordinary income tax rates on all of their income from
management services, ending a carried interest loophole.  The senator also promised more than a dozen provisions
related to offshore tax havens and potential abuses, resembling
a list he provided to Senate Finance Committee members in 2012.  His new proposal would penalize offshore financial
institutions and jurisdictions that impede U.S. tax enforcement;
defer tax deductions for corporations that move jobs and
operations offshore until the corporation repatriates the
profits from offshore operations and pays taxes on them; and
treat offshore funds deposited in U.S. bank accounts as
repatriated funds subject to taxes, among other provisions.  Regular Order  The legislative route for Levin’s proposal remains unclear
but could pose challenges, especially if proponents do not move
it through the Finance Committee. Senator Orrin Hatch from  Utah ,
ranking Republican on the committee, told reporters Jan. 31 that
any legislation should follow the regular process of committee
consideration before coming to the Senate floor.  “Well, if they’d go through regular order, I guess we’d
look at some of those so-called tax expenditures but I’ve got to
tell you if they just say take it or leave it, that’s not the
way to do legislation,” Hatch said.  A spokesman for Levin, Gordon Trowbridge, told BNA the
legislative path has yet to be determined; the tax provisions
are but a piece of a much broader effort to stop the sequester
cuts, and Levin told reporters he was fully aware of proposals
his colleagues may be drafting to deal with the bigger picture.  “He’s just interested in letting his colleagues know that
these ideas can help accomplish what we need to do to avoid
sequestration,” Trowbridge said in an email.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  