-- Ex-Analyst Motey Gets Time Served for Aiding Insider Trials
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-04T23:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/ex-analyst-motey-gets-time-served-for-aiding-insider-trials-1-.html
Karl Motey, a former technology stock
analyst who testified for the government in two  insider-trading 
trials and secretly recorded more than 400 conversations for the
FBI in New York, was sentenced to time served for his
cooperation.  Motey, 48, “played a pivotal role” in the government’s
investigation of the expert networking firm Primary Global
Research LLC, known as PGR, posing as a hedge fund manager who
sought illegal tips from company insiders, prosecutors in the
office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said in a
Jan. 28 letter to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided
over the case.  Motey testified at the insider trading trials of Doug Whitman, the founder of Whitman Capital LLC, and James Fleishman, a former PGR executive. Both men were convicted after
trials in federal court in  Manhattan .  “The past four years have been the most shameful and
difficult of my life,” he told the judge just before the
sentence was imposed. “I sincerely apologize for my mistakes.
I’ve learned a hard and important lesson that will stay with me
all of my life.”  One Year  Rakoff, who saw Motey testify twice on behalf of the
government, said the brief period that he spent in U.S. custody
on the day he pleaded guilty was sufficient. Rakoff also ordered
him to serve one year of supervised release and allowed Motey to
travel in the U.S. for work as long as he gave prior
notification to court officials.  “Mr. Motey is a particularly impressive cooperator and I
think that he has shown that he has definitely learned his
lesson,” the judge said before imposing sentence.  Working with the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, Motey
secretly recorded more than 400 phone calls and in-person
conversations with more than 50 people in the government’s
insider trading probe, the U.S. said.  Motey’s Lawyer  Both Motey and his lawyer lawyer, Alexandra Shapiro,
declined to comment after court.  Motey, who began to work for the U.S. on April 1, 2009, was
key to the government winning court authorization to secretly
wiretap PGR’s conference line, according to the prosecutors’
letter. Companies like PGR, a so-called expert networking firm,
link investors with industry experts at public companies.  “The wiretap recordings of PGR clients -- analysts and
portfolio managers at  hedge funds  and investment firms around
the country -- have since led to numerous other significant
insider trading prosecutions and ongoing investigations,” the
prosecutors said in the letter to the judge.  70 People  Bharara’s office has charged and convicted more than 70
people with insider trading tied to the investigation, including
portfolio managers who obtained nonpublic information from
employees at technology companies moonlighting as consultants
for such expert-networking firms.  Motey, who worked at sell-side investment firms before
forming his own research consulting firm called the Coda Group,
pleaded guilty in December 2010 to conspiracy and securities
fraud.  He admitted getting information from insiders at  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  and  United Microelectronics Corp. (2303)  Motey
and the government agreed that he made as much as $150,000
illegally.  He had faced a maximum of 20 years in prison on the
securities fraud charge and five years for conspiracy.  One Year  In court papers, Shapiro asked Rakoff to sentence Motey to
one year of probation.  Motey was approached by FBI agents on the street in April
2009 and immediately said he would work with the government,
prosecutors said in the letter to Rakoff. His cooperation led
directly or indirectly to 20 criminal convictions, they said.  Beginning in May 2009, Motey agreed to pose as the manager
of a hedge fund who wanted to work with Primary Global, based in
 Mountain View ,  California . Working under FBI direction, Motey
told Fleishman, a Primary Global sales representative, that he
was seeking inside information from employees of technology
companies, the government said.  ‘Evade Detection’  “Touting PGR’s ability to secure valuable inside
information in circumstances that would evade detection,
Fleishman facilitated Motey’s communications with a series of
company insiders who did, in fact, provide Motey with inside
information,” the government said.  Motey spent so much time working with investigators that it
became his full-time job, forcing his wife to return to work to
support the family, prosecutors said.  He spent five days on the witness stand in 2011 testifying
against Fleishman, who was convicted and sentenced to 30 months
in prison.  During Fleishman’s trial, prosecutors played some of the
recordings which Motey made for the FBI, including one in which
Fleishman advised Motey he could get specific information on
technology companies, not just industry trends. Motey told
jurors he was surprised by Fleishman’s statement because
companies wouldn’t normally disclose information during the time
period just before they issued quarterly earnings.  They also heard Motey speak to a PGR consultant who was
employed by Marvell Technology Group.  During the wiretapped call, the consultant can be heard
telling Motey his revenue expectations for Marvell as well as
the average gross margin for his business unit.  Motey also testified in the insider trading trial of
Whitman, for whom he had worked as a consultant, telling jurors
he passed illegal tips to Whitman about Marvell. Whitman was
found guilty in August and sentenced on Jan. 24 to two years in
prison.  The case is U.S. v. Motey, 10-cr-1249, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  