-- Ex-Minister Huhne Quits U.K. Parliament After Guilty Plea
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-02-04T15:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/ex-u-k-energy-secretary-huhne-pleads-guilty-in-london.html
Former U.K. Energy Secretary Chris Huhne said he’ll step down as a Liberal Democrat lawmaker after
pleading guilty in a London court today to perverting the course
of justice in relation to a speeding offense.  Huhne, who had pleaded not guilty to the charge last week,
resigned from the Conservative-led government in February 2012
after becoming the first serving British Cabinet minister to be
charged with a serious criminal offense in modern times.  “Having taken responsibility for something which happened
10 years ago, the only proper course of action now is to resign
my Eastleigh seat in Parliament, which I will do shortly,”
Huhne told reporters outside Southwark Crown Court in London.  The announcement that he’ll quit the House of Commons
paves the way for a special election in his  swing seat  that will
see candidates of both coalition partners vying for victory. The
vote will highlight the growing rifts between the parties over
policies from taxes through Europe to same-sex marriage as they
position themselves for the next general election in May 2015.  Both Huhne, 58, and his ex-wife, Vicky Pryce, were charged
last year by U.K. prosecutors after it was alleged that Huhne
committed a speeding offense and coerced her to take the penalty
points so he could avoid disqualification, according to the
indictment. She has pleaded not guilty and her trial will begin
tomorrow.  ‘No Illusions’  Perverting the course of justice carries a maximum sentence
of life in prison, according to a Crown Prosecution Service
spokesman. Huhne pleaded guilty after losing a bid to have the
case dismissed. Judge Nigel Sweeney rejected the applications in
a written ruling issued last week and made public today.  “You should be under no illusions whatsoever as to the
sort of sentence you are likely to receive,” Sweeney told Huhne
during today’s hearing.  “He’ll be made an example of; they’ll say he was in a
position of great trust and confidence and he had plenty of time
to come clean,” Mark Spragg, a lawyer at Keystone Law Ltd. in
London, said in a telephone interview. “I suspect he’ll get an
immediate custodial sentence of six to nine months. Had we got
to a jury trial and he was found guilty then he could have got 2
1/2 years.”  Election Result  Huhne won the contest for the Eastleigh constituency in
southern England from the Conservatives by 3,864 votes out of
53,650 in the May 2010 general election, after which the two
parties formed their coalition. The Liberal Democrats and Tories
took 85.8 percent of all votes in the district, with Labour, now
in opposition, in third place with 9.6 percent. Liberal
Democrats have held the seat since winning it from the
Conservatives in a 1994 special election, with Huhne taking over
in 2005.  “There will be a fair amount of negative but not nasty
campaigning in Eastleigh between the Tories and Lib Dems, as it
points forward to what will happen in 2015,” Tim Bale,
professor of politics at Queen Mary University London, said in
a telephone interview. “They have to start to find ways to
differentiate from each other, but they’ve got to work together
for another couple of years.”  Both governing parties have lost support nationally since
the general election, as the deepest budget cuts since World War
II and policy U-turns have boosted backing in opinion polls for
Labour and the anti-European Union U.K. Independence Party.  ‘Exact Revenge’  One Tory lawmaker described the Eastleigh vote as a chance
to retaliate against the Liberal Democrats for blocking a bid
last week by the Tories to cut the number of House of Commons
lawmakers and redraw electoral-district boundaries to ensure
they are of more equal size. That would have helped the
Conservatives in 2015.  “At least we get an early opportunity to exact revenge on
the Lib Dems over boundaries,” Alec Shelbrooke told Sky News
television.  Bookmaker William Hill Plc made the Conservatives 1-2
favorites to win the seat, meaning that a successful 2-pound bet
would win 1 pound plus the return of the stake. The Liberal
Democrats were 6-4 to retain it.  The seat “could be tricky for the Lib Dem candidate to
defend in the current climate,” Hill’s spokesman, Graham Sharpe, said in an e-mailed statement.  As late as December, allies of Huhne told the Mail on
Sunday newspaper that he might challenge Nick Clegg for the role
of Liberal Democrat leader as the deputy prime minister’s poll
ratings fell. Huhne challenged Menzies Campbell to head the
party when Charles Kennedy quit in January 2006, finishing
second. Clegg, who didn’t seek the role then, beat Huhne when
Campbell stepped down in 2007.  “This is obviously an extremely serious matter and it’s
essential that the legal process is now allowed to run its
course,” Clegg told reporters. “I am shocked and saddened by
what has happened, but I believe that Chris Huhne has taken the
right decision in resigning.”  Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, declined to answer reporters’ questions on whether Huhne
should repay the severance package of 17,000 pounds ($27,000) he
claimed when he quit the Cabinet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  