-- Texas School-Finance System Unconstitutional, Judge Rules
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-02-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/texas-school-districts-challenge-funding-as-unfair.html
Texas ’s school-finance system is
unconstitutional because it falls short of the state’s
obligation to provide an adequate and equitable public education
to all children, a judge ruled.  “The court declares the current school finance system
violates the Texas Constitution in that it is inefficient,
inequitable, and unsuitable and arbitrarily funds districts at
different levels below the constitutionally required level of
the general diffusion of knowledge,” District Judge John Dietz
in Austin said yesterday in agreeing with lawyers for most of
the state’s school districts.  Rick Gray, an attorney for more than 400 poorer school
districts, told Dietz yesterday in a non-jury trial that these
districts tax property at higher rates than richer ones yet get
less revenue per student. The difference can amount to $30,000
per classroom in neighboring districts, he said. The disparity
has grown with cuts in state aid to education, he argued.  “These gaps are marked, they are extreme, and they are
simply wrong,” Gray said. “Texas should be ashamed.”  The state court trial that started Oct. 22 consolidates six
lawsuits by groups representing 75 percent of Texas’s 5 million
schoolchildren, the second-largest student population in the
U.S.  Gray called Dietz’s ruling “a win for all school
districts.”  ‘One Step’  Michael L. Williams, the state’s commissioner of education,
said in a statement that the ruling “is simply one step on this
litigation’s path. All sides have known that, regardless of the
outcome at the district level, final resolution will not come
until this case reaches the Texas Supreme Court.”  “The Texas Education Agency will continue to carry out its
mission of serving the students and educators across our
state,” Williams said.  David Thompson, a lawyer who represents some of the state’s
largest districts including Houston, Dallas and Austin, said
while an appeal is inevitable, the final solution will be up to
state lawmakers.  “The Texas Supreme Court is not going to order the
appropriation of money or tell the legislature to make the
following specific changes in the system. That’s a legislative
priority,” Thompson said after the ruling. “But our standards
and our funding have to match up. Our legislators have always
treated standard-setting and budget-setting as two completely
separate conversations. That disconnect is the real problem.”  ‘Permanent Solution’  The Texas Legislature should “start working immediately to
find a permanent solution to fund our schools,” state Senator
Kirk Watson, an Austin Democrat who chairs the Senate Democratic
Caucus, said in a statement. “It’s sad, honestly, that it takes
something like this to force the legislature to honor its
constitutional responsibility to our children.”  Nicole Bunker-Henderson, one of Texas’s attorneys, told
Dietz in her closing argument that all state agencies were
forced “to do more with less” in difficult economic times.
Texas school districts “have done amazing work within the
existing resources in the past year,” including getting 80 to
90 percent of ninth graders to pass a tough new achievement test
by their second try, she said.  Lawmakers in 2011 cut $5.4 billion from Texas’s  education
budget  for the 2012-2013 budget year, just as the new academic
achievement standards were implemented.  State’s Formula  Texas lawmakers have been adjusting the state’s formula for
funding public education for more than 30 years. School
districts and special-interest groups have been challenging
these solutions in court for just as long.  “The Legislature’s failure to meet its responsibility to
fund the system and provide for fair distribution of the
available funds has crippled the system,” Gray said in court
filings.  Texas ranked 37th among U.S. states in school spending per
pupil in the 2009-2010 school year, according to the National
Education Association, the union representing more than 3
million teachers, administrators and support staff.  Texas’s attorneys urged Dietz not to reject the current
system and claimed school districts’ fiscal problems stem from
unwise spending decisions. Schools can meet state academic goals
at current funding levels by reducing waste and cutting spending
for things that don’t boost students’ scores, the state claims.  Raising Standards  Thompson, the lawyer for some of the state’s largest
districts, said state spending per student has declined to
$6,293 this year from $7,128 in 2004, the last time the state’s
school funding system wound up in court.  “Even as our standards have gone up and even as our
student population has changed, our funding per student has
declined,” Thompson told the judge.  More than a third of ninth graders who took the state’s new
tougher academic achievement test last year failed, he said. To
succeed economically in the future, Texas needs all students to
reach the higher standards. He said it was the state’s duty to
figure out a funding system that accomplishes that, he said.  Texas has historically relied heavily on local property
taxes to fund public schools, as its constitution forbids a
statewide property tax. The disparity in property values between
rich and poor communities has led to gaps of thousands of
dollars in how much neighboring districts have to spend
educating each student.  Dietz yesterday ruled the school finance system had created
a state property tax.  Budget Cuts  Recent state budget cuts magnified structural funding
inequalities by targeting education programs that helped poor
and minority students, who make up a rising share of Texas’s
student body, David Hinojosa, an attorney for the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Education Fund, or MALDEF, said in
court papers.  In 2005, the Texas Supreme Court upheld part of a revenue-
sharing system lawmakers devised to shift  tax revenue  to poorer
districts from wealthier districts, a plan widely known as
“Robin Hood.” The court also found that the plan’s legislated
cap on local property-tax rates violated the constitutional
prohibition against a statewide property tax.  The Legislature responded in 2006 by reducing the amount
the state took from property taxes by a third, while boosting
state funding for public education from general revenue and
freezing district spending levels until lawmakers could draft a
solution.  Funding Freeze  The funding freeze remained in place for five years, even
as the state added more than 80,000 students a year. In 2011,
lawmakers reduced education spending to balance the state’s
budget, prompting more than 600 Texas school districts to sue.  While Texas education funding has been litigated for three
decades, the current trial marks the first time  charter schools 
have entered the fight. The publicly funded private schools,
which operate outside many of the rules that the state imposes
on public schools, have achieved higher test scores and
graduation rates on lower budgets, according to filings by the
Texas Charter School Association.  The association is suing the state, seeking public funding
for facilities and an end to the cap on the number of charter
schools. More than 56,000 students are on waiting lists for
charter schools in Texas, and many of the more popular charter
schools hold lotteries to determine admission.  Dietz yesterday declined to lift the cap on the number of
charter schools.  The cases are consolidated as Fort Bend Independent School
District v. Texas Education Agency, D-1-GV-11-002028, Texas
200th Judicial District Court, Travis County (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Austin at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  