-- Fed Says Banks Forecast Improved Lending Outlook for 2013
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-02-04T19:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/fed-says-banks-forecast-improved-lending-outlook-for-2013.html
U.S. banks expect  credit quality  to
rise in 2013 after they eased standards on loans for autos and
businesses of all sizes, according to a Federal Reserve survey.  “Banks expect improvements in credit quality in most major
loan categories” in 2013, the central bank said today in its
quarterly survey of senior loan officers released in  Washington .
The number of banks with such an expectation was described as
“moderate to large.”  Business lending standards were “eased somewhat for all
firm sizes” and banks “again eased standards on auto loans,”
the Fed said in its report. Standards for mortgages and credit
card loans were little changed, the survey said.  The report bolsters the Fed’s view that a slump in economic
growth during the fourth quarter was temporary, and that record-
low  interest rates  will help fuel the recovery as credit thaws.
The Fed said last week growth “paused,” following a report
that the economy shrank at an annual rate of 0.1 percent in the
fourth quarter.  “Credit conditions are still tight but they’re certainly
much easier than they were just a couple years ago,” said  Dana Saporta , a U.S. economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York .
“It’s not as much of a drag as it was.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a Jan. 30
statement that growth will “proceed at a moderate pace and the
unemployment rate will gradually decline.”  Foreign Banks  The survey of loan officers at 68 domestic banks and 22
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks was conducted from
Dec. 27 to Jan. 15, the Fed said. The report didn’t identify
respondents.  Banks expect to see “improvements in delinquency and
charge-off rates during 2013 for most loan categories included
in the survey,” the Fed said. Business loans, commercial real
estate loans, and residential mortgages are all expected to
improve.  The Fed said the fraction of banks expecting further
improvement in credit quality in 2013 was about the same as the
share that had foreseen improvement for 2012.  “Among major loan categories, domestic banks were least
likely to expect improvement in the quality of consumer loans in
2013,” the report said.  Demand for business loans, prime residential mortgages,
commercial real estate lending and auto loans strengthened, the
survey showed. Increasing competition to make loans to
businesses has forced banks to lower their standards, according
to the survey.  Eased Standards  “Almost all respondents that reported having eased either
standards or terms over the past three months cited more-
aggressive competition from other banks or nonbank lenders as an
important reason for having done so,” the Fed said.  U.S. stocks fell, driving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
to its biggest decline of the year, on concern that the  European
debt crisis  may intensify. The  S&P 500  fell 0.9 percent to
1,499.96 at 2:43 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell 0.04 percentage point to 1.97 percent.  The report was prepared for the Jan. 29-30 meeting of the
FOMC, at which the central bank maintained its $85 billion a
month of mortgage-bond and Treasury purchases designed to propel
the economy toward full employment.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , an FOMC voter this
year, sees Fed accommodation working, citing recent improvement
in the housing market and auto sales.  ‘Major Source’  “The most interest-sensitive sectors have been responding
to the monetary stimulus from the Fed, and this stimulus has
provided a major source of strength for the economy last year,”
Rosengren said in a Jan. 15 speech in Providence,  Rhode Island .
“And it is likely to be a source of support in 2013.”  Carmakers sold 15.23 million vehicles at an annual pace in
January, up 9.6 percent from a year earlier.  The  auto industry  is poised for further growth as the need
to replace old vehicles, combined with low borrowing rates, will
fuel continued sales, said  Jim Lentz , the U.S. sales chief for
Toyota Motor Corp. at a Deutsche Bank conference last month.  “There is pent-up demand with an average age of the U.S.
fleet hitting a record high of 11 years old,” Lentz said. “Car
loans are at historically low rates.”  Mortgage rates  reached the lowest on record in November,
when the average 30-year mortgage had a fixed rate of 3.31
percent, according to a Freddie Mac index. The rate has risen to
3.53 percent as of January 31.  Housing Starts  New housing starts climbed to 954,000 units at an annual
rate in December, according to Commerce Department data. The
gauge of new  home construction  is at the highest level since
June 2008.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders held in January at the
 highest level  in more than six years, offering the latest
evidence that residential real estate will help spur economic
growth, according to the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder confidence.  The central bank’s key gauge of progress is the labor
market, which added 157,000 jobs in January, according to a Feb.
1 report. The  unemployment rate  climbed to 7.9 percent.
Joblessness has hovered at 7.8 percent or 7.9 percent for five
consecutive months.  The  S&P 500 Index  rose 1 percent the day of the jobs report
to 1,513.17, the highest closing level since December 10, 2007.  The recovery in housing is boosting both financial
institutions and homebuilders. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index of 81 companies is up  18 percent  in the past 12
months, compared to 12 percent for the S&P 500 Index. The S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index is up  68 percent  over the same
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  