-- Fleet Foxes’ Tillman Plays Father John Misty, Fine Album
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2013-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/fleet-foxes-tillman-plays-father-john-misty-fine-album.html
On a dreary, rainy Monday night at
 Webster Hall , the crowd got a big lift from the artist currently
known as Father John Misty, and vice versa.  He began by standing with his hands on his waist, hair and
beard messy, as if soaking up the cheers. Then came odd
gyrations of hips and lanky arms and legs.  Somehow it all worked as an acoustic guitar strummed and he
sang the opening lines of “Funtimes in Babylon.” Maybe that’s
how they danced in old Babylon.  Father John Misty is Josh Tillman, an artist 10 years into
his career. He released a solo album in 2003 under J. Tillman,
joined Fleet Foxes as drummer in 2008, and then early last year
announced via Twitter that his work with them was done. Shortly
thereafter Father John Misty was born.  This latest venture finds Tillman crafting Laurel Canyon-
inspired soulful and playful music on his 2012 Sub-Pop debut
record, “Fear Fun,” one of 2012’s best albums.  Back at the Jan. 14th concert, the anthemic “Only Son of
the Ladiesman” drew “oohs” and “aahs” from the crowd.
“Nancy From Now On” followed with a groovy bass line,
stretched-out synth and triangle notes. Tillman glided along the
stage with microphone stand in hand.  “I’m Writing a Novel” conjured a surf-rock sound with
bouncy beat and witty lyrics. Many of the songs on “Fear Fun”
tell tales that reflect an opened mind and an imaginative
altered state.  Rockabilly Ditty  “This Is Sally Hatchet” had tambourine and etching guitar
that brought on a slight Beatles feel. Jangly keys and twangy
guitar took over on “Well, You Can Do It Without Me,” a short
and sweet rockabilly ditty.  Tillman then delivered the album’s standout track,
“Hollywood Forever Cemetery Sings.” With the stage dimmed red
and smoke machines pumping out fog, a cymbal repeatedly clapped,
guitar notes ripped and tambourines tinkled.  The band returned for a spot-on cover of Canned Heat’s “On
the Road Again,” a reminder that Tillman, through all his
metamorphoses, brings wit and craftsmanship that shine on record
and live.  After a tour of  Australia  set for this month, Father John
Misty will be stateside for an appearance at Coachella in April
and then begin a national tour for May and June. The band will
make an intimate local stop at Maxwell’s in Hoboken on May 17th.
Expect it to sell out.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in February.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include John Mariani on  wine , Daniel Akst
on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 