-- Former RBS Head CDO Trader Sues for Unfair Firing at Tribunal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-04T13:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/former-rbs-head-cdo-trader-sues-for-unfair-firing-at-tribunal.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
former head trader for collateralized debt obligations is suing
for unfair dismissal at an employment tribunal.  The case, filed by Alex Mallinson, is complicated by
“ongoing investigations by the bank in respect of other
employees” and two other tribunal claims by Mallinson’s
colleagues on the CDO desk, RBS lawyer Diya Sen Gupta said at a
London employment tribunal hearing today.  Mallinson has made clear that he may file a separate High
Court claim against the bank for more than 1 million pounds
($1.6 million), Sen Gupta told the tribunal. She didn’t provide
details about the bank’s investigation or why the three
employees were fired.  As job cuts at financial services companies reach a four-
year high, a growing number of fired bankers are taking to
London courts to seek compensation. A depressed banker from
Credit Suisse Group AG, a fired UBS AG trader and a  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  whistle-blower all sued last year saying they were
unfairly treated.  The hearing continues tomorrow after a break for employment
judge Paul Stewart to review documents in the case.  Mallinson joined RBS in 2002, according to the Financial
Services Authority’s website. He left the bank in July and now
works at Chalkhill Partners LLP.  “The bank does not accept that there is substance to Mr.
Mallinson’s claim and will be defending it.” RBS spokeswoman
Rebecca Nelson said in an e-mail. Mallinson’s lawyer Danielle
Spiers didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Collateralized debt obligations package bonds or loans into
a pool of assets that are divided into tranches of varying risk
and return.  Compensation for unfair dismissal is normally capped at
74,200 pounds at U.K. tribunals, unless there is proof of
discrimination or other wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  