-- Four Cyclists Seen in Stake-Out of Blood-Dope Ring, Court Hears
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-02-04T15:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/four-cyclists-seen-in-stake-out-of-blood-dope-ring-court-hears.html
Santiago Botero, a three-time Tour de
France stage winner, was among three professional cyclists seen
entering apartments where a blood-doping ring was uncovered in
2006, the head of a police investigation told a Madrid court
today.  Colombia’s Botero and Spanish riders Oscar Sevilla and
Constantino Zaballa were seen during stake-outs in Madrid, said
the Civil Guard officer, who was identified only by his police
number for security reasons in line with court procedure. A
fourth rider,  Germany ’s Joerg Jaksche, was seen at a nearby
hotel, the officer said.  Five defendants including sports doctor Eufemiano Fuentes
and former Liberty Seguros team manager Manolo Saiz are on trial
for a “crime against public health.” Prosecutors are seeking a
two-year prison sentence for each. The police officer said he
couldn’t be certain if athletes from other sports were part of
the ring.  “I can’t be sure apart from the four I saw,” the police
officer said. The more than 200 blood bags found were identified
by numbers, he said. “I don’t know if No. 23 was a player from
such and such a team.”  Botero, who quit cycling in 2010, Zaballa and Sevilla have
all denied being part of the doping ring. Jaksche has confessed
to doping in televised interviews.  Cyclists have been known to collect and later transfuse
their own blood to increase their body’s volume of oxygen-
carrying red blood cells that boost stamina. The World Anti-
Doping Agency, whose legal representative can question
defendants and witnesses during the trial, is trying to piece
together details about the affair known as “Operacion Puerto,”
or Operation Mountain Pass.  Phone Taps  Police initially linked as many as 58 pro cyclists to the
ring, based on phone taps, training notes and other evidence
found in raids on the apartments, although fewer than half of
that number have faced disciplinary proceedings.  Fuentes testified he helped athletes from cycling, soccer
and other sports “guarantee their health was not harmed by the
rigors of competition,” the Associated Press reported, citing
his testimony last week. Manolo Saiz denied being part of the
doping ring in his testimony.  The trial, in its second week, is scheduled to end March
22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  