-- Freezing California Lettuce Boosts Salad Costs: Chart of the Day
-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 2013-02-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/freezing-california-lettuce-boosts-salad-costs-chart-of-the-day.html
The cost of salad staples including
lettuce probably will rise after frigid weather last month hurt
winter vegetable crops in  California  and  Arizona , the biggest
U.S. growers.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows prices soared when temperatures
plunged in the neighboring counties of Imperial, California, and
Yuma, Arizona, located on the Mexican border. In 2011, when El
Centro, California, had freezing weather on Jan. 1 and Feb. 3,
iceberg lettuce jumped 36 percent to $1.277 a pound by March 31
from the end of January, government data show. This year,
temperatures dropped below freezing Jan. 5, Jan. 13 and Jan. 15.  “The whole pipeline is empty right now,” said Jack
Vessey, who runs  Vessey & Co. , a family farm that produces about
two dozen vegetables on more than 10,000 acres in Holtville,
California, which dubs itself the carrot capital of the world.
“There are empty warehouses, and there’s not a whole lot of
lettuce on the store shelves. Everybody’s trying to get these
orders filled, and then all of a sudden, the prices go up.”  Vegetables including lettuce and cabbage don’t grow during
freezes and can only be picked when thawed, delaying the harvest
and limiting the time when crops can be collected, Vessey said.
The supply shortage forces growers to sell lower-quality
vegetables, he said. Crates of Imperial Valley iceberg lettuce
have more than quadrupled to $26.64-$27.10 on Jan. 31 from
$5.50-$6.64 a month earlier, government data show. A crate has
24 heads of lettuce.  ‘Double Whammy’  “I’m not seeing that supply equilibrium coming back
anytime soon” because of temperature extremes in the past two
months, J.P. LaBrucherie, the president of the  Imperial Valley
Growers Association , said in a telephone interview from El
Centro. “It was unseasonably warm, so some was rotten, then all
of a sudden, it got really cold. It’s a double whammy.”  While California is the nation’s top grower of fresh
lettuce, accounting for half of U.S. output, Imperial and Yuma
counties produce about 90 percent of supply in winter months,
LaBrucherie said. Lettuce was the state’s largest vegetable crop
at $1.5 billion in 2011, and was the eighth-largest agricultural
commodity, behind milk, almonds, grapes, cattle, nursery plants,
berries and hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in Chicago at 
 orenick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  