-- Galleon’s Far Recorded Rajaratnam to Aid Probe, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-02-05T01:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/galleon-s-far-recorded-rajaratnam-to-aid-probe-u-s-says.html
Ali Far, a former Galleon Group LLC
 fund manager , provided “substantial assistance” by secretly
recording conversations with to the fund’s co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam and three other insider traders, prosecutors said.  Far, who worked for Rajaratnam from 1999 to 2007, left
Galleon to start Spherix Capital LLC with Richard Choo-Beng Lee,
prosecutors said. During his time at both funds, Far solicited
illegal tips from inside sources.  Both Far and Lee were approached by agents with the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  in April 2009 and agreed to secretly
cooperate in the government’s then-covert probe of Galleon,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said in a memo to the
court. Far is scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 11 by U.S. District
Judge Robert Patterson in  Manhattan .  Far “proactively” aided the government’s covert
investigation from April to October 2009, when Rajaratnam and
others were arrested as part of the Galleon probe, Brodsky said.  “During this six-month period, Far secretly recorded, at
the direction of the FBI, about 244 phone calls to help the
government’s investigation,” the prosecutor wrote. “Among
other things, Far placed consensually recorded calls with
Rajaratnam that enabled the government to keep tabs on
Rajaratnam’s whereabouts (prior to Rajaratnam’s arrest).”  April 2009  Far, who agreed to cooperate with the U.S. in April 2009,
helped the U.S. bring cases against Rajaratnam, Ali Hariri, a
family friend who was a former Atheros Communications Inc. vice
president, and  Adam Smith , a former Galleon trader, Brodsky said
the memo. Hariri and Smith pleaded guilty and agreed to
cooperate with the U.S., Brodsky said.  He also provided prosecutors and FBI agents with
information about insider trading tied to the expert networking
firm Primary Global Research LLC, Brodsky said.  He helped the government build cases against Mark Anthony Longoria, a former  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  employee, and
Jason Pflaum, a former analyst with Barai Capital Management LP.
Longoria and Pflaum have pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate,
the U.S. said.  Far pleaded guilty to conspiracy and  securities fraud  on
Oct. 19, 2009. Securities fraud carries a maximum prison term of
20 years in prison while conspiracy carries a term of five
years’ imprisonment.  His defense lawyer, Steven Kobre, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment about his client’s sentencing.  Fund Manager  Prosecutors today also said they are seeking sentencing
leniency for Steven Fortuna, a hedge-fund manager who helped
authorities convict two other  insider trading  defendants tied to
the Galleon investigation.  Fortuna, a cofounder of S2 Capital LLC, wore a wire to
record more than 400 conversations with six former friends and
colleagues who were targets of the government’s crackdown on
insider trading at  hedge funds , Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia
Apps said in a letter today to U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein 
in New York.  Fortuna’s cooperation helped lead to a guilty plea from
Danielle Chiesi, a former New Castle Partners portfolio manager,
Apps said in the letter. Chiesi was sentenced in 2011 to 30
months in prison after pleading guilty to passing illegal tips
to Fortuna, Rajaratnam and others.  Fortuna also helped prosecutors win a guilty plea from
 Robert Moffat , a former  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
executive, according to Apps. Moffat admitted he passed tips
about IBM and other companies to Chiesi, with whom he was having
an affair. He was sentenced to six months in prison.  Continuing Investigations  Apps said Fortuna also assisted the government in
continuing investigations, the details of which were redacted
from the public version her letter.  Fortuna pleaded guilty in 2009 to three counts of
conspiracy, each of which carries a maximum penalty of five
years in prison, and one count of securities fraud, which
carries a 20-year maximum. Fortuna is scheduled to be sentenced
Feb. 13 by U.S. District Judge Sidney Stein, according to court
documents.  Fortuna’s lawyer, Francis Dimento, declined to comment on
his client’s sentencing.  More than 70 people have been charged and convicted with
insider trading since August 2009 as part of a nationwide
crackdown by Bharara’s office and the FBI in  New York .  The cases are U.S. v. Far, 09-cr-1009, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan) U.S. v. Fortuna 09-
cr-1003, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  