-- Banana Republic Makes Blogger Star of Spring Campaign
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-02-04T21:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/gap-s-banana-republic-makes-blogger-web-star-of-spring-campaign.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s Banana Republic isn’t just
mailing its spring collection to fashion bloggers in hopes of
glowing reviews. The modern work-wear brand is making one of
them a star.  The brand’s “Love” campaign will feature the story of how
Joy Cho, the author of fashion and lifestyle blog “ Oh Joy ,”
met her husband and will recreate their first date with photos
of the pair in Banana Republic items, Catherine Sadler, global
chief marketing officer, said in a telephone interview.  “Our partnership with ‘Oh Joy’ begins what will evolve
into an even more extensive digital content presence in 2013,”
Sadler said. “Not only will we look to excite customers and
connect with them through curated content in association with
blogs like ‘Oh Joy,’ but we’re also excited about curating and
pushing out our own content in the digital space.”  In the past year,  Banana Republic  has boosted sales by
forming partnerships with a wide range of entities from Bon
Appetit magazine and the “Mad Men” television show to designer
Trina Turk, adding to a rebound across all of Gap’s brands in
 North America . With the spring campaign, the unit of San
Francisco-based Gap will also collaborate with dating site
Match.com, holding in-store events for members in eight cities,
and engage with shoppers on Instagram and Twitter, Sadler said.  Web Presence  Cho’s website gets more than 190,000 unique visitors a
month, according to Sadler, and she has more than 12 million
 followers  on social-media website Pinterest. That compares with
fewer than half a million at Banana Republic and brands
including  J. Crew  and Anthropologie.  “We’re really interested in adding dimension to our
conversation with our customer and telling deeper stories,”
Sadler said. “That is very much a focus of 2013, to be able to
engage with our customers at a deeper, more dimensional level,
and to be able to create content that showcases our product.”  Banana Republic has seen North America same-store sales
 rise  5 percent in the 11 months through December after a 1
percent decline in the fiscal year ended January 2012. The unit
brought in $2.63 billion in that period, or about 18 percent of
Gap’s overall revenue. The company will report sales for
January, the last month of this fiscal year, on Feb. 7.  Gap’s namesake brand has successfully partnered with style
blogs and YouTube stars to regain its foothold in North America
in the past year. Gap Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy 
lauded the namesake brand’s digital efforts in the company’s
August earnings call, saying that it has been “very effective”
and “a great medium” for the company.  Gap  fell  1.2 percent to $32.59 at the close in  New York .
The shares rallied 67 percent last year, following a 16 percent
decline in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  