-- German Bank Separation to Affect More Lenders, Official Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-02-04T12:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/german-bank-separation-to-affect-more-lenders-official-says.html
German plans to force large retail
banks to spin off their proprietary trading will probably affect
more lenders than anticipated by the so-called Liikanen group, a
German government official said.  Based on the share of total assets held for trading,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and  Commerzbank
AG (CBK)  would be affected by the proposals made by a high-level
advisory group led by Bank of Finland governor  Erkki Liikanen ,
according to an Oct. 2 report published by his working group.
More German banks will likely be affected, the official told
reporters in Berlin today, without providing any names.  A draft bill due to go to Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet on Feb. 6 would force deposit banks to separate
proprietary trading, lending and guarantees to hedge funds as
well as high-frequency trading when associated activities exceed
100 billion euros ($135.9 billion), or 20 percent of the balance
sheet, the official said on condition of anonymity because the
 Finance Ministry  proposals are still in draft form.  The rule would only apply to banks whose trading and non-
trading activities combined amount to at least 90 billion euros,
the official said. The German plans have been drawn up in close
cooperation with  France  and are based on proposals made by the
Liikanen group, he said.  Osborne Proposals  Banking legislation is hoving back into focus as the
European Commission prepares proposals on overhauling bank
structure in a bid to curb risk and prevent lenders being too-
big-to-fail. Draft rules will be presented in September, a
spokesman for European Union financial services chief  Michel Barnier  said Jan. 30. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said separately today that regulators will get the power
to break up banks operating in the U.K. under tougher
legislation aimed at making lenders safer.  In  Germany , banking legislation is at the forefront of
policy making as lawmakers prepare to contest federal elections
slated for Sept. 22. Merkel’s Social Democratic challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , first proposed that German banks split their
investment-banking operations from consumer units to protect
depositors and said the government’s draft law is insufficient.  Concerns that Steinbrueck may benefit from hostile
sentiment toward the financial industry may have encouraged the
Finance Ministry to move quickly to draft the law. The
government aims to pass the rule in the Bundestag, Germany’s
lower house of parliament, before the summer recess. It would
then need approval in the opposition-controlled upper house.  German Impetus  Germany has to provide impetus to financial-market
regulation after one-sided deregulation was partially
responsible for the financial and sovereign debt crises plaguing
the world since at least 2008, the official said.  The German and French rules are to go into effect in
January 2014, the official said. Banks would have until July
2015 to complete the separation of proprietary trading
activities, he said. Trading activities necessary to prepare for
client business, such as market-making, don’t have to be
separated automatically because of the law. An impact study is
still needed, the official said.  Germany’s BDB banking association warned on Jan. 30 against
“hasty” regulation initiatives, saying that there is no proof
the division of commercial transactions increases financial-
market stability. All German business lobbies agree that
maintaining Germany’s universal banking system is in the
interest of growth and employment, the BDB said.  The  European Central Bank  said Jan. 28 that it’s vital to
evaluate the impact of the planned new banking rules across the
EU. Differences in the structure of the banking sectors could
produce “different consequences in terms of divergent funding
costs as well possible unintended consequences, namely on the
real economy of  member states ,” the ECB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  