-- German Stocks Fall Most in Six Months; Commerzbank Drops
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-02-04T17:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/german-stocks-little-changed-linde-deutsche-post-fall.html
German stocks  fell the most in more
than six months amid signs of political turmoil in  Spain  and
 Italy , and as Commerzbank AG posted a quarterly loss.  Commerzbank sank 5.9 percent. K+S AG,  Europe ’s biggest
potash maker, retreated 2.4 percent as Barclays Plc cut its
rating of the stock.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  lost 3.1 percent as HSBC
Holdings Plc downgraded the shares.  Linde AG (LIN)  slid after Credit
Suisse Group AG cut its recommendation on the industrial-gas
maker to underperform.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 2.5 percent to 7,638.23 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , its biggest drop since July 23. The
gauge has still risen 0.3 percent this year as U.S. lawmakers
agreed on a budget preventing spending cuts and tax increases
that had threatened to push the world’s biggest economy into
recession. The broader HDAX Index declined 2.3 percent today.  “The trigger today was the situation and sentiment for
Italy and Spain went down dramatically on speculation about the
Italian election and corruption in Spain,” said Christian Schmidt, a market analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen
in Frankfurt. “We also got bad figures from Commerzbank. That
all together was like a thunderstorm. Something was in the air
and it exploded.”  Spain’s 10-year yields climbed to the highest since mid-
December as Premier  Mariano Rajoy  denied corruption allegations.
Records published in El Pais, Spain’s biggest newspaper, show
Rajoy allegedly received 25,200 euros ($34,100) each year for 11
years from a secret fund set up by former People’s Party
Treasurer Luis Barcenas. Rajoy said he never got illegal
payments.  Italian Election  In Italy,  Silvio Berlusconi  has gained on front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani, ahead of the Feb. 24-25 general election. The
surge by Italy’s former premier, who was pressured to resign in
2011 amid soaring bond yields, threatens Bersani’s ability to
win a majority even if he remains ahead in the polls.  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 57
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks in the world’s developed nations had posted the best
start to a year in two decades, as individual investors pumped
record deposits into mutual funds, U.S. profits increased for an
11th quarter, central banks kept  interest rates  at record lows
and growth from Europe to  China  improved. The MSCI World Index
of stocks in 24 markets rose 5 percent in January, the most
since 1994.  Commerzbank Loss  Commerzbank slid 9.5 cents to 1.52 euros, dropping for a
fifth day.  Germany ’s second-largest lender posted a fourth-
quarter loss after charges relating to the sale of Bank Forum
and a tax asset writedown. The loss of 720 million euros
compares with a profit of 320 million euros in the year-earlier
period, the bank said.  Deutsche Bank AG, the country’s largest lender, declined
3.4 percent to 37.23 euros.  K+S retreated 80 cents to 32.61 euros as Barclays
downgraded the stock to equal weight, similar to a hold rating,
from overweight, saying potash prices may fall this year.  Deutsche Post, Europe’s largest postal service, fell 54.5
cents to 16.92 euros. HSBC cut the shares to underweight from
neutral, citing risks to 2013 European express pricing.  Linde slid 2.3 percent to 132.40 euros. Credit Suisse cut
its rating on the shares to  underperform  from neutral, saying
the acquisition of Lincare Holdings Inc. “faces ongoing
government pricing and earnings risk.”  Aurubis AG (NDA)  sank 3.8 percent to 55.04 euros. The operator of
copper-smelting facilities posted first-quarter IFRS earnings
before taxes of 13 million euros versus 213 million euros a year
earlier.  Fielmann AG (FIE)  declined 2.5 percent to 73.35 euros. Deutsche
Bank cut its rating on Europe’s largest chain of optical stores
to sell, citing online competition and cost pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  