-- Spanish, Italian Bonds Slide Amid Signs of Political Risk
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-02-04T16:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/germany-s-bonds-decline-before-investor-confidence-data.html
Spanish  government securities  led
declines among the euro-region’s so-called peripheral countries
as renewed signs of political instability in the currency bloc
damped demand for the nation’s assets.  Spain ’s  10-year yields  climbed to the highest level in
seven weeks as Premier  Mariano Rajoy  was accused of accepting
illegal cash payments and strategists from Commerzbank AG
recommended investors cut holdings of the country’s debt.
Italian and Portuguese securities dropped as analysts at Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG said this year’s rally in periphery
bonds may falter. German bunds advanced.  “The market is realizing that there are still substantial
risks out there, especially on the political front,” said
 Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank in
 London . “The dynamics in Spain are devastating because they
have the potential to cause a lot of damage. If in the worst
case we would get a new election in Spain, this would be a real
shocker for the market.”  Spain’s 10-year yield jumped 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 5.44 percent at 4:30 p.m. London time, the
highest level since Dec. 17. The 5.4 percent bond maturing in
January 2023 fell 1.78, or 17.80 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,354)
face amount, to 99.685.  Yields on  similar-maturity  Italian debt increased 15 basis
points to 4.48 percent after reaching 4.89 percent, the most
since Dec. 31. Portugal’s 10-year yields climbed 26 basis points
to 6.44 percent.  Illegal Payments  Rajoy’s assurance that the allegations of illegal payments
are false failed to contain criticism, with the opposition
demanding he step down to restore faith in the political class.  “Rajoy should resign to make way for another prime minister
who can re-establish the strength, credibility and stability
that Spain needs,” opposition leader Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba
said during a televised press conference yesterday.  Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is gaining
in public opinion polls before parliamentary elections on Feb.
24-25 even as he stands trial on charges he paid a minor for sex
and appeals a four-year prison sentence for  tax fraud .  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds widened 28 basis points to 381
basis points after reaching 383 basis points, the most since
Jan. 2. The Italian spread over  Germany  expanded 19 basis points
to 285 basis points.  The Spanish spread may increase toward 400 basis points in
coming weeks, Commerzbank’s Leister said.  Political Risks  Investors should adopt a more cautious stance toward
European bonds, according to a Feb. 1 research note from Morgan
Stanley strategists including global head of interest-rate
strategy  Laurence Mutkin  in London.  “The market may start to focus on the immediate political
risks in  Europe ,” Francis Yared, head of European rates
strategy at Deutsche Bank in London, wrote in a separate note.  Germany’s 10-year yield dropped five basis points to 1.62
percent after earlier rising as much as five basis points. The
yield climbed to 1.73 percent on Jan. 30, the highest level
since Sept. 17.  Bunds fell in earlier trading after a euro-area report
showed investor confidence increased this month, damping demand
for the region’s safest assets.  The Sentix research institute index measuring  sentiment  in
the euro-area economy advanced to minus 3.9 from minus 7 in
January. Economists had forecast a gain to minus 1.7, according
to a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany’s government bonds have handed investors a loss of
1.7 percent this year through Feb. 1, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Spanish debt gained 1.9 percent and Italian
securities returned 1.4 percent.  The Netherlands sold 2.76 billion euros of three-month
bills today at an average yield of zero percent and 1 billion
euros of six-month securities at 0.02 percent.  France  sold 7.38
billion euros of bills.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  