-- Drake & Scull Planning Saudi Arabia Deal After Loan
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-02-05T10:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/goldman-backed-drake-scull-plans-acquisition-in-saudi-arabia.html
(Corrects warrant details in first, second paragraph.)  Drake & Scull International PJSC, (DSI)  the
Dubai-based company which raised $120 million in a loan
coordinated by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in November, plans an
acquisition in Saudi Arabia and expansion in  India  and North
Africa to help diversify revenue.  Drake & Scull will use proceeds from the loan for a
possible $25 million buyout in Saudi Arabia, Chief Executive
Officer Khaldoun Tabari said in an interview today. The
company’s Saudi venture won a 2.7 billion-riyal ($720 million)
contract in December to build four hotel towers in Mecca and the
acquisition “will help us in what we are doing right now with
the contract wins,” he said.  Goldman Sachs in November bought equity warrants
representing about 8.5 percent of the market value of Drake &
Scull, whose  shareholders  include  HSBC Private Bank . The company
said the same month it obtained a $120 million loan, coordinated
by Goldman Sachs, to help it expand into other markets.  Drake & Scull, a supplier of engineering services to the
 construction industry , sought contracts in  Saudi Arabia , India
and  Romania  after Dubai’s construction market was pummeled by a
property crash. Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy, is
spending about $130 billion to add jobs and stimulate its
economy that expanded an estimated 5.6 percent last year.  “We are looking at North Africa with  Algeria  and we are
looking at India as the markets for growth” this year, Tabari
said. “We are now gathering momentum in Saudi Arabia, we are
gathering momentum in Qatar.”  Better Fourth-Quarter  Drake & Scull may report a  56 percent drop  in fourth-
quarter profit to 17 million dirhams ($4.6 million), according
to the median estimate of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
The company reported a 93 percent decline in third-quarter
profit.  “Things are looking better for the fourth quarter, and I
think the numbers will be better than the third quarter that’s
for sure,” Tabari said in the interview in the  United Arab
Emirates ’ sheikhdom of Sharjah. “Some of the projects that we
had, kicked in in the fourth quarter.”  Drake & Scull expects “huge growth” in contract order
backlog in the first quarter and expects to win one contract in
Qatar and two in Saudi Arabia this year, Tabari said. Profit in
2013 will rise by 20 percent to 25 percent over 2012, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  