-- Goldman Sachs Reduces 2013 Forecast for U.K. Gas Price by 19%
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-02-04T03:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/goldman-sachs-reduces-2013-forecast-for-u-k-gas-price-by-19-.html
Gas prices at the U.K.’s National
Balancing Point will drop this year to 59.7 pence a therm
because of lower demand and discounts from pipeline gas
suppliers,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said.  The forecast is 14.1 pence, or 19 percent lower than
Goldman’s previous projection, Samantha Dart, a London-based
analysts for the firm, said in a report e-mailed today. U.K. NBP
prices will rebound starting in 2014 to 66 pence as a stronger
economy stokes demand for gas and production declines in
northwest Europe, the analysts said.  “We had been expecting that substantial diversion of
liquefied natural gas away from Europe would be enough to
tighten European natural gas markets so that spot prices would
need to rise to attract spot cargoes back,” Goldman Sachs said.  LNG diversions to Asia and South America in 2012 were
driven by nuclear power outages and lower hydropower generation,
Goldman said in a report dated Jan. 29. European gas demand last
year remained weak, contributing to a balanced supply-demand
picture, the analysts said.  Industrial and power-generation needs for gas declined
along with weak European economic activity, the report said. Low
coal prices relative to natural gas and increased renewables-
generation capacity pulled down gas demand in northwest  Europe 
to 8 billion cubic meters below Goldman Sach’s 2012 forecast,
the analysts said.  Continued Weakness  Economic weakness in Europe will carry over into 2013,
dragging down gas demand for power generation, the report said.
This may lead to a wider spread of minus 14.4 pence for spot-to-
oil indexed gas prices this year, with the U.K. NBP price
forecast at 59.7 pence, compared with an oil-indexed proxy of
74.1 pence, the report said.  Goldman Sachs cut its forecast for northwest Europe’s gas
demand this year to 302 billion cubic meters from its original
projection of 321 billion cubic meters. The region’s gas needs
may rise to 304 billion cubic meters in 2014, the report said.  “Going into 2014, we expect that continued decline in
northwest European gas production and a pick-up in economic
activity will tighten the market and motivate increased exports
into the region,” the Goldman analysts said.  Pipeline gas could be more appealing compared with LNG
because of discounts provided by pipeline suppliers to Europeans
customers relative to the traditional oil-linked gas price
formula, Goldman Sachs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  