-- Gozde Plunges as Erdogan Signals U-Turn on Deal: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-02-04T13:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/gozde-plunges-as-erdogan-signals-u-turn-on-deal-istanbul-mover.html
Gozde Girisim Sermayesi (GOZDE)   Yatirim AS (EKGYO) 
headed for the biggest drop in 18 months after  Turkey ’s prime
minister raised the possibility that the government’s second-
biggest asset sale in history could be scrapped.  Shares of the the venture capital investment arm of Yildiz
Holding AS plunged 7.1 percent, poised for the biggest decline
since August 2011, to 3.94 liras at 3:02 p.m. in Istanbul.  Koc
Holding AS (KCHOL) , Turkey’s biggest group of companies, tumbled as much
as 3.6 percent to 9.12 liras before trimming losses to trade at
9.4 liras. The benchmark index rose 1.1 percent.  Istanbul-based Koc and Gozde are members of a group that
submitted the winning bid to buy 25-year operating rights for
1,975 kilometers of toll roads, two beltways and two bridges
over the Bosporus Strait, offering $5.7 billion. Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said in a televised interview Feb. 1 that
the government will “once again put the issue of highways and
bridges on the table” because it has “higher expectations.”  Erdogan’s comments “created pressure on the shares, with
the outlook becoming uncertain,” said Kadir Tezeller, head of
research at Seker Securities in Istanbul. “With the Higher
Board for Privatization being chaired by Erdogan himself, the
sale will be debated.”  The offer by the consortium, which also includes Malaysia’s
UEM Group Bhd, would make the transaction the second-biggest
privatization in Turkish history after the $6.55 billion sale of
a 55 percent stake in land-line phone operator  Turk
Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM)  in 2005.  The sale is subject to separate approvals from the
Privatization Administration, the Competition Board and the
Council of State.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  