-- Gross Says Italian Debt Attractive Relative to Treasuries
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-04T19:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/gross-says-italian-debt-attractive-relative-to-treasuries.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said Italian debt is attractive relative to U.S.
Treasury securities such as five-year notes even with a renewal
of political uncertainty in the nation.  “We still have positions in Italian debt,” Gross said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with
 Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “Despite the political
problems that we see, the political problems in Spain, we think
they are ultimately backed by Draghi and his promise to maintain
a strong euro, which means a strong euro sovereign market
financially and economically.”  Optimism that  Europe ’s debt crisis is improving helped push
the euro to the highest level since November 2011 last week. The
European Central Bank flooded the banking sector with more than
1 trillion euros ($1.35 trillion) in temporary cash a year ago,
and central-bank President Mario Draghi said in July he would do
“whatever it takes” to save the 17-nation currency.  Europe’s political tremors risk spoiling the region’s
market calm, with corruption allegations buffeting Spanish
Premier Mariano Rajoy and  Italy ’s Silvio Berlusconi narrowing
the front-runner’s lead as elections loom. Berlusconi is gaining
in public opinion polls before parliamentary elections on Feb.
24-25 even as he stands trial on charges he paid a minor for sex
and appeals a four-year prison sentence for tax fraud.  Sovereign Concern  Yields on 10-year Italian bonds rose 14 basis points, or
0.14 percentage point, to 4.47 percent, the biggest one-day gain
since Jan. 30. The additional yield investors demand to hold the
securities instead of German bunds increased for a fourth day
after Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti said the spread may
widen if Berlusconi is elected this month.  The ECB, which has held its main refinancing rate at 0.75
percent since July, will make no change at its next policy
decision on Feb. 7, according to the median forecast of 58
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Spain’s 10-year yield climbed as much as 23 basis points to
5.43 percent, the highest since Dec. 18 after Rajoy faced calls
to resign after newspaper reports alleged he accepted illegal
cash payments.  Gross, the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, increased 
the proportion of corporate-debt holdings in his Total Return
exchange-traded fund by almost 8 percentage points by adding
notes of lenders from Spain’s Banco Santander SA to Italy’s
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA in October after Draghi’s pledge to save the
euro, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  