-- IBM Judge Won’t Drop Demand for Reports in Bribe Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-04T22:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/ibm-judge-won-t-drop-demand-for-reports-in-bribe-case.html
The federal judge overseeing a
settlement between  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
U.S. regulators over alleged foreign bribes said he won’t drop
demands for reports of possible wrongdoing by the company.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon, who refused to accept the
deal the company struck with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, denied IBM’s request to alter a requirement that he
be told about any future  law enforcement  or administrative or
probes. He agreed to narrow his insistence that IBM tell him of
accounting violations to include only those involving payments
covered by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “Bear in mind, this is a company that has a history of
violating the books and records provision of the FCPA,” Leon
said today during a 20-minute hearing in Washington. “This is a
company that has made major payments to foreign governments in
the past.”  Leon said in December there’s a growing awareness among
federal judges of the need for more rigorous review of corporate
settlement agreements. Even so, his extended challenge to an
agreed-upon settlement between a company and the government is a
rare occurrence. Of 34 foreign bribery settlements the SEC
reached with companies since 2010, only two others failed to win
judicial sign-off in less than three months.  Chinese Officials  IBM, based in Armonk,  New York , said in March 2011 that it
had settled with U.S. regulators over allegations that it bribed
Chinese and South Korean officials to win at least $54 million
in government contracts. Leon, who has had the case under review
for 23 months and must sign off on it before it becomes
effective, said he won’t accept the reporting terms worked out
between the government and IBM. He wants continuing disclosure
on a broader range of possible wrongdoing than the company is
willing to turn over.  The company, without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
agreed in 2011 to pay $10 million in disgorgement and penalties
to settle alleged violations of the books-and-records and
internal-control provisions of the FCPA.  At the December hearing, Leon said he wouldn’t “rubber
stamp” the settlement or “roll over like the SEC has”
regarding IBM’s objections that the reporting demands were too
burdensome for the company.  Today, Kyle DeYoung, a lawyer for the SEC, told Leon that
he was optimistic that a resolution could be reached.  Nonpublic Conversations  IBM’s lawyers referred to nonpublic conversations the
parties have had with the judge in his chambers, as well as
documents turned over to the court that weren’t placed on the
public record, when they addressed the court. At least three
private meetings with the parties took place in Leon’s chambers
without a court reporter present, according the case file and
court stenographers.  Noel Francisco of  Jones Day , a lawyer for IBM, said an
earlier demand required IBM to report only probes related to
foreign bribery. He then asked why a later version included all
criminal investigations.  “It was overtaken by events,” Leon said. “There’s been a
lot of water over the dam since then.”  Leon didn’t explain in court what those events were.  Probe Reports  Another IBM lawyer, Peter Barbur of Cravath, Swaine & Moore
LLP in New York, said the company was concerned that reports of
law enforcement probes to the court could potentially be
released to the public. Some of these investigations sought by
Leon don’t rise to the level triggering an SEC disclosure, he
said.  “If there’s an industry-wide probe and there’s no reason
to think IBM did anything wrong, then they may not disclose that
in annual disclosures,” Barbur said.  Leon, who scheduled another hearing for Feb. 19, said he
would probably keep such reports under seal.  The IBM case is one of five filed by the SEC since 2010
that didn’t include criminal charges brought by the  Justice
Department .  The only other FCPA settlement of the SEC awaiting approval
is its $13.1 million deal with  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  that was
filed in Washington on Sept. 24. Leon is overseeing that case,
too.  The alleged payments at issue in the IBM case occurred from
1998 through 2009 and were made by employees at three
subsidiaries of IBM, as well as LG IBM PC Co., a joint venture
with  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , according to the SEC’s complaint.  Shopping Bags  The SEC said cash payments to South Korean officials from
1998 to 2003 totaled $207,000 and were connected to contracts
worth almost $54 million. Some of the money was delivered in
shopping bags.  In  China , the IBM employees created “slush funds” at
local travel agencies that were used to pay for overseas
excursions by government officials, the SEC said. IBM employees
also gave gifts, such as cameras and  laptop computers , to
Chinese officials, according to the complaint.  The SEC didn’t say what IBM received in return from those
officials.  In 2000, IBM settled with the SEC over alleged bribes in
 Argentina . An IBM subsidiary in the country was accused of
making payments through a subcontractor in 1994 and 1995 to win
a $250 million contract.  Without admitting or denying the allegations, IBM paid
$300,000 to settle the matter.  The SEC ordered that the company “cease and desist” from
“committing or causing any future violation” of the books-and-
records provision of the Securities Exchange Act.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 