-- Microsoft Sees Tablet Shortfall Reversing With New Spring Models
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-02-04T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/microsoft-sees-tablet-shortfall-reversing-with-new-spring-models.html
Microsoft Corp. will introduce
computers from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Acer Inc. (2353)  and other
manufacturers in the next two months, seeking to make up for the
dearth of tablets and touch-screen devices that marred the debut
of its flagship Windows 8 software.  A Hewlett-Packard Envy series device, doubling as a tablet
and laptop, is available for order now at $849.99, while Acer
will sell a 10-inch tablet for $499.  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357) ’s
convertible tablet weighs just over 1.5 pounds and has two
batteries for 19 hours of battery life, according to Aidan
Marcuss, principal director at Windows Research.  Chip delays and Microsoft’s restrictions on new hardware
meant that the company’s Windows operating system, released 
on Oct. 26, was featured on a limited number of tablets. 
Windows 8 was designed to win back customers moving to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and tablets with Google Inc.’s Android
software, making it critical that Microsoft’s hardware partners
offer compelling touch-screen devices.  “I don’t have concerns about awareness, and I don’t have
concerns about interest,” Tami Reller, chief financial officer
for the Windows unit, said in an interview, when asked about
Windows 8 demand. “Now I feel increasingly good about mapping
that interest to having those customers find the device they
want on the shelf.”  Hewlett-Packard Executive Vice President Todd Bradley last
month described Windows 8’s initial sales as slower than many
had expected. Microsoft now has 2,000 devices certified for use
with the new Windows, double what was available when the
operating system was released, Reller said.  New Devices  Another concern at the release in October was the lack of
machines with  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s latest low-power chips, code-named
Clover Trail. In early December, only two Clover Trail devices
were on sale in the U.S., and only low quantities, Marcuss said.  The new machines, targeted at consumers, from Hewlett-
Packard, Acer and Asustek all use that chip, which provides a
longer battery life.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ’s ThinkPad Tablet 2, aimed at business
customers with 10 hours of battery life, goes on sale this month
for $699. Microsoft is also trying to get cheaper notebooks with
touch features into stores since Window 8’s new design is
focused around finger swipes and other gestures.  New devices that run on Windows RT, a variant of the
operating system that runs on chips with technology from  ARM
Holdings Plc (ARM) , won’t be released this spring, Reller said.
Microsoft is still focused on getting the five announced in
October into stores in large numbers, she said. One partner,
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , has opted not to sell its Windows RT
tablet in the U.S., she said.  Limited Selection  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  Chief Executive Officer Paul Jacobs, whose
company makes chips for Windows RT tablets, raised concerns
about the limited selection, a result of Microsoft’s
restrictions on which manufacturers could make tablet devices
for that system, he said. Jacobs said in an interview last week
that his company hasn’t been surprised by muted demand for the
new Windows, as shown by the chipmaker’s cautious forecast.  “The fact that there were only a handful of manufacturers
that were allowed to participate, definitely in my mind held
down the competition on form factors and everything that I would
have liked to have seen,” Jacobs said.  Jacobs said he’s confident in the long-term opportunity for
his chips in computers, and remains committed to investing in
the business.  Reller said more Windows 8-based tablets will probably be
sold, compared with those running Windows RT.  “We will scale over time, but right now we’re focused on
making sure the designs that have been built do have commercial
availability and commercial success, and we’ll stay focused on
that for the short-term,” said Reller, who declined to provide
updated sales numbers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  