-- Idenix Stops Development of Two Hepatitic C Treatments
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-02-04T22:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/idenix-stops-development-of-two-hepatitic-c-treatments.html
Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX)  is
shelving the development of two hepatitis C therapies that had
been stopped by U.S. regulators after a competing therapy was
linked to heart risks.  The Food and Drug Administration put a hold on studies of
the company’s nucleotide polymerase inhibitors IDX184 and
IDX19368, after safety issues arose while  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  tested a hepatitis C therapy in the same family of
compounds, called guanosines.  Idenix is among companies including Bristol-Myers and
 Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , seeking new therapies for the viral
disease that affects as many as 170 million people worldwide.
The experimental drugs are designed to be taken as pills with
shorter treatment durations and fewer side effects than the
current medicines.  While Idenix, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , has found
no evidence of severe heart problems with patients on its
IDX184, the FDA said the clinical holds would remain in place,
the company said today in a statement. Idenix hadn’t begun
testing IDX19368 in people when the holds were issued.  Idenix said it would stop development of the two drugs and
proceed with different versions of nucleotides, called uridines.
Proof-of-concept testing of the therapies is planned before
July, the company said in its statement.  Idenix fell 6.6 percent to $4.42 at 5:22 p.m. New York time
in extended  trading , after earlier declining as much as 13
percent. The company has dropped 60 percent in the past 12
months.  Idenix also said it will test a therapy in a separate class
of drugs, a so-called NS5A, with compounds from other companies,
to gauge its effectiveness during a 12-week duration.  Bristol-Myers, based in New York, ended development of its
therapy Aug. 23 after it was linked to the death of one patient
and kidney and heart concerns in others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  