-- IMF Praises Spain’s Banking Progress, Calls for Vigilance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-04T16:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/imf-praises-spain-s-banking-progress-calls-for-vigilance.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
 Spain  has made “major progress” in repairing its bank as the
economy continues to pose risks to the financial system.  “The cleanup of undercapitalized banks has reached an
advanced stage, and key reforms of Spain’s financial sector
framework have been either adopted or designed,” the  IMF  said
in a  statement  today following a monitoring mission to Madrid.
“Going forward, it will be important to maintain this momentum
with strong completion of initiated reforms and continued
vigilant oversight, as risks to the economy and hence to the
financial sector remain elevated.”  Investors’ concern the weak state of some lenders would
contaminate Spain’s public finances led the government to seek a
European bailout for the country’s banking system last year. The
Washington-based IMF is monitoring the process as agreed last
July with the European Commission and Spanish government.  The cleanup of the industry is a “major achievement” that
should bolster confidence in the financial system, the IMF said.
The report called for the country’s bad bank, set up to absorb
the real estate assets of bailed out lenders including Bankia,
to put together an “updated and comprehensive long-term
business plan.”  A specific timetable should be drawn up for the Bank of
Spain to strengthen its supervisory procedures, the IMF said.
Spain needs to set “effective incentives” for former savings
banks to sell off controlling stakes in commercial lenders, it
said.  The IMF said it plans to pass a final report on Spain’s
banking system reforms to the government and European Commission
in early March. A third monitoring mission will take place in
the second quarter of this year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  