-- How the IMF Can Help Cut U.S. Jobless
-- B y   J o s e p h   E .   G a g n o n
-- 2013-02-04T23:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/imf-shows-u-s-how-to-restrict-foreign-capital.html
The U.S. isn’t expected to return to
full employment for at least six more years, and the consensus
in  Washington  seems to be that President  Barack Obama ’s
administration has no options to improve that dreary outlook.  The debate over tax increases and spending cuts, as well as
the latest statement from the  Federal Reserve , proves that
additional fiscal and monetary stimulus won’t be coming unless
the economy turns even worse. But there’s one weapon the Obama
administration can fire to get a more satisfactory recovery in
employment: taking action to narrow the longstanding deficit in
international trade. Millions of jobs are at stake.  As it happens, the  International Monetary Fund  recently
gave a green light to measures the administration could use to
reduce the trade deficit in a formal statement of its
“institutional view” on the management of capital flows.  Capital flows directed by a number of foreign governments
into the U.S. have grown to unprecedented levels in recent
years. These flows keep foreign exports artificially cheap and
make U.S. exports artificially expensive to foreign buyers; they
are the main reason the U.S. has a large trade deficit right
now. The country should take heed of the IMF’s recommendations
and act forcefully to damp these  distortionary  capital inflows
and to restore balance in international trade.  For countries in the position of the U.S., the IMF doctrine
recommends policy measures be taken in the following order. Each
successive step should be taken only if the previous ones have
been pursued aggressively and proved insufficient.  Buy Reserves  First, ease monetary policy if inflation isn’t a problem.  Second, use expansionary fiscal policy to sustain growth if
government debt isn’t excessive.  Third, accumulate more foreign-exchange reserves to weaken
the currency.  Fourth, impose controls on capital inflows.  The U.S. has pursued the first two steps aggressively but
growth has remained too weak. It’s time to move on to stage
three: large-scale purchases of foreign-currency reserves. At
only $52 billion, U.S. reserves are far below the conventional
metric for adequate reserves of three months of imports, which
would imply reserves of almost $700 billion.  U.S. reserves are denominated in euros and yen. With both
the euro-area and Japanese economies already stagnating, leaders
of these countries would surely criticize official purchases
that put upward pressure on their currencies and downward
pressure on their exports.  The obvious alternative is to buy the Chinese  renminbi , but
 China  forbids foreign investment in its currency except through
strictly limited channels. No other single currency has markets
deep enough to make purchases practicable in the amounts
required.  However, as I recently proposed with my colleague  C. Fred Bergsten , the U.S. should purchase reserves in a range of
currencies from countries that manipulate their exchange rates,
namely  Denmark ,  Hong Kong ,  Malaysia , Singapore,  South Korea ,
Switzerland and  Taiwan . And the U.S. should communicate clearly
to Japan that any future intervention by the Japanese to weaken
the yen would be fully offset by U.S. purchases of yen.  Further measures are needed, however. The country should
prepare to impose taxes or restrictions on capital inflows,
especially against countries such as China that manipulate
exchange rates and that don’t allow reciprocal purchases of
their own currencies by foreigners.  And the IMF should examine whether the large purchases of
foreign assets by governments in oil-exporting countries exceed
a reasonable level, especially in light of the negative effects
of such purchases on global economic activity during a time of
widespread underemployment.  These policies would add millions of jobs in the U.S. As
the leaders of the  Group of 20  have urged, governments in
countries with trade surpluses should be encouraged to boost
consumption and investment at home. Returning international
trade to balance would strengthen global growth and make it more
sustainable, a good outcome for the whole world.  (Joseph E. Gagnon is a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Joseph E. Gagnon at  jgagnon@piie.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 