-- Imtech Stock Drops on Possible Polish Project Writedowns
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-02-04T13:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/imtech-declines-on-possible-poland-writedown-amsterdam-mover.html
Royal Imtech NV (IM) , the Dutch provider
of infrastructure for stadiums at the 2012 London Olympics,
dropped the most in more than 23 years after predicting
writedowns exceeding 100 million euros ($136 million) in  Poland .  Imtech  fell  as much as 50 percent to 9.83 euros, the
biggest intraday decline since at least October 1989, and was
trading down 47 percent at 2:42 p.m. in Amsterdam, valuing the
company at 992 million euros.  “Imtech has been severely harmed by lack of financing of
its largest customer in Poland, and possible irregularities in
respect of Imtech projects” in the country, the Gouda-based
company said in a statement. “Imtech has ordered a forensic
investigation into the situation.”  The projects in the probe include a 680 million-euro
contract that Imtech said in July was its largest order ever.
The project involved final completion of Adventure World Warsaw,
a 240-hectare (575-acre) theme park and resort to include
hotels, restaurants and 25 attractions.  “This is totally unexpected, both in terms of timing and
size of the problem,” Andre Mulder, an Amsterdam-based analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets, said in a note to investors. Mulder
put his buy recommendation under review.  Covenants Breached  The company, which today said it suspended local Polish
management and will probably scrap its 2012  dividend , also
started talks with lenders because of the possible writedown is
likely to cause Imtech to breach debt covenants. Earnings before
interest, taxes, amortization and excluding the writedown were
higher in 2012 than a year earlier, it said.  Imtech suspended publication of its annual results,
initially scheduled for tomorrow, and its April 3 annual
shareholders’ meeting.  “This is very bad news,” Edwin  de Jong , an Amsterdam-
based analyst at SNS Securities, wrote in a note to investors.
“We get serious doubts on the control Imtech has on its
units,” said De Jong, who lowered his  recommendation  on Imtech
to sell from buy.  The writedown also relates to a project involving energy-
generating bio-power stations in Warsaw.  “Imtech has established that the advanced payments for
four Polish projects don’t comply with the agreements made with
the customer regarding the availability of the payments to” the
company, it said. “This is because the customer has not secured
its financing.”  Park ‘Confident’  Adventure World Warsaw is confident that long-term
financing will be secured in the second quarter at the latest,
the park’s management board said in a statement. “We’re
saddened by the recent information on the internal problems” at
Imtech and offer any assistance needed with the investigation,
the board said.  Robert Nowak, a spokesman for Imtech’s Polish business,
didn’t immediately respond to a message seeking comment that was
left with colleagues.  Imtech provided heating, air conditioning,  energy supply 
and other electrical-engineering work for the Polish stadiums in
Warsaw, Gdansk and Wroclaw during last year’s European soccer
championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  