-- India’s Karnataka to Resume Iron Ore Supplies From Seven Mines
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-02-04T12:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/india-s-karnataka-to-resume-iron-ore-supplies-from-seven-mines.html
India’s Karnataka, the nation’s
second-richest iron-ore producing state until a court ruling
restricted mining in 2011, will resume supplies from seven mines
that restarted operations after the ban was lifted.  Initial supplies from the mines will start in the next two
weeks, said  H.R. Srinivasa , the state’s mining director and head
of a committee appointed by the top court. Combined shipments
may reach 2.5 million metric tons by March, he said.  The Supreme Court in September partially lifted a year-old
ban on mining in Karnataka and allowed 18 mines to restart after
securing required approvals. The court had halted mining in
August, 2011 to probe violations of environmental norms,
allowing only state-run  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC)  to mine 1 million tons a month
and ruling all sales to be conducted via online auctions.  The seven mines have started operations and their current
output of about 1 million tons will be sold in phases, Srinivasa
said. Three more mines are expected to start this month, he said.  The court-appointed committee has sold about 28 million
tons of ore through online auctions last calendar year and is
targeting a similar quantity in 2013, enough to meet demand,
Srinivasa said.  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , which runs its largest plant in
the state, expects to operate its factory at 75 percent to 80
percent capacity, enough to achieve 8.5 million tons of
production, Seshagiri Rao, group chief financial officer, said
in an earnings call on Jan. 28.  The Mumbai-based steelmaker, India’s third-largest producer,
is expecting supplies to rise in the coming weeks, should the
court allow more mines in the state to start, Rao had said. The
court on Feb. 1 said it will hear the Karnataka mining cases on
a day-to-day basis from Feb. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  