-- India Tightens Rape Laws Amid Uproar Over New Delhi Bus Assault
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-02-04T12:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/india-tightens-rape-laws-amid-uproar-over-new-delhi-bus-assault.html
India  tightened its laws on sexual
assaults following the gang rape and murder of a student in a
moving bus in New Delhi, responding to nationwide public outrage
over growing insecurity facing women.  President Pranab Mukherjee yesterday gave his assent to an
ordinance that among other changes allows rape that leads to the
death of the victim to be treated as a capital offense. The
harsher regime must be approved by lawmakers within six weeks of
parliament meeting, with the next session of the assembly
scheduled to begin Feb. 21.  “The stringent provisions in the ordinance will have a
deterrent effect on potential criminals,” Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said in a press conference today in  New
Delhi . “These provisions will ensure fair and speedy trials.”  Under intense public pressure, the government has changed
the criminal code without waiting for parliament to reconvene.
The brutal attack on the medical student on Dec. 16 shocked
India and reverberated around the world, triggering street
protests and drawing attention to the scale of sexual violence
against women in the world’s largest democracy.  The trial of five men charged with conspiracy to abduct the
23-year-old woman, sexually assault and murder her will start
Feb. 5 in a fast-track court in New Delhi. A sixth accused has
been judged to be a juvenile and is facing a separate judicial
process. All have pleaded not guilty.  Going beyond the recommendations of a panel headed by
retired chief justice J.S. Verma -- set up to suggest law
changes following the bus attack -- the government has stiffened
penalties to allow for capital punishment if an assault leaves
the victim in a persistent vegetative state.  Acid Attacks  Voyeurism, stalking, and attacks using acid will now be met
with tougher punishments, according to the  new laws .  Tougher sentencing will only address part of the problem,
said Indu Agnihotri, director of the  Centre for Women’s
Development Studies  in New Delhi. “Other issues like speedy
justice, rehabilitation of victims and a gender-sensitive
response” to the victims of sex crimes are needed.  The six men are accused of beating and assaulting the
physiotherapy student before throwing her and a male companion
from the vehicle as it drove along streets in the south of the
capital. The woman, who was flown to  Singapore  for treatment
paid for by the Indian government, died in hospital Dec. 29.  The gang rape set off a charged debate in a country where a
woman was raped every 22 minutes in 2011, according to the
 National Crime Records Bureau . There were 572 cases of rape
reported in New Delhi that year, a 23 percent increase from
2008. The rise may reflect a greater confidence in reporting
assaults.  In addition to the changes outlined today, the government
said it has taken other steps to stem violent assaults. The
identities of people convicted of crimes against women will be
 displayed  on crime-fighting websites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  