-- Investors Losing Money on New Bonds With Sales at Four-Year High
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-02-04T09:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/investors-losing-money-on-new-bonds-with-sales-at-four-year-high.html
Investors are losing money on new
corporate bond issues for the first time in five months as the
market struggles to digest the busiest start to a year for
European sales since 2009.  Investment grade and junk-rated notes sold in January by
companies including Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Abengoa SA (ABG) , the
renewable energy company, dropped an average 0.6 cents on the
euro, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the first
time newly-priced debt has fallen since August, and matches the
average loss over 30 days for securities sold that month.  “It’s not unhealthy for the market to have a reality check
now,” said Steven Logan, the Edinburgh-based head of European
high yield at Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd.
“We’ve had this slightly chaotic spell of issuance with far too
many transactions and people don’t have time to look at
secondary which is now languishing.”  Sales of investment-grade debt reached 22.6 billion euros
($31 billion) in January. The 1.5 billion euros of 10-year bonds
from Telefonica, Spain’s biggest phone operator, are the worst
performing, losing 4.5 percent since issue on Jan. 8.  Ten-year bonds sold by Spain’s largest energy company  Gas
Natural SDG SA (GAS)  on Jan. 9 are the second-worst performing,
dropping 3.28 euro cents to 95.86, Bloomberg data show. German
phone company Deutsche Telekom’s 2.125 percent bonds issued Jan.
10 declined 2 euro cents to 97.04.  Junk Sales  Sales of high-yield debt reached 6.8 billion euros in
January, a record for the month, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Abengoa, rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s, issued 250 million
euros of 8.875 percent bonds Jan. 24 that have since fallen 1.9
euro cents. Cerved Technologies SpA’s 6.375 percent 2020 bonds
sold Jan. 15 have dropped 0.87 euro cents to 99.13, Bloomberg
data show.  Speculative-grade, or junk, debt is ranked below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Fitch Ratings and S&P.  “A number of January deals are underperforming,” said
Jorgen Kjaersgaard, a portfolio manager at AllianceBernstein
Ltd. in  London , who oversees about 2.8 billion euros of European
high yield bonds. “Some names were already trading tight in
weaker sectors and didn’t see much net demand from long only
accounts.”  Waning demand for corporate credit comes as  Bill Gross ,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said investors should
position for the end stage of a “supernova credit explosion”
because there’s likely to be more inflation than growth.  “The countdown begins when investable assets pose too much
risk for too little return,” he wrote in a note posted on
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s website.  European corporate debt lost one percent this year, the
biggest monthly decline since November 2011. That’s worse than
the 0.4 percent loss on corporate bonds globally, Bank of
America Lynch Index data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  