-- Iran’s Larijani Vows to Complain About President’s ‘Lies’
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-04T16:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/iran-s-larijani-vows-to-complain-about-president-s-lies-.html
A brother of Iranian Parliamentary
Speaker Ali Larijani said he will file a legal complaint against
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  over his “lies” after the president
accused his family of corruption, state-run  Fars  reported.  The remarks by Fazel Larijani, a former diplomat in  Canada ,
follow a public showdown yesterday in parliament between his
brother and Ahmadinejad, marking the latest exchange between two
long-time rivals before the June 14 presidential election.
Ahmadinejad initially turned up before lawmakers to defend the
record of one of his ministers, whom they aimed to impeach.  During the session, Ahmadinejad played a badly audible
video of a conversation between Fazel Larijani and former
Prosecutor-General Saeed Mortazavi that he maintained revealed
the Larijani family’s misuse of power in business dealings, the
Tehran-based Etemaad daily reported. Larijani responded by
saying the issue was unrelated to the impeachment motion and
accused Ahmadinejad of devising a “plot,” Etemaad said.  “A president who is constantly threatening others should
know that the country’s problems stem from such attitudes,”  Ali
Larijani  said. “In fact, it’s a good thing that you aired this
film so people get to better know your character.”  With tightening sanctions over  Iran’s nuclear program 
restricting the country’s crude exports and its access to oil
revenue, Ahmadinejad has been made the scapegoat in recent
months by fellow politicians for his management of the economy.
The president has fought back, threatening to make public
documents that, he says, show some official are corrupt.  At the end of the parliamentary session, deputies voted and
impeached Labor Minister Abdolreza Sheikholeslami, citing his
failure to remove Mortazavi from his post as the head of the
Social Security Organization, the state-run Press TV news
channel said. Mortazavi was suspended in 2010 over accusations
he was linked to prison inmates’ deaths.  Ali Larijani lost the 2005 presidential election, when
Ahmadinejad won his first term. Larijani later quit as  Iran ’s
nuclear negotiator over differences with Ahmadinejad, who isn’t
able to run for a third term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  