-- Israeli, Palestinian Textbooks Reflect Narratives of Conflict
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-02-04T15:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/israeli-palestinian-textbooks-reflect-narratives-of-conflict.html
Israeli and Palestinian textbooks
reflect different versions of the conflict between the two
peoples, said a report that recommended the sides address
education as part of “the road to peace.”  Textbooks generally reflect the duelling narratives, said
Danny Bar-Tal, a professor at Tel Aviv University who helped
produce the research. “Early knowledge imparted to children
imprints attitudes so the books are important.”  For example, characterization of “the other” as negative
or very negative occurred 49 percent of the time in Israeli
textbooks and 84 percent of the time in their Palestinian
equivalents, the report said. Characterization of the other as
the enemy occurred 75 percent in Israeli books and 81 percent in
those of Palestinians.  At the same time, the researchers applauded both sides for
only a rare dehumanization of each other.  The report was made public as Israel-Palestinian peace
talks remain stalled for more than two years. Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , asked by President  Shimon Peres  to
form the next ruling coalition after winning the most seats in
Jan. 22 elections, has said he will promote “realistic and
responsible” peace talks with his new government.  Bruce Wexler of  Yale University , who helped lead the
research, said that adding to textbooks more about the other
side, including religion, history and culture, “will humanize
and maybe help understand their pain and loss.”  Peace Education  The researchers said the issue of educating for peace,
including the role of schoolbooks, should be part of the
negotiating agenda, should it be resumed.  Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad agreed that the
issues raised by the report were important “and need to be
discussed in an objective and professional way that isn’t based
on prejudice and stereotype.” Fayyad urged  Israel  to deal with
the study in a similar spirit.  The report, based on three years of research jointly led by
Bar-Tal, Wexler, and Bethlehem University professor Sami Adwan,
looked at 492 Israeli and 148 Palestinian books. The research
was overseen by an international Scientific Advisory Panel and
funded, but not endorsed, by the U.S. State Department.  The findings ran counter to a report Netanyahu’s office
published in December. That report found that the Palestinian
education system cultivates the demonization and dehumanization
of Israelis, delegitimizes the Israeli right to statehood, and
legitimizes violence as a form of struggle.  Education Minister  Israeli Education Minister Gideon Saar, a member of
Netanyahu’s Likud party, called the report released today
“biased, unprofessional and profoundly unobjective,” and
criticized “the attempt to create a parallel between the
Israeli and Palestinian educational systems without any
foundation whatsoever.”  A statement from Saar’s office said the study provided “a
highly-distorted depiction of the Palestinian Authority’s
systematic efforts to educate and indoctrinate Palestinian
children to hate, violence and non-acceptance of Israel’s
existence.”  Wexler dismissed Saar’s criticism.  “The Israeli education minister is a great example of the
power of these unilateral narratives,” Wexler said at a press
conference in  Jerusalem . “That man can’t see beyond the
blinders that have come into his mind by assuming the national
narrative that can’t understand the types of things we are
talking about here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  