-- Italian Banks Fall as Politics Spreads Uncertainty: Milan Mover
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-02-04T11:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/italian-banks-fall-as-politics-spreads-uncertainty-milan-mover.html
Italy ’s banks, led by  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
fell in Milan trading as the political uncertainty ahead of the
country’s elections drove the spread between Italian and German
government bond yields higher for a fourth straight session.  UniCredit, the nation’s biggest bank,  declined  as much as
4.5 percent and was down 19 cents to 4.44 euros at 12:37 p.m.,
while  Banca Monte dei Paschi SpA , the third-largest lender, fell
3.5 percent to 22.39 cents. The FTSE Italia All-Share Banks
Index, which has gained 14 percent this year, dropped 3.1
percent. The 46-member Stoxx 600 Banks Index slid 0.5 percent.  “The risk of ungovernability remains very high” as “it
is increasingly likely that the shape of the government will be
decided as a consequence of post-election alliances,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a note
to investors. “This is a recipe for instability and could be a
catalyst for uncertainty in the market.”  Italy’s former premier  Silvio Berlusconi , 76, has gained on
front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani, ahead of the Feb. 24-25 general
election. His coalition closed the gap with the center-left bloc
to 5 percentage points in an SWG Institute survey last week.
Berlusconi, who promised yesterday to refund a property tax paid
last year, “wants to buy the votes of Italians with the money
that Italians had to turn over to cover up the shortfall left in
the public accounts by Berlusconi,” Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said today.  “The banks are the main victims of current uncertainty
given the huge amount of sovereign debt they hold,” said
Vincenzo Longo, a Milan-based strategist at IG Markets. “Their
decline is amplified by last month’s rally.”  Italian banks’ holdings of the country’s sovereign debt
increased by 68 percent to 344 billion euros ($467 billion) at
the end of November from a year earlier, making the lenders more
dependent on the financial strength of the government. The
spread between Italy and Germany 10-year bonds increased 8 basis
points to 274 basis points, the highest since Jan. 10.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s No. 2 bank, dropped 2.6
percent to 1.42 euros, while  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  fell 3.5 percent
to 1.49 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  