-- Italian Wine Makers Get Realistic, Offer Great Buys
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-02-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/italian-wine-makers-get-realistic-offer-great-buys.html
When Italy surpassed  France  in wine
production for the first time two years ago, the news was not
greeted as a welcome achievement.  Aside from bragging rights, Italian vintners were faced
with having to sell more wine than ever at a time when regional
consumption was dropping.  It meant more Italian wine would be dumped into the so-
called Wine Lake, a surplus of wine produced within the European
Union, which buys the stuff and turns it into industrial
alcohol.  In a European market of increasing supply and falling
demand, that is not a winning scenario.  Fortunately, however,
Italian wineries are having their “Duh!” moment: by offering
more well-made regional wines at reasonable prices, they can
sell more wine.  For too many years, many Italian vintners suffered from a
hubris built on the international success of very high-end wines
like barolos and barbarescos and Super Tuscans. Buoyed by
industry bureaucrats eager to award the prestigious D.O.C.G.
appellation (a denomination of guaranteed high quality wine) to
wines of little regional distinction, wineries tried to stick
high price tags on wines of no real excellence.  Inflated Prices  Importers tried to convince wine drinkers that a bottle of
unfamiliar verdicchio was worth $50 or a Santa Margherita pinot
grigio $60 in a restaurant. As a result, wine lovers began
moaning that Italian wines were pricing themselves out of the
market.  Now, with sales sputtering and the Wine Lake brimming over,
some very fine Italian vintners are getting into the market with
delicious wines at prices right on the money. And it’s happening
at the retail level more than in restaurants, which continue to
hike up margins three and four times above retail.  Shopping Spree  Happy about what was happening, I visited  San Pietro Wine
and Spirits  in the Manhattan suburb of Tuckahoe, one of the best
Italian wine stores in the U.S. which carries bottlings you
won’t easily find in larger emporiums.  It’s run by Gerardo and Lucia Bruno, who search out a broad
range of the best old and new wineries in Italy, from legendary
makers like Bruno Ceretto of Piedmont to small estates like
Flaminio in Brindisi. They proudly carry seven wines from the
region of Campania, where the Brunos come from.  “Nowadays the economy is what it is,” Lucia said at the
store, “and the Italians realize that people who want to enjoy
wine more often are looking for affordable value. People will
still pay a lot for a great wine, but they don’t want to feel
cheated with a lesser one at a high price.”  Burger Companion  I rounded up a slew of bottles recommended by Lucia and
drank them over the next few weeks with a wide range of dishes,
from pastas to chicken burgers. What delighted me most, beyond
the very reasonable prices, none above $29, was that they all
had a typical Italian balance of fruit and acid, with alcohol
levels below 14 percent, and, whether robust or mellow, not one
was an overripe fruit bomb or overpowering, tannic blockbuster.  Here are some I thoroughly enjoyed, all available from
their store, and elsewhere.  Dorigo Cabernet Franc 2009 ($22) -- Cabernet franc is not
widely propagated outside of Colli Orientali del Friuli in
northern  Italy , but this fine example can stand with the best
examples from France, where it is more usually a blending grape.
With 12.5 percent alcohol, it is as easy to drink with poultry,
as it would be with a strong fish like salmon.  Small Estates  Agricola Querciabella Mongrana 2009 ($20) -- Such a
terrific price for a wonderful small estate wine in Tuscany’s
Maremma region. It has the same blend as some of the Super
Tuscans that sell for three times the price made with 50 percent
sangiovese, 25 percent cabernet sauvignon, and 25 percent
merlot, making for a well-structured complex red wine perfect
with bistecca alla fiorentina.  Agricole Vallone Vigna Flaminio Brindisi Riserva 2007 ($15)
-- Five years of age have brought maturity to this Apulian blend
of malvasia nera, montepulciano, and negroamaro, grapes only now
being recognized for their regional excellence, with the power
of the last varietal melding with the silkiness of the first and
softness of the second.  Vinicola del Sannio Barbera Vitigno 2011 ($14) -- An
unusual barbera, the principal grape of Piedmont, in this case a
clone planted south of Naples in Castelvenere in the region of
Campania, where the varietal has had this name since the mid-
1800s. It has vegetal notes in the background of sturdy tannins,
and is a young red wine that is both very versatile, and
extremely well priced.  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  book  and  music  reviews.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 