-- Hitler Awakes in 2011 Berlin, Becomes YouTube Hero
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/hitler-awakes-in-2011-berlin-becomes-youtube-hero.html
Adolf Hitler wakes up on an empty
plot of land in Berlin, his uniform reeking of gasoline. The
year is 2011. He wonders where Eva has got to and why his orders
to obliterate the entire city have been patently disobeyed.  That’s the opening of “ Er ist wieder da ” (“He’s Back,”)
a darkly satirical, intermittently very funny novel by Timur
Vermes that has topped the Spiegel fiction bestseller chart
since mid-December. The publisher, Eichborn Verlag, has raised
the print run to 400,000 and sold translation rights for 17
languages, including Czech and Catalan as well as English.  After establishing that he’s alive and well, Hitler catches
up on the last 65 years in a newspaper kiosk whose owner takes
him for a professional impersonator and introduces him to some
television producers.  He gains a slot on a weekly comedy show where he spouts his
unfunny views, a skit goes viral on YouTube and the rest, as
they say, isn’t history at all.  Narrated by the dictator himself, “Er ist wieder da”
lampoons the celebrity culture and cynicism of the modern media
and entertainment industry more than Hitler. It’s a cynicism
that some German critics have accused Vermes of sharing, with
the taboo-bending, attention-grabbing premise of his novel.  Wagner Ringtone  Yet there is something intrinsically funny, if chilling,
about the image of Hitler -- equipped with “The Ride of the
Valkyries” as his mobile phone ringtone -- pacing the streets
of modern-day Berlin and attracting puzzled sideways looks from
passers-by.  He sets up a website, “Fuehrer Headquarters,” on what he
insists on calling the Internetz. There he answers questions
from readers such as what breed he considers to be the master-
race of dogs. His biggest enemies are the neo-Nazis, who believe
he is ridiculing their cause.  On a quiet evening, he mulls reviving an old hobby and
designing a space port for Berlin.  He resents giving autographs. “The next day someone could
paste a treaty over it and all of a sudden you’ve irreversibly
handed over Transylvania to some corrupt Balkan outfit.”  There’s plenty of scope for identity humor, too, as no one
believes he is the genuine Hitler. The TV company tries to get
him registered as a citizen so he can get an apartment and a
bank account. An executive asks why he has no passport.  “I can’t remember that anyone ever asked me for one,”
Hitler replies. The puzzled producer asks him about his travels
outside the European Union. “Have you never been to America?”
he asks. “I fully intended to,” Hitler answers, indignant.
“But things prevented me.”  Charming Fascist  It can be unsettling to view the world through the eyes of
Hitler as portrayed by Vermes -- a charming, intelligent, racist
warmonger.  His concern about the abortion rate is that four potential
army divisions a year are being destroyed. As he watches a woman
picking up her dog’s excrement with a plastic bag, he assumes
she is mad and wonders idly if she has already been sterilized.  This is pitch-black humor, but in large stretches,
particularly toward the end, the humor part falls short. It can
feel a bit like plodding through “Mein Kampf” as the lengthy
rants on war strategy and -- much worse -- his race theories,
become wearying, even distressing, and decidedly unfunny.  When the humor hits the right targets, it’s priceless.
Hitler’s visit to a right-wing extremist party’s headquarters in
Berlin is a gem. After tearing strips off the party leader, he
leaves disgusted at this “bunch of wimps.”  Translation Challenge  The English-language rights to the book have been acquired
by  MacLehose Press , an imprint of  Quercus Publishing Plc ., which
plans to publish it in the U.K. in 2014. Much of the humor in
the book depends on knowing figures in the German political and
entertainment worlds, which could present a translation
challenge.  “We are really excited about it,” said Katharina
Bielenberg, the editor at MacLehose Press who gained the rights
at the Frankfurt Book Fair last year. Her husband Jamie Bulloch
is the translator.  “It can’t be exactly the same book, but it can still be
brilliantly funny,” she said. “It would be madness to
translate it literally. If there are some references that really
don’t work, we might have to snip judiciously.”  “Er ist wieder da” is published by Eichborn Verlag, 396
pages, price 19.33 euros.  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Warwick
Thompson  on London theater and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 