-- Mitsubishi Motors Soars on Nikkei Minicars Report: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a   J i e
-- 2013-02-04T06:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/mitsubishi-motors-soars-on-nikkei-minicars-report-tokyo-mover.html
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  rose the most
in more than four years in Tokyo trading after the Nikkei
newspaper reported Nissan Motor Co. will sell jointly made
minicars and buy fewer of them from  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)   Mitsubishi Motors soared 21 percent to 125 yen, the biggest
gain since October 2008. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Average rose
0.6 percent.  Nissan will start sales in June of its own minicars jointly
developed with Mitsubishi Motors, the Nikkei reported today,
without saying where it got the information. Minicars, vehicles
with engine capacity of no more than 0.66 liters, accounted for
37 percent of auto sales in  Japan  last year, according to Japan
Automotive Dealers Association. Suzuki made more than 70 percent
of the minicars sold by Nissan last year, according to the
Nikkei report.  “Investors are taking this news as a positive indication
that their profit will rise in Japan, where minicars have a big
market,” said  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at
Toward the Infinite World Inc., said today by phone.  Nissan spokesman Chris Keeffe declined to comment on the
Nikkei report. Mitsubishi Motors spokeswoman Namie Koketsu and
Hideki Taguchi, a spokesman for Suzuki, said their companies
were not the source of the information in the Nikkei report.  Suzuki dropped 1.6 percent as of 2:30 p.m., the only
carmaker to decline today.  Nissan and Mitsubishi established a 50-50  joint venture  in
2011 to develop minicars for the Japanese market.  Mitsubishi also benefited from a weakening yen, Takada
said. The yen has depreciated for a record 12 consecutive weeks
versus the dollar and eight weeks against the euro.  “The stock appears very cheap compared with Mazda and  Fuji
Heavy  and is attractive to bargain hunters,” Takada said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  