-- J.C. Penney Seeks to Bar Claim It Defaulted on Bonds
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-02-05T21:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/j-c-penney-seeks-to-bar-claim-it-defaulted-on-bonds.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , facing a potential
threat to its turnaround plans, has come out swinging after debt
holders claimed it technically defaulted on a bond.  Yesterday the department store chain filed a lawsuit in
 Delaware Chancery Court  seeking to block efforts by a group of
bondholders to declare a default on 7.4 percent bonds due in
2037. The company also asked lawyers at  Brown Rudnick LLP  to
identify the investors they represent. The Boston-based firm
said in a letter to the company that it represents holders of
more than half of the debt.  The claim exposes J.C. Penney to “imminent, irreparable
harm,” the Plano, Texas-based retailer said in the complaint.
The suggestion could put the company at risk of demands for
payment on more than $2.8 billion in debt, increase borrowing
costs and “impair its ability to effectively deploy capital to
drive its strategic business plan,” according to the legal
filing.  “We believe this notice of default is invalid, completely
without merit and is intended to create self-interested trading
opportunities in the market,” J.C. Penney Chief Financial
Officer Ken Hannah said in a statement. “We will therefore
vigorously defend the interests of J.C. Penney and all of our
constituencies in all appropriate forums.”  J.C. Penney has had its credit ratings slashed in the past
year as Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  tries to reverse
three quarters of sales declines exceeding 20 percent. Johnson’s
plan is supported by activist investor  Bill Ackman ’s Pershing
Square Capital Management LP, the largest equity stakeholder in
the company, with 18 percent of the shares outstanding. Ackman,
who is on the board, recruited Johnson to J.C. Penney from
Apple.  Bond Yield  J.C. Penney has $325.6 million of the 7.4 percent notes
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt
trades at 84.25 cents on the dollar to yield 9 percent, from
96.75 cents and a 7.7 percent yield about a year ago, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Last month, “market gossip” about a default prompted
Covenant Review to issue a Jan. 24 research note, in which the
independent credit research firm dismissed the rumors “as
greatly exaggerated.”  “The  bond market  is shrugging off this lawsuit because
over the past two weeks the bond market has realized it’s not a
good argument,”  Adam Cohen , founder of Covenant Review, said in
an interview. “Brown Rudnick came in with a long-shot argument,
and now the market is realizing that it’s really unlikely
they’ll win.”  J.C. Penney rose 2.4 percent to $19.81 at the close in New
York. The shares fell 44 percent in 2012, compared with a 25
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index.  ‘Negative Development’  The situation is a “negative development and fuel for the
bears on the stock,”  Liz Dunn , a New York-based analyst for
Macquarie Group Ltd. in New York, said in a note. The  balance
sheet  will be the focus of J.C. Penney’s upcoming earnings
report on Feb. 27, she wrote. The company has said it will end
 the  fiscal year with $1 billion in cash and an untapped  credit
line  of $1.75 billion.  “The restructuring attorney we consulted characterized the
move as aggressive and unusual on both sides of the table,”
said Dunn, who has the equivalent of a hold recommendation on
the shares.  Moody’s Investors Service  rates  the retailer B3, six levels
below investment-grade, with a “negative” outlook and S&P has
an equivalent grade on the company, following three straight
quarters of sales declines of at least 20 percent. The firm said
today that the dispute will have no immediate impact on its
ratings.  Store Transformation  J.C. Penney has lost customers as Johnson transforms most
of the company’s stores into collections of 100 branded shops
and reduces coupons and sale events by marketing items at an
“everyday low price.”  During the company’s November earnings call, CFO Hannah
said J.C. Penney’s balance sheet is “positioned to be able to
fund the transformation.” The retailer doesn’t have a bond
maturity until 2015, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  James Stoll , a  Brown Rudnick  lawyer representing J.C.
Penney bondholders, didn’t return calls for comment on the
retailer’s suit over the default claims. Joey Thomas, a J.C.
Penney spokesman, declined to comment. J.C. Penney’s lawyers at
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP declined to comment
beyond the legal documents.  The default claim draws on bond offering documents in 1997,
and contends that the company shouldn’t have been able to pledge
inventory as collateral for a credit line.  Bond Restrictions  Lawyers for the retailer say restrictions on the 7.4
percent bonds don’t mean J.C. Penney is in default by signing
the credit pact because the limitations don’t “encompass liens
on inventory, but instead serves only to restrict liens” on
principal property.  While the credit agreement has been in force for more than
a year, J.C. Penney officials have only used it “to support
letters of credit, none of which have been drawn upon,” the
company’s attorneys said.  J.C. Penney has publicly disclosed for about 10 years that
it has various undrawn credit facilities secured by inventory
with no bondholder allegations of a violation, the lawyers said.  J.C. Penney had about $2.97 billion of long-term debt and
$525 million cash as of Oct. 27, according to the company’s most
recent quarterly filing. Fourth-quarter sales may decline 24
percent to $4.13 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey of 15
analysts.  The case is J.C. Penney Co. Inc. v. US Bank National
Association as Indenture Trustee, 8276, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  