-- J&J Recalled Hips Over Safety Concerns, Witness Testifies
-- B y   V a l e r i e   R e i t m a n ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-04T22:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/j-j-recalled-hips-over-safety-concerns-witness-testifies.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s DePuy unit pulled
its all-metal artificial hips off the market in 2010 because of
safety concerns about the device, one of its designers told a
Los Angeles jury.  Reports that ASR XL hip implants had a “higher than
expected” failure rate prompted  DePuy  executives to recall
93,000 of the devices in the U.S., Graham Isaac, an engineer who
led the company’s hip-development program, testified today in
the state court trial of a Montana man’s lawsuit.  The failure rate “was a safety issue, right?”  Michael
Kelly , who is representing former prison guard Loren Kransky in
the case, asked Isaac. The engineer agreed.  Isaac testified in the first of 10,000 lawsuits to go to
trial over claims that J&J defectively designed the ASR hip and
failed to warn of its risks.  At the time of the August 2010 recall, J&J said, 12 percent
of the devices failed. Plaintiffs contend DePuy officials knew
the failure rate was higher than publicly disclosed. Analysts
say the lawsuits may cost J&J billions of dollars in damages.  Design, Testing  Kransky, 65, claims that DePuy designed the ASR poorly and
failed to test it adequately. The ASR generated debris from a
metal ball placed atop the femur and rotating in a metal cup
implanted in the hip, he alleges. That debris blackened tissue
and entered the bloodstream, potentially poisoning hip
recipients, Kransky claims.  Kelly told jurors that an internal DePuy analysis in
September 2011 showed 37 percent of ASR hips failed within
4.5 years, and that Australian national registry data showed in
2012 that 44 percent failed after seven years. Patients with
failed hips need replacement surgery known as a revision.  J&J, the world’s largest seller of health-care products,
denies it defectively designed the ASR or that it contributed to
Kransky’s elevated metal levels.  Metal Levels  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, argues the metal
levels were the result of Kransky’s poor health, including his
diabetes, high blood pressure and cholesterol, strokes and
kidney cancer. Kransky, J&J argues, is a vasculopath, which
means he has diseased blood vessels throughout his entire body.  Earlier in the trial, DePuy’s president testified in a
deposition played to jurors that the company recalled the
implants because they “did not meet the clinical needs for the
product” and not because they were unsafe.  Kelly is seeking to convince jurors that chromium and
cobalt debris generated by the faulty devices caused heavy
metals to build up in the bloodstreams of hip recipients like
Kransky and led to illnesses.  Ion Exposure  Isaac, based in  England , told jurors today that regardless
of whether an artificial hip is all metal or made up of
different components, “patients are always exposed to ions” of
the materials. Still, the engineer acknowledged DePuy officials
didn’t disclose that all hip designs generate such exposure to
ASR patients.  “That would have been the incorrect thing to do,” Isaac
testified.  The engineer also noted scientists and doctors haven’t
agreed as to what a safe ion-exposure level would be for humans.
When Kelly asked if being exposed to as much as 50 microns of
the ions would be safe, Isaac acknowledged “that would be
high.”  Asked if he would have recommended DePuy not put the ASR
hip on the market if he knew it would expose recipients to
50 microns of the ions, the engineer said, “In all likelihood,
no.”  During cross-examination by DePuy’s lawyer, Isaac told
jurors that the company followed “recognized developmental
procedures” in designing the artificial hip and tested it
extensively.  “We did more testing on the ASR than any other product we
put on the market,” he said.  The Kransky case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Valerie Reitman in Los Angeles Superior Court
At  valeriereitman@yahoo.com ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 