-- Japan Pension Fund Sends ‘Potent Message’ on JGBs, Sumitomo Says
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-02-04T07:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/japan-pension-fund-sends-potent-message-on-jgbs-sumitomo-says.html
Ayako Sera, a market strategist at
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd., which has 33 trillion yen ($359
billion) in assets, talks about Japan’s Government Pension
Investment Plan’s potential re-weighting of bond holdings.  “If their asset holdings go down and if they decrease bond
holdings, it’s going to be difficult for the  bond market  as many
players are looking for an exit even now.  ‘‘If they decrease holdings in other assets, the impact
will be big, but the biggest impact will be on bonds. For
example if they decide to lower bonds by 5 percent in the next
five years, that’s going to be a reason for selling in the JGB
market for other investors.  ‘‘They’re like a big whale. Even if they only change
direction a little bit, the market impact is huge. If they
suggest that they might lower JGB holdings, then that’s quite a
potent message.  ‘‘The question is what they will increase instead. They
haven’t changed their core portfolio up until now, so the
reasons for their change will be something to keep a watch on.  ‘‘With  Japan ’s aging demographic, there is increasingly
more of the population receiving pension payments than paying
into the pension system, so pension money is just going to be
flowing out.’’  On the GPIF potentially selling bonds on Abe’s policies:  ‘‘If they are going to change their core portfolio based on
that, it’s very dangerous. It reeks of politics -- selling on
politics. Their investments should be more on structural changes
in the market.  ‘‘They have to think about whether Abe’s policies will be
around in five years. So thinking ahead like that, if they say
they may sell bonds because of Abe, that would be abnormal and
dangerous.  ‘‘The core portfolio should be decided independent of
politics. Changing it because of politics would be a dangerous
route to go down.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  