-- John McCain Takes Senior Post on U.S. Senate Investigation Panel
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-02-04T22:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/john-mccain-takes-senior-post-on-u-s-senate-investigation-panel.html
The U.S. Senate panel known for deep
investigations of Wall Street, bank money laundering and other
corporate malfeasance is getting a new senior Republican leader,
 John McCain  of Arizona.  The former presidential candidate and self-described
maverick, is set to take over as ranking member on the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations, according to Aaron Fobes, a
spokesman for the outgoing Republican leader.  McCain will work closely with the panel’s Democratic
chairman, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan.  “These are two of the most dogged and independent
investigators in Washington,” said Reginald Brown, who leads
the congressional investigations practice at the WilmerHale law
firm in Washington. McCain’s appointment will “enhance the
already formidable reputation of the subcommittee.”  The subcommittee is currently completing an investigation
of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s wrong-way bet on derivatives that
resulted in a loss of more than $6.2 billion during nine months
of 2012. JPMorgan released the results of its own review on Jan.
16.  The panel also conducted a two-year inquiry into the
financial crisis that featured testimony from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and other top
executives. The April 2010 hearing was replayed on news
broadcasts as Levin confronted the bank officials with an
internal e-mail describing a bond offering as “one shitty
deal.”  Money Laundering  In July, the subcommittee held hearings focused on  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s failure to implement adequate money laundering
controls in Mexico -- an investigation that helped lead to a
$1.9 billion settlement with regulators. The panel has also
conducted high-profile probes of tax shelters and Enron Corp.’s
collapse.  By a tradition rare in Congress, the subcommittee’s
investigations involve staff members from both the majority and
minority parties. As a result, its conclusions are usually
bipartisan.  McCain will succeed Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma as the
panel’s top Republican, said Fobes. Coburn is becoming the
ranking Republican on the Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee.  McCain showed off his aggressive style of questioning
during last week’s confirmation hearing of former Senator Chuck Hagel for Defense Secretary. In past years he led congressional
investigations into the  Jack Abramoff  lobbying scandal and
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s attempts to win an Air Force contract for building
in-flight refueling aircraft.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  