-- JPMorgan Confronting BofA-Led Bond Bears on Loss: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-02-04T16:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/jpmorgan-confronting-bofa-led-bond-bears-on-loss-credit-markets.html
The biggest investment-grade bond
loss in 14 months is bolstering  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s view
that the unprecedented  bull market  in the notes is over.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. disagrees.  With bonds of the most-creditworthy borrowers from the U.S.
to  Europe  and  Asia  losing 0.8 percent in January, Bank of
America strategist Hans Mikkelsen cut his forecast for
investment-grade debt returns last week, saying a sustained
shift away from notes will cause borrowing costs to soar. At
JPMorgan,  Eric Beinstein  said he’s skeptical bond losses will
deepen because the biggest debt buyers are unlikely to switch to
equities and central banks will keep supporting the market.  Debt strategists at the two biggest U.S. banks are coming
into conflict after a 44 percent rally since 2008 left yields at
a record-low 2.55 percent in December and the best start to a
year for stocks in two decades added $2.6 trillion to their
market value. JPMorgan anticipates more government stimulus that
bolsters credit as the  International Monetary Fund  lowers its
forecast for global growth.  “Despite concerns about a potential rotation out of
credit, demand for investment-grade debt will continue to be
supported,” Greg Hall, managing director in debt capital
markets at Barclays Plc in  New York , wrote in an e-mail.  Sales Surge  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled Jan. 31
he isn’t close to easing up on $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases to spur the economy and bring down  unemployment , which
climbed last month to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent in November
and December.  Corporate bond  sales  of all ratings surged 86 percent last
month to $419.5 billion, the busiest January on record, as
borrowers sought to lock in borrowing costs that climbed from
record lows.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the bonds rather
than government debentures ended last week at 214 basis points,
or 2.14 percentage points, after reaching 205 on Jan. 28, the
least since May 2011 on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Corporate & High Yield  index. (MXWO)   A disorderly rotation causing borrowing costs to soar “is
the biggest risk to investment grade this year and the one we
are getting increasingly concerned about,” strategists led by
Mikkelsen said in a Jan. 28 report. “We now consider it most
likely that total returns will fall short of our low 1.6 percent
target.”  ‘Modestly Tighten’  Beinstein’s team, in a Feb. 1 note, wrote “spreads will
modestly tighten over time” and “a meaningful spread selloff
is unlikely despite the low returns in high-grade credit year-
to-date.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose, with the Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing 2.9 basis points to a mid-price of 89 basis points at
11:07 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.5 basis point to 16.5 basis
points as of 11:07 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 5.1 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more at 11:09 a.m. in
New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Investment-grade bonds globally declined the most last
month since November 2011, when they lost 1.9 percent, and
followed a return of 10.8 percent in 2012, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate index. The MSCI World
Index gained 5 percent, the most since October 2011 and the best
January since 1994.  ‘Little Room’  “The pressure, especially if we’re looking at an economic
rebound, is that rates are going to go higher and spreads have
little room to offset some of the rising rate impacts,”  Thomas Chow , a  money manager  at Delaware Investments in Philadelphia
with about $170 billion under management, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s why we saw a negative return in January and
we’re probably going to see instances going forward of that.”  Investors have been tempering their enthusiasm for bonds,
putting $21.3 billion into debt funds in January, about one-
third the $57.8 billion they poured into stock funds, according
to EPFR Global data. That follows an unprecedented $493.5
billion of flows into bonds globally last year.  The iShares iBoxx Investment Grade Corporate Bond Fund, the
exchange-traded fund that owns $24.3 billion of securities,
recorded an outflow of 6.3 million shares in January, equal to
about $748.1 million, Bloomberg  data  show. That’s the biggest
monthly redemption of shares for the fund since December 2010.  ‘Really Bad’  For Mikkelsen, bonds’ performance now looks worse than he
would have expected, the strategist said.  If the 10-year Treasury yield rises to 2.5 percent by the
end of June, “the rotation starts because performance is going
to look really bad,” he said.  Treasury 10-year note yields climbed 7 basis points last
week to 2.02 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
They reached 2.04 percent, the highest since April 13.  Facing sustained losses, investors may pull their money out
of mutual funds that invest in bonds, creating forced sellers,
according to Citigroup Inc. strategists led by Stephen Antczak
in New York.  After “powerful” one-way inflows for several years, bond
investors may find themselves in “uncharted waters” if the
trend reverses, credit strategists led by Edward Marrinan at RBS
Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote in a Feb. 1 report.  Forecast Reduced  The IMF cut its global growth forecast to 3.5 percent this
year, down from a 3.6 percent forecast in October, the
Washington-based agency said Jan. 23. It now projects a second
year of contraction in the euro region as progress in battling
Europe’s debt crisis fails to produce an economic recovery.  The Fed has held its benchmark  interest rate  at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008 in an effort to boost economic
growth and cut the  jobless rate  following the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. Policy makers who provided
forecasts in December were “approximately evenly divided”
between those who said it would be appropriate to end the
purchases around mid-2013 and those who favored a later date,
Fed minutes said.  Effects from the government’s bond purchases are big enough
to offset a rotation by individual investors, the JPMorgan
strategists wrote. The biggest investment-grade bond buyers,
including pension funds and insurance companies, are generally
not big buyers of stocks because of risk management and
regulatory concerns, they said.  “We do not believe a shift of funds from high-grade credit
to  equity  is underway, or is likely,” according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  