-- JPMorgan, UBS Tricked Milan in Swaps Case, Judge Says
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-02-04T17:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/jpmorgan-deutsche-bank-tricked-milan-in-swaps-case-judge-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Depfa Bank Plc took advantage of the city of
Milan, tricking the municipality into agreeing to a financing
deal that didn’t meet its objective of cutting borrowing costs,
wrote the judge who convicted the four banks in the fraud case.  The banks should have informed the municipality of the
charges related to the derivatives that were part of the
transactions, Judge Oscar Magi in Milan wrote today in
explaining the convictions he handed down in December.  The city, which “wasn’t up to” carrying out its own
analysis of the economic advantage of the financing package,
needed protection and clear information, Magi said.
“Information deficiencies manifested themselves and caused a
grave asymmetry of information,” he wrote.  The banks, whose employees involved in the case were
registered with Britain’s Financial Services Authority, violated
U.K. rules by failing to inform the city that it was a
counterparty to the lenders rather than a customer. The banks
acted as arrangers of a bond sale, or advisers to the
municipality, as well as its counterparties, the judge wrote.  When contacted by  Bloomberg News , the banks said they
disagree with the verdict and plan to appeal, reiterating their
stance following the December ruling.  Chris Hamilton , a
spokesman for the FSA in  London , declined to immediately
comment.  Magi in December ordered that about 90 million euros ($122
million) of assets be seized from the banks, the amount of their
profit, and that they pay sanctions of 1 million euros each. He
also convicted nine bankers of fraud and suspended their
sentences.  The judge said Italian securities rules indicate that there
is an obligation to disclose the cost of derivatives to the
client, a duty that in this case was reinforced by the multiple
roles played by the banks. Under FSA rules, banks are required
to shield customers from conflicts of interest and failed to
inform Milan of the “obvious” conflict, Magi wrote.  The contracts, given the amounts involved, are likely to
have been vetted by the most senior managers of the banks,
according to Magi. The bankers then “executed” directives they
were given, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  