-- Judge Hals Sale of Assets in Chinese Firm’s Wind Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-04T19:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/judge-hals-sale-of-assets-in-chinese-firm-s-wind-deal.html
A Chinese-owned company barred by the
Obama administration from developing an Oregon wind farm won a
temporary court order blocking the sale of collateral it pledged
to buy assets for the project.  The order by U.S. District Judge P. Kevin Castel in New
York prevents Terna Energy USA Holding Corp. from going ahead
with a Feb. 7 sale of collateral owned by Ralls Corp. “and
pledged in security agreements related to a commercial
transaction that has been declared prohibited and illegal by an
order of President  Barack Obama .”  Ralls bought the wind farm assets from Terna, a unit of the
Greek energy company  Terna Energy SA (TENERGY) , last February and was
subsequently barred from developing the project on national
security grounds because it is near a U.S. Navy base.  In December, Terna notified Ralls that it was in default
for failing to make a $4.2 million payment on the project assets
and said it would sell membership interest in a Ralls wind
facility in Texas posted as collateral.  Castel’s order, issued Feb. 1, is part of a suit in which
Ralls seeks to void the transaction with Terna because of
Obama’s order.  An earlier attempt to nullify the deal was thrown out last
week by a judge in Washington for lack of jurisdiction.  Robert Weigel, an attorney for Terna, declined to comment
on Castel’s ruling.  The judge set a hearing for Feb. 25 on his order suspending
the collateral sale.  Separately, Ralls is suing Obama and other government
officials challenging the president’s power to block the
company’s pursuit of the Oregon deal.  The case involving the collateral is Ralls Corp. v. Terna
Energy USA Holding Corp., 13-cv-739, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The case against the
U.S. government is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S., 12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington
at   azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 