-- Kerry Sees ‘Big Heels’ to Fill as New U.S. Secretary of State
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-02-04T17:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/kerry-sees-big-heels-to-fill-as-new-u-s-secretary-of-state.html
Secretary of State John Kerry said he
has “big heels to fill” and recalled a childhood brush with
Communism in first-day remarks to State Department employees
that gave no indication of changes he may envision for U.S.
foreign policy.  On Kerry’s first formal day on the job, he pledged today to
focus on the safety of U.S. diplomats around the world and to
not let politics obscure the legacy of four Americans killed in
the September attack in Benghazi, Libya. He spent the weekend
after his Friday swearing-in ceremony making calls to allies
around the world.  The former Massachusetts senator is the first white male to
hold the job as top U.S. diplomat in 16 years. He takes on the
post as the U.S. is working toward withdrawing troops from
 Afghanistan , facing a civil war in  Syria  and rising Islamist
threats in North Africa, and dealing with tensions over disputed
claims in the oil-rich South China Sea. Most pressing may be the
looming specter of a confrontation with  Iran  over its nuclear
program.  None of that made it into Kerry’s welcome remarks, which he
kept light and -- for a famously loquacious speaker --
relatively short. He alluded to his two immediate predecessors,
Hillary Clinton and Condoleezza Rice.  “Here’s the big question after the last 8 years,” Kerry
told the hundreds of employees who crowded the lobby of the
Harry S. Truman Building. “Can a man actually run the state
department? As the saying goes, I have big heels to fill.”  ‘Awesome Task’  Kerry thanked Clinton and President  Barack Obama  “for his
trust in me to take on this awesome task.”  Obama’s “vision and what he has implemented” over the
last few years, “without any question, has restored America’s
place and reputation in the world,” Kerry said.  Kerry, 69, is the first white male to hold the job since
Warren Christopher stepped down as Secretary of State in 1997.
Madeleine Albright, Colin Powell, Rice and Clinton have held the
office since then.  Kerry, a 28-year veteran of the Senate and the former
chairman of its Foreign Relations Committee, told the crowd he
had the Senate in his blood, “but it’s also true that the
foreign service is in my genes.”  His father was a foreign service officer who took his
family overseas to Berlin. His sister worked at the United
Nations and his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, speaks five languages,
he said.  Holding up his first diplomatic passport, issued when he
was 11 years old, Kerry told the crowd that when his family
lived in Berlin, he once used the passport to bicycle into the
Russian-controlled sector of the postwar divided city.  “As a 12-year-old kid, I really did notice the
starkness,” Kerry said, recalling the dark clothing and that
“there was no joy on those streets.”  Joking that today’s tabloids would comment on “Kerry’s
early Communist connections,” the new secretary of state said
the experience taught him a great lesson in the virtues of
freedom, even if it did get him grounded by his angry dad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  