-- Koch Recalled as Mayor Who Lifted New York From Days of Despair
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-02-04T19:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/koch-recalled-as-mayor-who-lifted-new-york-from-days-of-despair.html
New York’s Edward I. Koch was
remembered by mourners as a mayor who restored confidence in the
biggest U.S. city’s ability to govern itself and fixed its
finances with tough, sometimes uncompromising, policy positions.  About 2,500 attended a funeral for Koch today at
 Manhattan ’s Temple Emanu-El, the city’s largest Reform Jewish
synagogue. They heard former President  Bill Clinton  and Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  praise him as someone who never stopped caring
for the city he led from 1978 to 1989 and who stayed active
until his death Feb. 1 at age 88.  The former three-term mayor drew one final standing ovation
as his oak casket left the synagogue hoisted on the shoulders of
six police officers while an organ played a mournful version of
“New York, New York.” A private burial service followed at
Trinity Church Cemetery, an Episcopal site in northern
Manhattan.  “New York was in a state of despair and decay,” Bloomberg
said. “Ed held up his hands and shouted: ‘Enough. We will not
accept this. Our best days are still ahead.’ Ed convinced us
that we could be great again.” The mayor is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Clinton drew laughs as he brandished a sheaf of letters
Koch wrote to him while was president from 1993 to 2001,
advocating gun regulation, nuclear deterrence and juvenile crime
prevention. One letter, co-signed by civil-rights activist  Al Sharpton , a frequent Koch adversary while mayor, called for
programs to give young offenders “a second chance,” Clinton
said.  Doing Better  “No one had a better feel for the impact of what
government did on the real lives of people,” Clinton said.  After describing Koch’s penchant for asking “How am I
doing?” Clinton addressed the casket and said: “We’re doing a
lot better because you lived and served.”  Hundreds gathered outside the synagogue hours before its
doors opened at 10 a.m., including some who served in his
administration, such as Carl Weisbrod, whom Koch appointed to
New York State’s 42nd Street Development Project, which is now
credited with ridding Times Square of X-rated theaters and
prostitution.  “He wanted to know why more pimps weren’t being arrested,
convicted and sent to jail,” Weisbrod recalled. “He was a very
tough interviewer.”  Jewish Roots  Nancy Margolis King, 48, traveled from  Rhode Island  and got
in line three hours before the service.  She recalled how as a young girl Koch would visit her
parents -- her mother, Barbara Margolis, served as Koch’s chief
of protocol and he appointed her father, David Margolis, to the
state Financial Control Board after the city’s fiscal crisis.  She recalled how her father saved the mayor’s life as he
began to choke on his food as they dined at a Chinese
restaurant. His father performed the Heimlich maneuver on the
mayor to dislodge the trapped food.  Koch called her father the next day insisting that he tell
the newspapers that Koch had choked on vegetables. “He didn’t
want the Orthodox Jews to know he had been eating pork,” she
said.  Koch never did lose his religious identity. On his
gravestone, he chose the last words of the slain journalist
Daniel Pearl: “My father is Jewish, my mother is Jewish, I am
Jewish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 