-- Kristin Scott Thomas Giggles, Rowan Atkinson Gets Serious
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-02-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/kristin-scott-thomas-giggles-rowan-atkinson-gets-serious.html
Harold Pinter’s famous pauses are
usually full of menace. In a new London staging of “Old Times”
starring Kristin  Scott Thomas , the chills turn to chuckles.  Playing for laughs is a bold move which works surprisingly
well, when delivered by actors on top of their game. Scott
Thomas is joined by Rufus Sewell and Lia Williams. All can time
a comically raised eyebrow to perfection. Strangely, it makes
the menace of the 1971 play even more disturbing.  The action of the 80-minute piece takes place over a single
evening. Married couple Kate and Deeley are meeting Kate’s old
friend Anna. The women haven’t seen each other for 20 years. As
reminiscences flow, details blur or don’t match. An anonymous
sobbing man recalled by Anna may have been Deeley himself.
Tensions rise. Kate remembers something horrifically violent.  Scott Thomas and Williams alternate roughly every four
performances as Kate and Anna, a neat idea from director Iain
Rickson. I saw Scott Thomas bring an effusive energy to Anna.
She hops across the stage, giggles and brings a grounded realism
to her acting. Then as the tone darkens, she becomes more still,
inscrutable.  Williams is great too as the quieter Kate, and can fill a
blank stare with all sorts of possibilities. Rufus Sewell,
speaking with deliberately pompous over-enunciation, does a fine
job of conveying repressed anger.  Pinter sets up a world in which non sequiturs abound, and
causes have no immediate effects. It’s an impossible juggling
act to keep in the air and there’s a lag of tension in the
middle of the work. The energy flows again toward the end, when
another Pandora’s Box of possible meanings is revealed.  Designer Hildegard Bechtler creates a not quite realistic
large bare room for the action, and provides handsome costumes
for the two women: a turquoise dress for Anna, and claret velvet
slacks for Kate. The look, the laughs, then the shocks -- all
stick in the mind. Rating: ****.  Atkinson’s Terms  Another top-notch cast assembles for a new production of
Simon Gray’s 1981 staffroom comedy “Quartermaine’s Terms”
starring Rowan Atkinson.  The action is set in a Cambridge language school in the
early 1960s (a period-detailed set by Tim Hatley). At first the
teachers seem rather jolly. Then slowly their ghastly home
situations become clearer: a vicious mother, a depressive
daughter, a philandering husband. Their attempts to laugh them
off become more desperate.  It’s a slight piece with episodes in place of plot, and
could easily fall flat. With a superb ensemble able to convey
every comic subtext, it mostly sparkles.  Atkinson avoids any “Mr. Bean” pratfalls, and is
excellent as the well-meaning, lonely St John Quartermaine,
leading a dazed life. He suggests the hopeless pain behind
Quartermaine’s vague smiles and pleasant remarks.  He’s matched by Felicity Montagu as the mother-baited
Melanie, and Conleth Hill as a delightfully pompous Henry.  Director Richard Eyre is in control of the knife-edge
balance of laughter and pain as Rickson is. Rating: ****.  Evil Spirits  At the Almeida Theatre, playwright Rebecca Lenkiewicz
adapts  Henry James ’s short story “The Turn of the Screw” about
two Victorian children haunted by evil spirits.  Her main contribution is to make explicit things which
James chose to keep vague and unsettling.  The children sing inappropriate songs full of sexual
references. The little boy calls his tight-laced governess “a
whore who would open her legs for the whole navy.”  Freudian, schmeudian. It’s all rather flat and dull,
despite some excellent work from Gemma Jones as the housekeeper
Mrs. Grose. Rating: ***.  “Old Times” is at the Harold Pinter Theatre. Information:
 http://www.atgtickets.com   “Quartermaine’s Terms” is at Wyndham’s Theatre.
Information:  http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk   “The Turn of the Screw” is at the Almeida. Information:
 http://www.almeida.co.uk  or +44-20-7359-4404  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food and  John
Mariani  on wine.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 