-- Naked CDSs, Small Company Exchange, SNS: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-04T14:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/naked-cdss-small-company-exchange-sns-compliance.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said for the first time regulators will get the
power to break up banks, hardening legislation aimed at making
lenders safer. He will also open up industry payment systems.  Osborne said in a speech today the breakup powers will be
added to the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Bill to be
presented to Parliament this week. Authorities will be able to
split up an institution that doesn’t abide by “ring-fencing”
rules to insulate retail operations from investment-banking
activities. Bank payment systems will be regulated to make the
system more responsive and allow new entrants into the industry.  Osborne made the remarks in Bournemouth, southern England,
according to a text released by his office, citing “greed”
that overcame good governance’’ in the banking system, giving
rise to the need for the new law.  Osborne has come under pressure from lawmakers in both
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government and the
opposition Labour Party to do more as the Libor manipulation
scandal intensified. The British Bankers’ Association, the
industry lobby group, said the new plan would mean banks have
less money to lend.  The revised banking-bill legislation being presented this
week won’t specify what would trigger an intervention. That will
be identified in secondary legislation later. Osborne also said
he’ll introduce detailed proposals for overhauling bank payments
systems. The tougher approach marks a change of stance by
Osborne, who said as recently as November he didn’t want the
proposals changed for fear of “unpicking a consensus”
developed in the past two years.  Osborne also wants  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender, to pay any fines for
Libor manipulation from its bonus pool, a person with knowledge
of the situation said on Feb 2.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Naked Sovereign CDS Ban to Apply to Market-Makers, ESMA Says  The European Union’s top markets regulator granted market-
makers an exemption from some tougher rules on short-selling,
while stopping short of allowing them to trade naked sovereign
credit-default swaps.  The  European Securities and Markets Authority , set up in
2011 to harmonize rules across the bloc, said products that
aren’t traded on a regulated market, including sovereign CDS,
wouldn’t qualify for the exemption.  “ESMA has taken considerable time to closely consider the
regulation and explore through a legal analysis whether there
were ways to accommodate non-admitted/non-traded instruments,”
the Paris-based agency said in a report on its website Feb. 1.
“Results of the analysis led to a negative conclusion.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and lawmakers in
the  European Parliament  have called for a ban on naked CDS
trades on government debt over concerns the practice fueled the
euro-area debt crisis. Germany already has restrictions on using
swaps to bet on sovereign defaults. The EU agreed on short-
selling restrictions, including on sovereign CDS, last year.
ESMA’s guidelines clarified whether market-makers were subject
to the curbs.  EU to Present Financial-Transaction Tax Proposal on Feb. 14  The  European Commission  will present plans on Feb. 14 for a
financial-transaction tax to be applied by a group of interested
 member states .  The initiative will be based on a prior transaction-tax
proposal for all 27 EU nations that failed to gain support, the
Brussels-based commission said in a statement on its  website. 
The proposal must be agreed on by participating governments
before it can take effect.  The objectives of the tax are to “deliver important new
revenues, ensure a fair contribution from the financial sector
to public finances, contribute to more responsible trading and
enable a coherent approach to taxing this sector in the single
market,” the commission said.  EU Weighs 2014 Start Date for Basel Bank Rules Beset by Delays  The European Union is weighing a Jan. 1, 2014, date for the
gradual phase-in of Basel capital rules, as the bloc struggles
to agree on how to apply a global accord designed to bolster
defenses against future banking collapses.  The EU may also give bank regulators until the end of next
January to devise technical details fleshing out parts of the
so-called Basel III requirements, according to a document drawn
up by Ireland’s EU presidency and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The international bank rules have been beset by delays as
regulators across the world ponder how best to implement the
measures, which more than triple the core capital lenders must
hold and set standards for how lenders should manage risks. The
EU, like the U.S., missed the start-of-the-year deadline to
begin applying parts of the Basel III package.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the
international group that drew up the standards, agreed last
month to delay and water down another key part of the package
designed to ensure banks have enough easy-to-sell assets in a
crisis.  The EU’s implementing law is being negotiated by the
 European Parliament  and national governments, which must reach
agreement on the substance and timetable for the rules before
they can take effect.  SEC Group Urges Creation of Exchange for Small Companies  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission should urge the
creation of a new stock exchange limited to small companies that
have trouble raising capital in public markets, an agency panel
recommended Feb. 1.  The SEC Advisory Group on Small and Emerging Companies made
the recommendation as its co-chairman suggested that a 2012 law
intended to increase the number of initial public offerings
might fail to have a big impact. That so-called Jumpstart Our
Business Startups Act was designed to induce more IPOs by
reducing disclosure requirements and restrictions on how firms
can advertise for investors.  The advisory group said the exchange should be open only to
sophisticated investors, which it did not define, because
financial disclosure of the listed companies would be limited.
The panel said the companies would still be subject to a
regulatory regime “strict enough to protect investors but
flexible enough to accommodate innovation and growth,”
according to its draft recommendation.  The SEC isn’t required to hew to the advisory group’s
recommendations. Still, some of the committee’s past suggestions
were included in the JOBS Act legislation.  The SEC’s  definition  of such investors includes banks or
other financial firms, organizations with assets in excess $5
million and individuals with a net worth of more than $1
million.  The committee also recommended the SEC adopt rules aimed at
improving the liquidity of smaller-company stocks.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  OCC Said to Admit Missing JPMorgan’s VaR Change in Senate Probe  The U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency told
lawmakers it missed changes to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s risk-
tracking system that could have alerted the watchdog sooner to
the lender’s mounting derivatives bets, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  The OCC described the lapse in a report sent in last year’s
second half to the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, said two people, requesting anonymity because
the discussions aren’t public. The congressional panel is set to
release its own findings in coming weeks after examining how
JPMorgan and regulators handled the bank’s botched trades, which
resulted in losses exceeding $6.2 billion in the first nine
months of 2012.  The admission of responsibility is among the first by
regulators since an initial hearing in June of the oversight
roles they played. Thomas J. Curry, then two months into his
tenure as head of the OCC, told the Senate Banking Committee
that his agency was examining whether there were “gaps within
our assessment of the risks and risk controls in place” in
JPMorgan’s chief investment office, where the losses occurred.  The lawmakers’ report will criticize the bank and the OCC
for lax oversight of the trades, two people with knowledge of
the matter said last month.  JPMorgan released the results of its own review on Jan. 16.  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman, and  Joe Evangelisti  at
JPMorgan declined to comment.  For more, click here.  SNS Nationalized in the Netherlands After Real Estate Losses  The Netherlands took control of  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  after real
estate losses brought the fourth-largest Dutch lender to the
brink of collapse, the country’s second banking nationalization
since 2008.  The move, aimed at “stabilizing” SNS Reaal, will cost
taxpayers 3.7 billion euros ($5 billion), the Dutch Finance
Ministry said in a  statement  Feb. 1. SNS’s property-finance unit
will be separated from the company.  The lender, which acquired ABN Amro Holding NV’s property-
finance unit in 2006, has been hurt by losses on real estate
loans that have left it struggling to repay a government bailout
before next year’s deadline and bolster capital buffers. The
nationalization includes issued shares, core Tier 1 capital
securities and subordinated bonds, the ministry said.  SNS  shares  were suspended in Amsterdam.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said that while
the government will “expropriate” SNS equity and subordinated
debt, senior bondholders won’t be affected.  Trading in all securities is suspended on regulated
markets, said Martijn Pols, a spokesman for Dutch financial
markets regulator AFM in Amsterdam. It’s possible that over-the-
counter transactions are still taking place, he said. Trading in
securities that weren’t expropriated will resume at a later
time.  The nationalization comes less than five years after the
Netherlands bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance units
and its stake in ABN Amro Holding NV for 16.8 billion euros when
the company ran out of short-term funding, customers withdrew
deposits and investors lost confidence.  For more, click here.  Griswold Booth Empty at NYSE as Broker Pulls SEC Registration  The  Griswold Co. ’s booth at the  New York  Stock Exchange was
unstaffed Feb. 1 and the firm withdrew its dealer registrations,
signaling an end of trading for the 25-year-old firm.  The company requested to  terminate  registration with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority Jan. 31, according to Finra records dated
Feb. 1. Its action came amid a plunge in U.S. equity volume that
has squeezed profits for exchanges and the professionals who
make their living on them.  Mark McCooey, president of the company, didn’t return e-
mails seeking comment and phone calls to the firm went
unanswered. The company was founded in March 1988 by the McCooey
family, according to its website.  Griswold took in $8.4 million in commissions in  2011 , the
most recent data available, down from $10.6 million  the previous
year , according to SEC filings. It lost $381,563 in 2011 and
$182,980 in 2010. U.S. brokerages must be listed with regulators
to operate in the securities industry.  Small brokerages that make trades by phone or sell research
are finding it harder to earn commissions amid shrinking  trading
volume  and increased automation.  Hella Was Inspected by EU in Car-Light Cartel Probe Last Year  Hella KGaA Hueck & Co., a maker of car lights, said
European Union antitrust regulators visited its head office in
Lippstadt, Germany, in August.  “Hella is cooperating with the European Commission in this
matter and fully supports the investigation,” Markus Richter, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The EU said last week it raided auto-lights manufacturers
in July as part of an investigation into possible price-fixing.
It didn’t identify the companies involved in the probe.  Courts  Ford Is Sued by Over 1,400 Ex-Employees on Visteon Pensions  Ford Motor Co. (F)  was sued by more than 1,400 former U.K.
workers for making misleading statements about the security of
transferring their pensions to  Visteon Corp. (VC)  during the 2000
spinoff of the auto-parts company.  A U.K. judge ruled the claims should be tried together as
group litigation, according to an order handed down in December
and made public Jan. 31.  Visteon, spun off from Ford in 2000, filed bankruptcy in
2009 as the auto-parts industry faced slowing vehicle sales and
reduced production.  “Ford views these claims as totally without merit and it
will defend its position vigorously,” Brian Bennett, a U.K.
spokesman for Ford, said in an e-mailed statement. “While Ford
recognizes the severity of the situation for former Visteon U.K.
employees, Visteon became an independent company in 2000 and was
responsible for its own business decisions.”  Jonna Christensen, a U.K. spokeswoman for Visteon, declined
to comment on the suit.  Unite , a British union that is now coordinating the
litigation for the ex-employees, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment.  Interviews  Firestone Discusses Mary Jo White and Impact on Wall Street  Mary Jo White has spent decades as both a federal
prosecutor and later as outside counsel for many financial
institutions. If the Senate confirms her as chairwoman of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, will  Wall Street  be
facing a lawyer sympathetic to their interests, or the hard-
nosed prosecutor she once was?  Rick Firestone, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery LLP,
talked with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about White and what her
appointment will ultimately mean for the financial industry.  For the video, click here.  Separately, SEC Chairman Elisse B. Walter said White, her
designated successor, will be a quick study as the nation’s top
financial-markets regulator.  Walter was appointed chairman after  Mary Schapiro  left the
post in December.  “She’s a very quick study and she’s a very smart woman and
I look forward to working with her as she comes,” Walter told
reporters Feb. 1 in Washington, referring to White. “I think
she’s terrific.”  Walter, 62, said she would remain chairman until White, a
former U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, is confirmed by the Senate.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Barclays’s Finance Director Lucas, Counsel Harding to Retire  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said Finance Director Chris Lucas, who is
under investigation by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority,
will retire as soon as a successor is named, as a series of
fines and probes at Britain’s second-largest lender claimed
another senior manager.  General Counsel Mark Harding will also retire, the London-
based company said in a statement. Lucas, 52, has been
Barclays’s finance director for almost six years.  Lucas was one of four past and present Barclays employees
being investigated by the FSA about whether the bank adequately
disclosed fees it agreed to pay to the Qatar Investment
Authority when it sought to raise money from investors including
the sovereign-wealth fund. His departure follows that of the
company’s three top executives who stepped down last year after
the bank was fined 290 million pounds ($455 million) for
manipulating the Libor benchmark interest rate.  “Chris and Mark both expressed to me late last year that
they were considering stepping down from their roles,” Barclays
Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said in a statement.
“The rationale which each shared with me was consistent and,
typically, grounded in wanting to do what is best for the
bank.”  Draghi in Group of Thirty Not an ECB Conflict, Watchdog Says  Mario Draghi ’s membership in the Group of Thirty, a policy
group with members from both private and central banks, doesn’t
undermine his independence as governor of the  European Central
Bank , the ombudsman for the European Union said.  Draghi’s membership in the group doesn’t affect the
“independence, reputation and integrity” of the Frankfurt-
based ECB, the ombudsman said in a  report  on his website. The
investigation followed a complaint from  Corporate Europe
Observatory , a group that aims to curb the influence enjoyed by
corporations in EU policy making, according to its  website .  The  Group of Thirty  brings together senior executives at
private banks, central bank governors, politicians and academics
to discuss financial policy. Draghi’s predecessor at the ECB,
 Jean-Claude Trichet , is the group’s chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 