-- No Bear Market for Treasuries Seen After January Decline
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-02-04T19:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/no-bear-market-for-treasuries-seen-after-january-decline.html
Even after the worst start for
Treasuries since 2009, derivatives traders are signaling there’s
little chance of a  bear market  in bonds for the next three years
as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke fights unemployment.  Demand for insurance against a steep rise in 10-year note
yields, the so-called payer skew in options on swaps, has fallen
to about its average since 2009, according to Barclays Plc data.
The gap between volatility on three-year options that allow
investors to pay fixed rates on 10-year  interest-rate swaps  and
those that grant the right to receive fixed rates has narrowed
to about 15 basis points from 25 points on June 1.  While Treasuries lost 0.95 percent in January as investors
sought higher returns in riskier securities, the Fed remains
committed to buying about $85 billion of government and mortgage
securities a month as long as the jobless rate stays above 6.5
percent and inflation is below 2.5 percent. Unemployment rose to
7.9 percent in January, inflation remains below the central
bank’s target and the  U.S. economy  unexpectedly contracted 0.1
percent in the fourth quarter.  “The concern and focus of the Fed is still unemployment,”
 William O’Donnell , the head U.S. government bond strategist at
RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut, said in an
interview on Jan. 28. “And in the Fed’s eyes it’s not good
enough yet, so it’s not at all surprising that people who do see
higher rates don’t expect a 1994-like movement” when yields
surged as the central bank boosted its target  rate  for overnight
loans between banks from 3 percent to 6 percent over 12 months.  Bond Yields  Benchmark 10-year Treasury note yields rose seven basis
points last week to 2.02 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The 1.625 percent note due November 2022 fell
18/32, or $5.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 96 17/32.  The 10-year yield fell five basis points to 1.96 percent at
2:21 p.m. in  New York , the most since Nov. 7.  January’s decline was the worst start since 2009 when
government debt declined by 3.1 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch bond indexes. Bonds maturing in 10 years
or longer fell 3.4 percent, compared with an 8.9 percent decline
in 2009, the indexes show.  Yields on the notes, which fell to a record low of 1.379
percent July 25, will increase to about 2.25 percent at year
end, according to the median of 77 strategist forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg. Even though a rise to that level would cause pre-
tax losses of 0.54 percent, the yield would still be below the
five-year average of 2.9 percent.  Krugman, Gross  Nobel prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  said there is no
risk that  Treasury yields  near historic lows signal a price
bubble.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said that what is important,
even though prices might appear ”bubbly,” is that
unprecedented global central bank monetary stimulus won’t end
anytime soon.  “People are well aware they are not going to get a
positive real yield,” Krugman, professor of economics and
international affairs at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey ,
said in a Jan. 28 interview on Bloomberg Television. “They just
think  government bonds  are safer than the other stuff that is
out there.”  The payer skew was mostly negative from 2006 to 2008,
indicating greater relative demand for hedges against lower
yields. The Fed cut its benchmark overnight bank lending rate
from 5.25 percent in September 2007 to a record low of zero to
0.25 percent in December 2008 as the collapse of the subprime
mortgage market triggered the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  Little Concern  As the 10-year Treasury yield increased from about 2
percent at the end of 2008 to 4 percent by mid-2009, the payer
skew surged to a positive 26.8 basis points by October, its peak
since the financial crisis began, Barclays data shows.  “People have been disappointed with the limited sell-offs
in rates,” Piyush Goyal, a fixed-income strategist at Barclays
in New York, said in a telephone interview Jan. 23. “People are
feeling less a need to hedge higher rates, though haven’t
stopped entirely.” The bank forecasts the 10-year Treasury
yield will end the year at 1.6 percent.  Derivatives traders show little concern about Treasuries
falling into a bear market because the central bank continues to
flood the financial system with money to boost the economy. Last
week, the  Federal Open Market Committee  reiterated its intention
to keep buying bonds. The government reported the steepest drop
in defense spending in 40 years brought economic growth to a
standstill in the fourth quarter.  Yields Jump  Unemployment, though down from 10 percent in October 2009,
is still too high for Bernanke. The FOMC said it “continues to
see downside risks to the economic outlook,” in a statement on
Jan. 30 at the conclusion of a two-day meeting in Washington.  “The higher yield trade is premature,”  Scott Graham , head
of government bond trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital
Markets unit in Chicago, said in an interview on Jan. 30. “If
you buy these levels, you will be well rewarded in due time.”  Bond bears figured that the rally in Treasuries -- which
returned an average 6.19 percent a year since the financial
crisis began in 2007, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes -- was ready to crack when minutes from the Fed’s
December policy meeting were released Jan. 3 and showed some
policy makers favored ending bond purchases around midyear.  The  10-year yield  jumped to what was then a seven-month
high that day and later rose above 2 percent as traders
speculated that the improving U.S. economy would drive investors
out of bonds and into higher-yielding securities.  Rate ‘Cap’  “The Fed’s action and activity within the market is going
to put a cap on  interest rates ,” said  Sean Simko , who oversees
$8 billion at  SEI Investments Co. (SEIC)  in Oaks, Pennsylvania, in a
telephone interview on Feb. 1. “You’re not going to see a
massive sell-off and a bear market within the  bond market  at
this point.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned 5.2 percent in
January for the strongest start to a year since 1997.  House
prices  in 20 U.S. cities rose 5.5 percent in November from a
year earlier, the most in more than six years, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values.  Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds dropped to a
record low 2.73 percent on Nov. 8, compared with the 10-year
average of 5.02 percent, before rising to 2.85 percent as of
Jan. 30. The extra yield investors demand to hold investment-
grade securities rather than government debentures on Jan. 28
reached the lowest level since October 2007.  Gross’s Note  Pimco’s Gross wrote in a commentary published Jan. 3 that
investors should avoid longer-maturity debt, because
inflationary effects of the Fed actions are likely to persist
many years in the future. They should instead focus on short to
intermediate securities that will be supported by the central
bank’s record low target rate, he wrote. “Sell long-term bonds,
own 5-7 yr maturities,” Gross wrote in a Feb. 1 Twitter
message.  “Near-term, you really want to watch inflation much more
than unemployment because it’s going to be difficult for
unemployment to move down to the 6.5 percent number they’re
comfortable with, whereas it would be more reasonable for
inflation to accelerate beyond the 2.5 percent level in the near
term,” Tom Graff, who manages $3.6 billion of fixed-income
assets at Brown Advisory Inc. in Baltimore, said in a Jan. 30
telephone interview.  Consumer Prices  So far, consumer prices haven’t been an issue. Inflation
last year was 1.3 percent, according to the Fed’s preferred
gauge, the personal consumption expenditure index. That’s below
the central bank’s 2 percent goal. Fed policy makers have said
they will allow inflation to drift as much as 0.5 percentage
points above their inflation target as they try to push the
 unemployment rate  lower.  Investors anticipate the  consumer price index , which rose
2.08 percent last year, will average 2.36 percent in the next
five years, as measured by the  gap  between yields on Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities and those on notes that aren’t
indexed to price increases.  Even as  incomes  grew in December by the most in eight
years, Bernanke has cited weak wage growth as one reason why
he’ll continue stimulating the economy. While payrolls rose
157,000 in January, and revisions to the previous two months
added 127,000 more jobs, average hourly earnings rose only 0.2
percent to $23.78 from $23.74 in the prior month, for an
annualized gain of 2.1 percent, a Feb. 1 Labor Department report
showed.  ‘Free Money’  “The things it will take to create inflation in this
environment are clearly more than cheap and free money,”  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital in Stamford,
Connecticut, said in a Jan. 22 telephone interview. “You need
to get more stabilization on the job front, you need to see wage
gain increases.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index on Jan. 27 dropped for
a fourth straight week as Americans’ outlook on spending soured,
a sign the payroll tax increase that began in at the start of
the year is already starting to ripple through the economy.  Fed bond purchases will reach $1.14 trillion before the
current stimulus program expires in the first quarter of 2014,
according to the median estimate of 44 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. In prior rounds of bond purchases, which began in 2008,
the central bank bought $2.3 trillion in securities. Its  balance
sheet  topped $3 trillion for the first time last month.  “The Fed has been very explicit. They want to see the
unemployment rate decline on a more sustained basis,” said
Richard Schlanger, who helps invest $20 billion in fixed-income
securities as a vice president at Pioneer Investments in Boston,
during an interview on Feb. 1.  “With the Fed being the 800-pound gorilla, and being the
ultimate buyer, long-term rates are not going to move
dramatically higher,” Schlanger said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  