-- Obama Fiscal 2014 Budget Said to Be Delayed Until March
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-02-05T15:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/obama-s-fiscal-2014-spending-plan-said-to-be-delayed-until-march.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to send
his fiscal 2014 budget to Congress in mid-March, a budget
official said, delaying the fiscal blueprint as the
administration and congressional Republicans wrangle over taxes
and spending.  The official revealed the timing on condition of anonymity
because the target date for the release hasn’t been announced.
It comes after Republicans criticized the White House for not
meeting the legal budget deadline of the first Monday in
February.  “For the fourth time in five years this White House has
proven it does not take trillion-dollar  deficits  seriously
enough to submit a budget on time,” House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an  Ohio Republican , said in a statement yesterday.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney , while declining to
say when the budget would be ready, yesterday accused  House
Republicans  of putting forward “highly partisan” spending
plans that have “no support among the American public.”  The administration has been signaling that the annual
spending blueprint wouldn’t meet the deadline because of the
protracted debate in  Washington  over taxes, spending and the
deficit, especially the dispute at year’s end that focused on
tax rates. Congress ultimately approved a measure averting
income-tax increases for most Americans while allowing rates to
rise on taxable income of individuals up to $400,000 and of
married couples of up to $450,000.  ‘Forced to Delay’  Acting White House budget director Jeffrey Zients wrote in
a letter last month to Representative  Paul Ryan , the Wisconsin
Republican who is chairman of the House Budget Committee, that
because the tax deal wasn’t reached until Jan. 1, the
administration was “forced to delay some of its FY2014 budget
preparations, which in turn will delay the budget’s submission
to Congress.”  The White House and Congress are facing two fiscal
deadlines next month. On March 1, $1.2 trillion in automatic
federal spending cuts are scheduled to take effect.  Congress created the automatic cuts in August 2011 as part
of an agreement to raise the U.S.  debt ceiling . In the
legislation passed Jan. 1, lawmakers delayed the spending cuts,
half of them coming from defense, for two months.  The government is currently operating under a stopgap
budget that expires on March 27. If spending authority isn’t
extended, government agencies face a shutdown.  Same Debate  The delay for Obama’s budget isn’t likely to change the
political debate over fiscal issues. The president has said he’s
planning to again seek funding for many of the proposals
contained in last year’s $3.8 trillion budget, which was never
adopted by Congress.  “It’ll look a lot like the old one,”  Michael Linden ,
director of tax and budget policy at the Center for American
Progress, said yesterday at a conference in Washington focused
on fiscal issues. Any spending cuts or revenue increases, he
said, will be “basically the same” as last year’s budget
blueprint.  Obama reinforced that during an interview with  CBS News 
broadcast on Feb. 3. He said he wants to seek additional revenue
by trimming tax breaks for top earners and the treatment of
profits in buyout deals, known as carried interest. Those
profits are often taxed as  capital gains , which receive
preferential rates under the  tax code  compared with levies on
wages; Obama has advocated treating the profits as ordinary
income for tax purposes.  Revenue Questions  “There is no doubt we need additional revenue, coupled
with smart spending reductions, in order to bring down our
deficit,” the president said.  Taxing private equity managers’ carried interest as
ordinary income would raise about $16.8 billion, according to
the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation.  Obama has proposed limits on the value of deductions,
capped at 28 percent for households earning more than $250,000,
and has called for ending tax breaks for oil and natural gas
companies, which would collect $41 billion over 10 years,
according to last year’s budget estimate.  Panelists at the conference on budget issues said any
proposals on taxes in Obama’s fiscal 2014 budget would take at
least a year or more to get through Congress.  Stan Collender , a former congressional budget analyst, said
that while “they may be talking about it” this year, he tells
his financial clients at Qorvis Communications LLC that nothing
serious will happen on tax changes until the end of 2014 or into
2015.  “The president’s budget is just a proposal,” he said.
“It has no meaning other than a political statement at the time
it’s made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  