-- Obama Says Consensus Emerging on Gun Buyer Checks
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/obama-says-consensus-emerging-on-gun-buyer-checks.html
President  Barack Obama  vowed to keep
the pressure on Congress to revive a federal assault weapons ban
and said a consensus is emerging for universal background checks
on gun buyers.  After meeting yesterday with local, state and federal law
enforcement officials at the Minneapolis Police Department’s
special operations center, Obama said Americans should tell
their elected representatives to support his agenda.  “There’s no legislation to eliminate all guns,” said
Obama, a Democrat. “Tell them now is the time for action.”  At the start of his second term, Obama is seeking quick
action in Congress on two divisive issues: immigration law and
stricter controls on firearms. Last week, he traveled to  Las
Vegas  where he spoke to a rally on immigration.  Through a mix of 23 executive actions and additional
legislative proposals, Obama is seeking the most ambitious
changes on  gun control  in decades. The effort follows a mass
shooting at an elementary school in Newtown,  Connecticut , that
killed 20 children and six adults.  The president is asking Congress for background checks on
all gun buyers, a ban on high-capacity ammunition clips and the
reinstatement of a ban on sales of military-style assault
weapons that expired in 2004.  “Weapons of war have no place on our streets,” Obama
said. His calls for tighter firearms restrictions have met with
resistance from the gun lobby and lawmakers from both parties.  NRA Opposition  Wayne LaPierre, chief executive officer of the  National
Rifle Association , has called the administration’s drive the
first step toward a national firearms registry and the further
shrinking of gun owners’ rights.  “If you limit the American public’s access to semi-
automatic technology, you limit their ability to survive,” he
said Feb. 3 on the “Fox News Sunday” program.  LaPierre called universal background checks a “fraud.”  “It’s never going to be universal,” he said. “The
criminals aren’t going to comply with it.”  Obama won  Minnesota  and  Nevada  in 2008 and 2012, and both
states provide the administration with illustrations for issues
he’s seeking to highlight.  Minnesota is the home state of B. Todd Jones, who Obama has
nominated to become head of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives. The ATF has been without a director for
six years. Jones is currently the U.S. attorney in Minnesota and
acting director of the bureau.  Immigration Meetings  Minneapolis also last month hosted a five-state regional
gun summit. Mayor R.T. Rybak has called on Congress to expand
the ability of local and federal law enforcement officers to
share information about guns used in crimes and confirm a
permanent director of the ATF.  As Obama focused on the gun issue, White House officials
were pushed for immigration legislation. Secretary of Homeland
Security  Janet Napolitano  traveled to  San Diego  and El Paso,
 Texas , to inspect border security operations and meet with local
officials. After her trip, Napolitano, along with White House
policy director Cecilia Munoz, will meet today with law
enforcement officials from around the country to discuss the
president’s immigration plan.  Obama plans to hold meetings today with labor organizers,
activists, and several chief executive officers -- including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Lloyd Blankfein and Yahoo! Inc.’s
 Marissa Mayer  -- to discuss the economic impact of his proposal
on U.S. competitiveness.  Obama’s Photo  The White House yesterday also fielded more questions about
Obama’s experience with sport shooting.  The White House on Feb. 2 released a photo of the president
skeet shooting at Camp David last Aug. 4, for his birthday.
After Obama said in an interview with the New Republic magazine
that he and guests at the presidential retreat in rural Maryland
shoot “all the time,” some critics expressed skepticism.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said that “there
were persistent questions” about the president’s shooting that
while “it should have been apparent” that he had done it when
he said he did, “we released a photo to demonstrate that.”  Carney also said that Obama has shot firearms on multiple
occasions and at locations other than Camp David, without
releasing any additional details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  