-- Odisha Resumes Land Acquisition for Posco India Steel Project
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-02-04T09:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/odisha-resumes-land-acquisition-for-posco-india-steel-project.html
India ’s Odisha state resumed land
acquisitions to enable Posco, Asia’s third-largest steelmaker,
to begin building a  $12 billion  steel plant, a project delayed
for more than seven years by farmer protests and bureaucracy.  The government of the eastern state yesterday started the
process of procuring 700 acres, adding to the 2,000 acres
already bought, Satya Kumar Mallick, the district collector of
Jagatsinghpur, the site of the plant, said today in a phone
interview. The land will be handed over to the South Korean
steelmaker once the acquisition is completed, he said.  “The process is moving slowly and may take time because of
some opposition,” Mallick said from Gobindpur village, where
the acquisition is on. “The whole process may take more than
three to four months.”  The  factory , billed as the biggest direct foreign
investment in India, has been delayed because farmers have
refused to vacate the state-owned land they have occupied for
generations. A resumption of the acquisition process signals the
government’s commitment to revive stalled projects and an
economy that the finance ministry forecasts may grow at the
weakest pace in a decade.  Local farmers and villagers, including women and children,
yesterday protested against the proposed steel mill outside
Gobindpur village as the state team prepared to enter the
proposed site for land acquisition, Prasanth Paikare, a
spokesman for opposition group Posco Prathirodh Sangram Samiti,
said today in a phone interview. A large number of policemen
used force to curb the peaceful protests, he said.  “We continue to oppose the  Posco (005490)  project,” Paikare said.
“The farmers and the local people have started protests against
the state government’s move to acquire land forcibly and this
will continue.”  Posco is still waiting for a permit from the environment
ministry before it can start building the plant. India’s
 National Green Tribunal  in March suspended an earlier clearance
from the ministry, asking for another review of environmental
concerns and recommendations to mitigate any adverse impact
before final approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  