-- OECD Says Germany Needs Electricians, Plumbers to Bolster Growth
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2013-02-04T14:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/oecd-says-germany-needs-electricians-plumbers-to-bolster-growth.html
Germany needs to do more to attract
qualified professionals from abroad to remain competitive and
avoid a drag on economic growth, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a report.  While  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government has taken steps
to ease immigration rules for highly qualified professionals,
Germany needs to open up the labor market to workers without a
university education,  the OECD said . Nurses, electricians, train
engineers and plumbers are among the professions in short
supply, Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen said in Berlin.  “The immigration system does not take into account the
need for persons with medium qualification levels,” OECD Deputy
Secretary General Yves Leterme told reporters at the report’s
release today. “This is a particular problem for small and
medium-sized companies that are already suffering acutely from a
lack of qualified workers.”  While Germany serves as Europe’s engine of growth, the
country’s economy risks running out of steam as an aging
population and low birth rate threaten to shrink the  workforce .
Merkel has said the demographic challenge facing  Europe ’s
biggest economy is a priority for 2013, an election year.  In 2020, 40 percent fewer people will join the workforce
than will go into retirement, the OECD said in its report. About
8.1 children were born for every 1,000 German residents in 2011,
according to the European Union’s statistics office, Eurostat,
below the EU average of 10.4 children for 1,000 residents.  Debt Crisis Moves  For all Germany’s persistent demographic difficulties, the
economy’s relative resilience has led to a jump in immigration
from southern European countries hurt by Europe’s debt crisis,
von der Leyen said.  Germany’s unadjusted jobless rate dropped back to a two-
decade low of 6.8 percent in January. In Spain, unemployment
reached a record 26 percent the same month as the number of
people registering for jobless benefits rose to 4.98 million,
the Labor Ministry in  Madrid  said today.  The number of employees in Germany from Spain,  Greece ,
 Portugal  and  Italy  rose by 7.6 percent in 2012, von der Leyen
said. Even so, immigration from eastern European countries is
growing at the fastest pace, with a 29 percent surge in workers
from the EU’s eastern members.  There are currently 850,000 job vacancies in Germany and
the average time to fill them increased to 76 days, according to
the labor minister.  The impact is already seen in small and medium enterprises,
which skip investment due to the lack of skilled workers,
Leterme said.  A further issue is German companies’ lack of experience in
hiring from abroad even though the country’s immigration rules
are now among the most lenient in the OECD, the report said. In
a 2011 survey of more than 1,100 employers, nearly 50 percent
said they had never thought of the possibility of hiring abroad
and more than 30 percent said the process was too complicated.  “If  Germany  doesn’t tackle the immigration challenge the
right way, there will be a very negative impact not only on
potential growth but also on real economic growth,” Leterme
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  