-- Oil Falls Most in Two Months as Equities Drop on Europe
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-02-04T20:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/oil-falls-as-equities-slide-while-biden-makes-overture.html
Oil tumbled the most in two months
after equities dropped on political turmoil in Europe and as
Middle East tensions eased on the prospect of renewed talks
between Western countries and  Iran .  Futures slipped 1.6 percent and the euro weakened amid
opposition calls for Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  to resign
following contested reports about illegal payments. Iran
considers an offer by U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  to negotiate
directly over its nuclear program a “step forward,” Foreign
Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said.  “We’re seeing a generalized selloff in all the markets as
the problems of the Spanish prime minister are a reminder of the
big issues that remain in Europe,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based energy hedge fund. “Oil
is also down because of Biden’s overture to Iran and the Iranian
response. This is reducing the security premium slightly.”  Crude oil for March delivery dropped $1.60 to settle at
$96.17 barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest decline since Dec. 6. Trading was 15 percent below the
100-day average at 3:46 p.m. Futures have retreated 1.7 percent
in the past year.  Brent oil for March settlement fell $1.16, or 1 percent, to
end the session at $115.60 on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. It was the first decline since Jan. 21. The
contract settled at $116.76 on Feb. 1, the highest since Sept.
13. Trading volume was 8.2 percent above the 100-day average.  The European benchmark grade settled at a $19.43-a-barrel
premium to West Texas Intermediate futures traded in New York.
It was the widest spread since Dec. 28.  Unauthorized Funds  Stocks retreated along with Spanish and Italian  government
bonds  amid signs of returning political uncertainty in two of
Europe’s weakest economies.  In Madrid, opposition leader Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba said
Rajoy should resign after reports in El Pais newspaper that he
or members of his  People’s Party  received the unauthorized
funds. With elections looming this month in Italy, former Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  narrowed the lead of front-runner
Pier Luigi Bersani.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined 0.9 percent, and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent. The Dow
exceeded 14,000 last week for the first time since October 2007.
The euro decreased as much as 1 percent against the dollar. A
weaker euro and stronger U.S. currency reduce the appeal of
dollar-denominated commodities as an investment.  “We’re seeing a strong correlation between equities and
oil today,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division
at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “The dollar is
stronger today, which is going to hurt commodities.”  Geopolitical Premium  Talks to defuse tension over Iran’s nuclear work will be
held Feb. 25 in  Kazakhstan , Salehi said yesterday at the Munich
Security Conference. The U.S. will offer bilateral negotiations
if the Islamic republic’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 
is prepared for “serious” discussions, Biden said the day
before at the same event.  “The prospect of talks between Iran and the West is
alleviating some of the geopolitical premium,” Yawger said.
“We got a risk-off day here with stocks lower, the dollar
higher and some reduction of geopolitical risk.”  The U.S. and its allies are trying to pressure Iran over
its nuclear program, which they say is aimed at producing atomic
weapons. The U.S. and Israel haven’t ruled out military strikes
against nuclear facilities. The Islamic republic, under dozens
of sanctions and a decade-long investigation, insists its
nuclear program is peaceful.  Do Or Die  “We are going to have talks, and tensions will fall,”
said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion.
“This is kind of bringing the whole situation to a do-or-die
moment. If the talks come and they fail, then the administration
is pretty much going to be able to tell the world that we’ve got
a green light to take steps.”  Hedge funds  and refiners vied to buy oil last month. Money
managers increased net-long positions, or bets on rising prices,
to a nine-month high of 218,604 in the week ended Jan. 29, the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Feb. 1 Commitments of
Traders report showed. Bullish  wagers  held by refiners and
producers rose to the most since at least June 2006.  In London, investors raised  bullish bets  on Brent to their
highest level in the two years for which data is available,
according to ICE data. Speculative bets that prices will rise,
in futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
179,735 lots, the exchange said today in its weekly Commitment
of Traders report.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 396,678
contracts as of 3:46 p.m. It totaled 798,288 contracts Feb. 1,
55 percent above the three-month average. Open interest was 1.58
million, the highest level since Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  