-- Brent Crude Slips From Four-Month High
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-04T12:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/oil-fluctuates-after-eighth-weekly-gain-on-u-s-china-outlook.html
Brent crude  retreated from its
highest closing level in more than four months in  London  as the
prospect of renewed talks between western governments and Iran
spurred speculation that last week’s gains were excessive.  Futures slipped as much as 0.8 percent, while West Texas
Intermediate halted its longest stretch of weekly advances in
more than eight years. Iran considers an offer to negotiate
directly with the U.S. over its nuclear program a “step
forward” and expects to resume meetings with world powers later
this month, Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said. Brent’s 14-
day relative strength index was at 70, a technical level that
suggests prices have climbed too quickly.  “It reduces the risk that Middle East tensions, or Iran
tensions, will increase in the short term and bring  oil prices 
substantially higher,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at
Raiffeisen Bank International AG in Vienna, who predicts Brent
will average $114 a barrel this quarter.  Brent for March settlement slid as much as 90 cents to
$115.86 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, and was at $115.92 at 12:41 p.m. local time. It closed
at $116.76 on Feb. 1, the highest since Sept. 13. The volume of
all contracts traded was 14 percent above the 100-day average.
The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $19.16 to WTI
futures in New York.  ‘Serious’ Discussions  WTI for March delivery was at $96.75 a barrel, down $1.02 a
barrel, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The volume of all contracts traded was 8 percent above
the 100-day average. Futures rose 28 cents to $97.77 on Feb. 1,
the highest close since Jan. 30.  Talks to defuse tension over Iran’s nuclear work will be
held in Kazakhstan Feb. 25, Salehi said yesterday at the Munich
Security Conference. The U.S. will offer bilateral negotiations
if the Islamic republic’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 
is prepared for “serious” discussions, U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  said the day before at the same event.  Hedge funds  and refiners vied to buy oil futures last
month. Money managers increased net-long positions, or wagers on
rising prices, for a seventh week to a nine-month high of
218,604 in the week ended Jan. 29, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Feb. 1 Commitments of Traders
report. It was the longest run of gains in records dating back
to June 2006. Bullish  wagers  held by refiners and producers
advanced for a fifth week to the most since at least June 2006.  In London, hedge funds and other money managers raised
 bullish bets  on Brent to their highest level in two years for a
second consecutive week, according to ICE data.  Bullish Bets  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 179,735 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s the highest since at least January, 2011,
the earliest date for which the data are available. The increase
of 25,822 contracts, or 17 percent, is also the biggest since
the records began.  “It’s time to correct,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a
commodities analyst at VTB Capital in London. “It’s only
logical to pause after such a strong rally lately, given that
supply and demand are fully in balance. It was overwhelming
economic optimism and a spike in the geopolitical  risk premium 
that drove prices here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  