-- London Police Probing Claim Officers Used Dead Kids’ Identities
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-04T10:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/london-police-probing-claim-officers-used-dead-kids-identities.html
London ’s  Metropolitan Police Service 
is starting an internal investigation into media claims that it
used the identities of dead children for officers’ fake
passports in undercover operations.  About 80 police officers in the department’s now-defunct
special demonstration squad used such identities to help
infiltrate political campaign groups and spy on them, the
 Guardian newspaper   reported  yesterday. The “secretive” unit
was disbanded in 2008.  “We are investigating the allegation,” a police spokesman
said today in a phone call from  Bloomberg News . “We can confirm
the process referred to is not something that would be currently
authorized by the MPS.”  The alleged  identity theft  adds to a growing scandal over
the unit’s practices, including claims that some officers
developed sexual relationships with protesters they were spying
on, to strengthen their cover. The Met’s Operation Herne is
probing the defunct unit’s practices and will now investigate
the stolen identities, the Guardian said.  The officers would take the identities from the national
registry of births and deaths and create fake details and back-
stories to go with them, according to the Guardian.  One of the police officers told the newspaper he chose the
name of a child who had died overseas in the 1960s and had a
father who was a Royal Marine. He told the Guardian he visited
the dead boy’s home town to familiarize himself with the area so
he could speak about it convincingly.  The officer previously told the Guardian he had infiltrated
a group called Youth Against Racism in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  