-- Hong Kong Debt Adds to Home Risks as Cooling Steps Eyed
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-02-04T09:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/hong-kong-s-debt-load-adds-to-property-market-risks-hkma-says.html
Hong Kong  monetary chief  Norman Chan 
said more measures are possible to cool the city’s housing
market as elevated household debt adds to risks from property-
price gains over the past four years.  Debt is “near historic high levels,” Chan, the chief
executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, told lawmakers
today, citing ratios of 58 percent to 59 percent of gross
domestic product in the third and fourth quarters. In a housing
and economic downturn, repayment may become more difficult, the
official said.  Chan told reporters that the HKMA can roll out a sixth
package of measures if necessary to rein in the  property market 
after already using tools such as limits on mortgage terms. In
October, the government added a tax on foreigners’ home
purchases. Overheating in the housing market is the biggest risk
to financial stability, Chan said, echoing a warning in December
from the  International Monetary Fund .  “If one believes that the housing market and the economy
go in cycles,” household debt levels may rise further when a
downturn comes, Chan said. That’s because “the economy will
become more difficult and personal and household income will be
negatively affected,” he said.  Household debt in Hong Kong almost doubled to HK$1.21
trillion ($156 billion) last year from HK$662.8 billion in 1997,
when the housing bubble in the city burst, according to the
 HKMA . Mortgage loans of households jumped 64 percent to HK$888.9
billion during the period, while  credit card  and personal loans
increased almost three-fold to HK$320.1 billion, the data show.  Stock Gains  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP)  was little changed in Hong
Kong trading today, compared with a 0.2 percent decline for the
broader benchmark gauge.  Home prices  have doubled since the start of 2009, according
to a weekly index compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  The IMF said that the property sector was the main source
of domestic economic risk. At the same time, the odds of a slump
that has major economic and financial consequences is “fairly
low in the near term,” the fund said in December.  Chan repeated previous warnings that households used to low
 interest rates  may be caught out when borrowing costs climb.  Hong Kong homes cost 13.5 times the gross median household
income, up from 12.6 times a year ago, the most expensive
housing market in an annual affordability survey by Belleville,
Illinois-based consulting company Demographia released last
month. The survey examined housing prices in Australia, Canada,
Hong Kong, Ireland,  New Zealand , the U.K. and the U.S.  A reading of 5.1 or more is considered “severely
unaffordable,” while below 3 is seen as affordable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  