-- President Says Mongolia Should Get More Control of Mine
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-02-04T21:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/mongolia-should-have-more-control-of-rio-mine-president-says.html
Mongolia’s President Tsakhia Elbegdorj said the nation should have more control of  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO) ’s Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold project after the government
said costs had increased.  The total cost of the Rio Tinto-operated development in
southern Mongolia has jumped to $24.4 billion, according to an
e-mailed statement from the government, which gave a summary of
a Feb. 1 parliamentary discussion attended by the president.
London-based Rio had earlier estimated total costs at $14.6
billion, according to the statement.  “It’s time for Mongolia to have Mongolian representation
on the management team,” Elbegdorj said at the session on Feb.
1, according to his  website . “It’s important that the
government takes the Oyu Tolgoi matter into its own hands.”  The president’s comments heighten tension with the second-
biggest mining company over the ownership and future development
of the project, which is currently the world’s biggest copper
mine under construction. Rio is considering a temporary halt to
work to protest government demands for a greater share of
profit, two people familiar with the plans said last week.  “We continue to work together with all stakeholders,
including the government of Mongolia, to bring the benefits of
Oyu Tolgoi to all parties,” Rio Tinto said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. “We are now focused on first commercial
production. We are on schedule to deliver that in the first half
of this year.”  Respect Agreement  David Luff, a Melbourne-based spokesman for Rio Tinto,
wasn’t able to comment on the cost overrun raised by the
Mongolian government.  Mongolia also needs representation “in all the most
important decision-making departments: financial department,
procurement department, legal department, sales and project-
services department,” said Elbegdorj. The country had to wait
for “months” for Rio to respond to questions on the project,
he said.  In December, the president urged Mongolia’s government to
respect the Oyu Tolgoi agreement, according to a Jan. 25 report
by Ulan Bator-based broker BDSec, which cited a Dec. 26
interview with Elbegdorj on state television.  Cost Increases  “The current rhetoric is accentuated by the upcoming
presidential election,” slated for the end of June, Eric Zurrin, director general at Resource Investment Capital Ltd., a
corporate finance adviser in Ulan Bator, said by e-mail today.
“I doubt Rio would endanger the startup of OT following first
production last week, nor its future economic interests, by
entering into games of brinkmanship with the Mongolian
government. I think cooler heads will work out a solution for
both ends, Mongolian and foreigner.”  The costs for the first two stages of the mine would be
 $11.3 billion , according a report on the website of  Turquoise
Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , the Rio unit which owns 66 percent of Oyu
Tolgoi.  Turquoise Hill  fell  1.3 percent C$7.57 at the close in
Toronto. Rio declined 1.7 percent to 3,615 pence in  London .  “We need to address these cost increases with Rio Tinto
and better understand why costs went up,” the government
statement cited Prime Minister Norovyn Altankhuyag as saying.
“We also need to discuss salaries for Mongolian workers, safety
matters and benefits to workers.”  The mounting tensions between Mongolia’s politicians and
Rio may prompt a reshuffle of the Oyu Tolgoi board, which
includes both company and government officials, Dambadarjaa
Jargalsaikhan, an independent economist based in Ulan Bator,
said by phone today.  Business Matter  “Mongolian politicians are acting a little bit too
strongly,” Jargalsaikhan said. “There should be a certain
acceptance of cost changes from planned ones. It happens with a
big project like this. It’s a business matter and as soon as it
is explained, things will go forward.”  The mine, which is controlled by Rio and 34 percent owned
by Mongolia, may account for 2.2 percent of the company’s
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
this year, according to Richard Knights, a mining analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd. Rio’s 2013 Ebitda will be $22.3 billion,
according to the average of 25 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ivanplats Recruits  In October, Rio rejected a second move by Mongolia to
renegotiate a 2009 investment agreement for the development of
Oyu Tolgoi.  Rio Tinto owns 51 percent of Turquoise Hill, which was
founded by billionaire mine developer Robert Friedland.  Friedland’s  Ivanplats Ltd. (IVP) , which owns copper, zinc and
platinum-group metals projects in  Africa , said today it hired
former Oyu Tolgoi project director Steve Garcia as executive
vice president and chief development officer.  Garcia, who was responsible for engineering, procurement
and construction at Oyu Tolgoi from 2005 until the end of last
year, will lead development of Ivanplats’ projects in South
Africa and the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Vancouver-based
company said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulan Bator at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  