-- Longtime Obama Adviser Samantha Power Leaving Administration
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-02-04T21:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/longtime-obama-national-security-aide-power-leaving-white-house.html
Samantha Power, one of President
 Barack Obama ’s top advisers on national security and a longtime
aide, is leaving the administration, at least temporarily, to
focus on family matters, a White House spokesman said.  Power, director for multilateral affairs and human rights
at the National Security Council, has served as an aide to Obama
since his 2008 presidential campaign and is a Pulitzer Prize-
winning author for her book on genocide. She has two young
children, one three years old and the other eight months.  Power probably will return to the administration, though no
decisions have been made on what her future role might be,
according to the spokesman, Tommy Vietor.  “Samantha has been a powerful voice in this administration
and a longtime friend and adviser to the president,” Vietor
said. “We will miss her at the NSC, and we look forward to
continuing the president’s work promoting human rights and
dignity.”  Power, 42, who successfully advocated for the 2011
intervention in Libya on humanitarian grounds, has played a
central role in discussions over how far the U.S. should go to
protect civilians from repressive regimes.  Controversial Comment  Power stirred a controversy during Obama’s 2008
presidential campaign for saying in an interview with the
Scotsman newspaper that then-Senator Hillary Clinton, Obama’s
rival for the Democratic nomination, was a “monster” who would
do anything to win the contest. She resigned from the campaign,
saying her comments were “inexcusable” and didn’t reflect her
admiration for Clinton, who became Obama’s first secretary of
state. Power joined the administration shortly after Obama was
sworn in for his first term.  Her departure comes as Obama has been criticized for not
appointing a sufficient number of women to high-profile posts as
he forms his second-term team.  The president’s first four announced nominees were men --
former Senator John Kerry, who replaced Clinton as secretary of
state; former Senator Chuck Hagel as his pick for Defense
secretary; counterterrorism adviser John Brennan to serve as
head of the Central Intelligence Agency, and Chief of Staff Jack Lew for Treasury secretary.  Obama last month announced he would nominate former U.S.
Attorney Mary Jo White to run the Securities and Exchange
Commission. He’s also considering women for key economic posts,
including Wal-Mart Foundation President Sylvia Mathews Burwell
for budget director and Ruth Porat, chief financial officer at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , for deputy Treasury secretary.  Open Positions  Obama also hasn’t filled positions at the head of the
departments of commerce, energy, transportation, labor and
interior, as well as a new administrator for the Environmental
Protection Agency.  At a White House news conference on Jan. 14, Obama said his
administration is among the most diverse in history.  “I would just suggest that everybody kind of wait until
they’ve seen all my appointment, who is in the White House staff
and who is in my cabinet, before they rush to judgment,” he
said.  In his first term, there were eight women among the 23
cabinet and cabinet-level officers in Obama’s administration.  Female voters, 53 percent of the electorate, were a
decisive force in the presidential race. Fifty-five percent of
women cast ballots for Obama versus 44 percent who voted for
Republican  Mitt Romney , exit polls showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  