-- Oracle Agrees to Buy Acme Packet for $2.1 Billion in Cash
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2013-02-04T21:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/oracle-agrees-to-buy-acme-packet-for-1-7-billion-in-cash.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the second-largest
maker of business applications, agreed to acquire  Acme Packet
Inc. (APKT)  for $2.1 billion, gaining networking gear that helps
corporations securely transmit information over the Internet.  Oracle will pay $29.25 a share in cash, according to a
statement today. That marks a 22 percent premium over Acme’s
stock price on Feb. 1, the last trading day before the deal was
announced. Excluding Acme’s cash, Oracle is paying $1.7 billion.  Oracle Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  has spent more
than $50 billion on more than 80 acquisitions since 2005 to
expand in the market for software and hardware that enable
cloud-computing, moving beyond the company’s traditional
applications that run on corporate servers. Acme’s tools to
transmit voice and video via the Web may help Oracle challenge
Cisco Systems Inc. in networking -- a market that’s benefiting
from the boom in mobile devices.  “Either the total addressable market is on the verge of a
huge, transformational inflection point and will quickly balloon
into a multi-billion dollar market, or Oracle senses that the
future of its business model is in the control of communications
data flow, and this acquisition, pricey as it is, is a sure
beachhead into a new leg of growth,” Greg Mesniaeff, an analyst
at Maxim Group, wrote in a research note.  Steep Premium  Net of cash, Oracle’s offer for Acme is more than six times
the target company’s sales over the last 12 months, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a steep premium for Acme, a
leader in a market for so-called Internet-session border control
that is worth less than $1 billion, Mesniaeff said.  Acme’s gear may help revive slumping sales of hardware
Oracle gained through the $7.4 billion 2010 purchase of Sun
Microsystems, Ross MacMillan, an analyst at Jefferies & Co.,
wrote in a note to clients. Net of cash Oracle paid $5.7 billion
for Sun, or about half trailing 12 month sales, according to
Bloomberg data.  “We see the acquisition bolstering demand for Sun
hardware, expanding Oracle’s unified communications portfolio,
and expanding Oracle’s relationship with large telco service
providers,” MacMillan wrote in a note to clients.  The shares of Acme surged 24 percent to $29.59 at the close
in  New York , while Oracle decreased 3 percent to $35.13.
 BroadSoft Inc. (BSFT) , a maker of networking software, surged 10
percent to $38.56 on speculation that it may also be acquired.
 Sonus Networks Inc. (SONS) , which makes products that carry Internet
voice and data, rallied 20 percent to $2.74.  Oracle or another company focused on corporate customers
might consider buying BroadSoft, Richard Valera, an analyst at
Needham & Co., said in an interview.  BroadSoft Takeover  Acme and BroadSoft have equipment that’s complementary, he
said. “Acme makes the pipe; BroadSoft makes the application
that runs through the pipe,” Valera said. “If Oracle’s taking
the plunge, maybe other big historically enterprise-focused
companies might be looking.”  Acme, based in Bedford,  Massachusetts , will help speed the
transition to cloud computing by enabling secure communications
from any device, across any network, Oracle said. Acme has more
than 1,925 customers in 109 countries.  “The communications industry is undergoing a dramatic
shift as users become more connected and dependent on mobile
applications and devices,” Bhaskar Gorti, senior vice president
and general manager of Oracle Communications, said in the
statement. “Service providers and enterprises need a
comprehensive communications solution that will enable them to
more effectively engage with their customers.”  Networking Gear  Transitioning to cloud software lets companies save money
by renting applications online rather than installing and
updating it themselves. The switch is also driving up demand for
hardware that directs traffic and moves networking capacity
where it’s needed.  In July, Oracle paid an undisclosed sum for Xsigo Systems
Inc. to gain tools for managing Web traffic. Oracle in December
agreed to buy cloud-computing company Eloqua Inc. for about $871
million, or more than 9 times trailing 12 month sales.  In two previous large cloud-computing deals last year,
 Redwood City , California-based Oracle paid 6.3 times trailing 12
month sales for HR tools maker Taleo Corp. in April, and 7.1
times the revenue of customer support software maker RightNow
Technologies Inc., which it acquired in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  