-- Osborne Plans Bank Breakup Powers, Open Payment Systems
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-04T12:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/osborne-plans-power-to-break-up-u-s-banks-flouting-rules.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne said for the first time regulators will get the
power to break up banks, hardening legislation aimed at making
lenders safer. He will also open up industry payment systems.  Osborne said in a speech today the breakup powers will be
added to the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Bill to be
presented to Parliament this week. Authorities will be able to
split up an institution that doesn’t abide by “ring-fencing”
rules to insulate retail operations from investment-banking
activities. Bank payment systems will be regulated to make the
system more responsive and allow new entrants into the industry.  “My message to the banks is clear: If a bank flouts the
rules, the regulator and the Treasury will have the power to
break it up altogether -- full separation, not just a ring-
fence,” Osborne said in Bournemouth, southern England,
according to a text released by his office. “Banks found ways
to overcome and get around the rules. Greed overcame good
governance. We could see that again, so we are going to arm
ourselves in advance.”  The tougher approach marks a change of stance by Osborne,
who said as recently as November he didn’t want the proposals
changed for fear of “unpicking a consensus” developed in the
last two years. Since then, Osborne has come under pressure from
lawmakers in both Prime Minister David Cameron’s coalition
government and the opposition Labour Party to do more as the
Libor manipulation scandal intensified. The British Bankers’
Association, the industry lobby group, said the new plan would
mean banks have less money to lend.  ‘Not Working’  The revised banking-bill legislation being presented this
week won’t specify what would trigger an intervention. That will
be identified in secondary legislation later. Osborne also said
he’ll introduce detailed proposals for overhauling bank payments
systems.  “Why is it that big banks can move their money around
instantly, but when a small business wants to make a payment it
takes days? The system isn’t working for customers, so we will
change it,” Osborne said. “We will make sure that new players
in the market can access these systems in a fair and transparent
way.”  BBA Chief Executive Officer Anthony Browne said the bank
breakup plan threatened London’s attractiveness as an
international financial center.  ‘Regulatory Certainty’  “This will create uncertainty for investors, making it
more difficult for banks to raise capital which will ultimately
mean that banks will have less money to lend to businesses,”
Browne said in an e-mailed statement. “What banks and business
need is regulatory certainty so that banks can get on with what
they want to do, which is help the economy grow.”  Osborne’s shift also marks a victory for the  Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards , the cross-party panel headed by
Andrew Tyrie, a lawmaker from Osborne’s Conservative Party.
Osborne clashed in November with members of the 10-member
committee, which he himself appointed last year to look at
conduct in the financial-services sector following the Libor
scandal and subsequently asked to lead the pre-legislative
scrutiny of the banking bill.  Tyrie said in a statement that Osborne's speech marked 
``an important step in the right direction.''                    Osborne said he expects the legislation being introduced
today to become law within a year. The job of overseeing the new
regime will fall to the Bank of England, which is set to gain
new powers for supervising banks under Mark Carney. Osborne
today praised the Bank of Canada governor, who is due to take
over from Mervyn King at the helm of the U.K. central bank on
July 1, as “the very best person in the world to do the job.”  RBS Bonuses  Osborne said he wants  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender, to pay any fines for
Libor manipulation from its bonus pool.  “The sight of money coming in from the taxpayer to pay RBS
Libor fines would have caused enormous public anger,” Osborne
said during a question-and-answer session after his speech.
“That is not on.” He said those found to be involved in
abusing Libor should face the “full force of the law,” with
supervisors sharing full responsibility.  RBS may pay 500 million pounds ($785 million) to U.S. and
U.K. authorities to settle the Libor claims, two people familiar
with the matter said on Jan. 29. Osborne wants the fines paid
either from this year’s bonus pool or through clawing back
bonuses from previous years.  Tougher Action  Osborne said today that Libor and the mis-selling of
interest swaps by banks confirms the need for tougher action in
order to quell the anger felt by many voters following the
financial crisis that began in 2007.  “I understand that anger,” he said. “I feel it too.”  Successive witnesses at the panel’s hearings expressed
concern that the government proposals will be diluted by the
banks before they are properly implemented.  Witnesses including former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO Martin Taylor
said regulators should be given the power to fully split banks
along retail and investment lines if proposed arrangements for a
firewall fail.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, who designed
the U.S. approach, told the panel that the successful ring-
fencing of banks’ operations is very difficult to maintain and
financial institutions will seek to unwind the separation over
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  