-- Osborne Says RBS Managers Must Be Held Accountable for Libor
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-04T13:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/osborne-says-rbs-managers-must-be-held-accountable-for-libor.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said that  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
managers who oversaw the money-markets business should be held
accountable for the alleged manipulation of  interest rates .  “Those who were doing the supervising must also bear their
share of the responsibility,” Osborne said in Bournemouth,
southern  England  today. “The RBS board and the RBS senior
management are well aware of that and decisions are in hand.”  RBS may pay as much as 500 million pounds ($786 million) in
fines to U.K. and U.S. regulators as early as this week to
settle allegations traders tried to rig the London interbank
offered rate, two people with knowledge of the matter said last
month. Investment banking chief John Hourican is expected to
resign because he had responsibility for the parts of the
company where the alleged wrongdoing occurred, even though he
didn’t have direct knowledge of the behavior, the people said.  The bank, which started an internal probe in 2010, has so
far dismissed four bankers and suspended at least three others,
including Jezri Mohideen, head of rates trading for  Europe  and
the Asia-Pacific region. Osborne gave his backing to Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester .  Osborne also said that RBS should pay the U.S. portion of
the fine by cutting investment-banker bonuses and clawing back
discretionary awards from previous years.  Bonus Pool  “I’ve made it very clear to the bank, and the bank
management accept this” that U.S. fines should be paid for by
RBS’s bankers, Osborne said. “That could potentially have been
the cause of real public anger this spring” and that has now
been avoided, he added.  RBS will reduce its bonus pool by as much as 150 million
pounds to offset the fines, a person familiar with the plan said
last month. RBS paid staff at its securities unit about 390
million pounds in bonuses for 2011, the bank has said.  RBS traders and their managers routinely sought to
influence the firm’s Libor submissions between 2007 and 2010 to
profit from derivatives bets, according to transcripts of
internal conversations seen by  Bloomberg News  and interviews
with employees and lawyers. Traders also communicated with
counterparts at other firms to discuss where rates should be
set, the people said.  Regulators including the U.K. Financial Services Authority,
the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission and the
 Department of Justice  are investigating claims that more than 16
banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks to profit from
derivatives bets. While RBS’s fine will be smaller than the $1.5
billion charge UBS AG paid in December to settle claims it
attempted to manipulate Libor, it will exceed the 290 million-
pound fine  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid in June, the people said.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks firms to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The top and bottom
quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are averaged
and published for individual currencies before noon in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  