-- Most Advanced TB Vaccine Fails to Boost Protection, Study Finds
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-04T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/most-advanced-tb-vaccine-fails-to-boost-protection-study-finds.html
The most advanced tuberculosis
vaccine in 90 years failed to boost protection against the
deadly disease when added to the shot given routinely to
children, in a setback to the quest for global TB control.  In a  study  among 2,797 babies in  South Africa , those who
received the experimental MVA85A vaccine in addition to the
standard Bacille Calmette-Guerin shot were no less likely to
become infected with the TB bacterium or develop the disease
after three years than those who only got the BCG vaccine,
researchers from the University of Oxford and the University of
 Cape Town  wrote in The Lancet journal today.  The findings deal a blow to researchers looking for a new
TB vaccine to improve on BCG, which was introduced in 1921 and
is only partially effective against the world’s second-biggest
infectious killer.  “The difficulty of this task is one reason why there has
not been a new TB vaccine since BCG was developed more than 90
years ago, but one is still urgently needed and I’m not about to
give up now,” Helen McShane, a professor of vaccinology at
Oxford who developed MVA85A, said in a statement.  The study results published today will help shape the
development of more than a dozen other experimental TB vaccines
that are being tested worldwide, according to  Aeras , the
Rockville, Maryland-based non-profit organization that funded
the trial.  Dormant Bug  Tuberculosis sickened about 8.7 million people in 2011 and
killed 1.4 million, making it the  second-deadliest  infectious
disease behind AIDS, according to the  World Health Organization .  TB is caused by a bacterium that has infected about one-
third of the world’s population, according to the Geneva-based
WHO. While the bug lies dormant in most people, in about 10
percent of cases it activates, sickening its host and spreading
to others through coughing and sneezing. Both the active and
latent forms of TB can be cured with antibiotics, though
resistance to standard drugs is increasing, according to the
WHO.  In the study, 32 of the 1,399 infants who received MVA85A
on top of the BCG, or 2 percent, went on to develop active
tuberculosis, compared with 39 of 1,395, or 3 percent, of those
who received BCG alone, McShane and colleagues wrote. The
difference was not statistically significant.  Aeras is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,
the U.K. Department for International Development, the U.S.
National Institute of Allergy and  Infectious Diseases , U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration , the Dutch Ministry of  Foreign Affairs ,
and the Research Council of  Norway .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  