-- Pakistan Taliban Set Conditions for Peace Talks in Weekend Video
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-02-04T08:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/pakistan-taliban-set-conditions-for-peace-talks-in-weekend-video.html
Pakistan ’s Taliban insurgents and the
country’s top security official have set conditions for peace
talks in comments that may be aimed primarily at influencing a
general election due by May.  In a video message  broadcast  by local media yesterday, the
spokesman for the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, Ehsanullah Ehsan,
said the group would join negotiations if leaders of the
country’s main opposition party and religious groups act as
guarantors and militant commanders are released.  Interior Minister Rehman Malik on Jan. 27 called on the
Taliban to renounce violence and sit down for negotiations, the
Dawn newspaper reported, citing his speech in parliament.  Pakistan’s Taliban movement is a loose alliance of militant
and sectarian organizations that are fighting security forces in
the country’s tribal areas bordering  Afghanistan . The insurgents
are opposed to Pakistan’s security alliance with the U.S. and
want to impose Islamic law. Militants killed seven Pakistan
soldiers in a Feb. 2 attack on an army camp in the province of
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.  The Taliban doesn’t trust the Pakistani military to
negotiate honestly, Ehsan said, while calling it the institution
that held sway in the country.  “The army is the real ruler in Pakistan, not
politicians,” Ehsan said in the video. “So if the government
is serious in talks, then we will need guarantors, making sure
that the army won’t back out.” He named former prime minister
 Nawaz Sharif  as one of three politicians -- the other two lead
religious parties -- the Taliban wants to take part in talks.  Swat Deal  Coming months ahead of the parliamentary polls, the Taliban
“are trying to build domestic pressure because Islamic parties
support peace talks and Sharif’s stand is ambiguous,” said
Hasan-Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-based political analyst. These
interlocutors “have no political weight with the military, they
can’t play any role.”  Pakistan’s military has struck deals with Taliban in the
past 10 years, including a 2009 pact to end fighting in the Swat
valley that had forced 2 million people from their homes.  The Taliban offer of talks comes as the government of
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa struggles to contain violence in the province
and guerrillas have spread their attacks to other parts of the
country, including the commercial hub of Karachi.  The  Awami National Party , which rules Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa,
welcomed Ehsan’s comments. The party is seeking to build a
national consensus for opening dialogue with Taliban, Mian Iftikhar Hussain, provincial information minister, said in
televised comments yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  