-- PBF Energy Completes Delaware City Rail Terminal for Bakken Oil
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-02-04T15:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/pbf-energy-completes-delaware-city-rail-terminal-for-bakken-oil.html
PBF Energy Inc. (PBF)  finished construction
of the second train unloading terminal at its Delaware City
refinery, boosting total crude-by-rail capacity to 110,000
barrels a day.  PBF expects to unload its first unit train of Bakken oil
this week, with 17 more scheduled to arrive in the next two
weeks, the company said today in a statement. The 182,200-
barrel-a-day refinery can take 40,000 barrels a day of heavy
crude by rail and 70,000 barrels of light.  PBF, based in Parsippany,  New Jersey , is trying to tap into
the glut of oil stranded in Canada and the U.S. Midwest as
production growth has outpaced pipeline capacity, depressing
prices relative to Brent, the benchmark crude for Atlantic
refiners.  “The completion of this premier rail facility puts our
East Coast refining system at a competitive advantage compared
to its Atlantic Basin peers,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Nimbley said in the statement. “PBF is now able to deliver
significant quantities of cost-advantaged North American crude
oils directly to Delaware City at very competitive pricing.”  By building unloading capacity directly at the refinery,
PBF saves about $3 a barrel compared with deals where rail is
transported by a combination of rail and barge, Nimbley said
Jan. 24 at the Argus Crude Americas Conference in Houston.  ‘Explosive Growth’  The company said it’s spending $50 million to double its
heavy crude unloading capacity at Delaware City by the end of
the year. Nimbley said at the Argus conference that he expects
to see “explosive growth” in moving crude by rail out of
 Canada  this year.  “The Bakken was faster on building rail infrastructure
than the Canadians,” he said. “They were thinking (Keystone)
XL was going to get done, they were thinking they’d have that to
move it, now they’re saying ’Oh my what has happened?’”  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  is awaiting approval from the State
Department for a portion of the Keystone XL pipeline which would
run from  Alberta  to  Steele City ,  Nebraska . The company broke its
$7.6 billion Keystone XL pipeline into two projects after
President  Barack Obama  rejected a permit application last year
over environmental concerns in Nebraska.  The Calgary-based company anticipates completing a segment
of the pipeline that will run from  Oklahoma  to Texas refineries
by the end of 2013, Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said at
a conference last month.  Rail Cars  PBF spends about $17 a barrel transporting heavy Canadian,
Nimbley said. The extra cost compared with Bakken is because
heavy Canadian oil needs to be transported in coiled and
insulated rail cars, which carry about 550 barrels per car,
compared with 700 for Bakken oil.  PBF also said in the statement that it will purchase 2,000
more coiled and insulated rail cars to transport Canadian crude,
and 500 more general purpose rail cars. The company will own or
lease 3,600 cars designed for heavy crude by the first quarter
of 2015, when delivery of the order is complete.  Bakken crude priced at Clearbrook, Minnesota, cost  $21 a
barrel less than  Brent, the benchmark for Atlantic Coast
refiners, at 9:02 a.m.  New York  time, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Western Canada Select, a blend of heavy sour oil
from Alberta, cost a record $65.81 a barrel less than Brent on
Dec. 14. The crude traded at a  discount  of $49.19 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  