-- China Signals Central Bank Leadership to Change Next Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-04T09:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/pboc-s-zhou-to-step-down-in-march-official-newspaper-reports.html
China signaled it’s preparing for its
first new central bank chief since 2002 as an official newspaper
said  Zhou Xiaochuan  will step down from his position next month.  The China Securities Journal, published by the state-run
Xinhua News Agency, didn’t attribute the information to anyone
in its Feb. 2 profile of Zhou, governor of the  People’s Bank of
China . The ruling Communist Party previously indicated in
November that Zhou would leave, without saying when, by omitting
him from its central committee list.  The successor to Zhou, 65, whose decade of service makes
him the longest-tenured PBOC chief, will help decide the pace of
loosening controls on interest rates and capital flows.
China’s benchmark stock gauge, the Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP) , has
gained 24 percent since Dec. 3 on optimism the world’s second-
largest economy is rebounding from growth at a 13-year low last
year.  “The central bank governor change will be part of China’s
government reshuffle in March,” with Zhou reaching retirement
age, said  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Hong Kong. The successor “has to follow Zhou’s
uncompleted reforms in liberalizing China’s interest rates and
opening up the capital account,” Zhu said.  The PBOC news office didn’t immediately respond to faxed
questions from Bloomberg News about how much longer Zhou will
serve. Under Chinese law, China’s central bank governor must be
named by the premier and endorsed by the National People’s
Congress. The annual gathering of the full legislative body is
in March.  Advisory Body  Zhou was listed Feb. 2 as a member of the  Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference , the top political advisory
body, in a further sign he will depart the PBOC post soon.  The China Securities Journal piece includes several
unattributed anecdotes about Zhou. In one story, Zhou played
tennis with  Lawrence Summers , then the top economic adviser to
U.S. President  Barack Obama , in Beijing in September 2010 and
“joked” that the winner of the game would dictate exchange-
rate policies between the two countries. Summers lost, the
newspaper said.  The newspaper said Zhou’s use of English phrases at central
bank meetings once sent a department director rushing out of the
room for a dictionary. The publication didn’t identify the
official or what Zhou said.  Zhou oversaw an overhaul of the country’s exchange rate
system in July 2005 that paved the way for the  yuan  to
appreciate. He also loosened controls over the use of the yuan
for international trade and investment purposes and gave banks
more freedom to set lending and deposit rates.  Potential successors include Shang Fulin, the nation’s
banking regulator, and  Guo Shuqing , head of the securities
regulator,  David Loevinger , former senior coordinator for China
affairs at the U.S. Treasury Department, said last year.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  