-- Pearl Harbor Flight Recalls Uncle’s USS Arizona Death
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 2013-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/pearl-harbor-flight-recalls-uncle-s-uss-arizona-death.html
After 11 hours nonstop from  New York 
to Honolulu, I had no plans to hit the beach for surfing.  I was hooking up with an outfit called  Pacific Warbirds 
that takes tourists on thrill rides aboard a vintage SNJ-5
airplane. I would fly over Pearl Harbor on the single-prop
aircraft at the same altitude as the Japanese pilots did 71
years ago when they attacked the U.S.  And I had to make it fast. President  Barack Obama  was about
to visit for the holidays, so air-space security restrictions
forced me to get my flight done the morning after I arrived, or
not at all.  I was born in  Japan  while my father was stationed in
Yokohama during the postwar occupation. But the Warbird
adventure particularly interested me because my Uncle Donald
Clash, a second-class fire apprentice seaman in the U.S. Navy,
was killed aboard the  USS Arizona  Dec. 7, 1941, during Japan’s
sneak attack.  Still earthbound, I ran into rush-hour traffic on my way
from the  Hawaiian Hilton Village Hotel  in Honolulu to  Kalaeloa
Airport  at Barbers Point Naval Air Station. When I arrived a
half-hour after the time stipulated, Bruce Mayes, Warbird pilot
and ex-military, was not pleased. He had sent me mock orders to
“report for duty ” at 9 a.m. sharp.  I was simulating a soldier, and tardiness is inexcusable.
My mission: To take reconnaissance photos of the island’s most
ravaged areas three days after the big attack.  ‘Top Secret’  I was escorted to a small briefing room made up to look
like Dec. 10, 1941: stale cigarette butts in an ashtray, 1940s
swing music playing on an old radio - “Top Secret” stamped on
everything in sight. Even an old teletype machine clicked
mechanically in the background.  Sure it’s a bit hokey, but role-playing makes the
experience more enjoyable -- and authentic -- says Mayes, a
veteran of more than 35 years of flying. Besides the SNJ-5, he
has flown B-737s for Aloha Airlines and helicopters for the Army
and Coast Guard.  Mayes went over the Japanese attack plan in detail, showing
on maps how meticulously the two bombing waves were carried out.
While it had seemed like an eternity to the soldiers below, the
entire attack took only about 90 minutes,  Next, I was led to a darkened room to watch rare World War
II films. Suddenly onscreen was the  Arizona , bombed-out and
burning. My thoughts immediately turned to my uncle.  Japanese Zeros  By the time we got to the plane, my head was filled with
history. The SNJ-5 is the U.S. Navy’s designation for the
single-engine  North American Aviation T-6 Texan . Ironically in
the movie “Tora! Tora! Tora!” these aircraft, adorned with
Japanese markings, simulated attacking Japanese Zeros. In
reality, they were venerable U.S. warhorses. Ours, painted
yellow and red, resembled planes on the deck of the  USS
Saratoga .  After instruction in the use of my parachute (“if you have
to jump, aim for the back of the wing to avoid being clipped by
the tail”), we closed the canopy and took off. I rode directly
behind Mayes, with my own stick and rudder -- in theory so
students can fly the plane, too, as the two-seater is primarily
a trainer aircraft.  But since I was a tourist, Mayes warned me to stay clear of
the rudder pedals. Through my radio headset, he relayed a vivid
crash tale where, in the fiery wreckage, investigators found a
passenger’s shoe caught in those pedals, which had caused the
pilot to lose control.  Attack Landmarks  The wild island below receded, taking on the look of a
well-manicured arboretum. Mayes immediately pointed out attack
landmarks such as  Hickam Field . After about 20 minutes, we
reached the North Shore and I could see swells breaking off of
Waimea and Sunset beaches. From 2,500 feet, the whitewater
seemed puny but, in reality, the waves were more than 20 feet
high.  After circling south along the east coast, we took a sharp
right and headed through the mountain pass made famous in “Tora
Tora! Tora!” Then, finally, we zeroed in on  Pearl Harbor .  The ships and structures below looked like toys.
Nonetheless, I couldn’t help turning back the clock and
imagining what Japanese pilots saw that fateful day from where I
was -- then what my helpless uncle must have endured below on
the Arizona as it burned. The whole thing gave me palpable
chills, and I was still shaking when we landed.  Typical Client  Over coffee, Mayes talked about his company, founded in
2009, and who his typical client is. Not surprisingly, most are
older and history-conscious. Some, like me, even had a relative
involved in the attack. He also told me that my visceral
reaction of having been “spoken to” over Pearl Harbor was not
uncommon.  As we parted, he mentioned that routinely he competes on
the air racing circuit. His nickname: “The Flyin’ Hawaiian.”
He joked that I should join him in Reno,  Nevada , at this year’s
air show to see how fast his plane can really go.  The humor cut any remaining tension I felt and I winked
back, telling him I just might, as long as he gave me another
ride in his magnificent flying machine.  Essentials: Go to  http://vintage-aviation.com  to book.
Several options are available; the Pearl Harbor Experience costs
$1,200. Hawaiian Airlines offers the only direct, nonstop flight
from New York JFK to Honolulu. Allow at least 50 minutes for a
cab from downtown Honolulu.  (James M. Clash is the author of “The Right Stuff:
Interviews with Icons of the 1960s,” (AskMen, 2012). He writes
on adventure for Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg
News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  wine , Daniel Akst
on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
James M. Clash at  Jamesmclash@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 