-- Pegasus Hires Starwood Capital Hotel Chief for Six Senses
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-02-04T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/pegasus-hires-starwood-capital-hotel-chief-for-six-senses.html
Pegasus Capital Advisors LP hired
Neil Jacobs, former president of Starwood Capital Group LLC’s
hotel unit, to run its  Six Senses Resorts & Spas  division as it
seeks to expand the ultra-luxury brand.  Pegasus, a Cos Cob, Connecticut-based private-equity firm
with about $2.7 billion in assets, purchased Six Senses in
April. The company -- which currently has eight resorts in the  
Maldives , Thailand, Oman and Vietnam -- wants to expand to  South
America  and potentially urban areas such as  New York , Jacobs
said in an interview.  “Our focus is South America right now but the U.S. is also
on our mind,” he said. The parent company’s “ability to
attract capital and their ability to co-invest is going to help
us drive growth.”  Jacobs joined Six Senses as chief executive officer last
month after spending five years as president of global hotel
operations at Starwood Capital, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based
investment firm run by  Barry Sternlicht . Jacobs oversaw
development of the company’s Baccarat and 1 Hotels brands, which
are opening their first properties in the next two years.  Starwood said last week that it hired C. Scott Rohm as
president of SH Group, its hotel brand management company. The
firm has resuscitated the 1 Hotels brand in New York after
halting construction in  Seattle  in late 2007 amid the U.S.
credit crisis. Starwood plans five hotel openings in the next 24
months, including the 1 Hotel  Central Park  in New York and a
Baccarat in  Morocco .  Asia Move  Tom Johnson , a Starwood Capital spokesman with Abernathy
MacGregor Group, declined to comment on Jacobs’s departure.  “My primary reason to leave Starwood was that I wanted to
go back to  Asia ,” said Jacobs, who will be based in Bangkok and
previously oversaw Four Seasons Hotels Inc.’s Asia-Pacific
properties. “With Starwood, that wasn’t really possible. But
I’m still good friends with Barry and will always look out for
opportunities for him also.”  Six Senses, which operates 21 stand-alone spas in addition
to its eight resorts, is looking to operate or have signed
management contracts for as many as 40 hotels within five years,
Jacobs said. In South America, it is pursuing locations in
countries including Colombia and  Ecuador .  The Six Senses properties have amenities such as private
villas and infinity pools. At the Six Senses Laamu in the
Maldives, villas perched above the ocean feature outdoor rain
showers and sunken, all-glass bathtubs as well as private water
gardens.  Sustainable Luxury Holdings Ltd, a newly formed company
managed by Pegasus, will operate the resorts and spa assets.
While Six Senses is looking to gain management contracts as
opposed to buying the underlying real estate, the company is
willing to contribute as much as 15 percent of equity should a
project require it, according to Jacobs.  “We’re able to do that should that be something that plays
a significant role to open the door,” Jacobs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  