-- Pemex Blast Death Toll Rises to 36 as Investigation Continues
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-02-04T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/pemex-blast-death-toll-rises-to-36-as-investigation-continues.html
The death count rose to 36 yesterday
as a self-imposed deadline to provide an update on what caused a
blast at state-owned oil company  Petroleos Mexicanos ’s
headquarters came and went.  The latest victims’ bodies were pulled from the rubble of a
Pemex building damaged in the Jan. 31 explosion in Mexico City.
The company’s chief executive officer, Emilio Lozoya Austin, met
yesterday with Energy Minister Pedro Joaquin Coldwell and
Attorney General Jesus Murillo Karam. They did not provide
additional details on the explosion.  The nation’s deadliest explosion since a mine accident in
2006 came as President Enrique Pena Nieto, who took office Dec.
1, planned to submit a bill to increase private investment in
the  energy industry  and lower taxes on Pemex, the nation’s
largest company by revenue and the world’s fourth-biggest crude
producer. The initiative would be the biggest energy-industry
overhaul since the nation seized  oil fields  from British and
U.S. companies 75 years ago.  Murillo said Feb. 1 that authorities would provide an
update on the cause of the blast in “a day or two, but no
later.” U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  discussed the blast
with his Mexican counterpart by telephone this weekend, the
State Department said yesterday.  “I reckon they’ll have to say something today or
tomorrow,” David Shields, an independent energy analyst in
Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. “People are worried
and uneasy about the fact that nothing is coming out.”  Storage Area  The basement of the building where the explosion occurred
held storage for documents, polishing machines and a water
treatment plant, a Pemex official, who declined to be
identified, citing corporate policy, said Feb. 2 in an
interview. The union office was on the first floor, along with
management offices for human resources and administration, which
also occupied space on the second floor.  The explosion won’t have any financial or economic impact
on Pemex, Lozoya, who took the helm of the oil producer two
months ago, told reporters Feb. 1. Production is about 2.57
million barrels of oil and the headquarters will reopen Feb. 5
after a three-day federal holiday weekend commemorating
Constitution Day.  The blast also injured 121 at the complex, where about
10,000 work or visit daily, Lozoya said. Thirty-five remain
hospitalized, Pemex said yesterday on its Twitter account.  Murillo said Feb. 1 the government is “determined to find
the truth of this incident whatever it may be, whether it
involves an accident, whether it involves negligence, whether it
involves an attack,” he said.  Pemex has stepped up security at oil production facilities
during the investigation, the company said.  Shattered Windows  Footage on Milenio TV showed shattered windows and gaping
holes in walls on several floors after the blast rocked the B2
building adjacent to the company’s main office, the second-
tallest tower in the country, between 3:40 p.m. and 3:45 p.m.
local time on Jan. 31. Security personnel surrounded the complex
and roped off the area outside, where dozens of ambulances were
parked and a bust of the late President  Lazaro Cardenas , who
nationalized Mexico’s oil industry in 1938, stood intact.  Pena Nieto on Jan. 30 spoke at a conference for his
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , promoting his proposed
energy-industry overhaul in a bid to stem production declines at
Pemex. While he’s promised not to privatize Pemex, he’s also
pledged to forge ahead on a modernization that would allow more
non-government investment and boost competitiveness.  The president drew criticism on Feb. 2 after local media
reported he had left Mexico City for a vacation over the
nation’s three-day weekend. He returned to the Mexican capital
and toured the Pemex headquarters late the same day.  Pemex Overhaul  The government undertook some overhaul efforts with Pemex
under the previous administration. In 2008, then-president
 Felipe Calderon  pushed through a bill that allowed outsourcing
production projects through performance-based contracts.  “At this point, I don’t think it will have any impact” on
the broader discussion of an energy sector overhaul, Alejandra Leon, a Mexico City-based analyst at IHS CERA, said in an
interview. “Especially if this is just an accident, which is
the most likely cause.”  At least three other incidents have caused significant
casualties at Pemex in recent years. A fire at a gas
distribution hub near the U.S. border left at least 30 dead last
year, and 21 workers were killed in 2007 when an oil rig hit a
drilling platform in the Gulf of  Mexico .  In addition, an explosion prompted by a criminal gang
attempting to steal oil from a pipeline in the state of Puebla
killed 28 in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  