-- Petition to Block Spectra Energy Pipeline Denied by Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-02-04T23:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/petition-to-block-spectra-energy-pipeline-denied-by-judge.html
Spectra Energy Corp.’s (SE)  plan to build
a 16-mile pipeline to bring natural gas into Manhattan from New
Jersey was cleared by a New York state judge who rejected an
environmental group’s challenge to the project.  Justice Eileen A. Rakower denied a petition from  Sane
Energy Project  and other groups to block construction of the
pipeline, saying the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has
authority over the licensing of interstate natural gas lines,
according to a ruling dated Jan. 16 and posted last week.  The Natural Gas Act gives the U.S. Court of Appeals
jurisdiction to hear challenges involving the licensing of
interstate natural gas pipelines, and federal law also preempts
state and local environmental-review requirements for such
pipelines, Rakower said. A proper challenge should be brought
with the commission or in federal court, she said.  The Sane Energy Project was formed in January 2011 to fight
the pipeline, according to its website. The group, which opposes
the “development, transport and export of shale gas,” said it
won’t pursue an appeal because of the costs.  ‘Right Thing’  “This is disappointing, but we still feel that it was
worth the effort and was the right thing to do,” the group said
in a statement. “It was necessary for someone to go after them
and we’re glad we did. We could not have stood by all these past
months, not having tried every means available to fight the
pipeline.”  The $1.2 billion pipeline would bring 800 million cubic
feet of gas a day from Linden, New Jersey, to Manhattan’s West
Village, by way of Staten Island and Jersey City. Spectra has
said the project, which started in July, may lower prices for
customers in New Jersey and New York by bringing more gas from
abundant shale fields such as the Marcellus region in
Pennsylvania.  The commission said in March that the project would have a
“less-than-significant” environmental effect. Spectra, based
in Houston, completed a section of the pipeline between Jersey
City and Manhattan, U.S. Transmission President Bill Yardley
said at a Jan. 16 conference.  Caitlin Currie, a spokeswoman for Spectra Energy, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is Sane Energy Project v. Hudson River Park Trust,
103707/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  