-- Poland to Raise $77.2 Million From Property Group PHN Share Sale
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-02-04T22:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/poland-to-raise-77-2-million-from-property-group-phn-share-sale.html
Poland is raising 238.6 million zloty
($77.2 million) from the sale of a 25 percent stake in property
company Grupa PHN SA after pricing it near the lower end of the
range.  The Treasury Ministry set the price in the sale of 10.8
million shares at 22 zloty each, the Warsaw-based company said
in a disclosure statement today. The price range was 20 zloty to
26 zloty, PAP newswire reported on Jan. 23, without saying where
it got the information.  Poland is selling assets to curb public debt and boost
state investments. Last month the government and state-owned
Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego raised 5.24 billion zloty from the
sale of a stake in  PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO) , the country’s largest
lender. Other state offerings this year may include utility
Energa SA and insurer PZU SA, according to government plans.  Poland plans to sell a controlling stake in PHN to a
strategic investor after the IPO and will keep as much as 25
percent, Deputy Treasury Minister Pawel Tamborski said Jan. 23.
The investor may be picked by the end of the year, Treasury
Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski said on the same day.  Grupa Radius, the real-estate developer controlled by
Polish investor Robert Szustkowski, is seeking to gain control
over PHN, it said last month.  Mennica Polska SA (MNC) , a Polish coin
maker, is also interested in PHN, PAP reported on Jan. 11,
citing Chief Executive Officer Grzegorz Zambrzycki.  PHN’s net loss widened to 142.9 million zloty in the first
nine months of 2012 from 85.4 million zloty a year earlier. The
company, which estimates its net value of assets at 1.75 billion
zloty, plans to start trading on the Warsaw bourse by Feb. 13.  Citigroup Inc., UBS AG, Societe Generale SA and Deutsche
Bank AG are helping manage PHN’s share sale as joint global
coordinators and joint book runners. BRE Bank SA,  Bank Zachodni
WBK SA (BZW) , Wood & Co. and PKO Bank are joint bookrunners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  