-- Pound Rises Versus Euro Even as Construction Contracts
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-02-04T16:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/pound-strengthens-versus-euro-before-construction-report.html
The pound appreciated from the
weakest level in 15 months against the euro as political turmoil
pressured Spanish and Italian  government bonds  and boosted the
relative appeal of Britain’s currency.  Sterling rose versus most of its 16 major counterparts
after sliding the most in more than two years against the 17-
nation euro on Feb. 1. Ten-year  Spanish yields  climbed to the
most since mid-December as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  faced
opposition calls to resign over allegations he’d received
illegal payments. Italy’s debt slid as  Silvio Berlusconi 
narrowed the front-runner’s lead before elections this month.
Ten-year gilt yields rose to a nine-month high.  “The pound is stabilizing after heavy selling last week,”
said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “A lot of the bad news is
already in the price but the weakening trend remains in place.”  The pound strengthened 1.1 percent to 85.98 pence per euro
at 4:49 p.m. London time after depreciating to 87.17 pence on
Feb. 1, the weakest since Oct. 31, 2011. Sterling advanced 0.3
percent to $1.5746 after declining 0.7 percent last week.  The pound has weakened 3.8 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro strengthened 2.6 percent and the dollar dropped 0.4
percent.  Euro Concern  Spain ’s 10-year yields advanced to as much as 5.44 percent,
while the rate on similar-maturity Italian bonds reached 4.49
percent. A report in El Pais newspaper alleged Rajoy accepted
illegal payments over a period of 11 years.  The pound strengthened to 77.55 pence per euro in July last
year as Europe’s turmoil intensified and investors sought
alternatives to the region’s currency.  Sterling rose even after a report today showed
construction-industry output contracted last month.  Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply’s U.K. construction  index  was at 48.7 last month,
unchanged from December. Economists forecast the index would
rise to 49.2. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Economists said industry reports tomorrow will show U.K.
services contracted this month, while those in  Germany  expanded.  “We’ve had a big fall in sterling, so you’d expect it to
take a break and slow down a little bit,” said  Gavin Friend , a
foreign-exchange strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
London. “Most of the move has happened now but we still think
it could go a bit lower because the U.K. numbers just cannot
compete with the German numbers.”  Bank of England  policy makers will keep the benchmark rate
unchanged at 0.50 percent on Feb. 7, according to all 54
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The  10-year rate  was little changed at 2.09 percent after
reaching 2.17 percent, the most since April 20. Two-year gilt
yields slid three basis points to 0.32 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  