-- Trafigura to Spend $68 Million on Australian Import Terminal
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-04T05:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/trafigura-to-spend-68-million-on-australian-import-terminal.html
Trafigura Beheer BV, the world’s
third-largest independent oil trader, said its Puma Energy unit
will spend A$65 million ($68 million) to develop a petroleum
import terminal in  Australia , following a deal that doubles its
number of petrol stations in the country.  The terminal at the Port of Mackay in Queensland state is
part of a transaction last month to acquire Neumann Petroleum
and its more than 120 service stations. Puma expects to build
more terminals in states including  Western Australia  as the
nation boosts its reliance on fuel imports, Ray Taylor, Puma’s
general manager for Australia, said today in a phone interview.  “The changing dynamics in terms of supply is one of the
factors that makes this an attractive market,” Taylor said.
“With refineries closing and demand continuing to increase, the
percentage of product from overseas is going to go up.”  Puma is also purchasing Ausfuel, owner of the Gull, Choice
and Peak service stations, the Singapore-based company said
today in a statement, without disclosing the terms. Puma will
pay Ausfuel about A$625 million ($652 million), said a person
with knowledge of the matter. The deal, adding 110 retail sites
in Australia, will make Trafigura Australia’s largest
independent fuel retailer.  Trafigura’s investments in Australia follow decisions by
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Caltex Australia Ltd. (CTX)  to close
refineries.  Caltex, half-owned by  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , said last year it plans to halt refining at its
unprofitable Kurnell plant in Sydney in the second half of 2014.
Shell, Europe’s largest energy company, stopped processing at
its Clyde refinery last year, saying the plant was no longer
competitive against Asian “mega-refineries.”  “It’s inevitable we’ll see further rationalization in the
refining industry in Australia,” Taylor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  