-- Flacco Leads Ravens to Title as Lights Go Out in Superdome
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-04T15:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/ravens-win-super-bowl-34-31-after-holding-off-49ers-comeback.html
Joe Flacco  started the season saying
he was the best quarterback in the National Football League. He
ended it as the most valuable player in the Super Bowl, staving
off a comeback by the San Francisco 49ers that began after a
power failure at the Superdome delayed the game.  Flacco threw three touchdown passes last night to lead the
Baltimore Ravens to a 34-31 win in New Orleans, giving the
Ravens franchise its second Super Bowl championship. After the
34-minute delay, the 49ers rallied from a 28-6 deficit, scoring
17 points in four minutes, 10 seconds once play resumed.  “Joe was phenomenal,” Ravens coach John Harbaugh said.
“He’s got guts.”  Flacco completed 22 of 33 passes for 287 yards, and his 11
postseason touchdown passes tie a record held by Joe  Montana  and
Kurt Warner. He didn’t throw an interception in the postseason.  “Montana is my favorite quarterback, so to be put anywhere
next to him is pretty cool,” Flacco said.  The 49ers had a chance to take their only lead in the
closing minutes, driving to the Ravens’ 5-yard line before a
fourth-down pass from quarterback Colin Kaepernick fell
incomplete in the end zone with 1:46 left.  The goal-line stand by the Ravens’ defense prevented the
biggest comeback in Super Bowl history. The 1987 Washington
Redskins and 2009 New Orleans Saints each rallied from 10 points
down to win Super Bowl titles.  Ray Lewis  The defensive stand also capped the career of Ravens
linebacker Ray Lewis, 37, the only remaining player from
Baltimore’s previous championship 12 years ago -- when he won
the Super Bowl MVP award. Lewis has said this would be the last
season of his 17-year career.  “I don’t think there’s any better ending to a career than
that -- a goal-line stand by one of the greatest linebackers and
one of the greatest players to ever play the game,” Flacco
said.  The quarterback described Lewis as the team’s inspirational
leader during a postseason run that featured wins against the
Indianapolis Colts, Denver Broncos, New England Patriots and now
the 49ers after the Ravens had lost four of five games to end
the regular season.  “There’s no greater way as a champ to go out,” Lewis said
as he held the championship trophy aloft at midfield while
confetti rained down.  Ratings Record  The game drew record-high Super Bowl ratings in the biggest
U.S. cities, at 48.1 percent of households watching, according
to CBS. The previous record was 47.9, shared by the 2011
National Football League championship between the Green Bay
Packers and Pittsburgh Steelers and the 1987 title game between
the  New York  Giants and Denver Broncos.  The 49ers, who had won all five of their previous Super
Bowl appearances, finish the season with a 13-5-1 record. San
Francisco was denied a chance to match the Pittsburgh Steelers
for the most championships in the 47-year Super Bowl era.  John Harbaugh, 50, beat his younger brother Jim, 49, the
second-year coach of San Francisco, in the first time in any of
the four major U.S. professional sports that brothers matched up
as coaches in a postseason game.  “Anybody out there who has a brother can understand what
that is all about,” John Harbaugh said.  Flacco matched New England’s Tom Brady for the most playoff
wins over a quarterback’s first five NFL seasons, improving his
postseason record to 9-4. Flacco, 28, is the only quarterback in
the Super Bowl era to win at least one playoff game in each of
his first five seasons.  Best Beaten  In this postseason, Flacco has beaten some of the best. He
helped the Ravens eliminate a Colts team led by No. 1 overall
draft pick Andrew Luck and then ousted the Broncos’ Peyton Manning and Brady in consecutive weeks to reach the Super Bowl.  Flacco’s counterpart, Kaepernick, fell short of joining
Brady and Kurt Warner as the only quarterbacks to win the Super
Bowl in the same season in which they made their first start.
Only three other quarterbacks had started a Super Bowl with
fewer regular-season starts than Kaepernick, who had seven
before leading the 49ers to playoff victories against the Green
Bay Packers and Atlanta Falcons.  Kaepernick completed 16 of 28 passes for 302 yards, one
touchdown and one interception.  Baltimore entered the regular season with 14-1 odds of
winning the Super Bowl, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super
Book, eighth best among the NFL’s 32 teams.  Fast Start  The Ravens raced to a 21-6 halftime lead as Flacco threw
touchdown passes to Anquan Boldin, Dennis Pitta and Jacoby Jones, who hauled in a 56-yard scoring pass with less than two
minutes left in the second quarter. Baltimore’s defense forced
two turnovers by the 49ers, including the first interception by
a San Francisco quarterback in a Super Bowl.  Jones also started the second half with a record 108-yard
kickoff return for the Ravens, extending the lead to 28-6. His
209 combined yards set a record too.  Shortly afterward, the power failure struck and about half
the stadium lights went out. New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu
said he wants an explanation from everyone involved.  Entergy
Corp. (ETR)  and Superdome management said in a statement that power
was shut off automatically when a monitoring system detected an
abnormality.  The 49ers, limited to two field goals by David Akers in the
first half, scored 17 unanswered points after play resumed.
Michael Crabtree hauled in a 31-yard touchdown pass from
Kaepernick, Frank Gore had a 6-yard scoring run and Akers kicked
a 34-yard field goal that followed a fumble by Ravens running
back Ray Rice.  Momentum Shift  The delay contributed to the game’s turn, Pitta said.  “We had a ton of momentum,” he said. “It felt like the
power was out forever and it was hard to get back going.”  Flacco then led a 12-play, 71-yard drive that ended in a
19-yard field goal by rookie kicker Justin Tucker, pushing the
Ravens’ lead to 31-23 two minutes into the final quarter.  Kaepernick answered, capping a 76-yard drive with a 15-yard
touchdown run, the longest by a quarterback in the Super Bowl.
The 49ers’ attempt at a two-point conversion failed, leaving the
Ravens clinging to a 31-29 lead.  Flacco again led the Ravens back for a score, this time a
10-play, 59-yard drive ending in a 38-yard field goal that
boosted Baltimore’s advantage to 34-29 with 4:19 remaining.  “They’re going to have to talk about Joe Flacco now,
because Joe’s a stud,” said center Matt Birk.  Niners’ Comeback  The 49ers, who rallied from a 17-point deficit against the
Atlanta Falcons in the NFC championship game, then drove 75
yards before the Ravens’ defense stiffened. Kaepernick threw
three straight incomplete passes at the Baltimore 5-yard line as
San Francisco turned the ball over on downs. The Ravens took a
safety with four seconds left as punter Sam Koch stepped out of
the end zone after allowing time to run off the clock.  Flacco before the season told Baltimore radio station WNST
that he believed he was the leading quarterback in the NFL.
Minutes after the season ended, his teammates agreed.  “Joe Flacco is the best quarterback in football,” Rice
said.  Flacco becomes a free agent in the offseason and said he’s
prepared to discuss terms of a new contract with Ravens owner
Steve Bisciotti.  “We just won the Super Bowl, it’s the last thing I’m
concerned about, but he did let me know that, if the day came, I
could go beat on his desk and really put it to him,” Flacco
said. “So that’s exactly what I’m gonna do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New Orleans at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  