-- Related Venture to Borrow Up to $130 Million for Saudi Housing
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-02-04T10:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/related-venture-to-borrow-up-to-130-million-for-saudi-housing.html
Related Cos., the  New York  developer
founded by billionaire Stephen Ross, and its partner Gulf
Capital plan to borrow as much as $130 million from a Saudi bank
to fund a housing development in Riyadh.  Gulf Related, a joint venture between Related Cos. and Abu
Dhabi’s Gulf Capital, expects to sign an agreement in less than
a month, said Karim El Solh, chief executive officer of Gulf
Capital. The United Arab Emirates-based private equity firm
plans to borrow a similar amount for the second phase of the
project, he said.  “Saudi banks have the liquidity and are interested in
funding the tremendous growth in demand for residential
product,” said Emile Habib, Gulf Related’s managing director.  Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s largest economy, has a
housing shortage and needs to build 1.25 million homes by 2014,
according to the country’s development plan. Gulf Related will
spend about $400 million building 550 homes, a community center,
shops retail and possibly a school in the type of housing
compound usually rented by expatriates, Habib said.  Gulf Related is in talks with investors to help fund 30
percent of the project, while the rest will be loans, CEO El
Solh said. On Jan. 29, the company said it will build a $1
billion mall and two towers on Abu Dhabi’s Al Maryah Island.,
The Galleria, a high-end retail and dining district in Abu Dhabi
that will be its first project, is set to open in August.  In 2014, the company is looking to build mixed-use
developments in  Riyadh  and the port city of Jeddah that would
include malls, homes, offices and hotels, Habib said.  “Saudi is a very strong market on many fronts and we are
being encouraged by our retail tenants,” Habib said. Gulf
Related is in talks with owners of large plots of land to
develop, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 