-- Responding to Iran’s Latest Nuclear Ploy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/responding-to-iran-s-latest-nuclear-ploy.html
Iran ’s tentative agreement to resume
talks over its nuclear program is a hopeful sign. More
distressing -- and more demanding of a U.S. response -- is
Iran’s plan to speed up that program.  Iran’s Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi agreed on Feb. 3
to talk again with the so-called P5+1 ( China ,  France ,  Germany ,
 Russia , the U.K. and the U.S.). At the top of the agenda should
be Iran’s plans, announced last week, to significantly expand
its uranium-enrichment capacity. If implemented, those plans
would greatly  complicate  the U.S. strategy for preventing Iran
from acquiring a nuclear weapon, and increase the risk of a
military conflict.  The  Barack Obama  administration wisely wants to put off
military action at least until there is evidence of an Iranian
effort -- and not just capacity -- to make a nuclear bomb. But
what if capacity morphs into effort and no one notices in time
to stop Iran? That will become a realistic scenario if Iran
completes its plan to install about 3,000 advanced centrifuges
at its underground enrichment facility near the city of Natanz.  Last week’s announcement will almost certainly increase the
pressure on the U.S. from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to act sooner rather than later on Iran.  Netanyahu
told  the United Nations in September that Iran’s progress had to
be stopped before spring or early summer, when it would have the
feedstock to produce sufficient fissile material for a nuclear
bomb.  Enriched Knowledge  It’s true that in a few months, based on  current rates  of
production at three known enrichment facilities, Iran could
increase its acknowledged stockpile of 20 percent enriched
uranium from  134.9 kilograms  (297.4 pounds) to 250 kg. That’s
enough to distill the 25 kg of 90 percent enriched uranium
necessary for a sizable nuclear warhead. The installation of
some of the advanced centrifuges -- which are  four to five times 
as productive as existing ones -- could shorten that timeline
somewhat. However, Iran will probably need at least nine months
to make all 3,000 of the devices operational, and that assumes
the country has overcome reported shortages of critical raw
materials.  Netanyahu also correctly argued that because the locations
of the three enrichment facilities are known, the nuclear
program is most vulnerable to military attack during the
enrichment phase. If Iranian officials gain sufficient weapons-
grade uranium, they could transport the material to a secret
workshop and, assuming they have the know-how, assemble a bomb
unmolested.  As things stand, Iran has a seemingly plausible -- though
not credible -- explanation for making so much 20 percent
enriched uranium. It claims the material is to fuel research
reactors, though it has already stockpiled more uranium than it
could use for this purpose.  On the other hand, if Iran enriches uranium up to 90
percent, that can have only one purpose: to make a bomb. If this
level of enrichment -- the “breakout” level -- occurs at any of
the three identified centers, inspectors would know within a
week or so because they monitor all material moving in and out
of the centrifuge areas. Should Iran bar the inspectors’ entry
or expel them, that would strongly indicate a breakout.  Could military action against Iran in this scenario happen
fast enough? According to computations based on current
enrichment capacity and speed, once Iran had 250 kg of 20
percent uranium, it would need at least a month to make a
warhead’s worth of fissile material, providing enough time for
inspectors to notice and for the U.S. to mount a military
response. Yet if Iran can get the 3,000 new centrifuges
operating, it could cut that time in half.  Game Changers  That would change the game: The U.S. would lose its early
warning system that Iran was breaking out.  It would be wise, then, for the U.S. to let Iran know that
it would consider the installation of the 3,000 centrifuges one
of the factors that could precipitate a military strike. Such a
capacity would push Iran’s argument that its enrichment serves
civilian purposes from specious to absurd.  Basing a decision for military intervention on anything but
the certainty that Iran is trying to build a bomb is not ideal,
especially given the intelligence failures that led to the Iraq
War. Yet Iran’s unjustifiable nuclear rush forces the issue.  In addition to the talks between Iran and the P5+1, slated
for the end of February in Kazakhstan, U.S. Vice President Joe Biden said Feb. 2 that the U.S. is open to direct talks, a more
promising prospect. Deep sanctions relief for deep nuclear
concessions should be the theme of any new discussions. There is
time still for a diplomatic resolution. With each new centrifuge
installed at Natanz, however, the window grows smaller.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 