-- Rights Groups File OECD Complaint Against Surveillance Firms
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2013-02-04T15:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/rights-groups-file-oecd-complaint-against-surveillance-firms.html
A group of  human rights  organizations
has filed complaints with the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development against two European surveillance-
technology companies, seeking investigations into whether the
firms are complicit in the abuse of dissidents in the Persian
Gulf kingdom of Bahrain.  The complaints filed Feb. 1 seek probes of whether U.K.-
based Gamma Group and Munich-based Trovicor GmbH violated
guidelines for business conduct set out by the Paris-based OECD,
according to  Privacy International , one of five groups behind
the effort.  Gamma’s FinSpy intrusion tool can secretly take over
computers and phones, while Trovicor sells and maintains
computer systems that process intercepted phone and computer
communications for government agencies.  Bloomberg News  was the
first to report the use of the companies’ products against
Bahraini pro-democracy activists, in 2012 and 2011, and the
complaints cite those reports.  The rights groups plan to use any OECD probes and
recommendations to press the companies to drop any business with
Bahrain, disclose contracts with governments around the globe
and remotely disable products suspected in human rights
violations, according to a Privacy International briefing paper
on the filings.  Persuading Companies  “We very much hope the OECD process will persuade Gamma and
Trovicor to take a long hard look at their current and future
clients, and to think carefully about the role their products
play in the targeting and torture of activists and the
suppression of pro-democracy voices,” Eric King, the head of
research at London-based Privacy International, said in a
statement.  The European Center for Constitutional and Human Rights,
the Bahrain Center for Human Rights, Bahrain Watch and Reporters
Without Borders also joined in filing the OECD complaints in the
U.K. and  Germany , according to a Privacy International news
release.  Martin J. Muench, managing director of Gamma’s Munich-based
unit, Gamma International GmbH, said in an e-mail that, “until
such time as the OECD has conducted its investigations and
reached its conclusions it would be inappropriate for me to
comment.” He said Gamma will continue to cooperate with export
control authorities and regulators of the U.K., Germany and U.S.  Government Use  Gamma markets FinSpy for  law enforcement  and government use
through Andover, England-based Gamma International UK Ltd.  Trovicor’s head of marketing communications, Birgitt
Fischer-Harrow, said in an e-mail that Trovicor observes all
international laws and doesn’t do business in countries that are
subject to embargoes.  “Trovicor’s product and systems aim to protect and keep
nations, citizens and public infrastructure safe,” she said.
“Trovicor doesn’t supply any country which is in civil war or in
conditions similar to civil war or for which such conditions are
predictable. The same applies to services for existing
installations.”  The company’s contracts bar it from commenting on
individual clients and it can’t publish the names of countries
with which it doesn’t do business, she said.  The U.K.’s national contact point for such OECD complaints,
which is within the U.K.’s Department for Business, doesn’t
publicly confirm the receipt of complaints, a department
spokesperson said. The office  publishes  assessments of
complaints on its website when they are completed.  The German national contact point for such complaints,
which is within the German  Ministry  of Economics and Technology,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  