-- Romania to Leave Main Rate at Record Low Amid Inflation Spike
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/romania-to-leave-main-rate-at-record-low-amid-inflation-spike.html
Romania  will probably leave its main
interest rate at a record low for the seventh meeting amid a
spike in inflation as the economy stagnates.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will keep borrowing costs
unchanged at 5.25 percent today, according to all 19 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. A decision will be announced after 11
a.m. in Bucharest and will be followed by a press briefing by
Governor Mugur Isarescu.  Romanian monetary-policy makers halted a rate-cutting cycle
in May, bucking an easing trend in the region needed to spur
economic growth, as a government plan to deregulate energy
prices and drought-driven food prices quickened inflation. The
economy probably stagnated in 2012 and expansion will be slower
than forecast this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “With an eye to the feeble projected recovery in 2013, the
central bank will continue its balancing act when faced with a
heavy load of supply-side inflationary pressures stemming from
administered price hikes,” Roxana Hulea, an economist at BRD-
Groupe Societe Generale SA in Bucharest, said. There may be no
change until the third quarter “to fight off potential second-
round inflationary effects from the increases in regulated
prices,” she said.  The leu was the world’s best-performing currency in
January, rising 1.5 percent against the euro. It traded at
4.3179 late yesterday, down 0.06 percent from the previous
close.  Easing Trend  Most central banks in the region are cutting rates to
foster economic growth. Hungary cut its main interest rate for a
sixth month on Jan. 29 to 5.5 percent, while  Poland ’s central
bank cut its benchmark seven-day  reference rate  on Jan. 9 to 4
percent to spur a slowing economy.  Romania lowered rates 1 percentage point before pausing on
May 2 after a government collapse and as economic growth slowed,
adopting a wait-and-see stance, which the IMF deemed
“appropriate,” according to Mission Chief Erik de Vrijer.
Gross domestic product will expand 1.5 percent this year
compared with zero growth last year, he said.  While the central bank left rates on hold for the past nine
months, it has resorted to weekly liquidity operations to manage
the currency under its managed-floating regime. The bank has set
up a liquidity limit to commercial banks since October, which it
has loosened over the past month, according to data published on
 its website .  ‘Below Potential’  “With economic growth projected to run below potential
over the medium-term, the National Bank has only limited space
to employ the  interest rate  channel and is bound to continue
deploying liquidity management measures,” BRD’s Hulea said.  Inflation quickened more than forecast in December to 4.95
percent, exceeding the central bank’s 2012 target, on rising
food and electricity  prices . The bank, which had targeted
inflation of between 2 to 4 percent at the end of 2012, will
also approve its quarterly inflation report today, which will be
presented at a news conference in the coming days.  “We also expect the monetary authorities in Romania to
keep policy on hold and to indicate that it may miss this year’s
ambitious inflation target of 2.5 percent plus or minus 1
percentage point due to changes in administered prices,”
Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at Morgan Stanley, said
in a report before the rate announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  