-- Ruble Weakens as Crude Oil Drops, Morgan Stanley Cuts
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-02-05T13:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/ruble-weakens-on-crude-oil-as-investors-await-cpi-rates-meeting.html
(Corrects to show bank refers to ruble profit-taking in
third paragraph of story originally published Feb. 4.)  The ruble weakened against the dollar
as oil declined and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  cut the Russian currency to
neutral from overweight. Russian Eurobonds fell to the lowest in
more than five months.  The ruble declined 0.4 percent to 29.9750 against the
dollar by 7 p.m. in Moscow. Yield on Eurobonds maturing in April
2042 rose six basis points to 4.58 percent. The yield has risen
41 basis points from a record low of 4.17 percent on Dec. 3.  Oil,  Russia ’s main export, declined 1.3 percent to $96.46
per barrel in  New York  trading. Morgan Stanley cut the ruble to
neutral after recommending an overweight position since
September, according to an e-mailed report today. Investors may
sell the Russian currency once direct settlement of ruble-
denominated debt starts through Euroclear Bank SA and there are
signs the  Central Bank  will loosen  interest-rate  policy,
according to the note.  “The case for further near-term outperformance is now
weakening,” Morgan Stanley analysts  James Lord  and Meena Bassily wrote in a note to clients.  The ruble strengthened 0.5 percent against the euro to
40.6690 leaving it up 0.1 percent at 34.7873 against a basket of
dollars and euros, which the central bank uses to curb exchange
rate moves that can crimp companies’ competitiveness.  Eurobonds Fall  Prices of U.S. Treasuries fell for a second day with the
benchmark 10-year yields climbing to 2.06 percent, the highest
level in almost 10 months. U.S. payrolls increased by 157,000 in
January, following a revised gain the previous month, the Labor
Department said Feb. 1.  “People started selling U.S. Treasuries on Friday, and
Eurobonds are following today,” Dmitry Dorofeev, analyst at BCS
Financial Group, said by phone from Moscow.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian Eurobonds
due 2042 maturity over 30-year Treasuries increased to 136
points from 106 points on Jan. 3, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The bond will start to look attractive if the premium
climbs beyond 150 points, Dorofeev said.  Bank Rossii announced its board of directors will hold an
interest rate meeting on Feb. 12. January consumer price
inflation, which will be published either tomorrow or the day
after, is the last significant data that may help forecast the
central bank’s decision, according to VTB Capital analysts.  The annual inflation rate for January may accelerate to 6.9
percent from 6.6 percent in December, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  Bank Rossii has kept rates unchanged for four months after
an unexpected increase in September. High borrowing costs are
“concerning,” President  Vladimir Putin  said Jan. 31 at a
government meeting.  Weak economic growth at the end of 2012 and a year-on-year
drop in investment may push the central bank to take a “more
dovish stance,” Maxim Oreshkin and Daria Isakova, analysts at
VTB Capital in Moscow, wrote in a note today.  The central bank is likely to keep rates on hold at this
month’s meeting until price growth peaks, making an interest
rate cut in March or April, the VTB analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  