-- Ryanair Offers Flybe Cash to Take Over Aer Lingus Routes
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-05T08:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/ryanair-offers-flybe-100-million-euros-to-take-aer-lingus-routes.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  plans to pay
 Flybe Group Plc (FLYB)  100 million euros ($136 million) to take over
some of  Aer Lingus Group (AERL) ’s short-haul business as the low-fare
carrier seeks regulatory approval to buy its Irish rival.  Flybe “has reached an agreement in principle with Ryanair
about the possible transfer of a number of aircraft and
operating routes as part of a package of concessions Ryanair has
submitted to the European Commission,” the Devon, England-based
airline said today in a statement. The accord still requires
board and shareholder approval, Flybe said.  The U.K. carrier would acquire 43 routes from Dublin-based
Aer Lingus, almost half of its short-haul network, and more than
10 aircraft and associated crew under a binding agreement filed
with the European Commission, according to two people familiar
with the deal. Ryanair would forgo about 20 million euros of Aer
Lingus’s pretax earnings as a result, said the people, who asked
not to be identified, as the matter is not yet public.  “The level of concessions being offered now are
unprecedented for the industry, without a doubt,” Merrion
Capital analyst David Holohan said yesterday. “It shows how
committed Ryanair is to doing a deal and willing to do whatever
it takes to getting it over the line.”  Flybe shares gained as much as 7.1 percent in  London 
trading. They traded 4.9 percent higher at 48 pence at 8:18 a.m.
local time. The stock has retreated 26 percent in the past 12
months, valuing the Devon, England-based company at 36 million
pounds.  Unprecedented Concessions  Flybe said the assets and liabilities would be placed in a
new company that it would acquire. The transaction is contingent
also on the outcome of the European Union antitrust review and
other factors, the airline said  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said last week
that Ryanair had “one more time” to discuss the 694 million-
euro bid. Dublin-based Ryanair,  Europe ’s biggest discount
airline, owns about 30 percent of Aer Lingus and renewed an
attempt in June to buy the rest of the airline.  Ryanair withdrew proposed transfers of slots at London’s
Heathrow airport to  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA (IAG) ’s British Airways unit, according to the people. That
addresses legal arguments that the Irish government, an Aer
Lingus shareholder, can block the sale of the slots, they said.  Instead, British Airways would operate flights between
Dublin, Shannon and Cork in Ireland and London Gatwick, though
hold an option to take over Heathrow slots if Ryanair gains more
than 75 percent control of Aer Lingus, the people said.  Gatwick Flights  In an e-mailed response to questions, Ryanair declined to
comment on the precise concessions offered. IAG also declined in
an e-mail to comment. Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the
European Commission, declined to comment on any new concessions.  The EU blocked a Ryanair takeover effort five years
earlier, saying it would create a monopoly for Irish flights.
Ryanair’s plan has also drawn opposition from Aer Lingus and
Ireland’s government.  Almunia said last week that United Parcel Service Inc.’s
failure to sign a binding deal with a possible buyer for assets
of  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  triggered regulators’ decision to block the
takeover last week. Such an up-front buyer would have been
required to allay antitrust concerns, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  