-- South Africa Builders' Stocks Decline on Antitrust Probe
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-02-04T16:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/s-african-construction-stocks-head-for-5-month-drop-on-probe.html
South Africa ’s construction and
building-material shares dropped the most in more than five
months after a company said it’s in talks with the antitrust
authority over an industry probe.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa Construction & Building Materials Index (JCBDM) 
retreated 2.9 percent, the most since Aug. 30, to 43.52 at the
close in Johannesburg. The decline wiped 1.89 billion rand ($212
million) from the stocks’ combined market value, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wilson Bayly Homes-Ovcon Ltd. (WBO) , a Johannesburg-based company
with interests contracting and civil engineering, said today
that it’s “engaging in confidential discussions with the
Competition Commission,” and that it “strongly rejected” any
suggestion of criminal conduct. The Competition Commission is
reviewing information from participants in the industry, which
offered “different levels of cooperation,” said Trudi Makhaya,
a spokeswoman for the regulator.  The Hawks investigative unit of South Africa’s police is
probing construction companies over alleged illegal collusion
for contracts of at least 30 billion rand, City Press reported
yesterday.  Seeking Explanations  “Companies involved haven’t come up with a detailed
explanation regarding the probe,” and there’s no information on
the extent of any fine, Dirk Noeth, a Cape Town-based analyst at
Avior Research Pty Ltd., said in a phone interview. “Negative
news has brought attention to the stocks again, with a cautious
side.”  All seven stocks in the index retreated, led by a 5.8
percent slide at Wilson Bayly, the most since February 2009, to
145.5 rand.  PPC Ltd. (PPC) , which has a 36 percent weighting in the
index, fell 0.8 percent to 32.61 rand.  The  Competition Commission  started fast-track process for
the investigation in early 2011, when companies were asked
whether they had engaged in “anti-competitive cartel conduct”
for contracts issued as far back as three years, Makhaya, the
regulator’s spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  “We are still validating what the companies told us,” she
said. “It is a lengthy process.”  Aveng Ltd. (AEG) , which has a weighting of 21 percent of the
builders’ index, said in a statement that it has “proactively
engaged and cooperated with the Competition Commission and made
for applications for leniency in terms of this fast track
settlement process.” The company has made provisions for a
“potential penalty” by the authorities, it said. The stock
fell 4 percent to 17.59 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  