-- SEC Weighs Bigger Stock-Price Increments 12 Years After Pennies
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-02-04T18:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/sec-weighs-bigger-stock-price-increments-12-years-after-pennies.html
Twelve years after the U.S. switched
to 1-cent increments for  stock trading  to save investors money,
regulators and broker-dealers are considering a test of larger
tick sizes.  A pilot study of bigger quoting increments to improve
liquidity in less-active stocks will be debated by executives
from exchanges and brokers, market makers and academics at a
Securities and Exchange Commission meeting  tomorrow , according
to an agenda posted online. The U.S. moved to minimum ticks of a
penny from sixteenths of $1 in 2001. Panelists will also discuss
the effect of 1-cent price moves on capital raising and trading.  Proponents say larger increments will spur market makers to
supply more buying and selling  volume , particularly for less-
active stocks, while skeptics say it will cause people to pay
more when they trade. An SEC advisory group last week
recommended the creation of a stock exchange limited to small
companies that have trouble raising capital in public markets as
part of efforts to encourage more initial public offerings.  “A test would tell you if there’s a benefit or not,” Jim Maguire, 82, a former  New York  Stock Exchange specialist who
began working at the Big Board in the 1970s and has opposed the
move to 1-cent increments since 2000, said in a phone interview.
“I assume there would be. The 1-cent spread has been a toxic
element in trading.”  Smaller Increments  The shift to smaller increments enabled retail investors to
buy shares at lower prices and sell for more. Combined with the
growth of computing power and rules that boosted competition
among venues, the process of decimalization decreased the
profitability of equity dealers, who used money earned on wider
bid-ask spreads to fund analyst research. Smaller tick sizes
also complicated the way institutions trade by driving them to
use more automated electronic strategies to handle blocks.  The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  last April, authorized the SEC to
increase the tick size to as much as 10 cents from 1 cent for
emerging-growth companies, or those with annual revenue of less
than $1 billion. A July study by SEC staff members said that
while rulemaking wasn’t immediately necessary, discussions with
market participants could generate ideas for a pilot study.  Market makers and dealers need more economic incentives to
bring smaller companies public, provide bids and offers and
publish stock research, according to David Weild, New York-based
chairman and chief executive officer of Weild & Co. and head of
 capital markets  at Grant Thornton LLP. About 150 to 350 IPOs
each raised less than $25 million a year from 1991 to 1997,
according to data  compiled  by  Grant Thornton . Fewer than 50 did
so annually on average starting in 2000, the data show.  ‘Massive Consequences’  “The crisis in capital formation is a product of ill-
advised market-structure changes that had massive consequences
for small-cap stocks,” Weild, a former vice chairman at Nasdaq
Stock Market, said in a phone interview. “The SEC needs to
increase tick sizes and make them permanent to improve
liquidity. It’s Armageddon for sub-$25 million IPOs.”  SEC rule changes focused on Nasdaq trading in the 1990s
blunted companies’ interest in going public by hurting the
dealers that facilitated their trading, while later one-size-
fits-all marketplace rules ignored the needs of smaller
companies, Weild said. The regulator should consider allowing
all companies to decide what increment their shares use from 1
cent to 25 cents as a partial remedy, he said.  Pilot Study  The Security Traders Association, which represents more
than 4,000 financial-industry professionals, recommends a pilot
study lasting at least a year with 900 companies of different
market capitalizations and trading characteristics such as daily
volume and price  volatility , according to Jim Toes, president
and CEO of the New York-based group.  “There’s not one regulatory or competitive event you can
point to and say that’s why IPOs are down, but decimalization is
on the list,” Toes said in an interview. “Enhanced liquidity
is impossible to measure but it affects investor confidence.
It’s time to try a pilot study.”  The types of market makers providing liquidity in the U.S.
have changed since SEC mandates in the 1990s, decimalization and
Regulation NMS, a set of rules that spurred competition for  NYSE (NYX) 
when it was implemented in 2007, Brian Conroy, president of
Fidelity Capital Markets, the institutional trading arm of
Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , said in a phone interview.
Many of the current biggest market makers don’t provide research
or get involved with equity deals, he said.  NYSE Revenue  Revenue fell more than 50 percent for NYSE specialists and
70 percent for Nasdaq market makers from 2000 to 2004, a
Government Accountability Office  report  found in 2005.
Regulatory changes, the increase in electronic trading and a 18
percent  drop  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over those five
years cut the number of specialists and market makers almost in
half, to about 260 from almost 500, the GAO said.  The squeeze helped give rise to the proprietary and high-
frequency trading firms that now account for more than half of
American equity volume. Today, with activity fragmented across
more than a dozen exchanges and electronic communications
networks and about 50 dark pools, venues rely on computerized
firms to supply the buy and sell orders that make it possible
for investors to trade shares rapidly.  ‘Highly Efficient’  “If you’re a retail client, you’d be concerned that your
cost to execute would go up,” said Conroy, speaking on behalf
of Fidelity’s mutual fund and institutional business. “We would
be wary of market-structure changes that increase execution
costs for the vast majority of investors, be they retail or
mutual funds. We would also be wary of disrupting what is
overall not perfect, but a highly efficient market structure.”  Smaller companies tend to be difficult to trade because of
the number of shares publicly available and their concentration
of ownership, Conroy said. Still, Fidelity would be open to a
pilot, depending on how it’s structured and what it aims to
accomplish, he said. Fidelity oversaw $1.7 trillion in client
assets as of Nov. 30.  The  Investment Company Institute , which represents mutual
funds, as well as NYSE Euronext and market makers such as Getco
LLC and  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  support experimentation with
tick sizes, according to testimony during market-structure
hearings held by the House financial services committee last
June. The SEC advisory group on small and emerging companies
recommended larger tick sizes at a meeting in  Washington  on Feb.
1.  Market Making  Niall O’Malley, a  fund manager  at Blue Point Investment
Management LLC in Baltimore, wants to see whether larger
increments boost market making in less-active shares and prompt
brokers to write more research about those stocks. While it may
be a limited change to the current set of rules for U.S.
equities, a pilot may improve investor confidence by restraining
“unusual price actions,” he said.  “If you make that change for 12 or 24 months, it would
allow people to assess it and see how trading is affected,”
O’Malley, whose firm oversees about $13 million, said in a phone
interview. “It strikes me as one item that could be changed
with minimal adverse impact and perhaps the clearest measurable
result for the market.”  Richard Lindsey, director of the SEC’s market regulation
division in the late 1990s, said regulators should be clear
about what they want to determine through a pilot study with
larger increments if they choose to experiment with spreads.  Academic Research  “I haven’t seen any academic research that demonstrates
there have been deleterious effects from the change in tick size
across the size spectrum of firms,” Lindsey, now chief
investment strategist in a unit of Denver, Colorado-based Janus
Capital Group Inc. that creates investment products, said in a
phone interview. “The research shows that while orders execute
at more prices and it takes institutions longer to execute big
orders, depth and liquidity haven’t changed.”  Depth refers to the number of shares available at different
prices, while  liquidity  refers to the ease of buying or selling.
Orders are now spread out over more  price levels  than when
stocks were quoted in fractions.  The push toward decimal pricing in the 1990s came from
Congress, the securities industry and regulators as a way to
reduce costs for investors. NYSE had minimum increments of one-
eighth of a dollar since its formation in 1792 and by 1997 the
U.S. was the only major equities market using fractional prices.  ‘Common Cents’  Congressmen Michael G. Oxley, a Republican from  Ohio , and
Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, introduced a bill on
March 13, 1997, called the “Common Cents Stock Pricing Act”
requiring the SEC to convert prices to the decimal system.  After defending minimum spreads of eighths of a dollar in
Congressional hearings in April 1997, NYSE decided to employ
decimal pricing. What drove the change was  Bernard Madoff ’s
decision to “break the eighth” by trading at smaller
increments through the market-making unit of Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, according to Lindsey, the former SEC
regulator.  Madoff’s firm and Trimark Securities Inc., now part of
 Knight Capital , began quoting NYSE companies in sixteenths in
May 1997, according to a 1998 paper about the exchange’s shift
to 6.25-cent ticks by Jeffrey Ricker, an investment strategist
in  San Francisco . NYSE cut its increment in June 1997.  Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison in 2009 for
masterminding the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history, which he ran
separately from his regulated market-making business.  Bigger Spread  “Blaming pennies for problems in the markets is going
after the wrong culprit,” Ricker, who participated in 1997
Congressional hearings about decimal increments, said in a phone
interview. “Expanding tick sizes would decrease the intensity
of competition in the market. A bigger spread would put more
money in the pockets of high-frequency shops.”  The securities industry should test 0.5-cent increments for
active stocks to see whether the current spread is too wide, he
said. Narrowing the difference between the bid and offer would
save money for investors in the biggest stocks, he said.  NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats Global
Markets Inc. told the SEC in April 2010 that they wanted to try
a six-month pilot of quoting shares for 30 securities in half-
cent ticks for stocks between $1 and $20 and one exchange-traded
fund, according to a  letter  to the regulator. The SEC didn’t
officially respond to the request.  The owner of the New York Stock Exchange still supports
that petition, Colin Clark, senior vice president for strategic
analysis at NYSE Euronext, said in a phone interview.  “It makes sense to have multiple tick increments,” Clark
said. “But for now the primary issue is the illiquids. There
are thousands of securities that are extremely illiquid and very
difficult for investors to trade. To the extent we can provide
some incentives to increase market-maker participation, that
could be beneficial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  