-- Serbian Central Bank Seen Pausing Rate Increases on Dinar Gains
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-02-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/serbian-central-bank-seen-pausing-rate-increases-on-dinar-gains.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
pause its tightening of monetary policy and leave borrowing
costs unchanged as the dinar surges.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will keep the
benchmark  one-week repurchase rate  at 11.5 percent after raising
it from 11.25 percent on Jan. 17, according to 12 of 22
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Nine expect a rate increase of
between a quarter-point and a full percentage point, while one
sees a quarter-point cut. The central bank will announce its
decision at noon today in Belgrade.  “We see the central bank leaving the repo rate at 11.5
percent” as the dinar “remains strong amid the ongoing risk
appetite favoring high-yielding currencies,” analysts at
Zagreb-based Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank DD, including Hrvoje Stojic,
said in a Feb. 4 note to clients.  The dinar has advanced because of tight monetary policy,
with the central bank raising its benchmark  interest rate  seven
times since June by a total of 200 basis points, or 2 percentage
points, to 11.5 percent, to bring inflation back to the target
of 4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points by the end of
2013. The inflation rate stood at 12.2 percent in December.  The dinar gained 1.2 percent against the euro last month,
the second-largest advance behind the Romanian leu among more
than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It trade at 111.4711
late yesterday, down 0.6 percent from the previous close.  Bucking Trend  Serbian rate decisions have run counter to others in
eastern Europe, where borrowing costs are falling to halt
economic slowdowns amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. The National Bank
of Serbia wants to ease inflation pressures stemming from
regulated price increases and expanded dinar liquidity.  Inflation has been accelerating since April 2012, when it
fell to a 30-year low of 2.7 percent, due to rising food costs
amid a drop in farm output. Prices continued to rise even as the
economy fell into its second recession in three years and
consumer demand contracted as wages remained tame and
unemployment expanded.  Inflation is “not yet on a decelerating trend,” Eldar Vakhitov, an emerging-markets analyst at Barclays Plc’s
investment-banking unit in  London , said yesterday in an e-mailed
note. Consumer prices are likely to rise “a bit in the coming
months before moderating” in the second quarter “so at least
one more hike is warranted” as the “policy rate is not yet too
high given current inflation levels.”  Repo Operations  The central bank re-introduced reverse repo operations last
month, citing increased liquidity at banks and a need to mop up
the excess to avoid an impact on demand, inflation and the
dinar’s exchange rate.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s six-month-old coalition
government is seeking to curb price increases and restart growth
after the economy contracted an estimated 1.7 percent in 2012,
betting on higher exports of Fiat SpA cars produced in Serbia
and more sales of crude oil products abroad for growth.  Policy makers appear keen on “preventing any major
spillover of higher regulated price increases to overall
inflation,” Ljiljana Grubic, an analyst with Raiffeisenbank AD
in Belgrade, said. More expensive utility services, including
electricity and gas, are needed to help unprofitable public
companies narrow some of their losses, she added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  