-- Shanghai Golden Cross Signals Further Rally: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/shanghai-golden-cross-signals-further-rally-technical-analysis.html
The Shanghai Composite Index’s bull-
market rally has driven the gauge into a so-called golden cross,
a chart pattern that has historically preceded gains in the
subsequent month.  The Shanghai gauge’s 50-day  moving average  rose to 2,193.09
yesterday, above the 200-day mean of 2,191.08. A golden cross
occurs when the shorter-term average rises above the longer one
while both are increasing. On all five occasions that this
phenomenon occurred since 1996, the measure climbed by an
average 6.3 percent in the month that followed.  “It’s an intermediate rally, not a major trend,” said
 Thomas Schroeder , managing director at Chart Partners Group Ltd.
in Bangkok, a provider of trading strategies linked to  technical
analysis  for bonds, currencies, equities and commodities.
“After March, I’m more concerned the global economy won’t hold
up. If you’ve bought before and hold through the golden cross
you might do well.”  The Shanghai Composite entered a  bull market  on Jan. 29,
having rebounded 24 percent from the lowest level in almost four
years on Dec. 3 amid signs of an economic recovery. Gross
domestic product may grow 8.1 percent this year after expanding
7.8 percent in 2012, according to the average of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Schroeder, who was previously global head of technical
research for SG Securities, recommended to clients on Dec. 5
that they should buy Shanghai’s stocks after the index closed
above the 2,020 level, he wrote in a Dec. 18 e-mail.  Technical analysts observe charts of trading patterns and
prices to predict changes in a security, commodity, currency or
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  