-- Singapore Says 2030 Population Projection for Planning Purposes
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-04T12:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/singapore-says-2030-population-projection-for-planning-purposes.html
Singapore’s population projection of
6.9 million by 2030 is for infrastructure planning and not a
target the government is aiming for, Deputy Prime Minister  Teo Chee Hean  said, as Parliament began a debate on the island’s
demographics through the next decade.  The government isn’t deciding a population trajectory
beyond 2020, Teo said today as he sought an endorsement of a
white paper published last month that set out a framework to
address Singapore’s demographic challenges. There may be as many
as 6 million people in 2020 from 5.3 million now, and between
6.5 million and 6.9 million in 2030, according to the report.  “What the population will actually be in 2030 will depend
on the needs of Singaporeans, and the decisions we make on
economic and workforce policy along the way,” Teo said. “This
population range up to 2030 provides a common set of parameters
so that we can make long-term plans that will be sufficient to
cater even to the high end of possible populations. This is
especially important for infrastructure plans that may take many
years to implement, and once built will be there for decades.”  Record-high housing and transport costs, public discontent
over an influx of foreigners and infrastructure strains are
weakening approval for Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong ’s ruling
party. His government is under pressure to placate voters
without disrupting the entry of talent and labor that helped
forge the only advanced economy in Southeast Asia.  The island’s population has jumped by more than 1.1 million
since mid-2004, stoking social tensions as the government used
immigration to make up for a low birth rate.  Current Bottlenecks  “Singapore is crowded as is,”  Seah Kian Peng , a
parliamentary representative from Lee’s People’s Action Party
said, even as he supported the paper’s recommendations. “The
current bottlenecks especially in transport are already there.
These are legitimate concerns that Singaporeans have raised and
I share them too.”  The government “paid a political price” with the strains on
its infrastructure as a result of a bigger population, Lee said
last week. His party lost two by-elections after returning to
power in May 2011 with the lowest share of the popular vote
since independence.  Gross domestic product  growth may average 3 percent to 4
percent annually up to 2020, and the economy may expand 2
percent to 3 percent a year in the following decade, the
government said in the white paper released on Jan. 29.  “What the government is proposing is to aim for its GDP
targets and grow the population to achieve it,” said  Sylvia Lim ,
a member of Parliament from the Workers’ Party, the only
opposition with elected representatives in the legislative body.
“The well-being of Singaporeans, our quality of life, and our
very identity will be put at peril under the government’s
proposal.”  Her party, which has seven elected members of Parliament,
proposes the nation should have a population of not more than
5.9 million by 2030 and won’t endorse the white paper, Lim said.
The People’s Action Party holds 80 of 87 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  