-- Sohu Falls on Profit Outlook Missing Estimates as Costs Rise
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n   a n d   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-02-04T21:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/sohu-forecast-tops-estimates-as-china-growth-revives-advertising.html
Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , the owner of  China ’s
second-largest online video site, declined the most in more than
nine months after its first-quarter profit forecast trailed
analysts’ estimates amid rising costs.  The  shares  fell 5.5 percent to $46.49 at the close in  New
York  for the steepest slide since April 30. Sohu rose 4 percent
this year through Feb. 1,  compared with  an 8.3 percent gain for
Baidu Inc., operator of China’s largest Internet search engine.  Profit excluding some items probably will be 50 cents to
55 cents a share, the Beijing-based company said in a statement
today. The average of five estimates on that basis was 77 cents,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Labor and bandwidth
costs are rising as the company grows and its traffic increases,
“particularly on the video side,” Chief Financial Officer
Carol Yu said on the earnings call.  After Sohu’s solid fourth-quarter results, those expenses
held the profit forecast below expectations, Jiong Shao, an
analyst at Macquarie Group in  Hong Kong , said in an e-mail. He
rates the shares outperform.  “Given the strategic importance of our video business, our
commitment to the segment is unchanged,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Charles Zhang said on the call.  The video division should become profitable in 18 to
24 months, Yu said.  First-quarter  sales  will probably be $290 million to
$299 million, the company said. That beat the $280 million
average estimate.  Revenue Increase  Fourth-quarter  revenue  rose 22 percent to $299 million as
Sohu lured more visitors to its main website, search engine and
games. Brand advertising revenue was also at the high end of the
company’s forecast, led by the auto, online video and real-
estate segments, Co-President Belinda Wang said in the
statement. Visitor numbers and page views at Sohu.com both grew
about 25 percent in the past year, she said  The results “are encouraging despite the slowdown in
China’s total growth,” Zhang said.  Fourth-quarter profit dropped 9 percent to $23 million.
That exceeded the $21.2 million average of seven estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Operating expenses rose 12 percent to
$142 million.  Sohu’s online games unit  Changyou.com (CYOU)  boosted fourth-
quarter profit 17 percent to $75.2 million. The unit’s games
include the Tian Long Ba Bu.  Alicia Yap, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said
the video-game division will buoy Sohu’s sales in 2013.  “With solid momentum coming from Changyou gaming growth,
we believe Sohu is likely to deliver relatively decent top-line
growth,” she said in a report. Yap rates both Sohu and Changyou
overweight.  The games division is “well positioned” to take advantage
of its growing market in 2013, Zhang said. The division plans to
release three new multiplayer games and a number of Web games
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  