-- South Africa Raises Farmworkers’ Minimum Wage in Wake of Strikes
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-02-04T12:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/south-africa-raises-farmworkers-minimum-wage-in-wake-of-strikes.html
South Africa ’s government agreed to a
52 percent increase in the minimum wage for farmworkers
following violent pay strikes in the Western Cape province that
claimed three lives and interrupted fruit harvests.  The minimum daily wage will be raised to 105 rand ($11.77)
from 69 rand from March 1, with a further increase of 1.5
percentage points above the consumer inflation rate for the
following two years, Labor Minister Mildred Oliphant said.  “It is time to begin working together toward a vision for
the farming sector, one in which the sector expands and creates
jobs and where there are better relations between farmers and
farmworkers,” Oliphant told reporters today in  Pretoria , the
capital. “Agriculture is an important sector of our economy and
it is imperative to ensure it is stable at all times.”  Workers began striking in November, demanding a minimum of
150 rand a day. Protests spread to about 16 rural towns in the
Western Cape, and saw police using tear gas, stun grenades and
water cannons to disperse stone-throwing crowds. Packing sheds,
vineyards and vehicles were set on fire before the protests were
suspended earlier this month.  Higher wages may force farmers to mechanize more of their
operations to contain costs, undermining government plans to
create 969,500 new agriculture jobs in  Africa ’s largest economy
by 2030 to help cut a 25.5 percent  unemployment rate . The number
of workers employed on farms has already slumped about 30
percent to 680,000 in the past decade because of farmers
replacing workers with machines, according to Pretoria-based
Agri SA, the main farmers’ organization.  Agriculture makes up about 2.1 percent of South Africa’s
gross domestic product directly and farms produce almost 6.5
percent of the country’s exports, according to government data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  