-- Soybeans Reach Six-Week High on Threats to South American Crops
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-02-04T14:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/soybeans-head-for-six-week-high-as-argentine-crop-seen-smaller.html
Soybeans rose to a six-week high in
 Chicago  on speculation that hot, dry weather in  Argentina  and
rains in  Brazil  will curb supplies of the oilseed.  This year’s crop in Argentina, the world’s third-biggest
exporter, may be 52.9 million metric tons, a Bloomberg survey
showed, less than the 54 million tons forecast by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , which will update its estimates on
Feb. 8. Soybeans in southern Brazil, set to pass the U.S. as the
leading shipper, remain under high stress, forecaster DTN said
Feb. 1.  “The outlook in the next seven to 10 days will be
generally unfavorable for soybean crops in Argentina and
Brazil,” Erin Fitzpatrick, a London-based analyst at Rabobank
International, said by phone today.  Soybeans for delivery in March advanced 0.9 percent to
$14.8775 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 1:50 p.m.
London time. Prices reached $14.9075, the highest since Dec. 18,
extending a fourth weekly gain.  Soybeans and corn in southern Brazil were affected by more
than three weeks of dry and sometimes hot weather, while rains
continued to hit parts of the states of Mato Grosso and Goias,
probably delaying harvest progress, DTN said. Wet weather in
parts of Brazil can impede soybean gathering and interfere with
transportation, according to Fitzpatrick.  No Rain  Soybean and corn prices will remain supported by  weather
forecasts  that “don’t predict any significant rain this week
for Argentina,” Paris-based farm adviser Agritel wrote in a
market comment today.  Corn for delivery in March gained 0.3 percent to $7.38 a
bushel and wheat for delivery in the same month advanced 0.6
percent to $7.6975 a bushel. In Paris, milling wheat for
delivery in March was unchanged at 248.50 euros ($337.53) a ton
on NYSE Liffe.  World corn and soybean inventories before next year’s
Northern Hemisphere harvests probably will be smaller than
predicted last month by the USDA, according to analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. Wheat reserves may increase from the
previous estimate, it showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  