-- Steve Wynn Gets Dismissal of Suit Over Macau Donation
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-05T16:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/steve-wynn-gets-dismissal-of-suit-over-macau-donation.html
Billionaire Steve Wynn and other
directors of  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  won dismissal of a shareholder
lawsuit alleging a $135 million donation to the University of
 Macau  breached fiduciary duties and wasted company assets.  The accusations by a Louisiana police retirement fund
resembled those of Wynn Resorts director Kazuo Okada, who sued
the casino operator over the gift in January 2012. The 2011
donation burdened Wynn Resorts with costs to fight government
investigations and potential penalties and fines, while a later
buyback of Okada’s stock wasted assets by saddling the company
with a $1.9 billion promissory note, the pension fund said.  U.S. District Judge James Mahan in  Las Vegas  said the
investor didn’t convincingly show that Wynn and his directors
had done anything wrong. Lawsuits that don’t demonstrate that
their allegations are “plausible,” as opposed to being
“conceivable,” must be dismissed, he said.  “Plaintiffs’ complaint fails to sufficiently allege that
defendants knew that the Macau donation was improper,” the
judge said in a Feb. 1 ruling that allows the shareholders to
amend the complaint.  Amanda Lawrence and Ann Box, lawyers for the Louisiana
Municipal Police Employees’ Retirement System at the firm Scott
& Scott LLP, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment on the ruling.  Last week, Wynn Resorts reported an 18 percent drop in
fourth-quarter  profit  as its Macau business fell and competitors
on the Chinese city’s Cotai Strip expanded to draw away
customers in the world’s largest gambling hub.  Project Approved  In May 2011,  Steve Wynn  and almost all of Wynn Resorts’
board approved the gift to the University of Macau’s Development
Foundation. Last May, Macau’s government approved the Las Vegas-
based company’s plan to build a $4 billion resort on a 51-acre
site on the Cotai Strip.  Okada sued partly to seek access to documents related to
the Macau donation. Wynn Resorts has said it is cooperating with
a separate U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission request that
it preserve all documents and information connected with
donations and gaming licenses in Macau.  The SEC’s Salt Lake City regional office told Wynn Resorts
a year ago it was making an “informal” inquiry into the Macau
donation and asked the company to keep the information, the
company said in a regulatory  filing  at the time.  Alexandra LaManna, a spokeswoman for Wynn, declined to
comment on the status of the SEC probe.  Wynn Resorts last year forcibly redeemed Okada’s 20 percent
stake in the company for a $1.9 billion promissory note payable
in 10 years, saying his own company’s improper payments to
Philippine gaming regulators made him unsuitable.  Investigation Sought  Okada, the chairman of  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , is
fighting the redemption and demanding an investigation into Wynn
Resorts’ use of corporate funds. In a Jan. 24 letter to the
company’s board, filed in federal court in Las Vegas, he asked
directors to investigate Steve Wynn’s actions in getting the
concession for a new casino in Macau.  The casino company yesterday said it was “deeply
gratified” by the dismissal of the shareholders’ suit and
accused Okada of pursuing a “smear campaign” against Wynn and
the company. The company has asked shareholders to vote Okada
off its board at a special Feb. 22 meeting.  The Nevada Gaming Control Board concluded its own probe
into the Macau donation and “determined that Okada’s
allegations are unfounded,” Wynn Resorts said in yesterday’s
statement.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Employees’ Retirement
System v. Wynn, 2:12-cv-00509, U.S. District Court, District of
Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  John Pickering 
at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  