-- Stoke Seeking $24Mln For Keeper Begovic: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-02-07T11:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/stoke-seeking-24mln-for-keeper-begovic-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Skrtel’s Future  Zenit St. Petersburg wants to re-sign Liverpool defender
 Martin Skrtel  this month,  the Daily Mail said .  The 28-year-old joined the Premier League club from the
Russian team in 2008, and Zenit is willing to pay 13 million
pounds ($20 million) for the Slovakian, the newspaper said. The
Russian transfer window doesn’t shut until Feb. 24, allowing
Skrtel to return to the club where he spent three seasons, the
Mail said.  Suarez Move?  Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  raised doubts about his
future at the club, saying that although he’s “content, for
now,” he wants to play in the Champions League,  the Daily
Mirror said.   The Uruguayan said he’s happy in Liverpool but may
reconsider after June when he knows whether the team has made
Europe’s top club competition, saying the seventh-place club is
“not the Liverpool of old,” the newspaper said. Only the top
four teams in the Premier League get into the Champions League.  Real Madrid, Bayern Munich and Juventus are interested in
the 25-year-old, the Mirror said.  Midfielder Search  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  will make a postseason move
for Toulouse holding midfielder Etienne Capoue,  the Daily
Telegraph said.   The north London club tried to sign the player last month
without success, but will return after the season as Wenger
tries to replace  Alex Song , who moved to Barcelona, the
newspaper said.  Arsenal will have about 70 million pounds to spend after
the season even if the club, currently in sixth place, fails to
reach the Champions League and misses out on 35 million pounds
in revenue from the competition, the Telegraph said.  Odemwingie Home  Crystal Palace may move for West Brom forward Peter
Odemwingie, whose transfer-deadline day attempt to join Queens
Park Rangers left him estranged from his club and teammates,  the
Telegraph said.   Palace manager  Ian Holloway  will try to bring in the 31-
year-old in on loan, the newspaper said. Odemwingie is facing a
70,000 pound fine for trying to negotiate a move to QPR without
West Brom’s permission and will get a hostile reception from
teammates and fans, the newspaper said.  New Neymar  Chelsea and Manchester United are watching Santos forward
Neilton, who has been dubbed the “New Neymar” after his hat
trick in an under-19 match in Brazil,  the Daily Mirror said.   Chelsea is considering meeting his 5-million pound buyout
clause to capture him before Santos can re-negotiate the pact,
the newspaper said. Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  looks to have
lost the chase for the real Neymar, a 21-year-old Santos striker
who has been linked to a move to Barcelona, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  