-- Storebrand Climbs as Yield Gain Cuts Share-Sale Risk: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-02-04T14:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/storebrand-climbs-as-yield-gain-cuts-share-sale-risk-oslo-mover.html
Storebrand ASA (STB)  gained the most in a
month after SEB AB advised investors to buy shares in  Norway ’s
second-largest insurer as higher Norwegian bond yields reduced
the risk of the company needing to sell shares.  Storebrand, based in Oslo, rose as much as 2.3 percent, the
most since Jan. 4, and were up  1.4 percent  at 28.79 kroner as of
3:38 p.m. in the Norwegian capital. More than 4.1 million shares
have been traded so far today, more than double the three-month
daily average volume.  “Storebrand will continue to focus on building capital,
rather than maximizing  earnings  in the near-term,” SEB wrote in
an e-mailed note today. The subsequent improvement to the
company’s balance sheet will “reduce the risk and probability
of an equity issue,” the Stockholm-based investment bank said.
SEB upgraded its  recommendation  on Storebrand to buy from hold.  Like its European rivals, Storebrand is preparing for
stricter capital rules as regulators seek to impose common
standards for insurers through regulations known as Solvency II.
Norway is also planning to change rules on occupational pension
products to ensure life insurers can adjust to the stricter
 capital requirements  and longer  life expectancy .  Full implementation of Solvency II rules isn’t expected
before Jan. 1, 2015, Norway’s Financial Supervisory Authority
said in a  letter published  on its website today. The authority
doesn’t exclude the possibility of further delays to the rules
being implemented, it said.  Bond Correlation  A widening of the historically-close correlation between
Storebrand’s share price and yields on 10-year Norwegian
 government bonds  may also lead to gains in the company’s share
price as the gap closes, said SEB.  Storebrand will probably report net income of 392 million
kroner ($71.6 million), according to the average of nine  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a profit of 16
million kroner a year earlier and 280 million kroner in the
third quarter. The company is scheduled to report fourth-quarter
earnings on Feb. 13.  Gjensidige Forsikring ASA (GJF) , Norway’s largest insurer, owns
24 percent of Storebrand. Gjensidige gained as much as 0.6
percent to the highest  intraday level  since it started trading
shares in Oslo in December 2010. The stock traded 0.1 percent
higher at 86.55 kroner as of 3:35 p.m. local time.  DNB ASA (DNB) , Norway’s biggest lender, traded 1.2 percent weaker
at 76.55 kroner at the same time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  