-- Super Bowl Wagers Climb to Record $98.9 Million in Las Vegas
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-05T05:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/super-bowl-sets-record-with-98-9-million-wagered-in-las-vegas.html
A record $98.9 million in  Super Bowl 
wagers were placed at  Nevada ’s 183 sports books, eclipsing the
previous high of $94.5 million bet on the 2006 National Football
League title game.  The  Baltimore Ravens  beat the  San Francisco 49ers  34-31 two
days ago in  New Orleans , holding on for their second Super Bowl
win after opening a 28-6 third-quarter lead.  This year marked the sixth time that legal Super Bowl
wagering in Nevada topped $90 million. The $100 million mark may
be next, said Todd Fuhrman, a former Caesars sportsbook analyst
who’s now an industry consultant in Las Vegas.  “The sports betting handle will continue to grow moving
forward because the regular bettor is much more confident when
walking to the window than ever before,” Fuhrman said by e-mail.
“The access to real-time information via Twitter and more
widespread gambling content has created a much more savvy
public.”  Nevada’s sports books, most of which are located in  Las
Vegas  and Reno, still won $7.2 million on Super Bowl wagers,
according to figures released yesterday by the state’s  Gaming
Control Board . The sports books have made a profit on the Super
Bowl in 21 of the past 23 years.  Fuhrman said he was surprised to see a total profit of more
than 7 percent, as many sports books reported a loss with the
Ravens winning as underdogs and a majority of bettors wagering
on a high-scoring game. The 65 combined points easily eclipsed
the oddsmakers’ over/under of 49 points, the second Super Bowl
in which each team scored more than 30 points.  ‘Least Desirable’  Las Vegas Hotel Super Book assistant manager  Jeff Sherman 
said after the game that the Ravens’ outright win and the
“over” bet paying off for bettors was the book’s “least
desirable outcome.”  Fuhrman said other sports books saw significant late money-
line action on the 49ers, helping balance the wagers and giving
the majority of sportsbooks another winning year overall.  According to Las Vegas-based handicapping information
website Pregame.com, the late money wagered on the favored 49ers
moved the point spread to 4 1/2 points at kickoff. Early action
on the Ravens had pushed the line down to 3 1/2 points.  The last time Nevada’s sports books failed to make a profit
on Super Bowl wagers was after the 2007 season, when the  New
York Giants  upset the previously unbeaten New England Patriots
17-14. There was $92 million wagered in Nevada that year, with
bookmakers losing almost $2.6 million.  Nevada’s previous record handle was set seven years ago,
when the Pittsburgh Steelers beat the  Seattle  Seahawks 21-10.  Although the state’s wagering on this year’s game set a
record and almost hit $100 million, it amounts to less than 1
percent of the estimated $10 billion in worldwide action on the
game, according to Pregame.com. If sportsbooks worldwide won at
the same rate as in Nevada, it would mean bettors lost more than
$720 million on the Super Bowl.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  