-- Stocks in Switzerland Decline; Julius Baer Shares Retreat
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-04T17:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/swiss-stocks-advance-after-swatch-earnings-report.html
Swiss stocks  dropped to the lowest in
almost two weeks as shares of banks and financial companies fell
amid concern that political uncertainty in Spain and Italy may
derail austerity programs.  Julius Baer  Group Ltd. declined 3.1 percent after reporting
a margin decline.  Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN)  tumbled  to a one-
month low as a report said the company will consider a capital
increase. Swatch Group AG advanced 5 percent after 2012 profit
beat forecasts.  The Swiss Market Index lost 0.8 percent to 7,362.72 at the
close in Zurich, the lowest since Jan. 22. The benchmark gauge
has still gained 7.9 percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers
agreed on a compromise budget and the Swiss franc weakened
against the euro. The broader Swiss Performance Index retreated
0.7 percent today.  “We’ve become a bit cautious amid this rally as the market
will need a breather,” said  Markus Wallner , an equity
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “But we believe
investors should further buy into the weakness.”  Spain’s 10-year yields climbed to the highest since Dec. 17
as Premier  Mariano Rajoy  denied corruption allegations and
strategists from Commerzbank AG recommended reducing holdings of
the nation’s debt.  In Italy, former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  closed the gap
with the front-runner before elections this month as he promised
taxpayers a cash rebate of 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) if he
is elected. Prime Minister  Mario Monti  accused Berlusconi of
trying to buy votes.  Julius Baer  Julius Baer (BAER)  lost 1.17 francs to 36.39 francs after posting
a margin decline. The third-largest Swiss wealth manager said
its gross margin, or money generated from its 189 billion francs
($208 billion) of assets, fell to 94 basis points in the second
half of last year from 104 basis points a year earlier as
clients traded less. A basis point is one hundredth of a
percentage point.  “At first look, results seem to be in line with our
expectations,”  Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel Holding
AG, wrote in a report. “However, taking out the large positive
provisions, the cost base increased above our expectations. The
gross margin is clearly under pressure as we expected.”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest
lender, lost 4.5 percent to 26.15 francs. That was the stock’s
sharpest decline since June.  Meyer Burger dropped 6.5 percent to 7.80 francs. Chief
Executive Officer Peter Pauli said the company must evaluate all
financing options, including a capital increase, to get through
the next 24 months, financial news website cash.ch reported,
citing an interview.  Swatch Advances  Swatch advanced 26 francs to 543.50 francs, for the largest
gain on the SMI, as the world’s largest maker of Swiss watches
reported a 26 percent increase in 2012 profit.  Net income rose to 1.6 billion francs. Analysts had
forecast 1.49 billion francs, according to the average of 15
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The watchmaker also said the
outlook for 2013 continues to be “optimistic.”  “ Swatch (UHR)  Group convinced with a strong performance in
2012,” Patrick Hasenboehler, an analyst at Bank Sarasin & Cie.,
wrote in a note to clients. “Today’s results will most likely
lead to an increase of the consensus estimates also given the
unchanged optimistic outlook statement by the company.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 11 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  