-- Swiss Property in UBS Risk Zone May Provoke Bank Rules
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-02-04T11:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/swiss-property-in-ubs-risk-zone-may-provoke-tougher-bank-rules.html
Switzerland ’s housing market moved
further into the “risk zone” at the end of 2012, increasing
pressure on authorities to tighten capital rules for the
country’s banks to curb a property boom.  The UBS Swiss Real Estate Bubble Index rose to 1.11 points
in the three months through December from 1.02 points in the
previous quarter, when it had a risk reading of above 1 for the
first time since 1991, according to a  statement  from  UBS AG (UBSN) 
today. A reading above 2 would indicate a bubble.  Housing prices in Switzerland have soared as investors
funnel money into one of  Europe ’s most stable and prosperous
economies amid the sovereign debt crisis. Property values
climbed 6.3 percent in the 12 months through September, while
they declined an average of 1.8 percent in euro-area countries,
according to broker Knight Frank LLP’s  Global House Price Index .  “Remarkable is the uninterrupted investor interest in real
estate, reflected in the all-time high level of credit
applications for properties not intended for personal use,”
said Matthias Holzhey and Claudio Saputelli, UBS economists in
Zurich. If the trend continues, the index “may enter the bubble
zone by the end of 2014,” they said.  Market Recovery  The Swiss government introduced rules in July to cut
mortgage-lending risks, including measures that give it the
discretion to raise  capital requirements  for banks to cool
specific parts of the credit market. Such a move would come at
the request of the  Swiss National Bank .  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose for an eighth month in
January, its longest winning streak since 1997, while the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rallied 5.2 percent for its best
January since that year. The euro has climbed more than 2
percent against the Swiss franc this year as concern about the
debt crisis eased.  “The latest recovery in financial markets and the
lessening propensity of investors to seek safe havens could slow
down the sharp rise in real-estate prices in the current
quarter,” UBS said in the statement. “The majority of demand,
however, is domestic, which means that without a significant
increase in long-term  interest rates , the trend is unlikely to
be reversed.”  Investor Confidence  Elsewhere today, European  investor confidence  surged to the
highest level in more than 1 1/2 years in February, adding to
signs that the 17-nation euro economy is beginning to emerge
from recession, the Sentix research institute said. At the same
time, U.K. construction shrank for a third month in January as
weak demand was compounded by a cold snap that brought snow
across the country and created a drag on building projects,
 Markit Economics  said.  China ’s services industries grew last month at the fastest
pace since August as gains in retailing and construction aid
government efforts to drive a recovery in the world’s second-
biggest economy. In the U.S., factory orders probably rose at
the fastest pace in three months in December, and an index of
New York-area business conditions may show a lower reading for
January, according to Bloomberg surveys.  In Switzerland, policy makers have repeatedly voiced
concern about developments in the country’s housing market.  “The dynamics of the real-estate market remain too
strong,” SNB Vice Chairman Jean-Pierre Danthine said in an
interview with Tribune de Geneve published on Jan. 24. “Our
concern is to slow down this process and prevent Switzerland
from experiencing a real-estate crisis similar to the one of the
early 1990s.”  A collapse of Swiss real-estate prices tipped the economy
into recession at the time and caused the failures of banks
including Spar- und Leihkasse Thun and Solothurner Kantonalbank.  Currency Ceiling  The SNB imposed a currency ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro
in September 2011, which in combination with rate cuts by the
 European Central Bank , has prevented officials from tightening
monetary policy to avert a bubble.  That’s made the Swiss  property market  more attractive for
foreign investors seeking a haven for their money. At the same
time, the euro’s weakness has discouraged people living in
Switzerland from buying assets in other countries.  About 50,000 people migrate to Switzerland every year,
where unemployment is lower and income higher than in most other
European countries. That’s leading to a drop in housing
vacancies and boosting rent levels in Zurich and Geneva.  Rental Prices  The median asking rent for a Zurich apartment in the fourth
quarter was 310 francs ($340) per square meter and year, with
rent for prime properties at 650 francs, according to Wuest &
Partner AG. That’s a 2 percent increase from the same period a
year earlier, the Swiss property consultant said in a report
posted on its website.  By contrast, the average cost of renting a home in greater
 London  increased 6.9 percent to 1,212 pounds ($1,907) a month in
December from the previous year, according to a Jan. 18 index
compiled by HomeLet, the U.K.’s largest referencing and rentals
insurance company.  Zurich and Geneva, together with Lausanne in the west,
remain the areas most at risk from residential real-estate
bubbles “due to their national importance,” UBS’s Holzhey and
Saputelli said.  The index comprises six sub-indicators tracking the
relationships between purchase and rental prices,  house prices 
and  household income , house prices and inflation, mortgage debt
and income, construction and gross domestic product, and the
proportion of credit applications by UBS clients for residential
property not intended for owner occupancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  