-- U.K. Construction Shrinks for Third Month on Weak Demand, Snow
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-04T10:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/u-k-construction-shrinks-for-third-month-on-weak-demand-snow.html
U.K. construction  shrank for a third
month in January as weak demand was compounded by a cold snap
that brought snow across the country and created a drag on
building projects,  Markit Economics  said.  An index of activity held at 48.7 from December, Markit and
the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  in  London  said
in a statement today. That’s below the 49.2 reading that was the
median estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction.  The U.K. is at risk of a  triple-dip recession  after the
economy shrank in the fourth quarter. Markit said while there
were reports that snowfall had contributed to the construction
weakness in January, the majority of respondents cited weak
“underlying client demand and a lack of new projects.’  The survey results ‘‘are yet another indicator of the
severe underlying fragility across the U.K. construction
sector,’’ said Tim Moore, a senior economist at Markit.
‘‘Construction firms reported improved optimism about the
business outlook, although much of this appeared to rest on
hopes that the chorus of calls for greater public-sector
investment spending starts to come to fruition.’’  Housing volumes dropped at the slowest pace for three
months, and civil engineering projects declined for the first
time since August, according to the report. Commercial activity
was unchanged.  New business fell for an eighth month, the longest period
of decline since 2008-2009, according to the report. Still,
respondents’ confidence improved, and employment rose for the
first time in four months.  London-based  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the U.K.’s largest
homebuilder by volume, on Jan. 16 predicted a ‘‘significant”
increase in profitability this year as prices rise and the BOE’s
Funding for Lending Scheme helps the mortgage market.  A Markit report on Feb. 1 showed that  U.K. manufacturing 
expanded in January as domestic orders rose. The research group
will probably say in a report tomorrow that services shrank at a
slower pace in January, according to the median estimate in a
survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  