-- U.K. Stocks Drop the Most in Three Months; Vodafone Falls
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-02-04T16:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/u-k-stocks-fall-from-a-4-1-2-year-high-as-vodafone-drops.html
U.K. stocks  tumbled the most in
almost three months as Vodafone Group Plc retreated and Spanish
and Italian bonds declined amid political uncertainty in both
Mediterranean countries.  Vodafone, which accounts for 5.3 percent of the benchmark
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , declined the most in more than two weeks as
Citigroup Inc. downgraded the shares.  Meggitt Plc (MGGT)  slipped 2.6
percent after UBS AG lowered its recommendation on the shares.
 Salamander Energy Plc (SMDR)  posted its biggest rally since March 2011
after discovering oil off the coast of  Indonesia .  The FTSE 100 lost 100.4 points, or 1.6 percent, to 6,246.84
at the close in  London , its biggest drop since Nov. 7. The
equity benchmark has still gained 5.9 percent in 2013, its best
start to a year since 1998, as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget. The broader FTSE All-Share Index retreated
1.5 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 1 percent.  “U.K. stocks have gone up a lot in January, earnings are
being downgraded and there’s not a lot of news flow,” said
Gerard Lane, a strategist at Shore Capital Group Ltd. in
Liverpool,  England . “Valuations have gone up from what they
were before Christmas. It’s difficult to see how markets can
drive on further without better news on the economy.”  The price-earnings ratio for the FTSE 100 climbed to 11.7
times estimated earnings on Feb. 1 from 11.5 at the beginning of
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spain, Italy  U.K. stocks extended their decline as Spanish and Italian
10-year bonds dropped for a second day. The yield on Italian
debt rose 14 basis points to 4.47 percent after Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi yesterday promised to give voters a 4 billion-
euro ($5.4 billion) cash rebate if he regains power in the Feb.
24-25 elections.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield surged 23 basis points to 5.44
percent as opposition politicians called on Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  to resign following corruption allegations.  El Pais said last week that Rajoy or members of his
 People’s Party  received illegal cash payments. The newspaper
published what it said were handwritten extracts from ledgers
detailing payments to party officials. Rajoy visits Berlin today
before a European Union summit scheduled to begin on Thursday.  In China, the official  non-manufacturing  purchasing
managers’ index rose to 56.2 in January from 56.1 in December,
the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement yesterday. A
reading above 50 means that activity increased.  Bank Regulation  In the U.K., Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
said regulators will have the power the break up banks that
don’t abide by rules intended to protect their retail
operations, according to remarks released by his office. Osborne
will add the powers to the Financial Services (Banking Reform)
Bill due to be presented to Parliament this week. The British
Bankers’ Association said the plan would mean banks have less
money to lend.  Vodafone (VOD)  slid 1.7 percent to 170.5 pence, its biggest slide
since Jan. 16, after Citigroup lowered its recommendation on the
shares to neutral from buy. The brokerage cited pressure on
revenue from the mobile-phone operator’s  European businesses  and
the increased risk that it will acquire businesses.  Meggitt, Lonrho  Meggitt slipped 11.4 pence to 430 pence. UBS analysts
Charles Armitage and Rami Myerson lowered their recommendation
on the shares to neutral from buy, saying that the world’s
largest provider of wheels and brakes for combat aircraft has
little room to expand margins in the next five years.  Lonrho Plc (LAF)  plunged 22 percent to 6.95 pence, its biggest
slump since March 2009. The industrial group focused on  Africa 
said in a statement that it expects a full-year net operating
loss of 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) to 5 million pounds.  Salamander Energy surged 12 percent to 208 pence after
saying its South Kecapi-1 exploration well discovered oil.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  jumped 3.1 percent to 6,275 pence
after saying its annual dividend will increase by 25 percent to
50 cents a share. Production will climb by at least 13 percent
in 2013, the mining company said in a statement.  The volume of shares changing hands on FTSE 100-listed
companies was 14 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  