-- McGraw-Hill Tumbles Most Since ’87 as U.S. Prepares S&P Lawsuit
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-02-05T00:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/u-s-to-file-civil-charges-against-s-p-over-crisis-bond-ratings.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  tumbled the most in
25 years as the parent of  Standard & Poor’s  said it expects to
be sued by the U.S. over inflated mortgage-bond rankings that
helped ignite the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  McGraw-Hill  fell  13.8 percent yesterday to $50.30 in New
York trading, the most since the stock market crash in October
1987. The Justice Department and state prosecutors may file
lawsuits this week against the largest ratings firm over its
grades of certain collateralized debt obligations bundled during
the housing boom, two people familiar with the matter said.  Ratings firms have faced criticism from U.S. lawmakers over
how they granted top grades to securities that packaged home
loans from the riskiest borrowers, leading to a credit seizure
that sent the world’s largest economy into its longest recession
since 1933 as defaults soared and values plummeted. The  Justice
Department  will sue under a statute enacted in 1989 to stabilize
and reform the savings and loan industry, S&P said.  “It’s a new use of this statute,” Claire Hill, a law
professor at the  University of Minnesota  who has written about
the ratings firms, said in a telephone interview yesterday from
 Minneapolis . “This is not a line to my knowledge that has been
taken before.”  S&P described the Justice Department strategy based on the
S&L statute as “questionable,” saying in a statement it’s “an
attempt to end run well-established legal precedent.”  Moody’s Falls  A Justice Department lawsuit “would be entirely without
factual or legal merit,” S&P said. “It would disregard the
central facts that S&P reviewed the same subprime mortgage data
as the rest of the market -- including U.S. Government officials
who in 2007 publicly stated that problems in the subprime market
appeared to be contained -- and that every CDO that DOJ has
cited to us also independently received the same rating from
another rating agency.”  Adora Andy, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment.  Analysts at New York-based S&P, Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings, majority-owned by Fimalac SA of Paris, were
pressured to give their stamp of approval to complex investments
in a “race to the bottom” to win lucrative business from Wall
Street banks, the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations said in an April 2011 report.  Banks create collateralized debt obligations by bundling
bonds or loans into securities of varying risk and return. They
pay ratings firms for the grades, which investors may use to
meet regulatory requirements.  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , owner of the second-largest ratings
provider,  fell  10.7 percent yesterday to $49.45.  Commission Report  The credit-grading business was targeted by lawmakers in
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act after the collapse of top-ranked
mortgage-backed securities contributed to $2.1 trillion in
losses at the world’s largest banks. Reports from the Senate
panel, along with the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, cited
failures of the companies as a reason for the financial crisis.  “Credit rating agencies erroneously rated mortgage-backed
securities and their derivatives as safe investments,” the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission said in its 2011 report.  While the 18-month recession ended in June 2009, with the
global economy contracting 2.4 percent that year, the U.S. has
yet to recover 3.23 million of the 8.74 million jobs that were
lost. The  unemployment rate  last month was 7.9 percent, compared
with 5 percent in January 2008.  S&P, in its statement yesterday, cited court rulings that
have dismissed challenges to the opinions of ratings firms. The
company also said it planned to fight any lawsuits.  “If DOJ does bring suit, we will vigorously defend our
Company against such meritless litigation,” the company said.  Illinois Lawsuit  Attorneys general  from at least two U.S. states have filed
claims against S&P challenging its method of rating mortgage-
backed securities.  Illinois  Attorney General Lisa Madigan accused the ratings
firm of putting profitability before accuracy.  “S&P ignored the increasing risks posed by mortgage-backed
securities, instead giving the investment pools ratings that
were favorable to its investment bank client base,” Madigan
said in a January 2012 statement announcing the filing.  In a Nov. 7 decision, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court
Judge Mary Anne Mason rejected defense arguments that ratings
firms’ opinions were protected by constitutional guarantees of
free speech. A status conference is scheduled for March 26.  Australian Judge  In 2009, then-Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  sued
S&P, Moody’s and Fitch at the U.S. court in Columbus, accusing
the firms of issuing faulty ratings that caused five public
employee pension funds on whose behalf he sued to buy money-
losing investments.  U.S. District Judge James L. Graham threw out the case in
September 2011, ruling the ratings were “predictive opinions,”
and that absent specific allegations of intent to defraud, the
firms could not be held liable.  A Cincinnati-based federal appeals court unanimously upheld
that decision in December.  Cordray was appointed by President  Barack Obama  in January
2012 as director of the federal Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau in  Washington .  In November, an Australian judge ruled S&P misled investors
by giving its highest credit grade to securities whose value
plunged during the global financial crisis.  S&P was “misleading and deceptive” in its rating of two
structured debt issues in 2006, Federal Court Justice Jayne Jagot said in her ruling released Nov. 5 in Sydney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  