-- Treasury Lowers Borrowing Estimate on Higher Cash Balance
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-02-04T23:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/u-s-treasury-lowers-borrowing-estimate-on-higher-cash-balance.html
The U.S. Treasury Department lowered
its net borrowing estimate for the current quarter by $11
billion, reflecting a higher cash balance early in the year.  The Treasury decreased its projected  borrowing needs  for
January through March to $331 billion, the department said in a
statement today in  Washington . Officials see net borrowing of
$103 billion in the quarter starting April 1. In the three-month
period that ended Dec. 31, the Treasury borrowed $297 billion.
The estimates set the stage for the department’s quarterly
refunding announcement on Feb. 6  “The decrease in borrowing relates to the higher
beginning-of-quarter cash balance partially offset by higher
outlays and lower receipts,” the Treasury said of the current
quarter.  The previous estimate was made in October when the
department assumed an end-of-2012 cash balance of $60 billion,
which the department said today was “driven primarily by higher
receipts and  lower outlays .” The Treasury said its forecasts
assume a cash balance of $30 billion for the end of the current
quarter.  Cash Balances  “Part of the higher cash balances were the result of taxes
paid on income pulled forward into 2012 in order to avoid
potentially higher tax rates resulting from fiscal cliff
negotiations,” Thomas Simons, a government debt economist at
Jefferies Group Inc. in  New York  said. “The first of the year
is especially difficult to forecast due to the uncertainty
surrounding the timing of tax refund payments and income tax
receipts.”  The economy in the U.S. unexpectedly came to a standstill
in the fourth quarter as the biggest plunge in defense spending
in 40 years swamped gains for consumers and businesses.  Gross domestic product dropped at a 0.1 percent annual
rate, weaker than any economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey
and the worst performance since the second quarter of 2009, when
the world’s largest economy was still in the recession, Commerce
Department figures showed Jan. 30 in Washington.  The Treasury said today its forecasts assume a cash balance
of $60 billion at the end of the April-to-June period.  Debt Limit  The Senate voted Jan. 31 to send legislation suspending the
U.S. debt limit for three months to President  Barack Obama ,
temporarily removing the risk of a government default from
fiscal negotiations.  The measure, crafted by  House Republicans , will lift the
government’s $16.4 trillion borrowing limit until May 19.
President Obama signed the legislation today, the White House
said.  The Treasury Department had previously said it expected to
run out of emergency measures to prevent a breach of the debt
limit between the middle of this month and early March.  The debt limit has been periodically raised since its
creation in 1917, when Congress and President  Woodrow Wilson 
authorized the Treasury to issue long-term securities to help
finance entry into World War I.  Before this month’s vote, Congress raised or revised the
limit 79 times since 1960, including 49 times under Republican
presidents, according to the Treasury Department.  The last time Congress fought over raising the ceiling,
Obama signed an increase on Aug. 2, 2011, the day that Treasury
warned U.S. borrowing authority would expire.  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the nation’s credit rating.  Still, U.S. Treasury bond investors -- who most directly
bear the risk of any government default -- haven’t shown alarm
over political fights ultimately resolved in Washington. Yields
on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes declined to 2.56 percent on Aug.
5, 2011, the day of the S&P downgrade, and continued to fall.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for everything
from mortgages to corporate borrowing costs, are down from more
than 5 percent in 2007, before the financial crisis of 2008. The
10-year yield fell today to 1.96 percent from 2.01 percent on
Feb. 1.  While the debt limit has been temporarily suspended, $1.2
trillion in automatic spending cuts are set to take effect March
1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  