-- The Endless Campaign Is Not America’s Finest Export
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-02-04T22:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/u-s-endless-political-campaigns-go-bad-overseas.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is going American in a big way by setting the next
national election seven months from now. The record length of
the campaign is bad news for her opponent,  Tony Abbott , and may
be even worse for the nation’s 23 million people.  Turning to a permanent campaign like that of the U.S. is
shrewd politics. It puts opposition leader Abbott on the
defensive, forcing him to offer more than tired conservative
nostrums about the magic of lower taxes, less regulation and
vague paeans to freedom. Instead, Abbott must offer specifics on
how he will increase competitiveness and prosperity and how to
pay for it.  Gillard’s gamble comes with some big risks. The most
immediate is that this long election process descends into an
endless series of photo opportunities, stunts, breathless horse-
race calling and sexist obsessing over Gillard’s new glasses,
haircut or hemline. Lost in the jostling will be a much-needed
discussion about the huge challenges  Australia  faces as much of
the rest of the world copes with anemic or unbalanced growth.  Australia’s problems are great ones to have, all things
considered. It’s the only major country to skirt the 2008-2009
financial crisis and its  balanced   federal budget  is the envy of
the developed world. Proximity to  China  and its voracious
appetite for Australia’s raw materials continue to drive
economic growth, which is forecast to increase 3.5 percent this
year.  Changing World  In a rapidly changing world, a nation such as Australia
must constantly remake itself. It has to be devising ways to
compete, create jobs, increase productivity, adapt to an
overvalued currency and address the risks posed by  climate
change . Can Australia really afford another “Seinfeld
Election,” meaning that it’s about nothing?  That’s what happened the last time around, in August 2010.
Then, Labor Party leader Gillard had been prime minister for
only a few months, having wrested power from  Kevin Rudd . Neither
Gillard nor Abbott came to the election with novel ideas for
stimulating the economy or preparing for an aging population.
There were no specifics about how to harness China’s boom
without falling prey to “Dutch disease,” whereby the benefits
of exporting natural resources lead to the neglect and atrophy
of other industries. It has led to a two-speed economy.  There were no serious plans for boosting investment in
infrastructure, education and training. No credible strategies
for revamping a tax system that encourages many of the nation’s
brightest and most productive people to seek jobs abroad. No
palatable proposals get a bigger piece of the vast wealth being
amassed by mining companies to spread the benefits of growth.  The coming election and campaign should be of a different
nature, and a new  Standard & Poor’s  report shows why. On Jan.
31, S&P warned that Australia’s mining boom may be peaking and
that the economy could stumble if the country’s huge bet on the
resources sector goes wrong. It also said China has the highest
risk of an economic slump among 32 of the world’s largest
economies because so much of its growth depends on outsized
investment spending.  Australia is arguably the biggest leveraged bet on China in
the world. If  Asia ’s biggest economy slows, officials in
Canberra can forget about achieving a sustained  budget surplus .
Politicians also will rue the day they put whatever chips they
didn’t wager on China on the central bank, abdicating their own
responsibility to recalibrate the economy.  Cheap Politics  The term of  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  is up three days after the election, and Gillard has yet
to re-nominate him. It smacks of cheap politics, considering
Stevens’s standing among the world’s central bankers. In all
likelihood, she is reserving the right to blame any troubles
that may arise on the RBA. Investors looking for greater
certainty about economic leadership will have to wait.  Households, too. Smart monetary policy is critical in a
nation in which about 90 percent of homeowners have adjustable-
rate mortgages. Household indebtedness is an underplayed risk at
a time when the cost of living may be advancing faster than
official inflation figures indicate. Just ask the average
Australian whether he or she believes consumer prices are up
only 2.2 percent in the past year.  The government needs to do its part, too. That means true
and visionary leadership of the kind Australia arguably hasn’t
seen since the days of  Bob Hawke  and  Paul Keating . During their
terms in office in the 1980s and 1990s, Australia adopted a
floating currency, reduced import tariffs, internationalized the
financial sector that employs so many today, and created a
compulsory national pension system.  The achievements of leaders since then, from  John Howard  to
Rudd to Gillard, pale by comparison. Just as Abbott has the
burden of laying out a credible plan, Gillard must convince
voters that she will get more done in the next couple of years
than she did in the past 2 1/2.  She has, on occasion, defied convention. Her taxes on
carbon and mining profits, for example, were steps in the right
direction. Yet her waning popularity shows electioneering won’t
do. She needs to prove why she deserves more time.  Australians want more than a never-ending campaign. They
deserve it, too.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  