-- UEFA Says 46 Clubs Would Need Funds to Meet Financial Controls
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-02-04T10:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/uefa-says-46-clubs-would-need-funds-to-meet-financial-controls.html
Forty-six European soccer teams would
require equity infusions to meet incoming fiscal control
regulations, according to a report from regional governing body
 UEFA , which said clubs’ losses widened by 2 percent to 1.68
billion euros ($2.28 billion) in 2011.  An analysis of the finances of about 700 clubs released
today by Nyon, Switzerland-based UEFA showed sales of 13.2
billion euros in 2011 were eroded by 9.4 billion euros worth of
spending on players and salaries, a 43 percent increase over
five years.  Clubs are being assessed by a group led by a former Belgian
prime minister as part of UEFA’s so-called  financial fair play 
regulations, which aim to reduce debt and prevent teams from
spending above their means. Those that fail to meet targets face
sanctions including suspension from the continent’s Champions
League and Europa League competitions.  “Numerous football clubs, including some prestigious ones,
have experienced severe financial difficulties, leading to top
division clubs’ aggregate losses increasing again,” UEFA
President  Michel Platini  said in the forward to the 2011 Club
Licensing Benchmarking Report. “Keeping costs under control and
within sustainable limits is and will continue to be the clubs’
biggest challenge.”  The report said the trend of growing losses has affected
clubs of varying sizes across  Europe , with the 10 largest loss-
makers increasing their combined deficits to 856 million euros
from 596 million euros in 2007. The balance sheets of the next
20 leading loss-makers deteriorated by a combined 310 million
euros over the same period.  Maximum Losses  UEFA’s rules allow teams to have a maximum loss of 5
million euros, or as much as 45 million euros as long as the
deficit is covered by an equity contribution, over two years
through 2013. The assessment period will be increased to three
years for future seasons.  Using a simulation based on fiscal results from 2009, 2010
and 2011, 14 teams playing in European club competitions this
season had losses over the 45 million-euro limit and another 32
clubs reported cumulative losses of between 5 million euros and
45 million euros.  Clubs at risk of failing to meet UEFA’s requirements
include English champion  Manchester City , three-time European
Cup winner Inter Milan and Paris Saint-Germain, which has spent
more money on players than any other team since it was acquired
by an investment arm of the Qatari government in 2011.  PSG, which signed former England captain  David Beckham  four
days ago, has spent more than $350 million in the transfer
market in two years and intends to continue spending.  “It’s necessary to become one of the great European
clubs,” PSG President Nasser Al-Khelaifi told  France ’s L’Equipe 
newspaper last month. “Other clubs have invested for
20 years. We have been there for a year and a half and now we
must stop pouring money? It would be unfair.”  Sponsorships Scrutinized  City, PSG and other teams have tried to mitigate losses by
raising income through sponsorships and UEFA said it will look
at the agreements to ensure they represent fair value.  City, owned by a member of the Abu Dhabi ruling family, has
four sponsors based in the emirate including airline Etihad,
which last year agreed to pay 350 million pounds ($551 million)
to put its name on the team’s stadium, jerseys and new training
campus. PSG will get as much as 200 million euros a year from
Qatar Tourism Authority through 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  