-- Lukoil Urges Russian Oil Competition to Catch Up With U.S. Shale
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-02-04T09:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/lukoil-urges-russian-oil-competition-to-catch-up-with-u-s-shale.html
OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , a non-state crude
producer seeking access to Russia’s Arctic resources, urged
competition as the best way for domestic producers to catch up
on technology gains that spurred U.S. oil and gas output growth.  Lukoil is proposing setting up a body that would handle
bids for offshore licenses, likening it to the Norwegian
Petroleum Directorate, to expand access and boost competition,
billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Vagit Alekperov  said in an
 article  published today in state newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta.  Russia’s Arctic continental shelf is limited to state-run
companies such as  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , the country’s largest oil
producer, and gas producer and exporter  OAO Gazprom. (GAZP)  The
government, which gets half its budget revenue from oil and gas,
is revamping tax breaks while seeking to maintain oil output at
post-Soviet highs of more than 10 million barrels a day. Russia
ceded its place as the world’s largest gas producer to the U.S.
in 2009.  Russia may “easily fall behind” in technological progress
without “civilized, equal competition,” Alekperov said. A
licensing organization “could qualify companies not on the
basis of ownership structure, but experience, efficiency and
level of tax payments to the Russian budget.”  While  Russia  has enough Arctic resources and unconventional
deposits in western Siberia to meet to global market challenges,
non-state companies are needed to unlock the potential,
Alekperov said. The government has been discussing whether to
broaden offshore access, with measures such as allowing non-
state companies to develop areas rejected by state producers.  “Russia and the national energy companies must be ready
for the upcoming changes and more intense competition on the
global market,” he said. The U.S.-pioneered “revolution” in
producing natural from rocks, “all started with competition, a
desire to be more efficient than others,” Alekperov said.  Lukoil plans to invest more than 300 billion rubles ($10
billion) to start production at the Korchagin and Filanovsky
fields in the  Caspian Sea , Alekperov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  