-- United Technologies’ China Sales to Lead Emerging Markets
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-02-05T01:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/united-technologies-china-sales-to-lead-emerging-market-demand.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  expects
Asian sales will increase about 7 percent to 8 percent in the
next decade as construction of skyscrapers in China boosts
demand for elevators and air conditioners.  Growth in the U.S. may be 2 percent to 3 percent and
little-changed in  Europe , Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Louis Chenevert , 55, said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.
 Developing countries  account for about  20 percent  of Hartford,
Connecticut-based  United Technologies ’ sales, he said.  Almost 60 percent of all the new tall buildings in the
world are going to be in China, and that will stoke demand at
United Technologies businesses such as Carrier air conditioners
and  Otis elevators , Chenevert said. The company’s  Pratt &
Whitney  unit is building a plant to make fan blades and turbine
disks for plane engines in Singapore as  Asia ’s economic growth
enables more people to fly and boosts the need for new aircraft.  “We see a lot of continued growth momentum,” Chenevert
said. “You have to be where the growth is.”  Otis, the elevator-making unit, opened a new plant in
 China ’s Chongqing in September, boosting its presence in a
country that makes up about half of worldwide elevator sales.
The company’s orders from the nation for elevators and chilling
systems are expected to grow in “high single digit” this year,
he said.  China’s Plan  China’s orders for Otis, the parent company’s third-biggest
business in terms of sales, posted a 17 percent increase in the
fourth quarter. That comes after three quarters of declines.  The company got 52.65 percent of its sales in the year
ended 2011 from the U.S., according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Europe accounted for 21.80 percent and Asia Pacific
16.25 percent.  United Technologies fell 0.3 percent to close at $89.54 in
 New York . The company yesterday said it plans to buy back as
much as $5.4 billion in stock as it resumes share repurchases
after a yearlong pause following the Goodrich Corp. acquisition.  The plan of Li Keqiang, set to become China’s next premier,
to build rail, road and sewage systems to support an urban
population that exceeded rural residents for the first time in
2011 may spur $6.4 trillion of investment by 2020, the Southern
Metropolis Daily reported in December, citing the draft of a
government plan.  The  World Bank  estimates city dwellers may account for two-
thirds of  China’s population  by 2030, rising from what the
statistics bureau said was 53 percent at the end of last year.  Aircraft Engines  Fast-growing China finished  22 buildings  taller than 200
meters in 2012, 33 percent of the global number, according to
the Chicago-based Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat.  The 492-meter World Financial Center in  Shanghai  is the
tallest tower in China and the third in the world. The 632-meter
Shanghai Tower in the city’s Pudong business hub is set to be
the world’s second-highest building when construction is
completed in 2014.  United Technologies last month reported fourth-quarter
 profit  that beat expectations as the acquisition of aerospace-
parts maker Goodrich buoyed performance. Earnings excluding
discontinued operations were $1.04 a share, compared with the
$1.03 average of 22  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey. Sales rose
14 percent to $16.4 billion.  United Technologies also expects demand in Asia for its
aircraft engines, especially for the company’s geared turbofan
technology, Chenevert said.  Pratt & Whitney  unveiled the
technology in 2008.  Geared Turbofan  The  geared turbofan , which the company has said reduces
fuel burn by as much as 15 percent, curbs noise by using a gear
to slow the engine’s outer fan.  The jet-engine unit garnered about 3,000 orders for the
geared turbofan through the end of 2012, according to a Dec. 21
statement. The company last month won an order to build engines
for redesigned  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  jets. The two new engines Pratt &
Whitney will produce for Embraer will provide from 15,000 pounds
to 22,000 pounds of thrust, according to the planemaker.  The engine-maker doesn’t see opportunities to provide the
geared turbofans for wide-body aircraft as the Airbus SAS A350
is already designed and it’s probably too soon for Boeing’s 777
to be revamped considering the current orderbook, Chenevert said.  United Technologies, through its  UTC Aerospace Systems  unit,
also provides the auxiliary power unit for Boeing 787 planes,
which contain the lithium-ion battery that burned on  Japan 
Airlines Co.’s Dreamliner on Jan. 7. The global fleet of
Dreamliners have been grounded for more than three weeks now
after an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  plane made an emergency landing
in Japan.  “We make the electrical system on the plane which has been
validated through tens of thousands of hours of testing,”
Chenevert said. “We’ll support the investigation, but we don’t
make the batteries, we don’t make the chargers, we don’t make
the boxes. At this point we feel very confident of what we
deliver to the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  