-- Turkey Sees ‘Huge’ Clean-Energy Investment as Demand Bucks Trend
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2013-02-04T11:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/turkey-sees-huge-clean-energy-investment-as-demand-bucks-trend.html
Turkey  expects “huge” investments
in renewable power in the next 10 years as growth in energy
demand outpaces economic expansion, a government official said.  Turkey needs to spend $10 billion on new power generation
every year until 2023 to double capacity from the current 55
gigawatts, Deputy Energy Minister Hasan Murat Mercan said today
at a conference in Vienna.  “We expect huge investments in the coming years” to fund
projects in wind, solar, hydropower, biomass and geothermal
energy, he said. “Investing in renewables is one of the most
important aspects” of supporting economic growth, he said.  Turkey, which depends on fossil-fuel imports for about 90
percent of its energy needs, has lured international investors
including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  to its power
industry as the regulator forecasts annual demand growth of 6.3
percent in the next two decades. The country is bucking the
trend of most emerging European nations, where retail
electricity consumption is trailing growth in incomes.  GE, which has already opened the 22.5-megawatt Sares wind
farm and 10-megawatt Karadag site, said in November it would
also supply turbines to Fina Enerji Holding AS for 97 megawatts
of projects. Siemens said in October it would supply turbines to
a 50-megawatt wind farm and expects more Turkish orders.  Turkey has potential to install about 40,000 megawatts of
wind-power capacity at onshore projects, with 11,000 megawatts
already licensed, Mercan said today.  While economic growth fell to 1.6 percent in the third
quarter, Turkey forecasts 4 percent growth in 2013, compared
with a 0.2 percent contraction in the euro area, based on
International Monetary Fund projections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  