-- Vale Lead Over Rio Narrowing on Slowing Output: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-04T21:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/vale-lead-over-rio-narrowing-on-slowing-output-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, is losing ground to Rio Tinto Group after its output
growth stalled because of aging mines and licensing delays.  Vale’s production of the main raw material used to make
steel slid 0.8 percent to 320 million metric tons last year,
compared with a 3.7 percent gain for Rio Tinto to 198.9 million
tons. Vale’s lead over Rio Tinto narrowed to 121 million tons,
the smallest in three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Brazilian company, which already ceded its title as the
world’s second-largest miner by market value to Rio Tinto last
year, is shedding logistic and oil assets and refocusing on its
core iron-ore business after losing market share. Producers in
Australia, where the bulk of  Rio Tinto (RIO) ’s iron-ore operations
are, will be responsible for almost all of the global supply
growth of as much as 6 percent this year, while Vale will be
little changed, said Garrett Nelson, an equity analyst at BB&T
Capital Markets.  “If Vale is flattish to up single digits, they will lose
market share,” Nelson, who rates the stock a hold, said by
telephone from Richmond, Virginia. “A lot of the Australian
producers -- BHP, Rio, Fortescue -- they have been growing over
the last few years whereas Vale’s production growth still lies
ahead of it.”  Vale has boosted production 5.5 percent since 2007,
compared with a 37 percent increase for London-based Rio Tinto
and a 43 percent gain for  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest
mining company and third-largest iron-ore producer.  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  is Australia’s third-largest iron-ore
producer.  Vale  dropped  1.1 percent to 38.75 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo today, the first decline in three days.  Falling Further  Output at Vale will decline further. The Rio de Janeiro-
based company  said  Dec. 3 it’s forecasting iron-ore production,
excluding a stake in a joint venture with BHP, to fall 1 percent
to 306 million tons this year. Rio Tinto said Jan. 15 it’s
targeting a 21 percent expansion at its mines in Australia’s
Pilbara region this year to 290 million metric tons, without
specifying how much of the output belongs to partners.  The expected production decline this year is a consequence
of the aging of some of the companies’ mines in southeastern
Brazil, Vale’s press office said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. The company obtained 212 environmental licenses last
year and expects that new projects will boost production to 326
million tons next year and 364 million tons in 2015 without
counting output from its Samarco Mineracao SA joint venture with
BHP, it said.  Waning Demand  Last year, Vale suspended projects, announced asset sales
and cut output of premium pellet products as demand waned in
China and Europe, its two biggest markets. The drop, coupled
with production delays, pared Vale’s share of the global
seaborne iron-ore market to about 27 percent in the first nine
months of 2012 from almost 28 percent a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Melbourne-based BHP’s stake climbed to 15 percent from 14
percent, while Rio Tinto’s share was little changed at about 18
percent, the data show.  Rio Tinto is worth $4.08 billion more than Vale based on
Feb. 1 closing prices of its New York-listed shares.  Vale’s American depositary receipts , the equivalent of one
ordinary share, have gained 7.3 percent since mid-May,
underperforming the 25 percent rally for Rio Tinto and the 21
percent gain for BHP through Feb. 1.  ‘Latent Value’  “Why does Rio Tinto have a higher market value than Vale
if its iron-ore production is much lower?,” Chief Financial
Officer Luciano Siani asked investors at a Jan. 29 event in Rio
de Janeiro. “Because Rio Tinto has delivered iron-ore growth
and we haven’t. Vale has an incredible latent value and its
management is absolutely committed to delivering and revealing
that value.”  The company is “confident” it can deliver on its
expansion plans and ease investors’ doubts, he said. The company
aims to boost its iron-ore output to 402 million tons by 2017
and recover lost market share as it develops ventures including
its $8.04 billion Serra Sul project in Northern Brazil.  Vale is expected to post the lowest annual profit in three
years when it releases fourth-quarter results on Feb. 27. Net
income excluding some items probably fell to $9.7 billion last
year from $22.6 billion in 2011, according to the average of
eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the past 28
days.  Rebound  Mining stocks have rebounded as iron-ore prices rallied 77
percent from a three-year low in September, and growth
accelerated in China, the world’s biggest consumer of metals.  Fifteen analysts  give Vale’s ADRs a buy rating, 13
recommend holding the stock and two advise selling. Twenty-five
analysts recommend buying Rio stock, five recommend holding and
one says to sell.  Rio Tinto declined to comment on increasing its market
share, the company said in an e-mail. Fiona Hadley, a
spokeswoman for BHP Billiton, also declined to comment.  Vale is likely to start recovering market share next year
when two iron-ore projects ramp up operations, said Rafael Weber, who helps manage about 5.5 billion reais ($2.8 billion)
including Vale shares at Geracao Futuro Corretora.  “Vale will still be well positioned in iron ore,” he said
by telephone from Porto Alegre, Brazil. “We almost doubled our
position in Vale since December. That’s an indication that we
are confident.”  Production Surprise  Vale surprised analysts last week by posting a bigger-than-
expected gain in production in the final three months of the
year. Output rose 3.1 percent to 85.5 million metric tons, a
record for a fourth quarter, topping the average estimated gain
of 0.6 percent from six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  While the company expanded quarterly output faster than Rio
Tinto and BHP, most of the gain was caused by favorable weather
conditions that allowed Vale to run Carajas, the world’s largest
iron-ore mine, at a higher capacity.  The output increase “is more a factor of favorable
weather,” said BB&T’s Nelson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  