-- Vanguard Gets Record Deposits as Clients Return to Stocks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-02-04T16:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/vanguard-gets-record-deposits-as-clients-return-to-stocks.html
Vanguard Group Inc., the biggest U.S.
mutual-fund firm, attracted a record $24.3 billion from clients
in January, mostly into stocks, as signs of an improving U.S.
economy have prompted investors to return to equities.  January’s deposits were more than 40 percent greater than
the previous monthly record of $16.8 billion, achieved in the
same month in 2012,  John Woerth , a spokesman for Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, said in an e-mail. About $20
billion of last month’s total went into stock-oriented mutual
funds and exchange-traded products.  Fund investors stepped up their investments in equities as
signs of improvement in the U.S. economy sent the the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index up 5 percent in January and pushed the Dow
Jones Industrial Average to 14,000 last week for the first time
since 2007. Domestic stock funds, which have experienced
redemptions for the past six calendar years, won $16.1 billion
in the first three weeks of January, according to the
Washington-based  Investment Company Institute .  “People may have looked at the market’s performance and
said, ‘Gee, I am missing out on an opportunity’,” Michael Rawson, a fund analyst for Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ,  said
in a telephone interview. “I am not surprised the flows into
stocks are strong.”  U.S. mutual funds collected $64.8 billion in net deposits
in the first three weeks of January, according to the ICI, on
track for the biggest month on record for deposits. The previous
record for a full month was $52.6 billion in May 2009, ICI data
show. Equity mutual funds gathered $29.9 billion in the three-
week period, more than for any full month since 2006.  ETF Deposits  ETFs, which generally track indexes while trading
throughout the day like stocks, gathered $31 billion in January,
about $29 billion of which went into equity-oriented products,
according to research firm IndexUniverse LLC.  Vanguard, which manages $2.07 trillion in U.S. fund assets,
is known for its low-cost funds which mimic the performance of
indexes. Vanguard’s equity mutual funds charge 11 cents for
every $100 invested compared to 78 cents for the industry as a
whole, according to data from Denver-based Lipper.  With $246 billion in exchange-traded funds, Vanguard was
the third-largest provider of U.S. ETFs as of Dec. 31, behind
New York-based  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  and Boston-based  State Street
Corp. (STT) , according to data from State Street.  Index Switch  Vanguard, in a bid to cut ETF costs, said in October it
would adopt benchmarks from FTSE Group for six international
stock index funds and benchmarks developed by the University of
Chicago’s Center for Research in Security Prices for 16 U.S.
equity and balanced funds.  The decision didn’t hurt the popularity of the firm’s ETFs,
said Woerth. Vanguard attracted $10.2 billion in ETF deposits in
January, and new money has increased in almost all of the
company’s ETFs since the October announcement, he said.  One ETF that has been affected by the switch is the firm’s
largest, the $62 billion Vanguard FTSE  Emerging Markets  ETF.
Unlike the competing MSCI Emerging Markets Index, the FTSE
product does not track South Korean stocks.  Since Oct. 1 BlackRock’s rival iShares MSCI Emerging
Markets Index, which includes  Korea , won more than $12 billion
in deposits compared to less than $500 million for the Vanguard
offering, according to data from San Francisco-based
IndexUniverse. In the first nine months of 2012, the Vanguard
ETF took in roughly seven times more money than the BlackRock
fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cabaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  