-- Venezuela Said to Plan Increased Supply of Weaker Bolivars
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-02-04T20:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/venezuela-said-to-consider-increased-supply-of-weaker-bolivars.html
Venezuela ’s central bank is
considering ways to expand the supply of bolivars at the weaker
of two official exchange rates in a bid to attract more dollars
into the economy and avoid a full-blown devaluation that
economists say is needed to narrow its budget deficit, said a
government official with direct knowledge of matter.  The central bank may expand the purchase of dollars at a
rate of 5.3 bolivars to persuade foreign companies to bring more
greenbacks into the country, said a government official with
direct knowledge of the matter. Today, most companies have to
sell dollars at the 4.3 rate because there isn’t enough supply
at the weaker rate.  The government isn’t considering a devaluation at the
moment given its strong balance of payments, the official said.
The goal is to improve the supply of dollars while keeping in
place existing currency controls, said the official, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because no final decision has been
made.  Last week the government took its first step to increase
the supply of dollars in the economy by channeling more of its
oil exports revenue to the central bank. South America’s biggest
oil producer is facing shortages of goods ranging from diapers
to cars as the lack of dollars crimps imports. In the black
market, the bolivar has weakened 53 percent to 18.39 per U.S.
dollar in the past year, according to Lechuga Verde, a website
that tracks the rate.  The changes that will allow the central bank to supply more
bolivars through its Sitme exchange will need to be approved by
Congress, the official said, adding that notes and bonds from
other countries could be traded on the system. Rules today allow
the central bank exchange to trade only with dollar-denominated
bonds.  Exchange Rate Horizion  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect Venezuela to devalue
its 4.3 per dollar rate in the second quarter by a median 33
percent to 6.4 per dollar.  The move, initially expected to happen in the first three
months of the year, will be pushed back as President Hugo Chavez’s battle with cancer delays economic decision-making,
according to a survey of 12 analysts.  A devaluation of 50 percent would narrow the country’s
budget deficit by 4 percentage points of gross domestic product,
Ben Ramsey, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York,
wrote in a Feb. 1 research note. The measure would help trim the
gap by increasing the amount of bolivars the government gets for
taxes on oil revenue, he said.  “The scope and timing of economic measures will be
dictated by political calculations,” Ramsey said in the
research note. “We do not sense the fiscal situation has
reached a critical juncture, as the government still has the
flexibility to muddle through.”  Venezuelans use the black market when they can’t get access
to the central bank’s Sitme exchange, which sells dollars to
businesses for 5.3 bolivars, or the so-called Cadivi system that
sells dollars at 4.3 bolivars for priority imports.  The government has no plans to change the Cadivi system,
said the official.  About 70 percent of products consumed in Venezuela are
imported or assembled from raw material that is imported, Emilia
Peraza, an adviser at the Consecomercio trade chamber in
Caracas, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  New Debt  “The lack of U.S. dollar flows to the private sector has
increased shortages and exploded the black market FX rate,”
Ramsey wrote. “The paradox is we do not sense there is a
critical lack of U.S. dollars available in the public sector.”  Venezuela will continue to issue local debt and foreign
debt when the time is right, said the official. Selling dollar
debt with coupons of 10 percent or more did not make economic
sense, he said.  Venezuela’s dollar bonds yielded an average 9.12 percent on
Feb. 1 after falling from as high as 16.5 percent in 2011,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBIG index.  State oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  has no plans to
issue dollar bonds this year, Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez told
reporters Jan. 28, adding that the company had previously issued
dollar bonds to supply the Sitme market.  “We’re not selling any bonds,” said Ramirez. “It doesn’t
make economic sense for us to continue issuing debt in dollars
to obtain bolivars. It’s a mechanism to supply the Sitme, and
we’re not going to keep doing it. Sitme forces us to issue at a
rate that makes international loans more expensive.”  Venezuela will maintain its preference for issuing local
over foreign debt in 2013, Finance Minister Jorge Giordani said
in December. The country hasn’t offered bonds denominated in
dollars since 2011, when it issued a total of $7.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. PDVSA, South America’s
largest oil producer, last sold dollar-denominated debt in May
2012.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  