-- Vietnam Targets June Plan to Revamp State Firms, Trung Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-05T10:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/vietnam-to-unveil-state-firms-overhaul-plan-by-june-trung-says.html
Vietnam will unveil a plan to
overhaul 52 state-owned groups by June and lay out steps to sell
stakes or unprofitable assets in most of the companies, seeking
to curb bad debt that has hurt economic growth.  A roadmap to clean up state-owned enterprises that account
for about 37 percent of  gross domestic product  will be ready by
then, Deputy Finance Minister Truong Chi Trung said in an
interview. The government plans to sell all non-essential units
by the end of 2015, and will retain just 50 percent to 75
percent in most of its companies, he said.  Trung’s remarks are the first indication of a mid-year
target for the proposals, which would mark the biggest effort
yet to clean up state-owned monopolies whose operations have
swelled since the 1986 “Doi Moi” economic renovation allowed
private business. The companies now tie up 60 percent of bank
lending and account for more than half of bad debt, crimping
credit growth and slowing economic expansion to a 13-year low.  “Restructuring the state sector is one of our most crucial
and urgent tasks in the process of reforming the Vietnamese
economy,” Trung, 56, said in the Feb. 1 interview in Hanoi.
“We aim to have state companies focus their resources on their
core businesses and leave the opportunities in those non-core
areas to be developed by others.”  Stocks Recover  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  of stocks slumped 11 percent during the second
and third quarters of 2012 as the slowing economy eroded
earnings and banking officials were arrested in a clampdown that
undermined confidence in the country’s companies. The measure
rebounded, rising more than 15 percent this year after the
central bank cut interest rates and as improvement in developed
economies bolstered prospects for exports. It fell 1 percent
today.  “Restructuring state enterprises is the most important
thing they need to do now to boost the economy,” said Le Xuan Nghia, a member of the National Financial and Monetary Policy
Advisory Council. Overhauling the “state sector will help
create more business opportunities for private and other sectors
which are more efficient.”  The efforts may bring  Vietnam  more initial public offerings
this year, Nghia said. The five biggest state-owned companies
are Vietnam Oil & Gas Group or PetroVietnam, Vietnam National
Petroleum Corp. or Petrolimex, Vietnam Electricity, Vietnam Post
and Telecommunications Corp., and Vietnam National Coal-Mineral
Industries, or Vinacomin. Petrolimex sold shares in 2011, while
the government’s plans to sell stakes in Vietnam Mobile Telecom
Services Co. and Vietnam Airlines Corp. were delayed.  Debt Overhang  The “process of divestment and privatization will create
major opportunities for investors, both domestically and
internationally,” Trung said, referring to the sale of assets.  State-owned enterprises in the Communist Party-ruled nation
use up half of all government investment, 70 percent of official
development assistance and account for about 53 percent of the
banking system’s bad debt, according to the Finance Ministry.  Once Southeast Asia’s fastest-growing destination for
foreign investment, Vietnam’s expansion has eased since the
early boom from the 1986 economic opening as the country lost
out to rivals such as  Indonesia  in recent years. Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung’s government has pledged to address the
inefficiency that has festered through ties between banks and
the state companies that receive much of their lending.  Restoring Confidence  “It’s good that we have the June deadline,” said Hoang
Thach Lan, head of the brokerage unit at Ho Chi Minh City-based
MHB Securities Co., the equity investment arm of Mekong Housing
Bank. “The market wants to see something specific from the
government to restore confidence.”  A proposed revision to its constitution that’s due to be
submitted to the National Assembly for approval following public
consultation this year removes language stipulating that the
state sector will “assume the leading role” in the economy.  Communist Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong
apologized in an October televised address to the nation for
“big mistakes” made by the ruling party, including corruption
and lax oversight of state-owned conglomerates. The same month,
Deputy Finance Minister Vu Thi Mai said Vietnam was trying to
speed up the restructuring of state companies to improve their
operations and efficiency.  Development Potential  “Bad debt in state enterprises is one of the most
important issues of Vietnam’s economy that we need to tackle
now,” Trung said in written comments after the interview. “Our
principle in resolving bad debt at state enterprises is that we
will only resolve bad debt at those that have good restructuring
plans, with development potential, and for the companies with no
development prospect, we will let them go bankrupt.”  State enterprises’ non-core investments, such as property
and stocks, account for as much as 12 percent of their
registered capital, Deputy State Auditor Le Minh Khai said in
July. Vietnam Electricity, known as EVN, and Vietnam National
Shipping Lines, or Vinalines, have “large” investments in non-
core businesses, Khai said.  EVN’s Chairman Dao Van Hung was fired in February last year
after the power company lost 11.5 trillion dong ($552 million)
over two years, according to the government’s website. The
utility has been building a 93,351 square meter twin-tower
headquarters since 2007.  New Committee  Police in September arrested the former chairman of
Vinalines for falsifying contracts, part of moves to hold
executives accountable for mismanagement at state-owned
companies. In August, they arrested Nguyen Duc Kien, who helped
found Asia Commercial Bank, Vietnam’s largest non-government
owned lender by assets.  The Communist Party’s Politburo has established a 16-member
anti-corruption committee to accelerate efforts to curb graft,
according to a statement posted on the government website late
yesterday that cited General Secretary Trong. A tougher fight
against corruption is needed to preserve the stability of the
country’s Communist regime, Trong was cited as saying by Lao
Dong newspaper in a report today.  The economy expanded 5.03 percent in 2012, the slowest pace
since 1999. Growth has slowed due to falling productivity linked
to inefficiencies in state-owned companies, banks and public
investments, the World Bank said in December. The Communist
Party has said that “unprofitable or even money-losing”
companies had become a burden.  Retaining Ownership  “After restructuring, we will retain 100 percent in very
few state-owned enterprises,” Trung said in the interview.
“They will be enterprises in some limited number of areas that
others cannot do, such as public services, or national defense
and security, and some very few companies in key areas which are
the foundation of the economy. Other enterprises will be
subjected to government ownership of between 50 to 75 percent.”  The government is also gathering public comments on a new
draft decree on state enterprises which will require the
companies to make public financial statements and business
details including project lists, bank loans, employee wages and
total debt.  The draft decree, due to be submitted to Prime Minister
Dung by March 31, also states that chief executive officials of
state-owned enterprises would be fired if their enterprises make
losses for two consecutive years or fail to meet earning
targets.  The Finance Ministry has requested state enterprises to
“make clear the amount of their bad debt needed to be
resolved,” Trung said in written comments after the interview.
The government “will aim to have state companies focus on doing
businesses, not assign them with political tasks,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  