-- White & Case, Schulte Roth, Skadden, S&C: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-04T12:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/white-case-schulte-roth-skadden-s-c-business-of-law.html
White & Case  LLP hired mergers and
acquisitions lawyer Daniel Dufner as a partner in the firm’s  New
York  office. Dufner, who joins from Linklaters LLP, was
previously a partner at White & Case from 2004 to 2009. Dufner
represented WellPoint Inc. in its $4.9 billion acquisition of
Amerigroup Corp. He has also represented EchoStar Corp., Dish
Network Corp. and Blockbuster Entertainment Corp., the firm
said.  Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP hired Barry A. Bohrer and Lisa A. Prager as partners and Lara Covington as special counsel in the
litigation practice. The group comes from Morvillo, Abramowitz,
Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer PC. Bohrer, who has experience
handling white-collar, complex civil and securities enforcement
matters, will reside in the New York office. Prager, who has
expertise in government investigations and enforcement actions
relating to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, anti- money
laundering  laws and export controls, was head of the Morvillo
Abramowitz  Washington  office. At SRZ, she will split her time
between Washington and New York. Covington, who practices in the
areas of FCPA, export controls and government contract issues,
will also be based in Washington.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP hired Allison R. Liff in its New
York office as a partner in the banking and finance practice
group. Liff joins the firm from Goldman Sachs, where she was
managing director and associate general counsel responsible for
leveraged finance, middle market financing, restructuring, and
the bank debt portfolio group, the firm said. Liff was an
associate in Weil’s banking and finance practice group in the
corporate department, before joining Goldman.  Lane Powell PC added partner Brenna Legaard, previously
with Chernoff Vilhauer LLP, and two other attorneys to its
intellectual property practice group. Legaard has experience
with patent and trademark litigation and counseling in  consumer
goods , wireless technology and medical devices, the firm said.
The firm has been expanding its IP practice. In addition to the
recent addition of three lawyers, Lane Powell has added two IP
portfolio developers and three patent attorneys in the last
year. Frances Jagla, formerly a senior attorney with Abbott
Laboratories, and Microsoft, and Alan Minsk, formerly patent
counsel with Openwave Systems and  Intellectual Ventures , joined
in Seattle as partners. Gregory Wesner, previously with Frommer
Lawrence & Haug LLP, also joined the firm as a partner in
Seattle in the last year.  Bird & Bird LLP hired Joerg Paura as partner in its
international corporate group. Joerg, who joins the Hamburg
office on April 1 from Hogan Lovells LLP, brings along a team of
two counsel. Paura specializes in corporate law, M&A, corporate
finance, restructuring and insolvency, the firm said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  will be joining Gibson
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, a spokeswoman with the firm said. Brodsky
prosecuted former Galleon Group hedge fund manager  Raj
Rajaratnam  and former Goldman Sachs director  Rajat Gupta , and
other defendants in a widespread insider trading scheme. The
spokeswoman said the firm wasn’t ready to make the formal
announcement yet.  A  Cleary Gottlieb  Steen & Hamilton LLP white-collar partner
is leaving his firm to join the U.S. Attorney’s office, the New
York Times reported. Joon Kim joined Cleary Gottlieb in 1997 and
became a partner in 2009, according to his firm bio. He worked
as an assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New
York, from June 2000 until April 2006. Kim investigated and
prosecuted  securities fraud , money laundering,  tax evasion ,
racketeering, murder and terrorism cases for the government. He
returned to Cleary in May 2006.  News  Edward Koch, Brash New York Mayor in 1980s Boom, Dies at 88  Edward I. Koch, the outspoken three-term New York mayor who
led the biggest U.S. city from the brink of bankruptcy in the
late 1970s and was a former partner in the  law firm  Bryan Cave
LLP, died. He was 88.  Koch died Feb. 1 at 2 a.m. of heart failure at New York-
Presbyterian Columbia Hospital, spokesman George Arzt said. Koch
had been hospitalized in September for anemia and in December
for pneumonia and flu and was moved into intensive care Jan. 31.
The funeral will be held today at Temple Emanu-El in  Manhattan .  Serving from 1978 through 1989, Koch presided over the Wall
Street-fueled economic boom of the 1980s, turning a $1 billion
 budget deficit  into a $500 million surplus in five years. He
restored the city’s credit, doubled the annual budget to $26
billion and oversaw $19 billion in capital improvements. His
subsidized housing plan produced more than 156,000 new and
renovated units.  For more, click here.  TeliaSonera CEO Resigns After Report Finds Risk Controls Lacking  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  Chief Executive Officer Lars Nyberg resigned
Feb. 1 as a law firm hired to investigate graft accusations said
the carrier should have been more careful when it bought an
Uzbeki phone license in 2007.  Swedish prosecutors opened an investigation last year into
whether the country’s largest telephone operator knew, or should
have known, when it bought the license from Takilant Ltd. that
the money went to President Islam Karimov’s family. Law firm
Mannheimer Swartling faulted the lack of adequate internal
controls against corruption while saying it found no evidence of
bribery or money laundering.  “I am greatly relieved that Mannheimer Swartling has not
found anything to support the allegations that TeliaSonera
committed bribery or participated in money laundering,” Nyberg
said in a statement. “This is something that I have been
convinced of since these allegations emerged.”  TeliaSonera, which is almost 40 percent owned by the
Swedish government, has denied it broke any laws and named Per- Arne Blomquist as president and acting CEO. The company is
already in the middle of a management overhaul that will see
Chairman Anders Narvinger step down on April 3. Nyberg was hired
in July 2007 to replace ousted CEO Anders Igel due to slumping
profits.  “The criticism in the report is very serious and reflects
the fact that we haven’t followed our own guidelines,”
TeliaSonera Chairman Anders Narvinger said at a press conference
Feb. 1. It’s “quite clear that the local partner should have
been investigated more thoroughly.”  For more, click here.  FTC Chairman Leibowitz Says He’ll Leave Agency by Feb. 15  Jonathan Leibowitz , chairman of the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, said he will leave for the private sector by Feb. 15
after eight years at the consumer-protection and antitrust
enforcement agency.  Leibowitz, whose watch included a 20-month antitrust
investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  that left the search engine
operator free to extend its dominance, said the agency has made
progress on a number of consumer protection issues including
health care, privacy, technology and so-called last-dollar fraud
cases such as mortgage-modification scams.  Leibowitz, 54, said he doesn’t have another job lined up
and will look for work with a law firm or company after taking a
few months off.  For more, click here.  Rothstein Wife Admits Guilt in Hiding $1 Million in Jewelry  The wife of Scott Rothstein, a disbarred  Florida  attorney
who ran a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme , pleaded guilty to hiding $1
million in jewelry from U.S. authorities trying to seize his
assets to repay investors.  Kimberly Wendell Rothstein, 38, admitted Feb. 1 in federal
court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, that she lied after Internal
Revenue Service agents tried to confiscate the jewelry,
including a 12-carat yellow diamond ring. A friend of hers,
Stacie Weisman, 49, also pleaded guilty.  Scott Rothstein, who is serving a 50-year prison term,
amassed tens of millions of dollars in real estate, cars, boats,
watches, jewelry and sports memorabilia, authorities said. After
he agreed to plead guilty and forfeit his illegal gains, his
wife held back some jewelry when federal agents showed up on
Nov. 9, 2009, she admitted.  “Kimberly Rothstein, Weisman, and others sold or attempted
to sell a portion of the missing jewelry to and through various
persons,” according to a statement of facts filed in court that
Kimberly Rothstein admitted.  On Jan. 30, attorney Scott Saidel, 45, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy for his role in the scheme. Two other men, Eddy
Marin, 50, and Patrick Daoud, 54, were charged with obstruction
of justice and perjury. They face trial on April 8.  The Ponzi scheme orchestrated by Scott Rothstein involved
persuading wealthy investors to buy stakes in what he said were
payouts in confidential sexual harassment and workplace
discrimination cases. The cases were fabricated. Rothstein used
forged court documents and phony bank records to sell the scheme
to investors, including four  hedge funds  and several wealthy
South Florida businessmen.  The case is U.S. v. Rothstein, 12-cr-60204, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Deals  Skadden Advises MetLife on Provida Purchase for $2 Billion  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is advising  MetLife
Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, which agreed to buy Chilean
pension manager  AFP Provida SA (PROVIDA)  from  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in a deal valued at about $2 billion to add fee
income in  Latin America . Sullivan & Cromwell LLP is advising
BBVA.  The Skadden team includes New York partners Robert Sullivan
on insurance and Paola Lozano on mergers and acquisitions
matters.  Sullivan & Cromwell partners included corporate and M&A
partner William Torchiana, who is also head of the firm’s Paris
office, and Ronald Creamer Jr. on tax.  MetLife will conduct a public cash tender offer for all of
the outstanding shares of Provida, the insurer said in a
statement. BBVA has agreed to transfer its 64.3 percent stake to
MetLife, according to the statement.  MetLife is expanding in faster-growing markets with the
Provida deal, after acquiring American Life Insurance Co. in
2010 to build operations in  Asia  and  Europe . Chief Executive
Officer  Steven Kandarian  has set a goal of generating at least
20 percent of operating earnings from  emerging markets  by 2016
as he targets return on equity of 12 percent or more.  For more, click here.  Skadden Advises Pfizer’s Zoetis in $2.24 Billion IPO  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP advised Zoetis Inc.,
the animal-health company owned by  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc., which surged as
much as 22 percent in its debut after raising $2.24 billion in
an initial public offering, pricing the shares above the
proposed range.  The Skadden team includes corporate finance partners Stacy Kanter and Dwight Yoo. Partners Dean Shulman and Steven Matays
are advising on tax aspects. Partners Paul Schnell and Thomas Greenberg are advising on mergers and acquisitions matters.  Pfizer offered about 17 percent of Zoetis in the IPO, the
biggest in the U.S. since Facebook Inc.’s last year. The IPO
price valued Zoetis at $13 billion, making it the largest public
company of its kind and one of the few focused solely on
medicines for animals.  Kanter, the partner leading on the Zoetis IPO, also led
Skadden’s team on the Realogy Holdings Corp. IPO in October.
Realogy is the real estate brokerage company controlled by
Apollo Global Management LLC, which raised $1.08 billion in an
initial public offering, pricing the shares at the top of the
proposed range.  For more, click here.  Firm News  White & Case Forms Association with Indonesian Law Firm  White & Case LLP announced an association with Indonesian
law firm MD & Partners in Jakarta.  MD & Partners, a new law firm, is headed by founding
partner Mita Djajadiredja. Djajadiredja was previously a partner
at Hadiputranto Hadinoto & Partners, and is a mergers and
acquisitions lawyer, the firm said. Joining Djajadiredja is
Nadia Soraya, previously a partner at Makarim & Taira S. in
Jakarta. Soraya has finance and corporate experience,
particularly in the power and natural resources sectors.  “Our association with MD & Partners supports our firm’s
long history with  Indonesia  and meets the increasing demands of
our clients,” said White & Case chairman Hugh Verrier.  White & Case has lawyers in 38 offices in 26 countries.  Fees  Lehman Fees Exceed $2 Billion Since 2008 Bankruptcy Filing  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which is still liquidating
after exiting court protection last year, paid advisers and
managers $153.8 million in December, putting total fees over the
$2 billion mark in the more than four years since it filed for
bankruptcy.  December’s outlays included $84 million in incentives for a
plan that will pay creditors an average of 18 cents on the
dollar, according to a Jan. 31  filing  in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Manhattan. Restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, which
runs the defunct investment bank, has made almost $583 million
so far, including incentive payments. Lead bankruptcy law firm
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP has earned $454 million.  Lehman became the most expensive bankruptcy in U.S. history
in April 2010, when it topped the record $757 million tab for
energy trader Enron Corp.’s three-year liquidation, according to
the database of  Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy-law professor at the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles . Fees surpassed $1 billion
after 24 1/2 months in bankruptcy in October 2010.  Enron’s payback to general unsecured creditors was about 53
percent, albeit with a long wait after it came out of bankruptcy
court in 2004.  The high fees result from competition among bankruptcy
courts for big cases, LoPucki, author of “Courting Failure: How
Competition for Big Cases Is Corrupting the Bankruptcy Courts”
(University of Michigan Press, 2005), said at the time. Judges
don’t often challenge payments to lawyers who bring in big
cases, because under current laws those lawyers are free to take
future cases to competing courts that won’t question the fees,
he said.  Lehman, once the world’s fourth-biggest  investment bank ,
filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008
with  assets  of $639 billion. Creditors included  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , the New York Giants professional football
team and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  