-- Yum to Introduce New China Ads After Lowering Forecast
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-02-05T21:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/yum-falls-after-lowering-profit-forecast.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
and  Pizza Hut  dining chains, will introduce a new advertising
campaign to lure consumers in  China  after a probe into its
chicken suppliers hurt sales in the Asian nation.  The “aggressive” marketing strategy to restore  consumer
confidence  will start after the Chinese New Year ends, Chief
Executive Officer  David Novak  said during a conference call
today. Diners expect safe food, and Yum let them down, he said.  Yum, which plans to open 700 stores in China this year, has
been trying to win back Chinese consumers after a former chicken
supplier was found to have supplied meat with too much
antibiotics. Sales at locations open at least 12 months in the
Asian nation fell 6 percent in the fourth quarter, the first
quarterly drop in three years. Analysts forecast a decline of 6
percent, the average of 22 estimates from Consensus Metrix.  “They’re going to have to do everything they can to
restore their image” in China,  Jack Russo , a St. Louis-based
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who advises holding Yum shares,
said in an interview. “It’s going to take some money to restore
the confidence of consumers there, and I think they’ll get that
done.”  Comparable-store sales in China may decline 25 percent in
the first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Grismer said
on today’s call. The company will report monthly same-store
sales for the Asian nation until KFC recovers, he said. Yum’s
first-quarter profit excluding certain items also will fall 25
percent, he said.  Shares Slide  Yum slid 2.9 percent to $62.08 at the close in  New York .
The Louisville, Kentucky-based company’s shares  gained  13
percent last year, while the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Restaurants
Index dropped 2.6 percent.  Profit excluding certain items will decline this year, down
from a previous estimate for growth of 10 percent, the company
said yesterday in a statement. Profit last year was $3.25 a
share. Analysts on average  estimated  2013 profit of $3.57 a
share.  The company got about 44 percent of 2011  revenue  from
stores in China. KFC sales during the quarter were
“significantly” affected by the government investigation,
which showed that poultry farmers ignored laws, Yum said in
yesterday’s statement.  The Shanghai  Food and Drug Administration , which didn’t
bring a case against Yum or fine the company, concluded its
investigation on Jan. 25, Yum said.  Liuhe Group  The Chinese government said on Dec. 20 that tests conducted
by a third-party agency from 2010 to 2011 found eight batches of
chicken supplied to Yum by Liuhe Group had antibiotics levels
that didn’t meet prescribed standards. Yum stopped buying from
Liuhe in August, the restaurant chain said in its microblog.  Net income  in the quarter ended Dec. 29 fell 5.3 percent to
$337 million, or 72 cents a share, from $356 million, or 75
cents, a year earlier, Yum said in the statement. Excluding
certain items, profit was 83 cents. Analysts estimated 82 cents,
the average of 24 projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Same-store sales rose 3 percent in the U.S., 24 percent in
 India  and 3 percent at other international stores. Analysts
estimated growth of 3 percent for the U.S., 6.3 percent for
India and 3.9 percent at international locations, according to
Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based
Kaul Advisory Group.  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of
growth because they include only established locations.  McDonald’s Competition  In the U.S., Yum has been advertising value items to
compete with  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s dollar menu and attract budget-
conscious consumers. Taco Bell has promoted a 12-pack of tacos,
while Pizza Hut is advertising $10 for any pizza and $19.99 for
a so-called big dinner box.  Revenue rose 1 percent to $4.15 billion in the quarter.
Analysts estimated $4.12 billion, on average.  Yum has about 38,200 restaurants worldwide, of which about
20 percent are owned by the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  