-- Zambia Overstretching Debt With $4.5 Billion Bond Sales
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-02-04T08:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/zambia-overstretching-debt-with-4-5-billion-bond-sales.html
Zambia’s debut dollar-bond sale has
opened the way for record issuance that risks overstretching
government borrowing less than seven years after Africa’s
biggest copper producer was unable to pay its debt.  The country, which had more than $6 billion of loans
canceled by creditors including the  World Bank  by 2006, raised
$750 million with its first international sale in September. As
much as $4.5 billion of international bonds are now planned by
companies from the nation’s power utility to its railway
operator and road builder, while municipalities are seeking to
follow a maiden debt sale by the capital, Lusaka.  Debt may jump to more than 35 percent of gross domestic
product if all sales go ahead, Richard Odumodu, head of fixed
income at London-based Silk Invest Ltd., said by phone Jan. 30.
Zambia’s borrowings rose to 27 percent of the country’s $19.2
billion economy at the end of 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The government is financing road, rail and power
projects to pull the nation, ranked 164th of 187 countries on
the United Nation’s Human Development Index, from poverty.  “There is a lot of liquidity in international markets and
a lot of that is looking for a home in high-yield instruments,”
Yvette Babb, an emerging-market strategist at Johannesburg-based
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa ’s largest lender, said by phone
Jan. 16. “There are question marks as to how those
organizations would be able to service that debt.”  Emerging-market bonds returned a record 14 percent in local
currency terms last year, compared with 5.7 percent for the
global fixed-income market, according to indexes compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.  Forgiven Debts  The World Bank started canceling $37 billion in debt for up
to 40 of the poorest countries in 2006, scrapping $2.7 billion
owed by Zambia that helped bring its borrowings down to $500
million in July of that year from $7.2 billion a year earlier.
The Zambian government is “aware and awake” to its debt
obligations and “will not be carried away,” Deputy Finance
Minister Miles Sampa said in a Jan. 9 interview.  “You start getting to a point that the debt forgiveness
followed where it was running at around 88 percent of GDP,”
Silk Invest’s Odumodu said.  The yield on Zambia’s Eurobond due September 2022 rose to
5.12 percent on Feb. 1 from a record low of 5 percent on Jan.
25. The 12-basis point increase compares with a 23 basis-point
jump in rates on  Nigeria ’s $500 million dollar-denominated bonds
due January 2021 to 4 percent. Average emerging-market  yields 
have climbed 4 basis points since reaching a record low of 5.39
percent Jan. 23, according to JPMorgan indexes.  ‘Too Far’  Exotix Ltd., a London-based frontier-market investment
bank, cut Zambia’s sovereign debt from “buy” to “hold” on
Jan. 22. Investors shouldn’t chase the rally in emerging-market
bonds further, because it “has gone too far too soon,” Exotix
said.  Zesco Ltd., the power utility, may seek $1 billion to $2
billion in local and international debt, including bonds, this
year, while Zambia Railways Ltd. plans to sell $500 million of
debt in the next six months. The Lusaka City Council wants to
raise $500 million in bonds, with municipalities including
Solwezi and Livingstone possibly following and Zambia’s Roads
Development Agency is planning a $1.5 million issuance.  The flood of interest in Zambia is a bit risky given the
size of the issues planned, Exotix Chief Economist Stuart Culverhouse said in an e-mail Feb. 1.  “Given they may be relatively unknown borrowers, the
question will be what kind of cost of borrowing will the market
demand, and will that be acceptable to the obliger,” he said.  Forgiven Debts  The southern African nation’s debt is rated B+ by  Standard
& Poor’s , or four levels below investment grade, while Nigeria
is ranked a level higher. The Zambian kwacha weakened 0.6
percent to 5.35 per dollar at 9:38 a.m. in Lusaka, extending
losses this year to 3 percent.  Zambia’s economy will probably expand 8.1 percent this
year, from an estimated 7.3 percent in 2012, and 7.6 percent in
2014, boosted by mining and agriculture, Ricardo da Camara, a
fixed-income analyst at Paarl-based NKC Independent Economists,
said in reply to e-mailed questions Jan. 22.  “Interest in frontier-debt markets remains very robust,”
he said. “There might not be a better time to tap international
markets.”  Nigeria, Angola and  Ghana  plan to sell as much as $3.75
billion in international bonds this year, the most from the
continent ever, as governments try to benefit from demand that
has driven borrowing costs to historic lows.  Zambia’s debut bond was in high demand because before the
sale, the country had low debt levels, which is quickly
changing,  Razia Khan , head of African research at  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  in  London , said by phone Jan. 10.  There is a “sense of positive exuberance,” Charles Mate,
the managing director of Stockbrokers Zambia Ltd. said Jan. 18
by phone from Lusaka. “Now everybody wants to issue a bond.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  