-- Zoomlion Denies Allegations of False Sales and Accounting
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-02-05T03:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/zoomlion-denies-allegations-of-false-sales-accounting.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (1157) ,  China ’s second-biggest construction-equipment
maker, denied allegations in a press article published yesterday
that it had reported fictitious sales and falsified accounts.  All allegations in the report are “false, groundless and
misleading,” the Changsha, China-based company said in a Hong
Kong stock exchange filing yesterday, without identifying the
publication it was refuting. “No accounting fraud has ever been
committed,” the company said.  The response is Zoomlion’s second in a month to published
allegations that it had falsified sales. The most recent report
may be based on documents sent anonymously to media
organizations, including Bloomberg News, that purport to respond
to Zoomlion’s initial denial last month by showing the company
has made false statements about revenue.  “Their revenue growth relative to all their peers and the
economic activity in China doesn’t seem very credible,” Kevin Barnes, an analyst at Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC, a New
York-based hedge fund with $150 million under management, said
in an interview. “It’s also a difficult industry to audit, just
because there’s so many pieces of machinery -- unless you have
an external auditor who’s willing to go out and count them
individually.”  Barnes declined to comment on whether Kerrisdale, which
takes both long and short positions in stocks, has a position in
Zoomlion’s shares.  Unsigned Letter  Zoomlion jumped as much as 5.6 percent, the most since Dec.
5, in Shenzhen trading today. The stock changed hands up at 9.88
 yuan , up 4.1 percent, as of 10:47 a.m. The Hong Kong-traded
shares fell 1.2 percent to HK$10.24.  Last month, after the first round of allegations, Chairman
Zhan Chunxin told reporters that the company achieved growth
last year by gaining market share. Zhan spoke after Ming Pao
Daily said on Jan. 8 that it had received an unsigned letter
alleging Zoomlion’s sales are exaggerated.  The share price may have downward pressure in the short
term because of the claims and that make the stock’s value even
more “compelling,” Barclays Plc analysts led by Victoria Li
said in a note to clients today. Zoomlion already had the lowest
valuation among its peers, they said.  Regulator Alerted  Copies of the letter were also sent to Zoomlion and the
Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, according to the
report. The shares plunged the most in eight months when trading
resumed the following day.  In yesterday’s filing, Zoomlion said it books sales
strictly in accordance with both its own revenue recognition
policy and accounting rules, with auditing by Baker Tilly and
KPMG. The company said it sometimes exchanges or replaces
products for reasons including defects and technological change.  The National Business Daily, based in  Shanghai , reported in
an  article  published yesterday that it received documents that
the sender said were from Zoomlion’s internal software system,
including file materials of more than 100 pages.  The newspaper, citing its own reporting based on the
information in the documents, said that there may have been
false reporting in “first-line sales” in eastern China,
including Shanghai and Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces.  In one example, the newspaper reported that while the
documents showed a customer in Zhejiang as having signed a
contract for 15 pump trucks, he told the newspaper he had only
bought two.  “Given the level of account/customer details mentioned, we
believe it should be possible for Zoomlion to come back with a
rebuttal,” said Yang Y. Song, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, in a report yesterday referring to the
National Business Daily article. “We look forward to
clarifications from the company,” he said. Credit Suisse has an
outperform or buy rating on the shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  