-- 
‘Angry Birds’ Maker May Hold IPO in 2012, Mighty Eagle Says

-- B y   J o n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-10-13T09:52:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/-angry-birds-may-see-2012-ipo-as-flock-of-fans-grows-mighty-eagle-says.html
Rovio Entertainment Oy, the Finnish
creator of “Angry Birds” mobile-phone games, may sell shares
to the public as early as next year and is probably worth more
than $1 billion, its chief marketing officer said.  “We’re not ready to file for an IPO tomorrow,” Peter Vesterbacka, who also goes by the title Mighty Eagle, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “Maybe a year from now.”  The touchscreen game, in which players use a virtual
slingshot to fling birds at structures populated by green pigs,
has had 400 million free and paid downloads since 2009, with
three fourths of those in the last six months. Rovio is hiring
in the U.S. and  China  to develop activities such as retail and
movies, and is worth more than $1 billion, based on funding
talks, people with knowledge of the discussions said in August.  “We’re happy with our valuation but we think it’s probably
a bit north of that,” said Vesterbacka. Espoo-based Rovio,
which announced in June it  took over  Finnish animation studio
Kombo, is weighing more acquisitions, he said.  Vesterbacka, 43, previously spent 14 years at Hewlett-
Packard Co. selling systems to phone companies and encouraging
mobile developers. He discovered the team that would become
Rovio in an HP-sponsored games contest in 2003.  ‘Insanely Profitable’  The Angry Birds brand also makes cash via advertising, in-
game purchases and physical merchandise including T-shirts,
Halloween costumes, stuffed toys and a cookbook. Rovio has
benefitted from publicity, including a mention by Russian
President Dmitri Medvedev, who  praised  Vesterbacka and Angry
Birds this year “for creating an occupation for a huge number
of officials who now know what to do with their leisure time.”  Merchandise  is 10 to 20 percent of the business, and
stuffed toys, priced $8.99 to $69.99 on the company’s website,
are selling a million units a month, Vesterbacka said.  “We’re insanely profitable,” he said. “We are very, very
profitable. We’re not a publicly traded company yet but we can
fund our own growth.”  Vesterbacka worked on other startups after leaving HP in
2006, and joined Rovio in early 2010. The company has gone from
a dozen people to about 200 since then. Now the Finn, often clad
in a red hoodie, represents the company at events around the
world, while Chief Executive Officer Mikael Hed runs the show in
Espoo.  ‘Billion Fans’  Hires this year include David Maisel, former chairman of
Marvel Studios, which produced the “Iron Man” films, to be
special adviser and executive producer of Angry Birds movies.
The company also recruited former Tele2 CEO Harri Koponen, who
hired Vesterbacka at HP, to head merchandise including books.  Rovio experienced its first high-profile departure with the
exit of Wibe Wagemans, senior vice president of brand
advertising, who was working on alliances with Starbucks and
other retail brands.  Tie-ups with other companies include a deal with Finnair
Oyj, which offered fans seats to play “Angry Birds” in the air
in a promotional flight to  Singapore  last month, and bookseller
Barnes & Noble Inc., which offers free access to the 99-cent
“Mighty Eagle” feature to users of its Nook tablet device
while they’re in its stores.  “We think we have a good shot at being the first
entertainment brand that has a billion fans -- people we can
talk to and have a dialog with every day,” said Vesterbacka.
The company now has about 150 million “active users,” he said.  Games Charts  The company published 51 games for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  phones and
other handsets before releasing “Angry Birds,” which has had
multiple runs at the top of the charts at online application
stores in many countries, including  Apple Inc.’s online app
store  in the U.S.  “Before the iPhone and the app stores, if you weren’t
friends with the handset makers, even if you made a great game
you couldn’t get it out there,” Vesterbacka said. “There were
all these people on gateways controlling what went out. The app
store model has changed the dynamics.”  “Angry Birds” zoomed to the top of the iPhone charts last
year before being rolled out for Android phones, desktop
computers, and Barnes & Noble’s Nook e-reader. It’s on Nokia’s
current smartphones and on Windows Phone 7, and Rovio has been
working on a social-media version for Facebook.  Footsteps of Disney  In March, Rovio received $42 million in funding from
investors including Skype Technologies SA co-founder Niklas Zennstrom’s Atomico as well as Facebook backer  Accel Partners .
It’s “very possible” that Rovio will seek another venture-
capital round before eventually holding an initial public 
offering, possibly in two to three years, CEO Hed said in June.  “We’re still building a lot of our infrastructure, our
company, our platform, everything,” Vesterbacka said. “There’s
a lot of good discipline in having to be ready to go public.”  The company is working on a 20-year plan for Angry Birds,
Vesterbacka said. The rapidly changing nature of media
distribution means Angry Birds movies could even go “direct to
app,” he said.  “Disney started as a black and white cartoon about this
little mouse,” he said. “Nintendo has been working on Mario
for 26 years. Angry Birds is less than two years old.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  