-- 
U.K. Government Must Resist Regulation Lobby, Vickers Says

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-10-13T11:53:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/-strong-resistance-needed-to-icb-basel-lobbying-vickers-says.html
The British government must resist
pressure from lobbyists to “water down” proposals made by the
Independent Commission on Banking and other regulators, ICB
Chairman  John Vickers  said.  “It is for government and parliament to resist
emasculation or watering down,” Vickers, 53, told members of a
joint committee of both Houses of Parliament today in London.
“It is a risk.”  U.K. banks face as much as 7 billion pounds ($11 billion) a
year in implementation and funding costs after the government-
sponsored ICB report published last month recommended banks
insulate consumer banking operations, the commission estimated.
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive Officer Stephen
Hester this week said the plans are a “done deal,” while
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Chairman Win Bischoff said it is
important to see “how it’s going to be implemented.”  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s U.K. head Ana Patricia Botin said the proposals
are “very radical.”  “One sees evidence of lobbying activity in a variety of
jurisdictions on these fronts and I think it’s very important
both within the U.K. and in the wider international community
that there is strong resistance,” Vickers said.  Moving Abroad  There’s a “low probability” of British-domiciled banks
moving abroad as a result of the commission’s recommendations
and that its findings were adjusted to stop that happening,
Vickers said separately this week.  “There is a strong case for strengthening, not weakening
those international requirements on such matters as  capital
requirements ,” said Vickers today.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne in
September said the government will stick to the ICB’s timetable
to implement the plans by 2019.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  