-- 
Nobel Laureate Pissarides Sees Greek Bond ’Haircut’

-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 
2011-10-13T06:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/50-haircut-on-greek-bonds-predicted-by-cypriot-nobel-winner-pissarides.html
Greece is likely to avoid a full
default while investors in its bonds may take losses of 50
percent, Nobel economics laureate  Christopher Pissarides  said.  “I am very optimistic that there will be some kind of a
rescue plan that will not involve a full default,” Pissarides,
an economist and the first Cypriot to win the  Nobel Prize , said
an interview in Seoul today. “But I don’t think the haircut
that has been applied so far, the discount on Greek debt, is
going to be enough.”  Greece is in the process of receiving its second bailout
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  as the
region’s officials struggle to contain the debt crisis that has
roiled world markets. Banks pledged in July to participate in a
bond exchange and debt buyback program where “all instruments
will be priced to produce a 21 percent net present value loss.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said through
a spokesman on Oct. 11 that “haircuts” may exceed 21 percent.
“Without knowing what the market premium was currently, I would
have said about 50 percent is probably what is likely,”
Pissarides said.  Pissarides, who won the economics prize in 2010 and is a
professor at the London School of Economics, said European
leaders deserve “a high grade for determination but I won’t
give them a high grade for quick action.”  An Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders looms as a deadline for a
breakthrough in combating the crisis. European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  is calling for a reinforcement of crisis-
hit banks, the payout of a sixth loan to  Greece  and a faster
start for a permanent rescue fund to master the crisis.  ‘Systemic Dimension’  Europe ’s debt crisis has reached “a systemic dimension”
and needs to be tackled “decisively,” European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet said this week.  In Greece, protests have included state workers blocking
access to the  Finance Ministry ’s main building in central Athens
as the government plans to cut jobs and wages to meet conditions
for international loans. Parliament votes next week on Prime
Minister George Papandreou’s plans to cut wages and pensions and
dismiss 30,000 workers.  “If it were left alone by its European partners then it
would default, there is no alternative,” Pissarides said. “It
doesn’t look like it is going to be left alone by the European
partners, so I am very optimistic that there will be some kind
of a rescue plan that will not involve a full default.”  He also said the European Union and the euro should survive.  “In fact, I have a fraction of my savings in the euro and
I intend to keep them there,” Pissarides said.  Editors: Brett Miller, Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net 
Deirdre Bolton in New York at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  