-- 
Labour Calls for Emergency U.K. Budget to Prevent Recession

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-10-13T16:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/labour-calls-for-emergency-u-k-budget-to-prevent-recession.html
Britain’s opposition  Labour Party 
called on  David Cameron ’s government to draw up an emergency
budget to invest in job creation and slow the pace of deficit
reduction amid rising unemployment and a stagnant economy.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  and his Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , will tour the country making the case for a cut in  value-
added tax , a levy on sales, and tax breaks for companies that
take on more staff. They also called for a 2 billion-pound ($3.1
billion) levy on bank bonuses to pay for jobs for young people
and 25,000 affordable homes.  “Day after day, with every downgrade in growth, with every
rise in unemployment, it’s clear the government’s plan is not
working,” Miliband told reporters in  London  today. “It’s an
economic emergency and we need an emergency budget to start to
take action to get the economy moving.”  U.K. output has barely expanded over the past year, and
figures yesterday showed unemployment climbed to a 15-year high
of 8.1 percent, fueling concerns the economy could tip back into
recession amid slowing global growth, government spending cuts
and the biggest squeeze on household incomes since the 1970s.  Labour is seeking to portray Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne’s policy of eliminating the structural  budget
deficit  by 2015 as one that’s tipping the U.K. into recession
just 18 months into the program. Balls yesterday told Parliament
that to expect the private sector to make up for the loss of
public-sector activity and 300,000 jobs is “fantasy.”  ‘Not Working’  “The economy has stagnated for the last year -- the
question is how bad do things have to get before the government
admits it’s not working?” Balls said today. “If you’ve got
more people out of work, not paying taxes, instead on benefits,
the problem is the borrowing comes in higher and we already know
 George Osborne  is having to plan on 46 billion pounds more
borrowing than he was planning.”  Two years after the recession ended, gross domestic product
is 4.4 percent below its peak level in the early 2008,
representing the weakest recovery for almost a century.  Nobel economics laureate  Christopher Pissarides  said in an
open letter to Osborne published in the New Statesman magazine
yesterday that the U.K.’s budget cuts risk causing a double-dip
recession and the government should lower taxes to spur demand
and job growth.  ‘Friendlier Policy’  “Deficit reduction is best done with spending cuts when
the economy is recovering, not with higher taxes in a
downturn,” Pissarides wrote. “There is enough time in the life
of this Parliament to achieve your deficit-reduction objective
with a policy that is friendlier to  job creation .”  Labour’s proposals would add 20 billion pounds to the
structural deficit and cost Britain its top  credit rating , which
was affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s  on Oct. 3, Osborne told
lawmakers in a debate with Balls in the House of Commons
yesterday. Defending his plans to cut the deficit as “tough but
necessary,” the chancellor said there is no quick fix for the
U.K. economy.  Responding to mounting concerns over the economy, Osborne
outlined plans last week to ease the credit strains continuing
to hamper small and medium-sized companies by using billions of
pounds of public money to buy or guarantee their debt.  Osborne and Cameron have staked their reputations on being
able to wipe out the structural deficit by 2015, saying the plan
allows the government to borrow for 10 years at 2.6 percent,
compared with rates of more than 5 percent in Italy and  Spain .  “You need to have credible deficit-reduction plans
otherwise the confidence isn’t there to invest in the future,”
former Labour Prime Minister  Tony Blair  said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television in Istanbul today. “On the other hand
you have to do that carefully calibrated, so that you don’t
choke off growth,” he said. “You need to judge that and be
prepared to adjust that as time goes on.”  “It’s not a left-right argument, it’s a right-wrong
argument,” Blair said. “In political terms this is a judgment
that should be made on grounds of efficacy, not ideology.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  