-- 
Ackermann Plans to Head to Brussels Amid Push for Deeper Greek Debt Losses

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-10-13T14:57:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ackermann-to-travel-to-brussels-amid-greek-debt-writedown-calls.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann , who led talks on private sector
involvement in Greece’s rescue package in July, will go to
Brussels next week as policy makers push investors to take
deeper losses on their Greek sovereign debt holdings.  “I led the negotiations at the summit in Brussels and will
be there again next week because there are efforts to re-open
it,” Ackermann, chairman of the global bank lobby group
Institute of International Finance, said today in a speech in
Berlin. “That would mean an increase from the 21 percent we
voluntarily said we’d do as investors, and it wasn’t easy at all
to convince the investors to take that loss.”  European leaders are debating whether to push bondholders
to accept losses on  Greece ’s sovereign debt that go beyond the
21 percent agreed on in July to make the country’s debt burden
manageable. Ackermann said banks may be forced to restrict
lending “due to possible debt haircuts in the  euro zone .”  Bank shares tumbled, led by  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , on speculation that policy makers will make lenders raise
more capital. The 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index fell as much as 3.9 percent, extending this
year’s drop to 29 percent. French lenders BNP Paribas and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  plunged as much as much as 9.2 percent and 7.4
percent, respectively. Italy’s UniCredit slid as much as 12
percent and Deutsche Bank 6 percent.  Oct. 23 Summit  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said separately today that talks
are under way with the Washington-based IIF on the cost to
investors of a second bailout package for Greece.  Increased private sector involvement may be part of a
larger European Union package aimed at stemming the spread of
the sovereign debt crisis. An Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders
looms as a deadline for a breakthrough in combating the crisis,
which has driven Greece toward default, rattled world markets
and dented confidence in the survival of the 17-nation currency.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called yesterday
for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth
loan to Greece and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund to
ease  Europe ’s debt woes.  Banks may be required to maintain a 9 percent capital
buffer to absorb sovereign risks, up from the 5 percent core
capital level used in July’s stress tests, a person with
knowledge of discussions at the European Union’s top banking
regulator said yesterday.  European finance ministers are considering setting a new
timetable for banks to strengthen their balance sheets under the
Basel III framework, a French official said today. Asked if a 9
percent Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, would be acceptable, the official said “yes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  