-- 
Ackermann Says Higher Capital Won’t Master Sovereign Crisis

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-10-13T08:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ackermann-says-higher-capital-won-t-master-sovereign-crisis.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said he doubts forcing European lenders
to boost their capital levels will master the sovereign debt
crisis.  “The injection of capital would not address the actual
problem,” Ackermann said, according to the copy of a  speech 
given at a conference in Berlin today. “It is not the capital
funding of banks that is the problem, but rather the fact that
 government bonds  have lost their status as risk-free assets.”  European Commission President Jose Barroso yesterday  called 
for a coordinated recapitalization of the region’s lenders, with
government funds if necessary, as part of a wider rescue
package. An Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders looms as a deadline
for a breakthrough in combating the crisis, which has driven
Greece toward default, rattled world markets and dented
confidence in the survival of the 17-nation currency.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s largest bank, will “do
everything” not to take money from the state as part of
assistance efforts for European banks, Ackermann said today.
Avoiding government aid may affect the company’s business, he
said. The German lender navigated the financial crisis in 2008
without a government capital injection.  Deutsche Bank fell 34 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 28.95 euros
by 10:44 a.m. in Frankfurt trading, its first decline this week.
The shares are down 26 percent this year, compared with a 28
percent decline in the 50-company Stoxx 600 Banks Index.  ‘Haircut’ More Probable  The Deutsche Bank CEO, who last month said that conditions
in the stock and bond markets are reminiscent of the environment
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008, reiterated that the region’s banks have boosted capital
levels and reduced their dependence on short-term funding. He
called the debate about recapitalizing banks counterproductive.  “On the one hand, it signalizes that a debt haircut is
considered to be more probable,” Ackermann said. “On the
other, since private investors will certainly not be providing
the funds for such a recapitalization, governments would
ultimately have to raise such funds themselves, thus only
exacerbating their debt situation further.”  To make  Greece ’s debt burden manageable, European leaders
are debating whether to push bondholders to accept losses on the
country’s sovereign debt that go beyond the roughly 21 percent
agreed on in July. Ackermann, who is chairman of the  Institute
of International Finance , a Washington-based banking group,
played a role in the negotiations for private-sector
involvement.  Deutsche Bank on Oct. 4 scrapped its profit forecast and
announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns of Greek bond
holdings amid a “significant and unabated slowdown in client
activity” amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  