-- 
Ladbrokes Says Third-Quarter Operating Profit Decreases

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-10-13T15:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ladbrokes-says-third-quarter-operating-profit-decreases-2-.html
Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) , a U.K. bookmaker,
said third-quarter operating profit dropped 2.7 percent as sales
declined online and over the counter in shops.  Digital sales in the quarter dropped 0.7 percent, the
Harrow, England-based company said in a statement. Group revenue
gained 2.5 percent, the company said.  Ladbrokes said over-the-counter and Internet revenue
dropped in part because last year’s numbers included gains from
soccer’s  World Cup , and this year’s results included a run of
unfavorable results from its horse racing unit. The over-the-
counter betting shop sales also declined in part as the company
briefly closed 200 shops during August’s riots.  “It’s a very tough time on the high street, and we are
doing better than some,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Glynn
said on a conference call with reporters.  Earlier this week, Ladbrokes, founded in 1886, said talks
ended over a possible acquisition of  Sportingbet Plc. (SBT)  The
company is looking to improve its Internet betting operations,
where growth lags behind rivals such as  Paddy Power Plc. (PWL)   Ladbrokes gained 2.8 percent to 131.6 pence in  London . The
shares have increased 6.4 percent so far this year, giving the
company a market value of 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion).  Last year’s soccer World Cup added about 3 million pounds
to revenue, Glynn said. U.K. retail net revenue gained 2 percent
as betting shop machines gained 20 percent while over-the-
counter sales dropped 8.3 percent, the company said.  Glynn said Ladbrokes wouldn’t rule out making an
acquisition to improve its Internet operations. Earlier this
year, Ladbrokes also withdrew from talks with  888 Holdings Plc. (888)   “My job and the board’s job is to review any opportunities
we have to accelerate our organic plan,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  