-- 
Aetna Says Policy on Baxter and Grifols Drugs Unchanged

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-13T20:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/aetna-says-policy-on-baxter-and-grifols-drugs-hasn-t-changed.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-largest U.S.
health insurer, said its coverage policies for immune system
disorders treatments from  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  and  Grifols
SA (GRF)  are unchanged, contrary to an analyst report that said the
insurer would favor the Grifols product.  The report released yesterday by Matthew Prior, an analyst
for Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Melbourne , said Aetna
planed to make Barcelona-based Grifols’s Gamunex the preferred
brand of IVIG, an intravenous drug used to boost the immune
system. The potential change, which could limit use of Baxter’s
rival treatment Gammagard, sent shares of the Deerfield,
Illinois-based drugmaker down as much as 5.4 percent.  Aetna isn’t changing its policy, said Cynthia Michener, a
spokeswoman for the Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer. More
than 90 percent of IVIG used by Aetna members is covered under a
medical benefit where there is no distinction between brands,
she said. The remaining members have a pharmacy benefit where
Grifols’ Gamunex was designated a preferred brand in the fall of
2010 to accommodate some state requirements, though the insurer
doesn’t restrict use of other products in the class, she said.  “What the analyst may have seen is a pharmacy clinical
policy bulletin covering the IVIG drug class that we posted to
the web this month,” Michener said in an e-mailed statement.
“While that bulletin is a new post, the policy is not new.”  Previous Changes  Highmark Inc. and  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH) , smaller health
insurers, earlier this year made changes to their IVIG coverage
that required patients to use a specific product, Prior wrote in
his note. A change by Aetna may have signaled more pressure to
lower prices in the market, he said.  A telephone call and e-mail to Prior after hours in
 Australia  weren’t immediately returned.  IVIG, also known as intravenous immunoglobulin, is
comprised of antibodies extracted from human blood. It is given
to patients with immune system disorders who don’t make enough
of their own natural defenses to ward off infections.  Baxter rose 1.8 percent to $55.40 at 4 p.m. New York time,
after falling 3.1 percent yesterday. The shares have risen 12
percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  