-- 
Thai Sugar Premiums Rise on Speculation Floods May Hurt Crops

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-10-13T09:24:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/thai-sugar-premiums-rise-on-speculation-floods-may-hurt-crops.html
The premium buyers are prepared to
pay to obtain sugar from  Thailand , the world’s second-largest
shipper, climbed over the past five days on speculation floods
in the Southeast Asian country will hurt the crop, according to
Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Thai sugar for loading between March and May next year was
at a premium of 0.7 cent to 1 cent a pound above the price on
the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in  New York  yesterday, data from
the brokerage show. That compares with 0.45 cents to 0.7 cents a
pound on Oct. 7, it said in a report that day.  The increase in premiums “might be the result of crop-
damage prospects due to recent floods,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker
at the Rolle, Switzerland-based company said in a report e-
mailed today, adding that sugar had already been sold at a
premium of 0.85 cents.  Floods in Thailand have killed more than 283 people,
according to the government. The three-month-old crisis has
submerged towns and rice fields, forced companies including
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to shut factories and prompted forecasters to
slash estimates for Thai economic expansion. Bangkok’s 9.7
million residents are hoarding staples and water.  The floods may delay the nation’s sugar crop, currently
estimated at a record 10 million to 10.5 million metric tons, by
two weeks,  Michael McDougall , senior vice president of
commodities at Newedge Group in New York, said in a report this
week.  Even if the crop damage turns out to be less critical than
expected, “there is a belief in the market that Thai values
have been undervalued,” Beydoun said.  White, or refined, sugar for December delivery rose $13.50,
or 2 percent, to $683 a ton by 10:10 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in
 London . Raw sugar for March delivery advanced 0.60 cent, or 2.3
percent, to 26.61 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 