-- 
AIA’s Value of New Business Rises 53% in Third Quarter on China, Malaysia

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-10-14T08:55:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/aia-s-value-of-new-business-rises-53-in-third-quarter-on-china-malaysia.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer by market capitalization, said its value of
new business expanded 53 percent in the third quarter, led by
higher sales in Malaysia and China.  The gauge of projected future profitability of new policies
rose to $245 million, from $160 million a year earlier, the Hong
Kong-based insurer said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange today. It beat consensus analyst estimate of $213
million, according to a note from Barclays Plc analysts Mark Kellock and Thomas Wang today.  AIA, under the leadership of Chief Executive Officer  Mark Tucker  since July 2010, has been focusing on lifting new policy
sales and agent productivity to secure long-term growth. The
insurer is recovering from troubles at its largest shareholder
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  since 2008 and uncertainties
during the attempted takeover by Prudential Plc last year.  “With these results, we now have key quarterly financial
data for seven sequential quarters,” Samsung Securities Co.
said in a research note today. “We can see clearly the turmoil
that AIA has endured in the run-up to the initial public
offering and the upward trajectory since.”  AIA dropped 2.1 percent to HK$23.90 in Hong Kong trading,
compared with the 1.4 percent loss of the city’s benchmark  Hang
Seng Index . The stock has advanced 9.4 percent this year, while
the  Hang Seng Finance Index (HSF) , which tracks 12 banks and insurance
companies listed in Hong Kong, declined 26 percent.  New Business Value  Value of new business measures the projected future after-
tax profit of new policies sold in the period minus the costs of
holding capital in addition to regulatory reserves to support
the business.  The third quarter brought AIA’s new business value growth
to 39 percent in the nine months to August 31, accelerating from
the 32 percent jump in the first six months.  Annualized new premiums, a gauge of new business sales,
jumped 52 percent to $766 million in the third quarter, AIA said.
The nine-month figure rose to $1.86 billion, 34 percent more
than the year before.  New business margin, or value of new business as a
percentage of annualized new premiums, widened by 4.5 percentage
points to 36 percent in the third quarter.  Protection Element  The margin expansion “reflects success with new product
launches and the ability to increase the protection element
embedded within its product features,” the Barclays analysts
said in the note.  AIA has one of the largest pools of existing policies among
regional insurers. Yet it had generated new business at half the
rate of  China  Life Insurance Co.,  Asia ’s largest insurer, in
terms of the ratio of new business to in-force policies, Credit
Suisse Group AG analyst Arjan van Veen wrote in a Sept. 14
report.  AIA booked a 14 percent increase in total weighted premium
income, an indicator of long-term business volume, as it
includes renewal premiums, to $3.75 billion. Nine-month total
weighted premium income rose 13 percent to $10.5 billion.  The insurer may be forced to mark down equity investments
after the six Asia-Pacific stock markets it is heavily invested
in fell by a weighted average of 16 percent since the end of May,
MF Global Securities Ltd. said in a note today.  AIA may also suffer from the weighted average of 1.6
percent depreciation of those countries’ currencies against the
dollar, MF Global added. The insurer collects premiums in local
currencies and reports its results in the dollar.  Investment and currency-related markdowns may reduce AIA’s
embedded value by $2.8 billion, MF Global said. Embedded value
is the net worth of a life insurer excluding new business
estimated with actuairal and investment return assumptions.  AIA, which last reported embedded value of $27.4 billion at
the end of May, didn’t disclose investment, currency gains or
embedded value changes today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  