-- 
Air Canada Files Unfair Labor Practices Complaint Against Attendant  Union

-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 
2011-10-13T17:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/air-canada-files-unfair-labor-practices-complaint-against-attendant-union.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  filed a complaint
accusing its flight attendants’ union of unfair labor practices
after a planned strike was blocked by the government.  The Air Canada Component of the  Canadian Union of Public
Employees  engaged in “bad-faith conduct” during negotiations
on a tentative contract rejected last month in a rank-and-file
vote, the airline said today in a statement.  Air Canada said the union presented modified demands during
contract discussions that boosted the costs of its proposal,
widening the gap with management. The union also failed to take
“all necessary efforts” to win ratification of the last labor
accord, the Saint-Laurent, Quebec-based airline said.  The  Canada Industrial Relations Board  received the
complaint late yesterday and processed it this morning,
Executive Director Ginette Brazeau said by telephone. The board
is scheduled to meet with the union and Air Canada tomorrow,
Brazeau said.  Union members had planned to walk off the job at 12:01 a.m.
today after turning down two proposed contracts since August
with the nation’s largest airline. The strike was thwarted when
Labor Minister Lisa Raitt filed two referrals yesterday about
the dispute with the Industrial Relations Board.  An e-mail message to the union today for comment about the
Air Canada complaint wasn’t immediately returned, and a
telephone call to the union’s office went unanswered. The union
said yesterday that Raitt’s intervention was “outrageous.”  Raitt had questioned whether a walkout would affect public
health and safety and whether the union had created unfavorable
settlement conditions with the two contract rejections. Canada
law suspends the right to strike while a referral on health and
safety grounds is being considered, according to a statement
from the labor board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  