-- 
Air-Traffic Errors Near Airports More Than Double in 3 Years

-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-10-13T22:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/air-traffic-errors-near-airports-more-than-double-in-3-years.html
U.S. air-traffic safety errors
involving flights near airports more than doubled over the past
three years, the Government Accountability Office said.  The  Federal Aviation Administration , which oversees air-
traffic and regulates airports, needs to better track safety
lapses at airports, from jets that veer off runways to
controllers who allow aircraft to get too close together, the
GAO said today in a report examining data from fiscal 2008 to
2011.  The rates of safety hazards on or near airports continue to
rise,  the GAO said , while crediting the FAA with taking steps to
reduce hazards.  Air-traffic error rates at facilities directing traffic
within 40 miles of large airports increased to 22.6 per million
flights from 8.5 over the period studied, the GAO said. The rate
of similar errors at airport towers increased by 53 percent, it
said.  These errors occur when controllers direct aircraft to fly
too close to each other.  Most of the increases resulted from the FAA’s efforts to
encourage employees to report errors, rather than an increase in
the number of incidents taking place, the aviation agency said
in a statement.  “More information will help us find problems and take
action before an accident happens, which will help us build an
even safer aviation system,” the statement said.  Following a series of incidents in which controller errors
were covered up, the FAA created a non-punitive reporting system
to encourage employees to come forward and stopped paying
managers for keeping errors down.  ’Incentive’ to Hide  “Everybody had an incentive to not report before,” Steve
Hansen, safety chairman at the National Air Traffic Controllers
Association union, said in an interview.  The FAA’s efforts “have likely contributed to the
increased number of incidents reported,” the GAO report said.  Some of the higher numbers may have reflected actual
increases in incidents, the GAO said. Controller errors at FAA
facilities with systems that automatically record mistakes were
38 percent higher in fiscal 2010 than the previous year, the GAO
said.  These automated systems are located at FAA facilities
overseeing high-altitude traffic.  A one-time misunderstanding of rules led to about 150
reported errors in  Southern California , the GAO said. That
represented about one-third of all errors in the U.S. from
January through March of 2010, it said.  Runway Collision Risks  The FAA needs to do a better job of tracking incidents in
which aircraft roll off runways, the report said.  Near-collisions on runways rose from 11.4 per million
flights in 2004 to 17.8 in 2010. The vast majority of those
cases were minor, the GAO said.  The most severe incidents, those that nearly caused a
collision, fell to 6 in 2010 from 53 in 2001, GAO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  