-- 
Taiwan’s Dollar Rises to Three-Week High on Stock Inflows

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-10-13T08:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/taiwan-dollar-rises-to-three-week-high-as-investors-buy-stocks.html
Taiwan ’s dollar climbed to a three-
week high as overseas investors added to their holdings of the
island’s shares amid optimism the U.S. will take further action
to prevent a recession in the world’s biggest economy.  The currency held on to gains after China, the biggest
buyer of the island’s exports, released September trade data
showing import growth slowed more than economists forecast. Some
Federal Reserve officials wanted to keep further asset purchases,
a policy known as quantitative easing, as an option to boost the
U.S. economy, according to the minutes of a Sept. 20-21 policy
meeting that were published yesterday.  “Looks like a QE3 is inevitable given how bleak the  U.S.
economy  is looking,” said Tarsicio Tong, a Taipei-based trader
at the Union Bank of Taiwan. “That will send some Asian
currencies and commodities higher.”  Taiwan’s dollar closed 0.2 percent stronger to NT$30.329
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It
touched NT$30.250 earlier, the strongest level since Sept. 22.
Overseas investors pumped about $260 million into Taiwan’s stock
market today, building on net purchases of $392 million in the
last three days, exchange data show.  The yield on the government’s 2 percent bonds due July 2016,
the most-traded securities, dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.03 percent, prices from Gretai Securities
Market show. The rate touched 1.05 percent on Oct. 11, the
highest level for benchmark five-year debt in almost two months.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, was little changed at 0.395 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  China ’s imports rose 20.9 percent in September from a year
earlier, after gaining 30.2 percent the previous month, official
data showed today. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 24.2 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  