-- 
Wallabies Give Beale Until Last Moment on Fitness; All Blacks Change Three

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-14T02:48:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/all-blacks-bring-cruden-kahui-dagg-into-backline-for-world-cup-semifinal.html
Australia  will give Kurtley Beale
“until the final moment” to overcome a hamstring injury and
take his place in an unchanged team in the Rugby World Cup
semifinal against New Zealand in two days.  Beale, who has twice left the field with the same hamstring
strain during the tournament, was bracketed today with Adam Ashley-Cooper at full-back in the lineup. Ashley-Cooper is also
bracketed at outside center with Anthony Fainga’a, who will slot
into midfield should Beale be ruled out, team management said.  “We will leave it as long as we can before making a
decision,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said in a statement.
“It will be tough on Kurtley if he has to miss this one, but we
will take no chances.”  The All Blacks earlier made three changes to the team that
started the 33-10 quarterfinal win over Argentina, bringing
Aaron Cruden,  Richard Kahui  and Israel Dagg into the backline.  If Beale, who was voted as Australian rugby’s best player
by his fellow professionals last month, is passed fit, then the
Wallabies’ will retain the starting lineup from their 11-9
victory over defending champion South Africa in the last eight.  Should Fainga’a be promoted to the starting team, his place
on the replacements’ bench will be taken by Rob Horne, who has
recovered from a facial fracture sustained in the Sept. 23 pool
match against the U.S.  “It’s great to have Rob back,” Deans added. “He was
fully tested this week in contact during training and has come
back fine.”  Eden Park Drought  Australia, seeking an unprecedented third world title, won
both its previous World Cup meetings with  New Zealand , though
hasn’t had a victory at Eden Park since 1986. The top-ranked All
Blacks are on a 25-game winning streak at the stadium.  The winner will meet Wales or France, who play tomorrow, in
the Oct. 23 final. France today made two changes to its bench
with Fulgence Ouedraogo replacing Louis Picamoles and Jean Marc
Doussain coming in for David Marty.  Tournament host New Zealand, which won its only World Cup
in 1987, picked Cruden at fly-half and Dagg at full-back to
replace the injured Colin Slade and Mils Muliaina, respectively.  Kahui’s return to the wing from injury drops Sonny Bill
Williams to the bench, where  Andy Ellis  and Stephen Donald
provide cover at scrum-half and fly-half.  All Blacks coach  Graham Henry  and his selectors retained
the same forward pack that started against  Argentina . Victor
Vito is the loose forward backup as captain Richie McCaw
continues to play with a foot injury, while prop Ben Franks
returns to the bench after withdrawing from the win over the
Pumas because of stomach problems.  Cruden’s Challenge  Cruden, who wasn’t selected in the original 30-man squad,
has gone from being New Zealand’s third-choice fly-half to
starter in the space of two weeks following groin injuries to
Dan Carter and Slade. Henry said the 22-year-old was coping with
the transition.  “Last week he was a sub, so it’s a big change for him but
he’s a bright rugby player, he knows the game well,” Henry said
in a news conference at the team’s Auckland hotel. “It’s the
biggest game he’s played in, it’s the biggest game a lot of them
have played in, quite frankly, so I’m sure it’s challenging but
he seems to be handling it well.”  NEW ZEALAND: 1.  Tony Woodcock , 2.  Keven Mealamu , 3. Owen
Franks, 4. Samuel Whitelock, 5.  Brad Thorn , 6. Jerome Kaino, 7.
Richie McCaw (captain), 8. Kieran Read, 9. Piri Weepu, 10. Aaron
Cruden, 11. Richard Kahui, 12. Ma’a Nonu, 13. Conrad Smith, 14.
Cory Jane, 15. Israel Dagg.  Replacements: 16.  Andrew Hore , 17. Ben Franks, 18.  Ali
Williams , 19. Victor Vito, 20. Andy Ellis, 21. Stephen Donald,
22. Sonny Bill Williams.  AUSTRALIA: 15.  Kurtley Beale /Adam Ashley-Cooper, 14. James
O’Connor, 13. Adam Ashley-Cooper/Anthony Fainga’a, 12. Pat
McCabe, 11. Digby Ioane, 10. Quade Cooper, 9. Will Genia, 8.
Radike Samo, 7. David Pocock, 6. Rocky Elsom, 5. James Horwill
(captain) 4. Dan Vickerman, 3.  Ben Alexander , 2. Stephen Moore,
1. Sekope Kepu.  Replacements: 16. Tatafu Polota Nau, 17. James Slipper, 18.
Rob Simmons, 19. Ben McCalman, 20. Luke Burgess, 21. Berrick
Barnes, 22. Anthony Fainga’a/Rob Horne.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  