-- 
Ambac Asks Bankruptcy Court to Estimate IRS’s Tax Claim

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-10-13T21:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ambac-asks-bankruptcy-court-to-estimate-irs-s-tax-claim-1-.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABK)  asked a
 bankruptcy court  to hold a hearing to estimate the value of an
$807.2 million tax claim, saying the company may run out of cash
by 2012 if a dispute with the IRS isn’t resolved.  The alternative, a full trial on the issue, “would delay
the bankruptcy case to such a degree that reorganization would
otherwise be rendered impossible,” Ambac said in a filing
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Ambac, the holding company for a failed bond insurer, said
it could run out of cash if it doesn’t exit bankruptcy by
December, ending its ability to restructure. To complete the
Chapter 11 case, Ambac needs to end a dispute with the  Internal
Revenue Service  over the way it accounts for losses on credit-
default swaps.  Those losses, or “net operating losses” are valued at
$7 billion, according to Ambac. The company seeks to use
$4.7 billion of the losses for future tax years, Ambac said in
yesterday’s filing.  The IRS contends Ambac should return $807.2 million in tax
refunds for 2007 and 2008. The bankruptcy court has the
authority to rule on the IRS’s ability to stop Ambac from
claiming the net operating losses and the legality of using the
tax credit in the future, the company said.  Disclosure Approved  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman has already approved
the so-called disclosure statement that clears the way for
creditors to vote on Ambac’s final Chapter 11 plan. Peter Ivanick, a lawyer for Ambac, told Chapman on Oct. 5 that the
company, which has been mediating its dispute with the IRS, was
close to resolving the issue.  Ambac’s operating unit, Ambac Assurance, was the second-
largest bond insurer before the 2008 financial crisis, when
mounting defaults on mortgages swamped the company with claims.
It guaranteed about $256 billion of $1.4 trillion in insured
municipal debt, according to Bloomberg data.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc. (ABKFQ) , 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 