-- 
American Owners of Italian Soccer Team AS Roma Target New Stadium by 2016

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-13T22:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/american-owners-of-italian-soccer-team-as-roma-target-new-stadium-by-2016.html
The head of a group of American
investors who bought AS Roma says the Italian soccer team has
identified potential sites for a new stadium it hopes to build
before the country hosts the 2016 European Championship.  Thomas DiBenedetto, a partner in Boston Red Sox owner New
England Sports Ventures, and investors including hedge fund
manager James Pallotta teamed up with  Italy ’s bank UniCredit
before completing a deal to buy 67 percent of the three-time
champion of Italy’s Serie A in August for 60 million euros ($83
million). The team plays Rome rival Lazio in two days.  “We have more meetings coming up but I believe there are
potentially a couple of sites that are viable,” DiBenedetto
said in an interview at Chelsea’s Stamford Bridge stadium.
“Ideally the earliest you could be talking is three years from
now but more likely five years.”  DiBenedetto, whose father moved to the U.S. from Italy as a
16-year-old, believes a new stadium is vital for the club’s
success on and off the field. Juventus this season opened a new
40,000-seat stadium to become the only one of Italy’s top teams
to own its own facility. Roma and Lazio rent the Stadio Olimpico
from the country’s Olympic Committee. The stadium seats 72,000
and fans are separated from the field by a running track, a
common feature in Italian stadiums.  Ticket Sales   Roma generated 31 million euros from ticket sales last
year -- about $115 million less than English Premier League
teams Arsenal and Manchester United, which make almost $5
million per game. Roma attracted an average crowd of 33,628 last
season, according to  league statistics .  “It’s become quite critical to have an experience at your
stadium or ballpark that is special,” said DiBenedetto sitting
in a suite overlooking Chelsea’s soccer field. “You have to
create an experience and if you don’t, people are not going to
come. I think that’s happened to certain extent in Italy.”  Wherever Roma end up playing, supporters are going to be
much closer to the action. “You look out here and the closeness
of the seats, it’s a different experience so the passion of the
fans grows and its exhilarating for you to cheer for your home
team and that in turn has a big impact on the players,” he
said.  Roma posted a net loss of 30.6 million euros on sales of
124 million euros for the fiscal year ended June 2011 after
having a 21 million euro loss a year earlier. The team’s
financial performance in recent years has been determined by its
participation in the  Champions League , European soccer’s elite
competition.  “Our goal is to balance our books without making the
Champions League,” says DiBenedetto. “So therefore if we make
the Champions League it’s a major bonus for us.”  Global Fanbase  NESV, led by  John W. Henry , bought 18-time English champion
Liverpool last year. The team has a global fanbase that dwarf
Roma’s. Although DiBenedetto has small stake in the Premier
League club he won’t be able to tap its commercial team’s
expertise.  “The way we work is my knowledge now of Liverpool is
solely what’s known to the public,” said the Roma president.
“I do not participate in any meetings where Liverpool’s
discussed if it’s part of a NESV meeting. When Liverpool comes
up I recuse myself.”  The 62-year-old found himself mobbed when he arrived in
 Rome  to complete the takeover in August. Rome’s newspaper
continue to write about him and the takeover.  “It’s a new experience for me and I’m someone who really
doesn’t like to be public, now all of a sudden I’m a public
figure at least in Rome,” he said. “I’m surprised how intense
it has been, yes. I thought it would be a lot but I never
anticipated it would be like this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  