-- 
AMR’s American to Close Pilot Base

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-13T16:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/amr-s-american-to-close-pilot-base.html
American Airlines  will close a crew
base in  San Francisco  after unusually large numbers of pilot
retirements left staffing levels “critically short.”  The action comes three days after American said it would
cut fourth-quarter seating capacity by 3 percent, in part
because of the pilot shortage. In September and October, 240
pilots retired.  The retirements are putting new pressure on American, the
third-biggest U.S. carrier, to conclude negotiations with pilots
on a new contract. The  Allied Pilots Association  has said it
won’t waive scheduling rules to help ease the staffing shortage
without a new labor agreement.  “The recent surge in retirements has left our manning
levels to be critically short to the detriment of our schedule
reliability,” John Hale, vice president for flight for  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s American, said in an e-mail to pilots about the base
closing. The decision “was not made lightly and comes with much
regret and only after intensive discussion and strategic
analysis.”  American hasn’t set a date for closing the base, and is
seeking an agreement to shorten a six-month notice requirement
in the current pilot contract, said Missy Cousino, a spokeswoman
for the Fort Worth, Texas-based company. About 270 of American’s
8,700 pilots are based in San Francisco.  ‘Aggressive Steps’  The closure is among “aggressive steps” the airline is
taking to improve its financial performance, Cousino said. It
“will save us a significant amount of money and will help
streamline our pilot operation,” she said.  American and pilot union negotiators are meeting this week
at an undisclosed Texas location in an effort to reach a
contract agreement, union President Dave Bates told pilots late
yesterday. Bargaining will continue through the weekend, he
said.  “Recent events such as the spike in pilot retirements,
volatility in the trading volume and price of AMR shares and the
additional capacity reduction for the fourth quarter have
created a sense of urgency,” Bates said. “The current
environment may well represent our best opportunity to date to
conclude bargaining.”  American said Oct. 10 it would cut fourth-quarter seating
capacity by 3 percent and ground as many as 11 jets in 2012
because of the retirements, higher fuel costs and a weak
economy. The reductions will increase the airline’s cost to fly
each seat a mile beyond earlier forecasts, the company said.  Talks between the airline and  Allied Pilots Association 
began in September 2006. American also is in contract
negotiations with unions for its flight attendants, mechanics
and baggage handlers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  