-- 
Man Group of U.K.’s Shares Fall to Lowest Level for a Decade

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-10-13T15:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/man-group-of-u-k-s-shares-fall-to-lowest-level-for-a-decade-1-.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest
hedge fund, dropped for the third consecutive day, reaching its
lowest level for a decade after the net asset value of its AHL
Diversified Plc fund declined.  The shares fell 4 percent to 150 pence at the close of
 London  trading, the lowest since March 2001. The stock fell 6
percent yesterday after the London-based company reported that
the assets of AHL, its computer-driven hedge fund, fell 5.5
percent in the week to Oct. 10.  The firm bought London-based GLG Partners Inc. last October
for $1.6 billion to reduce its reliance on AHL, which accounts
for about a third of assets under management. The stock dropped
by 25 percent on Sept. 28 as Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  forecast “suppressed” investor demand for the rest of
the year.  “AHL have blamed central bank intervention as a cause of
problems, which is set to continue,” said Keith Baird, analyst
at Oriel Securities in London. “It also is the victim of
adverse sentiment on the GLG acquisition.”  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM) , a U.K.  fund manager  focusing on emerging
markets, said earlier today assets under management fell 10.5
percent to $58.9 billion in the three months to Sept. 30. The
fund manager was hurt by “market volatility resulting from the
challenging and uncertain macroeconomic backdrop,” it said in a
statement. Ashmore shares fell 4 percent to 318 pence in London.  “Man Group is falling for the wrong reasons and they are
falling based on the negative read across Ashmore, which is an
emerging market play,” said Peter Lenardos, analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London. “The fall to these levels is a bit
excessive now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Harris at 
 fharris4@bloomberg.net  