-- 
Hana Advances on Speculation KEB Takeover May Accelerate

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-10-13T01:55:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/hana-advances-on-speculation-keb-takeover-may-accelerate-1-.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  rose to a
two-month high in Seoul trading on speculation that its planned
$3.8 billion purchase of  Korea  Exchange Bank from  Lone Star
Funds  may progress as court proceedings draw to a close.  Hana traded 3.5 percent higher at 37,500 won as of 10:53
a.m. local time after earlier jumping as much as 7.6 percent to
39,000 won, the highest since Aug. 4. That compared with the
Kospi index’s 1.1 percent gain.  Dallas-based Lone Star has until the end of today to appeal
to Korea’s highest court against an Oct. 6 conviction for stock-
price manipulation. The buyout fund may not file an appeal as
prolonging the case would postpone its exit from the  Korea
Exchange Bank (004940)  investment, said Hong Hun Pio, an analyst at KTB
Investment & Securities Co.  “Investors seem to be betting that Lone Star won’t file an
appeal by today’s deadline, which would close the legal
dispute,” Hong said. “At this point, the best thing for Lone
Star is to get the deal done with Hana.”  The Financial Services Commission said on Oct. 6 that it
may order Lone Star to sell most of its stake in Korea Exchange
Bank if the conviction stands. The regulator said in May that it
won’t approve Hana’s proposed takeover until Lone Star’s legal
disputes are resolved. That prompted Hana and Lone Star to
extend the deal deadline to Nov. 30 and cut the purchase price
by 6 percent to 4.4 trillion won ($3.8 billion).  The Seoul Economic Daily reported earlier today that  Lone
Star  has decided not to appeal, citing a person it didn’t
identify. Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star, declined to
comment on whether the fund will file an appeal in an e-mailed
response to questions.  The Seoul High Court fined Lone Star 25 billion won for its
part in the stock-price manipulation case and sentenced its
former local chief, Paul Yoo, to three years in prison. Yoo
appealed against his conviction on Oct. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  