-- 
Manchester Utd.’s Hernandez Signs New Deal, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-13T09:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/manchester-utd-s-hernandez-signs-new-deal-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Hernandez Commits  Javier Hernandez  has signed a new five-year contract with
Manchester United for about 80,000 pounds a week ($125,600), the
 Daily Mail  reported, citing the striker’s agent.  “Both sides have met their expectations and United were
happy to reward Javier after his very good performances last
season,” the newspaper quoted Eduardo Hernandez as saying.  Mexico’s Hernandez, 23, scored 20 goals during his first
season at Manchester United and has found the net twice this
term.  Bassong QPR-Bound?  Tottenham center-back Sebastien Bassong may join Queens
Park Rangers in January, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  QPR manager  Neil Warnock  missed out on signing Bassong this
summer after Tottenham failed to land Bolton stopper Gary Cahill.  The Mirror cited Warnock as saying that he has already
discussed targets for the next transfer window with the club’s
owner  Tony Fernandes .  Newcastle Targeting Hooper  Newcastle United is preparing a 5 million-pound bid for
Celtic striker Gary Hooper, the  Scottish Sun  reported. Hooper
scored 23 goals last season.  Arshavin’s Disappointment  Arsenal forward Andrei Arshavin said he’s disappointed with
his play so far this season, the  Sun  reported.  Arsenal, which had its worst start to the season in 58
years, is currently 15th in the Premier League.  Arshavin said he understands fans will be disappointed with
his performances so far.  “They should expect more from me, of course,” the
newspaper quoted the Russian as saying. “To be honest I am
still expecting more from me as well but believe me, I do
everything I can do.”  Rio New MLS Face?  Manchester United  defender Rio Ferdinand may become the new
face of Major League Soccer in the U.S. once David Beckham
leaves the  Los Angeles Galaxy  at the end of the season, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Ferdinand, who is reportedly a target for Chicago Fire, has
been urged to join the MLS by Andy Iro, a former Everton player
who now plays for Toronto FC, the newspaper said. Ferdinand, 32,
will be out of contract at United at the end of next season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 