-- 
Land Rover’s Dashing $44,000 Evoque Takes on BMW, Lexus SUVs

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/land-rover-s-dashing-44-000-evoque-takes-on-bmw-lexus-jason-h-harper.html
You’ve never considered owning a
 Land Rover ? Clearly you don’t live in the Australian outback or
have a Hollywood entourage to cart around between house parties
in the Hills. Maybe you can’t rationalize the 12 miles per
gallon in the city.  You might have a BMW or Lexus SUV, but until now you’ve
been safe from the siren call of the Gaydon, U.K.-based brand.  Well, take a look at the new  Range Rover Evoque .  It’s a dazzlingly designed Trojan horse, aimed squarely at
owners of the X3, RX and Audi Q5, an anti-box that looks like a
crossover, while retaining a dash of Land Rover’s legendary off-
road capability. Old-school Land Rover drivers who actually do
drive in the bush will hate it.  There’s a long-held perception that a Land Rover is an
impractical purchase. I’m thinking of buying a vintage Range
Rover and have been told I should get a second “parts car” too
-- to save money as mechanical bits go, invariably, wrong.  That’s why the brand so desperately needs a car like the
Evoque, which seats five and gets 28 miles per gallon highway,
18 city. Those aren’t hybrid-worthy numbers by any means, but
they’re easily more sensical than that $95,000 Range Rover
Supercharged with 510 horsepower.  The Evoque’s starting price of $44,000 is also more
accessible for urbanites aspiring to get back to nature, or, at
least, reaching suburbia’s big-box stores.  Super Charge  Still, one of the models I tested (and predictably liked
best), was a fully loaded Dynamic Coupe in Firenze red, that
came to $59,820. Even a German luxury carmaker might consider
that a ballsy up-charge.  The Evoque is coming into dealerships now. Aggressively
styled without seeming weird, the designers have found the just-
right proportions of sports-car zippiness and SUV brashness. The
Evoque’s rising belt-line and down-sloping roof scrunch the rear
windows, creating a sense of tension and surprise. Whatever the
body color, the optional blacked-out roof is the sharpest look.  Heritage hasn’t been completely ignored. The clamshell hood
is old school, and the grill is a natural progression of the
current lineup’s face.  The Evoque comes as either a five-door or three-door model,
which the company calls a coupe. The latter is $1,000 pricier
and way cooler. The five-door is more practical. Even so,
they’re roughly the same size, 14.3 feet long and 5.3 feet high
-- diminutive by Land Rover standards.  Glass Lid  The inside is distinctly carlike. There’s plenty of room,
but it’s more like the space of a midsize sedan than a fat SUV.
The entire roof is glass, from door frame to door frame.  Because of the rake of the top, you actually get little
sense of that panoramic glass from the front seats, but in the
rear it’s simply spectacular. You can see the entire world back
there. I’d like to spend a whole day being chauffeured around
 Manhattan , checking out the buildings. Passengers may actually
start calling dibs for the back.  One of the most elemental shifts is the new engine, a four-
cylinder with 240 horsepower, 251 pound-feet of torque. It is
turbocharged and direct-injected.  I drove both Evoque body styles and several trim levels
around  Vancouver ,  Canada , and in the woods outside of Whistler.
Rotating among several vehicles, my favorite, by far, was that
coupe with the “dynamic” package. Aesthetically, it has a more
aggressive front and rear than the other two trim levels, Pure
and Prestige.  Magnetic Appeal  Mechanically, it included the optional, $1,250 adaptive
dynamics feature, which alters the stiffness of the suspension
using magnetic fields. This technology showed up on General
Motors products years ago, and it’s definitely worth it,
improving handling and ride quality.  The Evoque drives nearly as nicely on the road as any
crossover or small SUV on the market, except for the latest-
generation BMW X3. The X3 is faster, more fluid and outright
more capable on-road; nearly as good as the 3 Series sedan.  The Evoque’s steering is crisp and has a nice weight. The
all-wheel-drive keeps it from feeling skittish even on roads
dotted with gravel. I leaned hard into a number of sharp corners
and never had reason to regret it. It helps that the Evoque
weighs just under 4,000 pounds.  For all that style and on-road comfort, you’ve got to give
something, and in this case it’s a measure of off-road prowess.
This truly won’t bother the average driver, as the Evoque runs
along badly-rutted dirt roads nicely. It’ll even wade through a
heap of muddy water.  Nasty Scrape  But hard-core off roaders will find, to their horror, the
Evoque has no low range, the type of low-end gearing needed for
truly serious terrain. The underside clearance is more than
eight inches, but I heard at least one nasty scrape while
cresting over a wide rock. Take this to your local  Jeep Jamboree 
and they’d giggle at you.  That’s okay. If you’re hitting the hills in the Evoque,
it’ll more likely be the ones on Mulholland, on your way to a
truly fabulous house party.  The 2012 Range Rover Evoque Coupe at a Glance  Engine: 2.0-liter four-cylinder with 240 horsepower and 251  pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 7.1 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 28 highway, 18 city.  Price as tested: $59,820  Best feature: Stylish appearance and that massive panoramic  sunroof.  Worst feature: No low-range off-road.  Target buyer: The small-SUV shopper who wants cutting-edge  looks and acceptable mpg.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at 66
 or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 