-- 
Anshan Steel Seeks Partners to Invest in First India Project

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-13T10:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/anshan-steel-seeks-partners-to-invest-in-first-india-project-1-.html
Anshan Iron and Steel Group Co., a
unit of  China ’s third-biggest steelmaker, is seeking partners to
invest in its first project in India as domestic overcapacity
pushes the company to expand overseas.  “The India market has much room to grow,” the Anshan,
Liaoning province-based company said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg questions today. “Nothing has been decided on the
scale and investment value of the project yet.”  Anshan is considering a $2 billion steel project in India
under a global expansion plan that may include a new plant in an
African country, the Financial Times reported, citing President
 Zhang Xiaogang . Talks have been held on a 2 million to 3 million
metric-ton-a-year project in India, the unit of Angang Holding
Group Co. said in the e-mail.  Steel consumption in India may climb as much as 9 percent
in the next two to three years,  Fitch Ratings  said in a July 13
report. ArcelorMittal and  Posco (005490)  have $32 billion of planned
projects in the eastern states of Orissa and Jharkhand.  India, the third-biggest  iron-ore  exporter to China, is
discouraging some overseas ore sales with higher taxes as
domestic steel demand increases. Karnataka, among the nation’s
top iron-ore producing regions, in July 2010 banned overseas
shipments to retain the raw material for local use.  In China, the government is encouraging steelmakers
including  Maanshan Iron & Steel (323)  Co. to venture overseas because
of overcapacity and a shortage of iron ore. Angang Steel Co.,
the publicly traded unit of Anshan, posted a 91 percent plunge
in its first-half earnings because of higher raw-material costs
and slowing demand from automakers.  Angang Steel jumped 16 percent to close at HK$5.65 today
after UBS AG raised its recommendation on Hong Kong-traded steel
stocks to “buy.” Maanshan surged 26 percent to HK$2.31.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 