-- 
Apple, Hollywood Studios Said to Discuss Movie Streaming Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e ,   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-13T04:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/apple-hollywood-studios-discuss-movie-plan.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is in talks with
Hollywood studios about a plan to let consumers buy movies and
stream them to the company’s devices, two people familiar with
the discussions said.  Apple is seeking agreements to access digital copies of
films through its iCloud online storage system, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Studios see online movie “lockers,” with the ability to
make content available anytime on a variety of devices, as a way
to counter declining sales of DVDs. Such systems may encourage
consumers to buy DVDs and Blu-ray disks rather than rent movies
through low-cost services such as  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox or
stream them through  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Apple’s iTunes service currently allows customers to rent
movies. The new service would enable them to purchase titles and
access them anytime from different devices, such as Apple’s
iPhone or iPad.  Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. made the comedy “Horrible
Bosses” available Oct. 11 through UltraViolet, a similar Web-
based system that stores digital copies of purchased films.  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures have also announced
plans to make films available through UltraViolet, a system
backed by the Digital Entertainment Content Ecosystem LLC, an
alliance of studios and technology companies, including Warner,
Comcast and  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Complementary Systems  Studios see the iCloud and UltraViolet as potentially
complementary systems that may invigorate sales, according to
one of the people.  The studios’ discussions with Apple were reported yesterday
by the  Los Angeles  Times.  Other titles scheduled for UltraViolet release include
Warner’s “Green Lantern” and Sony’s “The Smurfs.”
Instructions on how to access the movies digitally are included
in DVD packaging.  The number of Web-enabled devices that will be able to
access content stored in such systems will grow to 780 million
units by 2014 from more than 350 million this year, according to
Parks Associates, a Dallas-based researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  