-- 
Apple Wins Australia Ban on Samsung Tablet

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-13T02:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/apple-wins-ban-on-samsung-tablet-sales-in-australia.html
Samsung Electronics Co. lost a bid
to sell its newest tablet computer in Australia until after a
patent dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is settled, a decision that means
the product may not come to market in the country.  Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett today granted
Apple’s request for an injunction barring the sale of the Galaxy
Tab 10.1 in Australia until the two companies’ patent dispute is
resolved following a trial.  The ruling is a blow to Samsung’s efforts to boost sales in
the tablet market, the fastest-growing segment of the computer
industry. The world’s two biggest makers of smartphones and
tablets are fighting a patent dispute across four continents,
with the South Korean company saying earlier this month it would
seek a ban on iPhone 4S sales in France and  Italy .  “It’s not good news for Samsung,” said James Song, a
Seoul-based analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. “They will have to
look for legal and other countermeasures, such as modifying
disputed elements.”  Samsung shares declined as much as 1.9 percent to 881,000
won after the ruling. They changed hands 1 percent down as of
10:42 a.m. in Seoul trading.  The company is “disappointed” with the ruling, according
to an e-mailed statement from Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung.
 Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, said the company
had no comment about the ruling.  ‘Dead’ Tablet  Samsung had said it would scrap the release of the Galaxy
10.1 if the injunction was granted because missing the Christmas
season would make the new tablet “dead” by the time it reached
market, Neil Young, a lawyer representing Samsung, told Bennett
in Sydney on Oct. 4.  Apple claims the Samsung tablet infringes at least three
patents, and its litigation had delayed the release of the
Galaxy 10.1 for more than two months in  Australia . Apple claims
Samsung’s Galaxy products “slavishly” copied the designs of
iPhones and iPads.  “Samsung proceeded with its eyes wide open with respect to
the launch of the Australian Galaxy” since Apple began
proceedings against Samsung in the U.S. in April, Bennett said.
Apple is also one of the biggest buyers of chips and displays
from Samsung.  Return to Court  The two sides will return to court tomorrow to hear if
Samsung will be allowed to offer a modified tablet that doesn’t
include technology based on the two patents Apple cited in its
complaint, Bennett said.  Samsung also offered  $2 smartphones  in a temporary shop
meters away from Apple’s Sydney store ahead of the release of
the iPhone 4S, the Sydney Morning Herald reported yesterday. A
line longer than the one outside the Apple store was seen
outside Samsung’s “pop up” store, it said.  Still, earlier this month, Samsung delayed introducing a
new product after the death of Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs .
Samsung, which had sent out invitations last month for an event
in  San Diego , decided “it wasn’t the right time” to announce a
new product so soon after Jobs’s death.  A German court temporarily banned sales of Galaxy tablets
in August, a ruling Samsung has appealed. The two companies are
also involved in legal disputes in  South Korea ,  Japan  and the
Netherlands.  Young said earlier this month that technology changes so
quickly that even another month’s delay in the release of the
Galaxy 10.1 would threaten the product’s sales prospects.
Samsung had offered to agree to a quick trial on Apple’s patent
claim if Apple agreed to drop its demand for a ban on the sale
of the Galaxy 10.1, Young said.  Apple rejected the proposal, he said.  Samsung said a trial can’t be held until next year because
it must collect evidence.  The case is: Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  