-- 
Apple’s New IPhone Sells Out at U.S. Carriers

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-10-13T20:45:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/apple-s-iphone-sells-out-at-all-three-u-s-carriers-ahead-of-store-debut.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s newest iPhone sold out
for pre-order at  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  a day before the device officially goes on sale, according
to the carriers’ websites.  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. wireless operator, and
Sprint, the third-biggest, showed no immediate stock of iPhone
4S 16-gigabyte models for pre-order on their websites. AT&T, the
No. 2 carrier, is giving buyers on its site a delivery estimate
of three to four weeks, up from one to two days when pre-orders
began Oct. 7.  The smartphone is for the first time being made available
simultaneously at all three of the largest U.S. carriers,
helping to boost appeal amid a weak economy. Positive reviews
and signs of robust demand for the device should help increase
revenue for the wireless carriers in the years ahead, said  Roger Entner , an analyst with Recon Analytics LLC in Boston.  “It looks like another blockbuster launch for Apple, only
this time with three carriers,” Entner said in an interview.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , said this week that
it received more than 1 million iPhone pre-orders on the first
day, a record.  Mike Abramsky , an RBC Capital Markets analyst in
Toronto, estimated that 3 million iPhone 4S units were sold on
the first weekend.  AT&T closed up 0.4 percent at $29.10 today in New York
trading, while Sprint climbed 8.2 percent to $2.78.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , majority owner of Verizon Wireless, rose 1
percent to $37.02. Apple rose 1.6 percent to $408.43.  Early Enthusiasm  The early enthusiasm may be misleading, providing an
inaccurate indication of longer-term demand, said Tero Kuittinen, an independent wireless-industry analyst.  The iPhone 4S may be somewhat more significant to people
who may be shopping for memorabilia following the death last
week of Apple founder  Steve Jobs , according to Kuittinen. The
delay of the new iPhone -- anticipated for release in July based
on the timing of past product updates -- may have created a
larger pool of people waiting to purchase, Kuittinen said.  Entner estimates that about half of the early 4S buyers are
“Apple aficionados” who buy the new iPhone every year, and the
other half are a mix of people upgrading from older smartphones
and those new to the category.  The iPhone 4S, along with new phones that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software, should for the first time push the total share
of smartphone users to more than half of all U.S. mobile-phone
customers, Entner said.  “With this iPhone launch, we will have broken through the
50 percent penetration level,” he said. Smartphone share was 43
percent at the end of September, according to Entner.  While popular smartphones like the iPhone can help
subscriber growth, lock customers into two-year contracts and
increase data revenue, carriers typically have to subsidize part
of the cost -- estimated at $600 each -- to keep prices low
enough to attract customers. Smartphones also increase data
traffic that can burden wireless networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 Smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  