-- 
Marine Contractors Seek Jobs in U.S. Offshore Wind Supply Chain

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-10-13T21:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/marine-contractors-seek-jobs-in-u-s-offshore-wind-supply-chain.html
Marine contractors and equipment
suppliers are seeking a share of the nascent U.S. offshore wind
energy industry, executives said.  Kokosing Construction Co., a closely held construction
management company, is bidding to lay undersea cables to
transmit power from several planned wind farms off the Atlantic
coast, Bill Wenger, estimating and marketing manager at its
Durocher Marine unit, said today.  There are no wind farms in U.S. waters, and this lack of
infrastructure is creating a market for contractors,
shipbuilders, oil-rig installers and other companies with
experience building large structures at sea.  “We are optimistic about this industry and see it as a big
potential business for us,” Wenger said in an interview today
at the  American Wind Energy Association ’s Offshore Windpower
Conference in Baltimore.  A supply chain to service offshore wind development will
emerge once the first sea-based energy projects begin
construction, the Washington-based trade group  said  today on its
website.  “When these actually start to get constructed, that’s when
this supply chain will start to move,” Scott Keating, general
manager for  North America  at Vestas Offshore A/S, a unit of the
Randers, Denmark-based turbine company Vestas Wind Systems A/S,
said in AWEA’s statement.  Offshore wind developers say oil and gas companies have
needed expertise in designing and installing heavy equipment in
harsh, marine environments.  “We learned from oil and gas on standards, construction
and transport techniques,” Ian Mould, a business manager with
 Alstom SA (ALO) , said during a panel at the conference. The French
power-equipment company’s Alstom Grid Inc. unit built electrical
substations for  Germany ’s first offshore wind farm, Alpha
Ventus, and others in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  