-- 
Harrisburg’s Residents Weigh Municipal Bankruptcy Against ‘Fiscal Suicide’

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/harrisburg-s-residents-weigh-municipal-bankruptcy-against-fiscal-suicide-.html
Elliott Ross pointed to the sidewalk
outside his Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, military surplus store,
where parking meters are set to be installed to raise money for
a city drowning in debt.  The state Legislature is considering taking over the town
of 49,500, and Ross applauded the City Council’s bid to file for
bankruptcy, a shot at sparing taxpayers the full cost of a
money-losing incinerator project that has left Harrisburg laden
with debt.  “It’s going to come back to the city,” said Ross, owner
of the store for 38 years. “Taxes are going to go sky high.”  As protesters from  New York  to Los Angeles stage sit-ins
demanding that Wall Street atone for the economic collapse, this
state capital is debating its own version of the dilemma: how to
share the burden among a city that’s in over its head, those who
loaned the money and insurer Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.,
which promised that bonds would be repaid.  Across the U.S., local governments are struggling with
falling property-tax revenue, dwindling state aid and rising
bills. Central Falls,  Rhode Island , filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in August to escape pension costs. Jefferson County,
 Alabama , is trying to avert a similar fate with a settlement
reached last month to ease the crushing cost of failed financing
for sewer renovations.  Decay Beneath  Harrisburg has problems that are all its own. It guaranteed
bonds sold by the independent  Harrisburg Authority  to overhaul
and expand the trash-to-energy incinerator. When the project
didn’t generate enough revenue to repay the bonds, Harrisburg
was left with a debt burden five times its taxpayer-funded
budget. It narrowly avoided defaulting on its general-obligation
bonds in September and a year before.  Its standing as a state capital, with a downtown strip of
bars and restaurants and brick townhouses near the banks of the
Susquehanna River, has masked underlying strains. Twenty-nine
percent of residents live in poverty, according to the U.S.
Census Bureau. The tax base is limited: Nonprofits -- including
state government -- own about 50 percent of the property,
according to Pennsylvania consultants.  In August, Harrisburg officials said they weren’t able to
fill all the city’s sinkholes.  They have struggled to find a way out. In July and August,
the council rejected plans drawn by state-appointed consultants
and Mayor  Linda Thompson  that would have sold city assets to
repay creditors. Members said the proposals weren’t certain
fixes and might undermine municipal finances.  Enter the State  Without a plan, Pennsylvania lawmakers began advancing
legislation to take control. Lawsuits by bondholders and Dauphin
County, which also guaranteed the project, are seeking to force
the city to divert tax money to bondholders.  So, on Oct. 11, a majority of the council defied the mayor
and voted to file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection in federal
court. It was the first state capital to file for bankruptcy in
at least four decades, said  James Spiotto , a partner at Chapman
& Cutler in  Chicago  who tracks such cases.  Councilwoman Susan Brown-Wilson said  Assured Guaranty  isn’t
sharing enough of the burden and faulted politicians for not
wanting to spread the costs by taxing everyone in Dauphin County
-- not just Harrisburg.  “It’s about political gamesmanship and people making sure
their pockets are lined and that the backs of the people in
Harrisburg are stripped and they’ll never know,” Brown-Wilson
said at a council meeting where the bankruptcy vote took place.  Placid Market  The council turned the city into the biggest municipality
to seek bankruptcy since 2008, when Vallejo,  California  did so
to escape from labor contracts it couldn’t afford.  The decision didn’t rattle the municipal  bond market , where
Harrisburg’s struggles have long been known. Some Harrisburg
general-obligation bonds traded at higher prices, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A zero-coupon bond maturing in 2014
traded yesterday at an average price of 80.856 cents on the
dollar, up from 78.525 the day before.  “The market is giving one big yawn to this event,” said
Tim Pynchon, who helps oversee $3 billion of municipal bonds as
a portfolio manager with  Boston ’s Pioneer Investments. “It
caused nary a ripple.”  In Harrisburg, the bankruptcy decision sowed confusion and
discord. During the council meeting, the president threatened to
have police remove Mark Schwartz, the council-hired lawyer who
later filed the bankruptcy petition, if he tried to chime in
unapproved.  Will It Stand?  Thompson spent much of a 40-minute news conference
yesterday criticizing council members who pursued bankruptcy.  “I am ashamed of the behavior, the road jams, the road
blocks, the dishonest statements that keep coming out of the
board members,” she said.  Opponents say the filing may not stand up in court. Jason
Hess, acting city attorney, told council members that their
action wouldn’t be binding because they didn’t follow procedure.
Three Dauphin County commissioners said it was nothing more than
a stalling tactic. Governor Thomas Corbett’s spokeswoman, Kelli
Roberts, said it was illegal because of a law passed in June
that barred such a filing. She said the state is evaluating its
next steps.  Adrian Archett, a roofer, said he expected and would
welcome a state takeover. He said he’s waited months for city
workers to replace streetlights that have been knocked down.  “They aren’t doing their job,” he said.  Eric Jackson, a 54-year-old retired teacher who works for a
church, had doubts about whether Corbett would put the city’s
interests first after a takeover. He said he just wants the
whole debacle behind the city, so politicians can focus on
matters such as crime and rejuvenating the municipal economy.  “I don’t know what this is going to do to the city, as a
taxpayer, citizen, and a former public-school teacher,” he
said.  In a bookstore cafe, resident Stanley Gruen said Harrisburg
faces a dilemma.  “The choice is fiscal suicide or a state takeover,” he
said. “I don’t know which is better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  