-- 
Harrisburg Judge to Oversee City’s Disputed Bankruptcy Case

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-13T17:33:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/harrisburg-bankruptcy-judge-mary-france-named-as-lawyers-line-up-for-fight.html
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ’s disputed
bankruptcy will be overseen by the city’s chief U.S. bankruptcy
judge as lawyers for the city, state and creditors said they
intend to join the case.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary D. France was named to handle
the case yesterday by the head of the U.S. appeals court for the
Pennsylvania region, as is required by Chapter 9 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code .  Lawyers for Harrisburg Mayor Linda D. Thompson, who opposes
bankruptcy, filed a notice with the Harrisburg court saying they
intend to represent the mayor and the city. The four council
members who voted to authorize the bankruptcy filing hired a
different attorney, Mark D. Schwartz.  Tucker Arensberg PC  was hired by the city and mayor to
oppose the bankruptcy filing, Kenneth W. Lee, one of the
Pittsburgh-based firm’s lawyers, said in an e-mail. Lee declined
to comment on his clients’ strategy.  Jason Hess, the acting city solicitor, told the four
council members that the decision to file for bankruptcy
wouldn’t be binding because it wasn’t reviewed by his office
before the vote.  Harrisburg filed less than a month after Alabama’s
Jefferson County Commission voted to try to avert what would
have been the nation’s biggest municipal bankruptcy, and nine
months after Vallejo,  California , emerged from Chapter 9.  The petition lists among the creditors insurer Ambac
Financial Group Inc., due more than $70 million, and  Covanta
Holding Corp. (CVA) , with about $120 million of bonds and advances of
funds to Harrisburg. Assets and debt are both between $100
million and $500 million, according to the petition.  The case is In re City of Harrisburg, 11-06938,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg.)  --Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, and Romy Varghese and
 William Selway  in Harrisburg. Editors: John Pickering, Stephen Farr  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  