-- 
Asian Stocks Rally Has More ‘Shelf Life,’ Quant Broking Says

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-10-13T09:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/asian-stocks-rally-has-more-shelf-life-quant-broking-says.html
Sandeep Tandon, managing director at
the Mumbai-based Quant Broking Pvt., comments on the outlook for
Indian equities in an interview with Bloomberg UTV.  The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index lost 0.3 percent to
16,907.67 at 2:22 p.m. in Mumbai, giving up gains of as much as
0.7 percent. The gauge jumped 2.5 percent yesterday to the
highest in three weeks.  On investor sentiment:  “In the last 10 days, risk appetite has increased, which
is clearly reflected in commodity prices. The current relief
rally has more shelf life and we are slightly more positive on
developed markets versus emerging markets.  ‘‘The developed markets outperformance versus emerging
markets continues. This rally can last another six to eight
weeks or so. The market can consolidate for a month. Given the
earnings season, markets will remain in a very tight range.’’  ‘‘After November 2010, this is the first time we’re seeing
India outperforming emerging markets. I will still call it a
reflex rally. I don’t think anything has changed dramatically.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.1 percent to 117.51 as
of 3:24 p.m. in  Tokyo , taking its gain in the past six days to
9.5 percent. The gauge rose this week after German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President Nicholas Sarkozy pledged at
the weekend to deliver a plan to recapitalize banks and address
 Greece ’s debt crisis.  On the rupee:  “The rupee still remains weak. There’s some amount of
consolidation happening on the rupee the bias is still weak.”  The Indian currency fell 8.7 percent in the September
quarter, the most since 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  