-- 
Asian Stocks Rise as European Debt Plan, U.S. Fed Buoy Recovery Confidence

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-10-13T11:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/asian-stocks-rise-as-european-debt-plan-u-s-fed-buoy-recovery-confidence.html
Asian stocks rose for a sixth day as
European leaders edged closer to a plan for taming the debt
crisis and the U.S. Federal Reserve said it discussed more asset
purchases, reducing concern about the global economy.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest lender, climbed 3.3
percent after the European Commission called for a “coordinated
approach” to recapitalize the region’s banks.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No.1 miner, gained 1.5 percent in Sydney after
metal prices rose yesterday.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  jumped 16
percent in Hong Kong after the clothier refuting claims it
overstated the number of its Chinese stores.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.3 percent to 117.71
as of 8:04 p.m. in  Tokyo , taking its advance in the past six
days to 9.7 percent. The gauge climbed this week after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicholas Sarkozy
pledged at the weekend to deliver a plan to recapitalize banks
and address  Greece ’s debt crisis.  “The market’s taken a glass-half-full approach in the last
couple of weeks,” said Matt Riordan, who helps manage close to
$6.6 billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty.
“With  Europe , it’s all going to come down to the final details.
A resolution will require a lot of money, the agreement of a
large number of parties, and the political will to enforce
structural change.”  Australian Jobs  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1 percent.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index also added 1 percent as a report
showed the nation’s unemployment rate declined for the first
time since March as employers added double the workers
economists forecast.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index advanced 0.8 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index climbed 2.3 percent and the Shanghai Composite
Index added 0.8 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  jumped 3.7 percent after the Chinese
government announced measures to help small companies hurt by
the nation’s tighter monetary policies, including tax breaks and
easier access to bank loans.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3
percent today. The  S&P 500  advanced 1 percent in  New York 
yesterday, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.7 percent
to a two-month high as Olli Rehn, the European Commission’s
economic and monetary affairs commissioner, said the region’s
debt crisis can be resolved.  Separately, Federal Reserve officials last month wanted to
keep further asset purchases as an option to boost the economy
as policy makers saw “considerable uncertainty” that U.S.
growth will pick up, the Fed said in minutes of its Sept. 20-21
meeting.  Higher Bank Capital  Financial stocks surged after European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  called for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the
payout of a sixth loan to Greece and a faster start for a
permanent rescue fund to master Europe’s debt woes. Barroso
urged a “coordinated approach” to deliver a “significantly
higher capital ratio of highest quality capital” for banks,
while offering government funds only as a last resort.  HSBC gained 3.3 percent to HK$64.65.  Standard Chartered
Plc (2888) , U.K.’s third-largest lender, climbed 4 percent to
HK$176.60. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest
lender, advanced 2.1 percent to 340 yen.  ‘Hoping For Agreement’  “Investor hope that Europe’s leaders can agree on a
credible solution, coupled with a succession of positive days in
the market, are seeing underweight equity-investors forced to
increase their buying,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages more
than $300 million at White Funds Management in Sydney.  Mining companies also climbed.  BHP Billiton  rose 1.5
percent to A$37.64 in Sydney. Rival Rio Tinto Group advanced 2.8
percent to A$69.34. Korea Zinc Co. gained 2.7 percent to 307,000
won in Seoul.  New York-traded copper futures climbed 3.1 percent
yesterday, while the London Metal Exchange Index of prices for
six metals including copper and aluminum gained 2.4 percent.
Copper fell in trading today.    Iluka Resources Ltd. (ILU)  surged 9.6 percent to A$16.99 in
Sydney after the world’s biggest zircon producer reported that
third-quarter sales more than doubled after it boosted
production.  Mazda Motor Corp. surged 4.5 percent to 163 yen in Tokyo.
Construction-machinery maker Komatsu Ltd. climbed 4.4 percent to
1,770 yen and Fanuc Corp., a manufacturer of industrial robots,
increased 3.4 percent to 11,970 after a report showed machine
tool orders increased 20 percent in September from a year
earlier.  Esprit Rebounds  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 16 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4 percent loss by the S&P 500
and a 13 percent decline by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.9 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.1 times for the S&P 500
and 10.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  Esprit Holdings, Hong Kong’s biggest clothing retailer,
jumped 16 percent to HK$11.78 in Hong Kong. The company said
outdated information on its website may have led Hong Kong-based
Next Magazine to conclude it overstated the number of company
stores in  China .  Chinese automakers rose in Hong Kong after Citigroup Inc.
analysts said China’s September car sales probably grew 9
percent from a year earlier. Citigroup also said a slowdown in
China sales will likely end in the first quarter of next year.  BYD Co., the automaker backed by billionaire investor
 Warren Buffett , jumped 14 percent to HK$14.98. Dongfeng Motor
Group Co., which operates ventures with Nissan Motor Co. and
Honda Motor Co. in China, climbed 7.1 percent to HK$12.98.  Chinese steelmakers also rose. Maanshan Iron & Steel Co.,
China’s fourth biggest manufacturer of the material, surged 26
percent to HK$2.31 in Hong Kong and Angang Steel Co. jumped 16
percent to HK$5.65 after UBS AG boosted its recommendation on
their Hong Kong-traded shares to “buy,” saying the stocks were
undervalued.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  