-- 
Asylum Seekers to Be Handled in Australia in Gillard Setback

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-10-13T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/asylum-seekers-to-be-handled-in-australia-in-gillard-setback.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said asylum seekers will be processed within the nation
after her plan to handle them overseas was set to fail in
parliament, a blow as she grapples to boost her popularity.  Refugees arriving by boat will still face mandatory
detention upon arrival and may then be handled within the
community, Gillard told reporters at a press conference
yesterday in Canberra. The National Party’s Tony Crook, whose
support was needed for a vote yesterday, cited “humanitarian”
concerns for declining to back Gillard’s bill.  The setback is sure to provide the opposition with fodder
to attack Gillard’s handling of the immigration issue after she
sent a modified bill to parliament last month.  Australia ’s High
Court declared her initial deal with Malaysia to process the
migrants illegal on Aug. 31.  “This is bloody-mindedness from the prime minister,”
opposition immigration spokesman Scott Morrison told  Sky News 
yesterday. “The Government’s mess is one of its own making.”  Once Crook announced he wouldn’t support the immigration
bill, Gillard had little choice but to withdraw it from a vote,
said  Nick Economou , a lecturer at  Monash University  in  Melbourne .
The Australian prime minister needed to try to build on the
momentum of the lower house approving her plan to tax carbon
emissions Oct. 12 rather than risk a defeat, he said.  ‘Pretty Damaged’  “Why would you overwhelm the good news of yesterday with
the bad news of today,” he said by phone. “Gillard is pretty
damaged already.”  Backing for Gillard’s party is at 29 percent, compared with
49 percent for  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition,
according to a Newspoll survey by the Australian newspaper
published Oct. 11. The poll, which had a margin of error of plus
or minus 3 percentage points, was conducted Oct. 7-9.  Abbott introduced his own amendments last month to enable
offshore processing in Nauru, an option the government has
rejected as too costly.  Gillard’s personal approval was 28 percent in the Oct. 11
Newspoll survey. She had a 23 percent approval rating at the
beginning of September, the lowest figure for a prime minister
since 22 percent for Paul Keating in 1993.  Gillard presented her changes to the migration plan to
parliament last month after the  High Court  overturned the
government’s July 25 agreement with Malaysia, saying it didn’t
provide adequate protection for asylum seekers under
international or domestic law.  Still Committed  Gillard said yesterday the government is still committed to
the proposed arrangements with Malaysia.  “We believe it’s the best policy outcome for this country,
that it would give the maximum deterrence effect, to deter
people from getting on leaky boats and risking their lives,”
she said.  Under the prime minister’s agreement with Malaysia
Australia would send 800 asylum seekers to the Southeast Asian
nation and would accept 4,000 people from that country who have
been verified as legitimate refugees by the  United Nations .  The climate law approved Oct. 12 in the lower chamber is
intended to make about 500 companies pay A$23 ($22.90) a ton for
their  carbon emissions  starting in July 2012, before switching
to a cap-and-trade system three years later.  The government Oct. 12 named Jillian Broadbent, a board
member at the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, to help design the A$10
billion Clean Energy Finance Corp., which will provide new
financing for renewable energy projects in Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  