-- 
Tate, BMW Team Up to Commission Live, Web-Only Art Performances From 2012

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-10-13T16:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/tate-bmw-team-up-to-commission-live-web-only-art-performances-from-2012.html
Tate , the U.K. network of galleries,
said today that it’s teaming up with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
to commission art performances exclusively for live Web
broadcast. The value of the BMW sponsorship was not disclosed.  BMW Tate Live, a four-year program, will be a virtual
version of the giant art installations that Tate Modern orders
up for its Turbine Hall. The first five commissions in 2012 will
include works by choreographer Jerome Bel and by artist Pablo
Bronstein.  Tate and BMW “both pride themselves on trying to find a new
way of doing things,” Tate Director Nicholas Serota said at the
launch on Tate Modern’s top floor. “The space we found is not
the physical space of Tate Modern or Tate Britain, but the
virtual space so many people are inhabiting now.”  Also at the presentation was Uwe Ellinghaus, BMW’s director
of brand steering. He said BMW was “far more than a car and
motorcycle manufacturer.”  “We don’t want short-lived sponsorships that create only a
platform for events,” said Ellinghaus in an interview. “We want
to be associated with these renowned institutions over time.”  “More and more of our current and future target groups are
interested in arts and culture,” he said.  Tate Modern’s planned new building, designed by architects
Herzog & De Meuron and budgeted at 215 million pounds, was also
due to open in 2012. With only 150 million pounds raised so far,
construction is postponed until 2016 at the latest, Tate said
last month.  Oil Tanks  Instead, to coincide with the 2012 London  Olympic Games ,
Tate Modern -- a former power station -- will open two huge
circular spaces that were once oil tanks, and which were shown
to reporters today.  “We can’t possibly be in a position where we start
commissioning building without being certain that we have it in
our funds to complete it,” Serota said in an interview.  “The trustees have said they want to get to a certain level
of funding which they set for themselves,” he said. “At that
point, they will steam ahead.”  “We’re still raising money: This is a busy week,” he said,
referring to the Frieze Art Fair’s opening, which draws many
investors and art collectors to  London .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at   farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 