-- 
Lautenbergs Seek to Pursue Madoff Suit, Cite Rakoff Ruling

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-13T18:41:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/lautenbergs-seek-to-pursue-suit-against-peter-madoff.html
The charitable foundation of U.S.
Senator Frank Lautenberg asked a judge to let it continue a
$9 million lawsuit against  Bernard Madoff ’s brother Peter,
saying a ruling in the  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  case bars the
liquidator of Madoff’s firm from stopping their suit.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff ruled that trustee  Irving Picard  can’t sue HSBC on behalf of the Madoff estate, using
common-law claims against parties “who allegedly violated a
duty” to the con man’s customers. The trustee can no longer
argue that claims against Peter Madoff belong to him and must
let the Lautenbergs continue their suit, they said in a filing
yesterday in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  The Lautenberg filing is the latest by Picard’s targets as
they use recent rulings to fight the trustee. The town of
Fairfield,  Connecticut , said yesterday that Picard and the
bankruptcy court have no right to stop its suit against the
Madoff family after the HSBC decision.  Safra National Bank of New York and Rye Select Broad Market
XL Portfolio Ltd., based in the Cayman Islands, citedRakoff’s
Sept. 27 ruling in the New York Mets owners’ case in their
pleadings. Picard said yesterday the rulings have opened the
“floodgates.”  Picard said the Lautenbergs and Fairfield are “mistaken”
in saying the bankruptcy court can’t stop their suits.  Lautenberg’s son and daughter joined the foundation in
seeking to recover losses from Peter Madoff, claiming that as
chief compliance officer at Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, he was culpable for the Ponzi scheme run by his
brother. The appealed in  Manhattan  district court in March after
a bankruptcy judge stopped their suit. Yesterday’s filing
updates their appeal with Rakoff’s July 28 ruling, they said.  Lawsuit Halted  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  ruled in February that
the Lautenbergs and nine other Madoff clients who filed lawsuits
must wait until Picard concludes two suits seeking $244 million
from Madoff family members.  The ruling in Manhattan halted the lawsuit by the  New
Jersey  Democrat’s foundation in federal court in  Newark , New
Jersey, as well as nine other lawsuits against Madoff family
members. The other plaintiffs include the pension plans for
Fairfield, Connecticut, and Emilio Chavez Jr., who is an inmate
in a Texas prison, according to the complaint.  Picard filed his own complaints against  Peter Madoff ; his
daughter, Shana; Bernard’s wife, Ruth; and their sons, Andrew
and Mark. Mark Madoff committed suicide on Dec. 11, the two-year
anniversary of his father’s arrest.  Bernard Madoff, arrested in 2008, is serving 150 years in
prison for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history. Picard this
month started sending holders of 1,230 Madoff accounts $312
million, or about 4.6 percent of the money he said they lost in
the fraud. About $5 billion of the $8.7 billion he said he has
recovered to pay principal of $17.3 billion is tied up in court
challenges.  The Lautenberg appeal is In re Bernard L. Madoff, 11-
cv-02135, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  