-- 
Baer Absorbs Macquarie Asia Private-Client Bankers in Venture

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-10-13T08:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/baer-absorbs-macquarie-asia-private-client-bankers-in-venture.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the fifth-
biggest Swiss wealth manager, will absorb  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ’s
private-client business in Asia as part of a venture with the
Australian bank.  Baer will gain about $1 billion in client assets as
Macquarie advisers in Hong Kong and Singapore become employees
of the Swiss company. Baer agreed to refer private clients in
the region looking for investment-banking services to Sydney-
based Macquarie, according to a  statement  from both banks. A
Baer spokesman declined to give further terms of the deal.  “This is another important step to expand  Julius Baer ’s
footprint in the world’s most important growth region,
underlining our commitment to Asia as our second home market,”
Baer Chief Executive Officer Boris Collardi said.  Baer, which already has offices in Jakarta,  Hong Kong  and
Singapore, aims to have a fourth of its assets under management
in Asia by 2015, Thomas Meier, the Zurich-based bank’s CEO for
Asia and the Middle East, said last month. The wealth of Asian-
high-net worth individuals is expected to triple to $16 trillion
by that point, the bank said in a joint study with Hong Kong-
based CLSA Asia Pacific Markets last month.  The bank is putting less emphasis on Europe and  North
America  amid a crackdown on tax havens. Two Baer client advisers
were charged in New York this week with helping Americans evade
taxes. The bank has said it’s cooperating with a U.S.
investigation, though it declined to comment on the indictment.  Collardi said in July that the bank may make acquisitions
in emerging markets and in  Switzerland . Baer purchased 30
percent of Brazil’s biggest independent wealth manager, GPS, to
build an onshore presence in  Latin America , the company said in
May. Bank Sarasin & Cie., a Basel, Switzerland-based private
bank with 101.6 billion Swiss francs ($113.3 billion) of client
assets under management, would be a “good strategic fit,” Jan Bielinski, a spokesman for the bank said yesterday.  Macquarie, Australia’s largest investment bank, said it
will continue to grow in the Asia-Pacific region through
banking, financial advisory, investment and fund management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  