-- 
Bangkok Will Escape Flooding as Barriers Hold, Thai Premier Yingluck Says

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-14T08:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/bangkok-will-escape-flooding-as-barriers-hold-yingluck-says.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said Bangkok will be spared from floods that have
killed almost 300 people and devastated areas north of the
capital after defenses on the Chao Phraya river were bolstered.  “The impact to Bangkok will only be in the area outside
the flood barrier,” Yingluck told reporters today at the city’s
national flood center. Water levels in provinces north of the
city have “started to stabilize,” she said.  The three-month-old disaster has crippled manufacturing
hubs in central provinces and destroyed more than 10 percent of
rice farms in the world’s biggest shipper of the grain. To save
Bangkok from the same fate, Yingluck ordered the army to widen
canals to drain water toward the Tha Cheen river west of the
capital, relieving pressure on the swollen Chao Phraya.  “Inner Bangkok is the heart of the country and we can’t
let it flood because that would cause vast economic damage,”
Pracha Promnog, head of the flood center, said today at a media
briefing. “We are trying everything to prevent any flooding in
Bangkok’s center.”  That may ease concerns for the capital’s 9.7 million
residents, who have been hoarding rice, instant noodles and
bottled water, and buying sandbags to protect their homes as
floodwaters threatened to break through the city’s defenses.  While Bangkok may avoid widespread damage, floodwaters
continue to threaten cities and industrial estates in  Thailand ’s
central and northern provinces.  Rising Cost  The cost of the disaster may rise to as much as 120 billion
baht ($3.9 billion), and force the central bank to cut its
forecast for economic growth this year, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said today.  “The flooding impact on the whole economy will depend on
the rehabilitation process after this,” he told reporters in
Bangkok. “We need to monitor the situation closely.”  At least 289 people have been killed as monsoon rains and
floods have swept across the country since July 25, according to
data from the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation.
About 26 of Thailand’s 77 provinces are still affected, the
agency said today on its website.  Floodwaters yesterday overwhelmed defenses around the Hi-
Tech Industrial Estate in Ayutthaya, a base for manufacturers
including  Hana Microelectronics Pcl (HANA) , the country’s biggest
semiconductor packager.  ‘Heroic Efforts’  “A major breach occurred in the south wall of the
industrial estate, and despite heroic efforts from the Thai army
and many of the volunteers who have been working the past seven
days to hold the waters back, the waters started to come in,”
Hana’s Chief Executive Officer Richard Han said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today.  Floodwaters earlier swamped the neighboring Rojana
Industrial Estate, crippling operations of Japanese
manufacturers including Nikon Corp. and Pioneer Corp.  A total of 930 factories nationwide have been damaged in
the disaster, according to the Ministry of Industry.  A “huge amount of water” flowing from northern provinces
and peak tides predicted between today and Oct. 17 and again
from Oct. 28-31 will still test barriers defending Bangkok, the
government’s flood center said this week.  Conflicting warnings are complicating preparation efforts.  Residents in northern Bangkok and Pathum Thani province
were told to evacuate late yesterday after a water barrier
failed. The government’s flood center later said the evacuation
order wasn’t official, and the breach was a false alarm.  ‘Extremely Worried’  “The issue is less the rain and more the run-off waters
that come from the northern parts where the dams release the
water,” said Han from Hana Microelectronics. “That is
anticipated to rise over the next few days in the Ayutthaya area
before it passes through Bangkok, and that’s why everyone in
Bangkok is extremely worried that it’s their turn now.”  The damage bill may rise as high as 156.7 billion baht  and
curb growth by 1.3 percentage points to 1.5 percentage points,
the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said yesterday.  The university, a private institution established by the
chamber, now expects the economy to grow by 3 percent to 3.5
percent this year.  Consumer confidence  declined to a four-month
low in September, a separate report showed yesterday.  “The central bank can help the economy by holding its key
 interest rate  on Oct. 19,”  Thanavath Phonvichai , an economist
at the university, said today. “Consumer confidence is on a
downtrend. If they can cut the key rate, that will help boost
the economy next year.”  Thailand’s gross domestic product rose 2.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009.
A faltering world recovery also poses a threat to expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  