-- 
South Korea Holds Rates, BOJ Members Discuss Stimulus as Global Risks Rise

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   T h e r e s a   B a r r a c l o u g h
-- 
2011-10-13T04:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/bank-of-korea-holds-rate-for-fourth-month-amid-global-risks-1-.html
The Bank of Korea kept  interest
rates  on hold and the  Bank of Japan  said its board had discussed
more monetary easing, in further signs policy makers are moving
to protect growth as the global economy weakens.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board held the benchmark
seven-day repurchase rate at 3.25 percent for the fourth
straight month, the central bank said in Seoul today. In Japan,
records of a BOJ meeting last month said “a few” members
discussed extra stimulus.  Asian policy makers are bolstering efforts to defend their
economies from weakening growth in the U.S. and  Europe , with
Indonesia’s central bank unexpectedly cutting borrowing costs
and the Philippines unveiling a stimulus plan this week. In
South  Korea , Kim said no board member argued in favor of an
interest-rate cut even as the central bank said “downside
risks” to the domestic economy exceeded upside risks.  “We expect the BOK to remain on hold for now,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Singapore . It may refrain from easing unless there’s “a sudden
and unforeseen deterioration in global growth,” he said.  The won rose 0.8 percent to 1,157.65 per dollar as of 1:07
p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)  gained 1 percent. The currency lost more
than 8 percent over the past three months, Asia’s second-worst
performance, fueling inflationary pressure by increasing import
costs. The  Bank of Korea ’s decision, which was unanimous, was
predicted by all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Accommodative’ Policy  “Our monetary policy is still seen as accommodative,” Kim
told a news conference today. “Our will to normalize interest
rates has not changed. We will make sure to prevent inflation
from becoming chronic.”  A deepening European debt crisis and a struggling U.S.
recovery have prompted emerging-market nations to opt to support
their economies rather than combat inflation.  Brazil , Turkey,
 Russia  and Pakistan have cut borrowing costs in 2011.  Bank Indonesia lowered its reference rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 6.5 percent this week, defying the
predictions of all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Philippine President Benigno Aquino announced a 72 billion-peso
($1.7 billion) spending package yesterday as his government cut
growth estimates.  At a BOJ board meeting last month, a few members
“expressed the view that further monetary easing might become
necessary depending on future developments,” considering risks
such as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, according to a record of
the board’s Sept. 6-7 meeting released in  Tokyo  today.  European Crisis  “Many members” said the risk of Europe’s crisis putting
downward pressure on  Japan ’s economy was increasing, according
to the BOJ document.  Other major economies have already expanded stimulus. The
 European Central Bank  said last week it will reintroduce
purchases of covered bonds while the  Bank of England  increased
its asset-purchase program. The  Federal Reserve  is replacing
short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries.  The BOJ left its overnight-rate target between zero and 0.1
percent and kept its credit programs unchanged at its last
meeting on Oct. 6-7. The next gathering is on Oct. 27.  “The markets look like they are stabilizing and the
economic data is encouraging for BOJ monetary policy, so the
likelihood of the BOJ taking action is low,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Tokyo and a
former BOJ official. She said the central bank may expand its
15-trillion yen ($195 billion) asset-buying program by 5
trillion to 10 trillion yen if the European crisis causes more
market turmoil.  Economic Impact  Weakening overseas demand is taking a toll on both Japan
and  South Korea . In Japan, exports, industrial output and retail
sales all undershot economist estimates last month. In South
Korea, exports, equivalent to about half the economy, grew at a
slower pace in September. Industrial production slid 1.9 percent
in August from July, when it decreased 0.3 percent.  The Bank of Korea said in a statement after today’s
decision that “downside risks to growth have increased”
because Europe’s debt woes may spread and advanced economies
show signs of “sluggishness.”  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest maker
of mobile phones, has a “conservative” earnings forecast for
the second half of this year because of global economic
developments, Hong Chang Wan, head of the company’s home
appliance business, said last week.  Inflation Eases  Consumer-price increases in South Korea eased to 4.3
percent from a year earlier last month, after a 5.3 percent
surge in August. The latest inflation figure remains above the
Bank of Korea’s target ceiling of 4 percent.  South Korea’s consumers predict that price increases will
accelerate, with the expected inflation rate over the next 12
months at 4.3 percent in September, faster than 4.2 percent in
the previous month and the highest since November 2008, a survey
by the Bank of Korea showed last month.  Kim urged the nation’s lawmakers to approve a free-trade
agreement with the U.S. "as soon as possible," saying the deal
will provide a "big opportunity" for the South Korean economy to
grow. The U.S. Congress passed the deal yesterday.  The Bank of Korea raised interest rates for the third time
this year in June to fight inflation.  “I see no rate change well into next year and if things
get really ugly, even a rate cut is possible to boost the
economy,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in  Seoul .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Theresa Barraclough in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  