-- 
Bank of Korea’s Kim Says 2011 Inflation Likely to Surpass 4% Target Limit

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 
2011-10-13T17:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/bank-of-korea-s-kim-says-inflation-likely-to-exceed-4-limit.html
Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said inflation is likely to exceed the central bank’s 4
percent target limit this year and board members haven’t
discussed cutting  interest rates .  “For the year of calendar 2011, probably inflation as
measured by CPI may turn out to be slightly over 4 percent,”
Kim, 64, said in an interview in Seoul yesterday, referring to
the consumer price index. “We should meet the medium-term
target” of 2 percent to 4 percent next year, he said.  Kim spoke after his officials voted unanimously to keep the
benchmark interest rate unchanged, and a report on  China ’s trade
highlighted the threat to export-dependent Asian economies from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Already, Indonesia has cut rates, the
 Philippines  has unveiled a stimulus plan and China this week
announced measures to aid small businesses.  Kim said he’s not pessimistic about the outlook of the  U.S.
economy , describing it as resilient. He added that Europe may
take longer to recover.  The won strengthened 0.9 percent to 1,155.90 per dollar in
Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency lost more than 8 percent over the past three months,
Asia’s second-worst performance, fueling inflationary pressure
by increasing import costs. The Kospi Index rose 0.8 percent.  Emerging Economies  A deepening European debt crisis and a struggling U.S.
recovery have prompted some emerging-market nations to opt to
support their economies rather than combat inflation. Brazil,
Turkey, Russia and Pakistan have cut borrowing costs in 2011.  Bank  Indonesia  lowered its reference rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 6.5 percent this week, defying the
predictions of all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Philippine President Benigno Aquino announced a 72 billion-peso
($1.7 billion) spending package as his government cut growth
estimates.  The Bank of Korea said in a statement after yesterday’s
decision that “downside risks to growth have increased”
because Europe’s debt woes may spread and advanced economies
show signs of “sluggishness.”  China reported yesterday that growth in exports to Europe
slumped to 9.8 percent in September from 22 percent in August
Weakening demand is also taking a toll on  South Korea , where
exports, equivalent to about half the economy, grew at a slower
pace in September. Industrial production slid 1.9 percent in
August from July, when it decreased 0.3 percent.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest maker
of mobile phones, has a “conservative” earnings forecast for
the second half of this year because of global economic
developments, Hong Chang Wan, head of the company’s home
appliance business, said last week.  Consumer-price increases in South Korea eased to 4.3
percent from a year earlier last month, after a 5.3 percent
surge in August. The benchmark interest rate stands at 3.25
percent  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Deirdre Bolton in New York at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  