-- 
Bankers Face Dividend, Pay Curbs as EU Seeks Lender Boost

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-13T13:55:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/bankers-face-dividend-bonus-curbs-as-eu-seeks-to-boost-lenders.html
Bankers may have to give up bonuses
and shareholders forgo dividends at lenders that need capital
injections to meet tougher European Union standards.  The restrictions on compensation and dividends and
increased capital reserves were part of European Commission
President  Jose Barroso ’s plans announced yesterday to
recapitalize banks in response to the region’s debt crisis. The
Association of German Banks said the EU proposal doesn’t solve
any underlying problems and makes it even harder to raise
capital from private sources.  “Banning dividend payments would be counterproductive, as
it would make capital increases even more difficult,”  Michael Kemmer , head of the German banking group, said in an e-mailed
statement.  An Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders looms as a deadline for a
breakthrough in combating the crisis, which has driven  Greece 
toward default and threatened the survival of the 17-nation
currency. The EU’s move comes after stress tests on banks in
July showed that most lenders had enough capital to withstand a
recession. The tests were criticized for not taking into account
the possibility of losses on sovereign bonds.  The EU’s top banking regulator, the  European Banking
Authority , is considering setting a temporary capital benchmark
of 9 percent as part of Barroso’s plan, a person familiar with
the talks said yesterday. The regulator used a benchmark of 5
percent for its formal stress tests on EU bank capital in July.  ‘Quickly as Possible’  Banks that can’t meet the new standards should present
plans to bolster their reserves as “quickly as possible,”
Barroso said in Brussels yesterday. Until then, they “should be
prevented paying dividends and bonuses by supervisors.”  The extra  capital requirements  would be measured using a
definition of core reserves that was developed by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , a global group of regulators
and central bankers that agrees on minimal capital levels. Those
rules wouldn’t normally apply until 2015.  The definition of capital is tougher than some EU
jurisdictions currently use, James Babicz, head of risk at
business analytics company SAS U.K., said in a telephone
interview.  “That kind of capital refers to retained earnings and
shareholder equity,” Babicz said. “The German landesbanken and
building societies will find that a challenge as they don’t have
shareholders. They have members.”  ‘Sidestep’ Pay Restrictions  If the dividend issue will be problematic, banks may find
ways to keep paying their best employees.  “The bonus thing will simply be sidestepped,” Bob Penn, a
financial regulation lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in London, said
in a telephone interview. “Banks will fear their senior
talented staff will walk out the door and offer them a fixed
salary rise.”  Under a 9 percent core Tier 1 ratio and a  stress test  that
marked sovereign holdings to market prices,  Italy ’s  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  would require about 58 billion euros and Royal of Scotland
Group Plc 18.8 billion euros, according to estimates compiled by
Roger Francis, a London-based analyst at Mizuho Securities.  In all, European banks would require 339 billion euros of
capital, he said.  “This will go down very poorly among the underperforming
banks,” Penn said. “It could put them into a spiral whereby
the talented people leave, making it harder for the bank to
recover.”  RBS has already written down the value of its Greek bonds
by 50 percent “leaving a residual 0.7 billion-pound exposure,”
 Ian Gordon , a banking analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd., said
Oct. 7 in a research note. “RBS has no need to raise capital.”  Private Capital  Lenders should turn to private sources of capital first,
Barroso said.  “Banks are trading well under book value,” Penn said.
“If you’re a shareholder, why would you invest more capital?”  The EBA has asked lenders for information on the value of
sovereign debt holdings in their “held to maturity and loans
and receivables portfolios,” as part of the review, according
to a data template seen by Bloomberg News. Lenders’ holdings of
 government bonds  will be valued more closely to their current
market price than they were during the stress tests, the person
familiar said, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private.  European bank stocks dropped today, with the 46-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index falling 3.1
percent at 2:50 p.m.  London  time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 