-- 
Banks Issue Longest-Dated Bonds in Europe for Four Months

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-13T14:05:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/banks-issue-longest-maturing-bonds-in-europe-for-four-months.html
Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Sweden’s
second-biggest lender, and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  of the U.K.
are raising 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion) from sales of the
longest-dated senior unsecured bank bonds since June as plans to
re-capitalize the industry spur sales.  Europe’s credit markets rallied this week, helping bond
issuance, after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said governments
will do “everything necessary” to ensure banks have enough
capital. Europe’s crisis is hurting bank balance sheets because
they’re the biggest holders of bonds sold by the region’s most
indebted countries.  “We’ve had headlines on bank recapitalizations over recent
days which the market has taken positively, which at least
provide a degree of certainty for a bank treasurer to consider
accessing the market again,” said Oliver Judd, a credit analyst
at Aviva Investors in  London , which manages $150 billion in
fixed-income assets.  Svenska Handelsbanken is selling 1.25 billion euros of 10-
year benchmark-sized bonds, while Standard Chartered is raising
the same amount from five-year notes, according to bankers
involved in the sales. They’re the longest deals since  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  sold 1 billion euros of five-year bonds on June 8.
Deutsche Bank AG’s two-year floating-rate offering in September
re-opened the market after a two-month sales drought.  Svenska Bonds  Stockholm-based Svenska Handelsbanken’s bonds will be
priced to yield 170 basis points more than the benchmark mid-
swap rate in a deal managed by the borrower together with BNP
Paribas SA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and UBS
AG, said the banker.  Standard Chartered ’s issue will have a 188 basis-point
spread over swaps, the banker with knowledge of that transaction
said. Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan are arranging
that deal along with the London-based issuer.  ABN Amro Bank NV and SEB AB, which both followed Deutsche
Bank in raising money from sales of senior unsecured securities,
also sold two-year floating-rate notes. Credit Agricole SA sold
10-year bonds through bank branches to individual investors last
month.  Handelsbanken and Standard Chartered are tapping bond
investors as yields on European bank debt drop from their
highest in more than two years.  Absolute yields on bank debt in Europe have slipped to 5.42
percent from 5.51 percent on Oct. 6, which was the highest since
July 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , Spain’s biggest power utility, and Milan-
based  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  are also taking advantage of renewed
optimism about a solution to the Europe’s debt woes, raising
1.35 billion euros from bond sales today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  