-- 
Bean Joins Colleagues Keeping Option for More BOE Purchases

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-13T10:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/bean-says-boe-could-boost-quantitative-easing-guardian-reports.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  became the third policy maker to signal the central
bank might add to its emergency stimulus plan if needed even as
its second wave of bond purchases has only just begun.  “If we need to undertake further purchases then we will do
so,” Bean told the  Guardian newspaper  in an interview published
on its website today. A Bank of England spokesman in London
confirmed the comments.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee expanded its
bond-buying program by 75 billion pounds ($118 billion) to 275
billion pounds last week. The central bank noted “severe
strains” in bank funding markets and Governor  Mervyn King  said
the move was a response to what may be the worst financial
crisis ever.  Policy maker  Adam Posen  told Bloomberg Television in an
Oct. 11 interview that the MPC “will readjust it if it turns
out we need more.” His colleague  Martin Weale  said on Oct. 9
the central bank has “a lot of scope” to increase the plan if
deemed necessary to boost economic growth.  “There has been a noticeable deceleration in activity
indicators, not just in this country but across the globe as
well,” Bean said. “On top of that is layered all the concerns
about the twin euro-area sovereign-debt and banking-sector
crises. Businesses in these circumstances tend to put investment
projects on hold; consumers tend to hold back from spending. It
just makes people much more wary.”  Pound Weakens  The pound weakened against seven of its 16 major peers
today and was little changed against another seven. The U.K.
currency was trading at $1.5696 as of 11:24 a.m.  London  time,
down 0.4 percent on the day.  U.K. output has barely expanded over the past year and
government figures yesterday showed unemployment climbed to a
15-year high of 8.1 percent, fueling concerns the economy could
tip back into recession amid slowing global growth, government
spending cuts and the biggest squeeze on household incomes since
the 1970s.  Two years after the recession ended, gross domestic product
is 4.4 percent below its peak level in the early 2008,
representing the weakest recovery for almost a century. Alistair Darling, finance minister in the previous Labour government,
warned yesterday of “a very long period of stagnation with
tremendous cost to the country.”  Credit Easing  Until this month, Posen was alone on the MPC in pushing for
the bank to revive quantitative easing, the process of pumping
cash into the economy by buying  government bonds  with newly
created money.  He began his yearlong push for more asset purchases in
October last year. Bean, meanwhile, has voted to maintain policy
at every meeting since backing the last increase in November
2009. Minutes showing how policy makers voted this month will be
published Oct. 19.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced plans
on Oct. 3 to ease the credit strains facing small and medium-
sized companies by using the proceeds of Treasury-bill sales to
buy corporate bonds or packages of securitized bank loans.  Bean defended the bank’s decision to focus on government
bonds, despite an option to buy as much as 50 billion pounds of
private-sector assets. Corporate bonds account for just over 1
billion pounds of the assets the bank has bought so far.  “It’s inappropriate for the bank to stray into the
territory of deciding where credit should go,” he said. “That
is moving into territory that is the domain of government.”  Greek Exposure  While U.K. banks have relatively small direct exposures to
the debt of peripheral countries like  Greece , they are closely
connected with banks in mainland  Europe , and these close links
possess “the potential to lead to a seizing up of the financial
system,” Bean said.  Bean, who also sits on the Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee, said he is strongly in favor of recapitalizing
European banks, and Britain could end up joining in. “It may be
that given how the plan is designed, that the chancellor may
decide it is appropriate for the U.K. to be part of this, too,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  