-- 
Beatles’ Seedy Debut, Miss Vanessa, Lesbian Love: London Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/beatles-seedy-debut-feisty-miss-vanessa-lesbians-in-love-london-stage.html
The past has a way of snapping at
your heels. Just as  Paul McCartney  settles down to enjoy his
third marriage, the musical “Backbeat” looks at his early
years in the red-light dives of Hamburg.  The London show is about the time when a group of wannabe
rockabillies called the Beatles covered songs like “Please Mr.
Postman” and “Twist and Shout” during a residency in  Germany 
in the early 1960s. They were paid peanuts, and had to bed down
dormitory-style behind the screen at a nearby cinema.  In one amusingly sordid scene,  George Harrison  (Will Payne)
complains that the loss of his virginity is not only witnessed
by the rest of the group. It’s cheered on, too.  John Lennon 
(Andrew Knott) and Stuart Sutcliffe (Nick Blood) grab quickie
knee-tremblers during breaks in performances. Pretty it ain’t.
Authentically seedy it is.  The simple scaffolding set and some murky lighting strike
just the right low-rent note.  Based on Iain Softley’s 1994 film of the same name,
“Backbeat” avoids many of the pitfalls of jukebox musicals.
The numbers are drawn mostly from covers the group sang during
their early gigs, and not from their original material. The
current cast, good as they are, don’t suffer by comparison with
the Fab Four’s most famous recordings.  In the central edgy dynamic among McCartney, Lennon and
Sutcliffe, the show has a lot to offer emotionally.  Bossy John  When Sutcliffe first appears, he’s a promising art student
with as much musical ability as a damp sponge. His adoring
bossyboots friend Lennon persuades him to learn bass guitar, and
join the group for the fun of it. Sutcliffe’s future ambivalence
about being in the Beatles, his growing relationship with German
photographer Astrid Kirchherr (Ruta Gedmintas), and his need to
break free from Lennon’s domineering presence form the dramatic
core of the show.  It’s a complex and intriguing story, and well handled by
the performers. The problem with the piece lies with David Leveaux’s direction, which sacrifices the developing drama for
manufactured feel-good highs.  After the ruthless sacking of drummer Pete Best and the
sudden death of Sutcliffe due to a brain aneurysm, an upbeat
ending with a compilation of cheerful hits (including Blood
performing as Sutcliffe: hey, didn’t he just die?) feels like a
slap in the face. It’s untrue to the story.  The time is right for a great feel-good show. A truly
cathartic piece about the pains of artistic creation could do
well too. Trouble is, you can’t have it both ways. Rating: **.  Daisy’s Chauffeur  There’s no question mark over the tone of Alfred Uhry’s
play “Driving Miss Daisy.” It’s sentiment covered in sugar
covered in candy floss.  Nothing wrong with that, at least it’s consistent.  Set in  Georgia  in the 1950s and 1960s, it portrays the
growing friendship between cantankerous Jewish matriarch Daisy
Werthan ( Vanessa Redgrave ) and her black driver Hoke Coleburn
(James Earl Jones).  It’s certainly politically correct: Dissolving of racial
prejudices, tick. Developing mutual assistance, tick. Dignity
oozing from every pore of the black character, tick.  It’s a mark of Jones’s theatrical greatness that he sparks
with life as Hoke. He knows when to play out to the audience and
milk a joke. He knows how to place a well-timed grin. He finds a
core of something real under the spun-sugar.  Redgrave doesn’t pull off the same trick. When she attempts
a big crowd-pleasing gesture by comically waving a soup can at
Hoke after suspecting him of having stolen it, it looks
contrived and overdone. That said, as Daisy ages from her 70s to
her 90s, Redgrave’s biomechanics are terrifically well observed.
You can almost hear the sound of her sinews drying and her
tendons shriveling.  There are better plays about black-white relations. There
aren’t any with the unmissable James Earl Jones in them. Rating:
***.  Sister George  There aren’t many plays without male characters, either, so
it’s a pleasure to see the 1965 all-female “The Killing of
Sister George” by Frank Marcus back in the  West End .  It tells the bleakly comical story of June Buckridge, an
actress who plays a beloved district nurse in a  BBC  radio soap
opera. When the nurse, Sister George, is killed off in the
series, her relationship with her young lover Alice goes into a
tailspin. June’s nemesis at the BBC, Mrs. Mercy Croft, then
senses that she may be able to steal away Alice.  There’s amusing business about the fakery of soap operas,
and about actors who identify too strongly with their roles. It
also squeezes plenty of gags from June’s masculine manner and
Alice’s little-girl behavior, even if the butch-femme lesbian
stereotype marks the play as a period piece.  Elizabeth Cadwallader combines sweetness and
manipulativeness as Alice, and Belinda Lang is amusingly crisp
and bossy as Mrs. Croft. Meera Syal (June) doesn’t come close to
finding either the humor or pathos in the exuberant, comical and
jealous June. It’s a shame, because the work isn’t strong enough
to survive a weak lead performance. Rating: **.  “Backbeat” is at the Duke of York’s Theatre. Information:
 http://www.backbeatlondon.com  or +44-844-871-7627. “Driving
 Miss Daisy ” is at Wyndham’s Theatre,
 http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or +44-844-482-5136. “The
Killing of Sister George” is at the Arts Theatre,
 http://www.artstheatrewestend.co.uk  or +44-20-7907-7092.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 