-- 
Belgium’s Di Rupo Starts Six-Party Talks to Form Government

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-10-13T12:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/belgium-s-di-rupo-starts-six-party-talks-to-form-government-1-.html
Elio Di Rupo, the leader of
 Belgium ’s French-speaking Socialist Party, said he will begin
six-party talks to form a government 16 months after an
inconclusive election.  “Drawing up the 2012 budget is the top priority,” Di
Rupo, 60, said today in an e-mailed statement. “International,
financial and social conditions force political leaders to form
a government urgently.”  Belgium’s inability to form a national government led both
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings to assign a
negative outlook to Belgium’s debt, now ranked the second-
highest investment grade, and has inflated borrowing costs
relative to the six AAA euro-area nations. The potential cost of
rescuing  Dexia SA (DEXB)  prompted Moody’s Investors Service last week
to put Belgium under review for a downgrade as well.  The yield on Belgium’s 10-year bonds climbed to as high as
4.28 percent today, the highest level in more than two months
and a 62 basis-point increase from 3.65 percent on Sept. 30. The
4.25 percent securities due September 2021 fell 0.29, or 2.90
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 100.035 as of 2:05 p.m. in
Brussels.  Belgian  government bonds  have lost 3.2 percent since Sept.
30, the second-worst performance in local currencies among 26
markets tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. Greek bonds have
tumbled 7.9 percent so far this quarter.  Breakthrough Agreements  Di Rupo’s six-party coalition includes three parties from
each side of Belgium’s French-Dutch linguistic divide. He
informed  King Albert II  of his plans today after five months of
talks produced breakthrough agreements on the distribution of
 tax revenue , transfer of additional spending powers to the
regions and an electoral-district dispute that had stymied
Belgian leaders for years.  The coalition, with 93 of 150 seats in parliament, would
need extra support to vote those agreements into law. Belgian
law requires a two-thirds majority overall and a simple majority
among both linguistic groups to pass constitutional amendments.
Ecolo-Groen, with 5 Flemish lawmakers in a group of 13, has
pledged to back the initiatives, allowing the coalition to meet
both requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   htromm@bloomberg.net  