-- 
Belgium Moves Toward Forming Full-Time Government After 488-Day Deadlock

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-10-13T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/belgium-moves-toward-forming-full-time-government-after-488-day-deadlock.html
Belgium  moves today toward forming a
full-time government after 488 days of stasis as Prime Minister-
designate Elio Di Rupo starts six-party coalition talks.  Negotiations get under way at 12 p.m. in Brussels with a
focus on finding budget cuts to meet European targets of
bringing the deficit down to 2.8 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012.  “Slowly but surely Belgium is edging closer to forming a
government,” Guillaume Menuet, an economist at Citigroup Inc.
in  London , said in a research note. “Given the remaining work
to be done on the budget and other policies, it is likely that a
fully fledged administration still remains a few weeks away.”  Belgians can thank  Europe ’s debt crisis for the
breakthrough, as a rise in borrowing costs and threatened credit
downgrades raised the urgency of ending the north-south
political feud in the country.  Ten-year Belgian bonds yield 4.34 percent, or 223 basis
points more than German bonds, Europe’s benchmark investment.
The extra yield has risen from 79 basis points on election day,
June 13, 2010.  The political paralysis led Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services and Fitch Ratings to assign a negative outlook to
Belgium’s debt, now ranked the second-highest investment grade.  Constitutional Amendments  The state’s coffers were further strained last week by the
4 billion-euro ($5.5 billion) purchase of crisis-hit  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s
domestic bank unit, which prompted Moody’s Investors Service to
put Belgium under review for a downgrade as well.  The coalition talks were made possible by an accord to
overhaul the constitution for the sixth time since 1970, handing
more powers to the regions and lessening financial transfers
from the Dutch-speaking north to the poorer French south.  Success in the talks would make Di Rupo, 60, the first
native French speaker to run the linguistically polarized
country since the 1970s.  “It’s urgent that we grapple with the social and economic
policy issues and draft the 2012 budget,” Di Rupo said
yesterday. “International, financial and social conditions
force political leaders to form a government urgently.”  The Dutch- and French-speaking wings of the Socialist,
Liberal and center-right parties will make up the new
government. Di Rupo bowed to pressure from Dutch speakers to
keep the Greens out.  Nationalist Party  Di Rupo’s coalition will control 93 of 150 seats in
parliament. The French- and Dutch-speaking Greens have pledged
to supply enough votes for the two-thirds majority needed to
revise the constitution.  No deadline was set for concluding the talks, which mark at
least the temporary eclipse of a nationalist party, the N-VA,
which polled the most votes in Flanders in the 2010 election.  The N-VA leader, Bart  De Wever , took part in the
constitutional jousting for 13 months until being ditched by
mainstream Flemish parties that grew tired of his brinksmanship.  De Wever criticized the new governing formula as
illegitimate, saying the three Dutch-speaking parties tapped for
the coalition won’t represent a majority in Flanders for the
first time in Belgian history.  “The Flemish form a majority in the country and pay the
lion’s share of the taxes, but soon we will be ruled by a
government dominated by French speakers,” De Wever said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  