-- 
Berlusconi Tests His Political Survival Skills

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-10-14T07:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/berlusconi-tests-his-political-survival-in-confidence-vote-as-yields-surge.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
faces a parliamentary confidence vote today to determine whether
he still has enough support to continue governing Italy through
 Europe ’s deepening debt crisis.  “The government asks for a confirmation of confidence
because it is profoundly aware of the risks facing the nation,”
the premier said in a 15-minute address yesterday to the lower
house of Parliament, which will begin debate on the confidence
motion at 11 a.m. and start voting at around 12:30 p.m. in Rome.  The confidence vote, the second Berlusconi has faced in the
past month, was called after the premier failed to muster a
majority in the Chamber of Deputies this week to rubberstamp
last year’s budget report. President Giorgio Napolitano then
urged Berlusconi to clarify “questions and concerns” about his
ability to govern the euro area’s third-biggest economy.  “We think Berlusconi will survive the vote,” Fabio Fois,
an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London , wrote in a note to
investors. Still, its outcome “is clouded by a larger-than-
usual degree of uncertainty” and “growing opposition within
the governing coalition is likely to have eroded its majority in
Parliament.”  Bonds Slide  Pressure is mounting on Berlusconi as investors continue to
dump Italian debt even after the  European Central Bank  began
buying it on Aug. 8 to stem surging borrowing costs. The yield
on the nation’s benchmark 10-year bond rose for a sixth day to 
reach 5.864 percent at 9:36 a.m. in Rome. That’s the highest since 
Aug. 5, when the premier unveiled 54 billion euros ($73 billion) 
in austerity measures that convinced the ECB to backstop  Italy .  The premium investors charge Italy to borrow for 10 years
compared with  Germany  increased five basis points to 376 basis
points. That compares with a euro-era record of 416 basis points
on Aug. 5.  Berlusconi, who faces calls by the opposition and business
leaders to resign, is struggling to convince investors that he
can cut Europe’s second-biggest debt load after the country was
downgraded by the three main rating companies in the last month.
He’s also a defendant in four criminal trials, including one for
paying a minor for sex. The premier denies any wrongdoing.  While opposition leaders vowed to oppose the government in
today’s vote, Berlusconi is likely to survive the motion, said
Pier Luigi Bersani, leader of the main opposition party, Ansa
newswire reported. “It’s all about survival, not governing the
country,” Bersani was cited as saying yesterday.  Allied Threat  Former Industry Minister  Claudio Scajola  said he will back
Berlusconi in the vote, Ansa reported yesterday. A member of the
premier’s party, Scajola and 15 allies in Parliament were ready
to topple the government, affaritaliani.it website reported on
Oct. 12. Two of his allies, Giustina Mistrello Destro and Fabio
Gava, will skip today’s vote, their spokesmen said by phone.  If the government loses the ballot, Napolitano will first
consult with all the main political parties to see if another
governing majority can be cobbled together. Should those talks
fail, the president may reach outside of Parliament to lure non-
politicians to lead a so-called technical government, or opt for
early elections.  “The markets may take a change of power” in Italy “as
good news, even if it’s clear to no one what would come after
Berlusconi and even if Italy’s problems would remain the same,”
Alberto Mingardi, an economist and director general of the Bruno
Leoni Institute, a research center in Turin, said in an e-mail.  Tremonti’s Role  Berlusconi called for the confidence motion after key
allies failed to turn up on Oct. 11 for a routine vote on the
2010 budget report. Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  and  Umberto Bossi , who heads the  Northern League  that’s part of the ruling
majority, were both absent from the ballot, raising doubts about
their commitment to the government, whose term ends in 2013.  Tremonti, who has clashed with Berlusconi recently on
issues including  Mario Draghi ’s successor as  Bank of Italy 
governor, was working on economic legislation during the lower-
house vote and there was no “political reason of any kind” for
his absence, the minister said in a statement. Tremonti will
attend today’s vote before leaving for a Group of 20 meeting in
Paris, his spokesman said by phone.  Draghi’s Demands  Draghi, who takes over as ECB president on Nov. 1, piled
more pressure on Berlusconi, telling the government this week
that its austerity measures won’t be enough to save the country
from an “ungovernable” debt spiral unless it quickly passes
measures to boost economic growth.  “If protracted, the high borrowing costs seen in the last
three months could largely offset” the effects of the austerity
measures, “with a further negative impact on the cost of debt,
in a spiral that may end up being ungovernable,” Draghi said in
a speech in  Rome  on Oct. 12.  Italian growth has lagged behind the euro-region average
for the last decade, making it harder to cut debt of about 120
percent of output, the second largest in Europe after  Greece .
Berlusconi told legislators yesterday that austerity measures
may slow growth and promised tax, constitutional and judicial
reforms to boost the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 asarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net .
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  