-- 
Berlusconi Calls for Confidence Vote to Prove He Has a Governing Majority

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-13T12:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/berlusconi-calls-for-confidence-vote-to-prove-he-has-governing-majority.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  faces a confidence vote in Parliament tomorrow to
prove he has enough support to rule after failing to muster a
majority on a legislative ballot this week.  “There’s no credible alternative to this government and
early elections wouldn’t be a solution to the problems we
face,” Berlusconi said as he called for the vote in remarks to
the Chamber of Deputies. “With me is a politically cohesive
majority to prove that  Italy  can make it, will make it and can
relaunch itself by defeating the strategy of pessimism.”  Debate on the confidence motion will begin at 11 a.m. and
voting will start at 12:30 p.m., Chamber Speaker Gianfranco Fini
told legislators in Rome today.  Berlusconi is struggling to convince investors he can cut
 Europe ’s second-biggest debt and reverse surging borrowing costs
that risk making Italy the biggest victim of the euro-area debt
crisis. Italy was downgraded by the three main rating companies
in the last month even after approving 54 billion euros ($73
billion) in austerity moves that convinced the  European Central
Bank  to buy Italian bonds to bring down record yields.  Bonds Slide  While borrowing costs fell and demand rose as the Treasury
sold 6.18 billion euros in bonds today, Italian bonds slid after
the auction. The yield on the 10-year benchmark gained 7 basis
points to 5.83 percent, the highest since the ECB began its bond
buying Aug. 8. The ECB bought Italian debt today after the sale,
according to two people with knowledge of the transactions.  President Giorgio Napolitano had urged Berlusconi yesterday
to address Parliament to clear up “questions and concerns”
about the government’s support after the lower house failed to
rubber stamp the 2010 budget report in a vote on Oct. 11.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  and  Umberto Bossi , who
heads the Northern League party that backs the majority, were
not present for the failed vote, raising questions about their
commitment to the government whose term ends in 2013. Tremonti
said in a statement that there was no “political reason of any
kind” for his absence.  “What happened the other day has no political meaning,”
Fabrizio Cicchitto, who heads Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party in the lower house, told reporters today. “We have
problems, but those issues don’t affect the votes in Parliament,
not the ones two days ago nor, I believe, the one tomorrow.”  Calls to Resign  Opposition leaders have called on Berlusconi to resign and
said they will oppose the government in the confidence vote. The
premier is nonetheless likely to survive the motion, Pier Luigi Bersani, who heads the main opposition  Democratic Party , said in
Rome today, Ansa newswire reported. “It’s all about survival,
not governing the country,” Bersani was quoted as saying.  “The ruling majority remains numerically precarious and
divided on many issues, and not least on economic policy,”
Vladimir Pillonca, senior European economist at Societe Generale
SA, wrote in a note to investors. “This uncertain and divided
political environment remains a challenging setting to address
Italy’s deep-seated economic and fiscal problems.”  Bank of Italy  Governor Mario Draghi yesterday urged the
government to quickly implement economic-growth measures as the
austerity plan “isn’t enough.”  “If protracted, the high borrowing costs seen in the last
three months could largely offset” the effects of the austerity
measures, “with a further negative impact on the cost of debt,
in a spiral that may end up being ungovernable,” Draghi, who is
set to become ECB president on Nov. 1, said in a speech in  Rome .  Italian growth has lagged behind the euro-region average
for the last decade, making it harder to cut debt of about 120
percent of output, the second-largest in Europe after  Greece .
Berlusconi told legislators today that austerity risks slowing
growth and promised tax, constitutional and judicial reforms to
boost the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 asarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net .
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  