-- 
BlackRock’s Rieder Buying Italian Debt on Improved Debt-Solution Prospects

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-10-13T14:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/blackrock-s-rieder-buying-italian-debt-on-improved-debt-solution-prospects.html
(Corrects spelling of Nicolas in third paragraph.)  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest
money manager, is buying Italian debt given the improved
prospects for a resolution to the  euro zone  sovereign debt
crisis, Chief Investment Officer Rick Rieder said.  “A month ago, policy makers weren’t really reacting to
some of the stresses, weren’t talking about bank
recapitalization, weren’t talking about putting a blanket of
liquidity under Italy and  Spain ,” Rieder said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track” with Erik Schatzker. Recently, “a
number of policy makers have talked about that the time is now.
The ultimate outcome we think is going to be constructive and
that has sent a breath of fresh air into the marketplace.”  German and French leaders at a meeting on Oct. 9 pledged to
devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help Greece and strengthen
 Europe ’s economic governance. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
after meeting French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , said Europe will
do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks have enough
capital.  “There are going to be bumps along the way,” said Rieder,
who helps oversee $3.66 trillion at New York-based BlackRock.
“We are being very deliberate in terms of how we add financials
and Italian debt. But it definitely feels better and there is a
tone that has changed.”  Slovakia will vote on Europe’s enhanced bailout fund today
or tomorrow, completing the ratification process across the 17
euro countries as the region’s leaders prepare for a summit this
month. Party leaders in Bratislava yesterday secured backing for
the European Financial Stability Facility in a second vote.  Banks, Insurers  Enhancing the powers of the EFSF, the temporary bailout
fund, is crucial for adopting the key element in the strategy to
prevent contagion from the debt crisis that has spread from
 Greece  to other countries in the region.  European Commission President Jose Barroso yesterday called
for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth
loan to Greece and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund to
master Europe’s debt woes.  “We’ve been adding to some of the banks and insurance
companies in Europe and actually started adding last week some
of the financials in the U.S. as valuations became attractive,”
Rieder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  