-- 
Bloomberg TV Names Key Appointments in San Francisco & New York

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-13T20:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/bloomberg-tv-names-key-appointments-in-san-francisco-new-york.html

Press Release  Wendy Brundige Joins from ABC News; Justin Dial from  CNN   New York -- Bloomberg Television named two key appointments this
week, with Wendy Brundige joining as West Coast Bureau Chief and
Justin Dial joining in New York as head of U.S. newsgathering,
announced Andrew Morse, head of Bloomberg TV in the U.S.  Brundige, who will be based in  San Francisco  and joins Bloomberg
from ABC News, will oversee editorial content and production for
“Bloomberg West,” the daily program hosted by Emily Chang and
Cory Johnson from the network’s new studios on the Embarcadero.
Brundige will also be responsible for Bloomberg TV’s expanding
coverage of Silicon Valley and West Coast-based new media,
entertainment and technology companies.  Dial, who joins Bloomberg from CNN, will manage Bloomberg
Television’s newsgathering and field reporting in the U.S. from
the network’s global headquarters in  New York .  Dial, who
covered politics across all CNN networks and shows, will
contribute to Bloomberg’s coverage of the 2012 “The Economy
Election,” which includes the new series, “Where the Jobs Are”
tracking economic opportunities in key states and sectors across
America.  “We’re thrilled to welcome Wendy and Justin to the Bloomberg
team,” said Morse. “Their experience and expertise will be
invaluable as we pursue our goal of becoming the most
influential business and financial news network in the world.”  Wendy Brundige served at ABC News for more than seven years,
most recently as the network’s Seattle bureau producer
responsible for covering breaking news in the Western U.S. for
all ABC News platforms.  She reported on the death of Apple Inc.
co-founder  Steve Jobs  in addition to stories on the economy,
energy prices and the impact of the recession on small business.
While at ABC, she served as a producer for “Good Morning
America” and “World News,” among other roles.  Justin Dial joins Bloomberg from CNN, where he most recently
served as a senior producer for CNN’s “American Morning.”  Dial
served as a field producer for CNN across the US.  He also
covered breaking news in locations throughout the  Middle East ,
 Afghanistan  and  Haiti  and was involved in coverage of the  Iraq
war  while based in Doha, Qatar. Previously, Dial served as the
news manager for CNN’s national desk in Atlanta and as an
assignment editor at NBC News.  About Bloomberg Television  Bloomberg Television, available in more than 270 million homes
worldwide, reaches some of the world’s most affluent and
influential viewers in terms of  household income , asset value
and education levels. With hubs in New York,  London  and  Hong
Kong , the network provides 24-hour continuous coverage of the
people, companies and ideas that move the markets.
Programming includes “InsideTrack with Erik Schatzker” (6-8 am
ET), “In the Loop with Betty Liu” (8-10am ET),“InBusiness with
Margaret Brennan” (10-12pm ET) and “Surveillance Midday” with
host  Tom Keene  (12-1pm ET).  For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
 www.bloomberg.com/tv  and follow us on Twitter ( @BloombergTV ) and
 Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 310,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in New York,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1 212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net   #<728521.6697419.2.1.95.14779.2660>#
 