-- 
Boeing Army Radio Program Canceled by Pentagon as Costs Rise

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-14T20:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/boeing-army-radio-program-terminated-by-u-s-defense-department.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s largest U.S. Army radio
program was ended yesterday by the Defense Department because of
rising costs, according to the Pentagon’s acting top weapons
buyer.  “Based on growth in the unit procurement costs, I am
terminating the program,” Frank Kendall wrote in a letter to
Congress. A copy of the letter was obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Pentagon will pursue a competitive program to buy less-
powerful radios to “provide required military capability at
less cost,” according to the letter. The department will submit
a separate reprogramming request to move $74 million into a new
budget line for a new acquisition strategy, it said.  Boeing, based in  Chicago , was developing the Joint Tactical
Radio System’s Ground Mobile Radios as part of an industry team
that also included  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  Rockwell Collins
Inc. (COL) , BAE Systems Plc and  Harris Corp. (HRS)   “While Boeing is disappointed by the decision to end the
JTRS GMR development effort, our contract was scheduled to end
in March, 2012. The decision by the Pentagon simply confirms
that fact,” Matthew Billingsley, a spokesman for Boeing, said
in an e-mail. “We look forward to applying our experience and
knowledge in future competitions.”  Boeing rose 36 cents, or 0.57 percent, to $63.89 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m.  $2 Billion Since 2002  Boeing has received about $2 billion since fiscal 2002
under the contract, which “was simply for the development of
the system and to certify two vendors to compete to produce the
radio,” Billingsley said in a separate e-mail. “Our contract
specifically restricted us from production.”  Known as GMR, the radio was the most expensive part of the
joint radio system. The family of digital radios was conceived
in 1997 and is still in development. The GMR program last year
was estimated to cost $19.5 billion.  The Army in May decreased the number of radios it planned
to buy to 10,293 from 86,209. The program was closely tied to
the $159 billion Future Combat Systems, which then-Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  canceled in 2009. The reduction caused
the radio’s unit price to increase more than 50 percent,
triggering a formal review and notification to Congress.  Inadequate affordability analysis, a misunderstanding of
the technical challenges due to immature technology and poor
contractor and program performance all contributed to the cost
growth, according to Kendall.  ‘Necessary’ Termination  “Our assessment is that it is unlikely that products
resulting from the JTRS GMR development program will affordably
meet service requirements, and may not meet some requirements at
all,” he wrote. “Therefore, termination of the program is
necessary.”  The ground mobile radios were scrutinized in June and July
as part of the Army’s Network Integration Evaluation at  Fort
Bliss ,  Texas , and White Sands Missile Range,  New Mexico .  Army Brigadier General Michael Williamson, who heads the
office that oversees the Boeing program and other joint radio
systems, said the waveform -- the software that runs the device
-- performed well.  “There are still questions about what’s the right size and
configuration for the radio itself,” he said on Oct. 11 in an
interview in Washington. Soldiers were concerned about the
radio’s “size and heat. That was their biggest issue.”
Williamson didn’t immediately return a request for comment
yesterday.  Kendall, who serves as the acting undersecretary of defense
for acquisition, technology and logistics, directed the program
manager to “smartly” close out the existing development
contract, which expires in March 2012.  The Pentagon will submit a reprogramming request to
Congress to increase a fiscal 2012 budget line by $14 million --
to $32 million -- “to ensure an orderly closeout of the GMR
program and existing contract,” the letter states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  