-- 
BofA Plans to Cut 324 New York Jobs Including Investment Bankers, Traders

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-13T20:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/bofa-tells-new-york-of-plans-to-eliminate-324-jobs-in-manhattan.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the lender
seeking to reduce expenses after losing half its market value,
plans to eliminate 324 jobs in  New York  starting next month,
including investment bankers and equity traders.  Most of the cuts, 250, start Dec. 14 at the firm’s Midtown
tower at 1  Bryant Park , according to a  filing  to the state’s
Department of Labor dated Sept. 29. The rest of the company’s
terminations start Nov. 30 and affect offices at 2 and 4 World
Financial Center and 222 Broadway. Workers have been notified of
the cuts, which are part of 3,500 disclosed in August, said T.J.
Crawford, a bank spokesman.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, has since
said he’ll cut 30,000 more jobs over the next few years, stoking
anxiety among the  288,000  workers the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based lender had at midyear.  Wall Street  firms including
Barclays Capital and Credit Suisse Group AG have reduced staff
as revenue from trading stocks and bonds has eroded.  “There’s no part of Bank of America that’s being left
untouched,” said Richard Lipstein, a managing director for
headhunter Boyden Global Executive Search. “People who get let
go now may have the best prospects of the lot, because there
very well may be many more people looking for these kinds of
jobs six months down the line.”  Those affected in New York include investment bankers,
equity traders, capital-markets workers and technology-and-
operations personnel, Crawford said.  Krawcheck, Price  Bank of America aims to cut about $5 billion in annual
costs by the end of 2013. Moynihan’s plan, dubbed Project New
BAC, included a management shakeup last month that left  Sallie Krawcheck  and  Joe Price  jobless. The bank said last week it will
give the executives a total of $11 million in severance.  Managers are now examining areas including global markets,
commercial banking and corporate banking for cost-cutting
opportunities, the company has said. All of those operations
have employees in New York. The first phase of Project New BAC
affected the firm’s consumer-finance operations.  Wall Street may trim 10,000 more workers through next year,
and bonuses for those remaining are “certainly going to be
lower,” New York State Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said this
week. Each job gained or lost in the industry creates or
eliminates three other jobs in the state, he said.  The New York State Workers Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, known as the  WARN Act , requires private
employers with 50 or more people in New York state to provide 90
days’ notice of a plant closing, mass layoff, relocation or
reduction in work hours.  Bank of America fell 5.5 percent to $6.22 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York trading. The company is down more than 53 percent since
the start of 2011.  In a separate filing to the New York labor department,
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  said it’s cutting 136 positions in
 Long Island  starting Dec. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  