-- 
BP’s Pan American Energy Is Said to Hire Former BG Executive Prieto as CEO

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-10-13T14:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/bp-s-pan-american-energy-is-said-to-hire-former-bg-executive-prieto-as-ceo.html
Pan American Energy LLC, the
Argentine oil company controlled by  BP Plc (BP/) , hired Oscar Prieto
as chief executive officer, two people familiar with the matter
said.  Prieto, head of Port of Spain-based Atlantic LNG Co. of
Trinidad and Tobago since 2006 and a former Egypt President for
 BG Group Plc (BG/) , will take over from interim Pan American CEO
Carlos Bulgheroni on Nov. 1, said the people, who declined to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Bulgheroni took charge of Pan American after the departure
of Felipe Bayon, who left after London-based BP agreed last year
to sell its 60 percent stake in the Buenos Aires-based company
to Bridas Corp., a company owned by Chinese oil producer  Cnooc
Ltd. (883)  and Argentina’s Bulgheroni family.  Prieto worked as BG’s Egypt President from 2004 and has
served as chairman, director and president of Cia. de Gas de Sao
Paulo, Brazil’s biggest gas distributor, according to Bloomberg
data. Atlantic LNG is owned by subsidiaries of BP, BG,  Repsol
YPF SA (REP) ,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and The National Gas Co. of Trinidad & Tobago
Ltd.  Billson Hainsley, a spokesman for Atlantic LNG, confirmed
that Prieto had left for an opportunity in his native Argentina,
without naming the position. A Pan American official in  Buenos
Aires , who can’t be identified because of company policy,
declined to comment.  Neil Burrows , a BG spokesman in Reading, England, wasn’t
able to confirm Prieto’s appointment when contacted by Bloomberg
News today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in Buenos Aires at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  