-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Yields Decline on China Growth Concern

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-10-13T12:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/brazil-rate-futures-yields-decline-on-china-growth-concern.html
Yields on Brazilian  interest-rate 
futures contracts fell on speculation that slower economic
growth in China will cut into demand for commodities, helping
curb inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Yields on the contracts due in January 2013 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 10.44 percent as of 9:41
a.m. in  Sao Paulo , from 10.46 percent on Oct. 11. Brazilian
markets were closed yesterday for a local holiday. The real
gained 0.8 percent to 1.7613 per dollar, from 1.7759 on Oct. 11.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw material fell for
the first time in seven days as China said its exports increased
the least since May and the customs bureau warned of “severe”
challenges. A slowdown in  China  would affect developing nations,
worsening the global financial crisis, Brazilian Finance
Minister Guido told reporters today in Paris.  “The external scenario is very uncertain,” said Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Liquidez
DTVM Ltda. “The central bank should be more cautious.”  Trading in futures contracts suggests traders are betting
Brazil’s central bank will lower the benchmark interest rate at
least 50 basis points from 12 percent at its Oct. 19 policy
meeting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy makers unexpectedly cut the benchmark interest rate
a half percentage point on Aug. 31 on concern the slowing global
economy would crimp growth in Brazil. Central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said last week that “moderate” cuts in
borrowing costs will help shield the economy from the European
debt crisis, without compromising the inflation target.  An index tracking  Brazil ’s economic activity probably
contracted 0.4 percent in August from the previous month,
according to the median forecast of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The report is due to be released at 12:30 p.m. local
time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net 
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  