-- 
Bristol-Myers Skin-Cancer Drug Yervoy Rejected by U.K. Health Cost Agency

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-10-14T20:08:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/bristol-myers-s-skin-cancer-drug-rejected-by-u-k-cost-agency.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Yervoy
drug was rejected by the U.K.’s health-cost agency, which
suggested the company consider lowering the price of the skin-
cancer treatment.  About 30 percent of patients treated with the drug would
have improved survival, with 10 percent potentially experiencing
long-term benefits, the National Institute for Health and
Clinical Excellence said in a statement today, citing clinical
specialists.  The drug costs about 80,000 pounds ($125,600) per patient,
said the agency, known as NICE, which advises the  National
Health Service  on whether drugs provide value for money. Yervoy
is the first medicine proven to extend the lives of patients
with advanced melanoma, the most deadly form of skin cancer.  “On the basis of evidence provided so far, ipilimumab
could not be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources,”
NICE Chief Executive Officer Andrew Dillon said in the
statement. There’s no way to identify which patients will
benefit from the drug, he said.  Yervoy is in a new class of drugs designed to fight cancer
by removing molecular brakes that prevent immune system cells
from destroying tumors.  Bristol shares fell 1 percent to $32.44 at 4 p.m.  The agency’s decision is preliminary. NICE will review
comments from the company, health providers and the public
before issuing another draft decision, according to the
statement. Bristol-Myers can consider whether it wants to lower
the cost to the NHS, NICE said.  Bristol-Myers is “extremely disappointed” with the
decision and plans to submit further evidence to NICE before it
issues final guidance next year, the New York-based company said
in an e-mailed statement.  “We remain committed to demonstrating that Yervoy
represents real value for money to the NHS, and working to
overturn this decision,” Elzbieta Zawislak, a spokeswoman for
Bristol-Myers, said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in london at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  