-- 
Cain’s Economic Adviser Says 9-9-9 Plan Didn’t Take an Economist to Create

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/cain-s-economic-adviser-says-9-9-9-plan-didn-t-take-an-economist-to-create.html
Republican presidential candidate
Herman Cain’s 9-9-9 tax plan stems from basic economic
principles and didn’t need a professor to develop it, said the
suburban Cleveland investment adviser who did.  Rich Lowrie of Gates Mills, Ohio, who is Cain’s senior
economic adviser, developed the plan with Cain based on “pro-
growth economics” and in consultation with economists including
Arthur Laffer and Stephen Moore, whom he calls friends.  “When people say, ‘Well, you’re not an economist, you’ve
not even set foot in a faculty lounge, what could you possibly
know about economics?’ I’m not holding myself out to be that,”
Lowrie, 47, said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Cleveland. “We’re just focused on simple truths of economics,
the same way it doesn’t take a Ph.D. in physics to know what
would happen if I held a bowling ball and then dropped it.”  Cain has moved to the Republican race’s top tier in part
because of the 9-9-9 plan, which would tax sales transactions at
9 percent, and apply the same rate for business and individual
incomes. The campaign has described it as a first step toward
eliminating the income tax and imposing a single national sales
levy.  At a debate sponsored by Bloomberg News and the Washington
Post on Oct. 11, Cain singled out Lowrie as “my lead economist
on helping to develop this.”  First Encounter  Lowrie, who received an accounting degree from Case Western
Reserve University in Cleveland, has been managing money at
Lowrie/Carney/String/Smith Wealth Management Group of Wells
Fargo Advisors in Pepper Pike, a suburb, since 2008. He
previously worked for McDonald Investments and McDonald & Co.
Securities, according to his resume.  He said he met Cain, 65, at a conference hosted by the
antitax Club for Growth in 2004 in Florida, where Cain was a
speaker. Lowrie introduced himself and began following his
career, he said.  “He made a lasting impression, to say the least,” Lowrie
said. “I thought, ‘This guy really gets it.’”  Lowrie said he became friends with Mark Block, Cain’s
campaign manager, when both were involved with Americans for
Prosperity, a nonprofit organization based in Arlington,
Virginia, that promotes limited government.  Block called Lowrie last year to tell him that Cain planned
to run, and they had casual conversations about economic policy,
Lowrie said. Lowrie was hired as an adviser in June, and has
kept his full-time job as he does campaign work on his own time,
he said.  Lowrie used what he called “rough-cut numbers” to develop
the 9-9-9 plan.  Soak the Poor  Cain’s proposal would lead to a shift of the tax burden to
individuals from corporations and investors, Edward Kleinbard, a
University of Southern California law professor and former chief
of staff to the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, has
said. Eliminating the deductibility of wages would raise the
cost of labor, which businesses would pass on to workers in the
form of lower pay, he said.  That, combined with no mention of the standard deduction,
personal exemption or earned-income tax credit, “means a huge
tax hike for the working poor,” he said.  During the Oct. 11 debate, U.S. Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota raised concerns about the 9-9-9 sales tax
turning into a value-added levy, a tax on the worth added to a
product at each stage of production.  Transparent, Efficient, Fair  Lowrie said the criticism is wrong. The plan is based on
the ideas that production drives the economy, not consumption;
that risk-taking creates growth, so tax or regulatory policies
that inhibit entrepreneurship aren’t good; and that units of
measure must be dependable, Lowrie said. Cain also insisted on
something simple, transparent, efficient, fair and revenue-
neutral, he said.  “It isn’t anything revolutionary,” Lowrie said. “The
only thing that’s revolutionary is the guy that’s bold enough to
champion real reform.”  Laffer, who said he met with Cain about his 9-9-9 proposal,
described it as “wonderful” and “an efficient plan to collect
revenues we need to run government,” in an interview yesterday
on Fox News Channel’s Special Report, according to excerpts
provided by the network. It wouldn’t take a bigger slice of
income from the poor because it would eliminate payroll and
other taxes, Laffer said, according to the excerpts.  “What you want is a very efficient tax code people don’t
try to cheat on,” he said. “His plan does that dramatically.”  Some Exceptions  Cain has already backed away from a clean 9-9-9 plan. The
tax wouldn’t apply to used goods, he told reporters in Concord,
New Hampshire, on Oct. 12. His campaign then said that excise
taxes, such as those on beer and cigarettes, wouldn’t change.  Richard Vedder, a professor of economics at Ohio University
whom Lowrie described as a mentor, said he has spoken with
Lowrie about the plan. Concern among conservatives that the
sales-tax component opens the door to a value-added levy could
be a political problem, he said.  “Looking at it as an economist, we like large bases and
low rates, and this plan is the best thing I’ve seen in years in
that regard,” Vedder said in a telephone interview.  Lowrie said that the man pitching the plan deserves the
credit.  “I kind of knew all along that Cain was going to be the
one that was going to become the national figure and kind of
take the country by storm,” Lowrie said. “I just thought if I
can be kind of a behind-the-scenes helper, then I’m serving my
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  