-- 
Cain 9-9-9 Plan to Eliminate Tax Code Keeps U.S. Levies on Gasoline, Beer

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-10-13T15:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/cain-9-9-9-plan-to-eliminate-tax-code-keeps-u-s-levies-on-gasoline-beer.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Herman Cain , who has pledged to throw out the U.S. tax code, now
says he would keep excise taxes on goods such as gasoline, beer
and cigarettes.  The price of a gallon of gasoline includes 18.4 cents in
federal excise taxes. According to the Cain campaign’s first
detailed revenue estimate released yesterday, his 9-9-9 plan
would add a 9 percent sales tax. Cain has surged to the lead of
a new national poll on the popularity of his tax proposal.  Including these excise taxes and fees, his campaign’s
estimate says the plan would bring in the same amount of revenue
as the tax system it aims to replace. The U.S. collected $66.9
billion in such taxes and $122.2 billion in other fees and
revenue in 2010, according to the White House Office of
Management and Budget.  That’s a small portion of the more than $2 trillion the
estimate anticipates the 9-9-9 plan would raise each year. It’s
notable because Cain has made a point of saying that he is the
only Republican presidential candidate seeking to replace the
current tax system.  “It starts with, unlike your proposals, throwing out the
current  tax code ,” he told the other candidates at a debate
sponsored by Bloomberg News and the Washington Post on Oct. 11.
“Continuing to pivot off the current tax code is not going to
boost this economy.”  Climb in Polls  Cain has jumped to the top tier of the Republican race in
part because of the popularity of the 9-9-9 plan, which would
tax sales transactions at 9 percent along with 9 percent levies
on businesses and individuals. He would eliminate estate and
payroll taxes.  During the Oct. 11 debate, Cain challenged a Bloomberg News
calculation that his plan would have generated $2 trillion in
revenue if it were implemented in 2010, or about $200 billion
shy of what the government collected that year. That estimate
was based on Cain’s assertion that he would scrap the entire tax
code.  Until yesterday, the Cain campaign had provided little
detail, making a complete analysis and revenue estimate of the
9-9-9 plan difficult. The campaign’s website description of the
plan includes fewer than 500 words.  The analysis also showed that the revenue-neutral rate
would need to be 9.1 percent, not 9 percent. The campaign has
described the plan as a first step toward a so-called fair tax,
which would eliminate income taxes and impose a single national
retail  sales tax .  Representatives of Cain’s campaign didn’t discuss the
details of the revenue estimate yesterday.  Good-Faith Effort  Douglas Holtz-Eakin, former director of the  Congressional
Budget Office  and adviser to  John McCain ’s 2008 presidential
campaign, said the Cain estimates were a good-faith effort at a
rough calculation of the rate needed to be revenue-neutral.  “I don’t think it’s dramatically out of line with
reality,” he said. “It’s just hard to do this without having
access” to the sophisticated tax system models in the
government.  Alan Viard, a senior fellow at the  American Enterprise
Institute  in Washington, which favors smaller government, said
the revenue estimates were “in the ballpark in some vague
sense.” He said the rate might need to be a percentage point or
so higher to generate the same amount of revenue that the
current tax code does.  The estimate, he said, includes too small of an adjustment
for underreporting of income and sales.  Figuring Out Details  Cain, who touts simplicity as the key element of his plan,
is still working on the more complex details of how it would be
structured. Discussing his proposal with reporters yesterday in
Concord,  New Hampshire , Cain said the sales tax would apply only
to new goods, exempting such items as houses and used cars.  He also underscored that the tax system would include at
least one break from the existing code -- the deductibility of
charitable contributions -- and add one that would allow
companies to deduct from the 9 percent tax they would owe if
they purchase new equipment made in the U.S.  Pressed on whether such a made-in-the-U.S. equipment
deduction would apply, for example, to a computer manufactured
by a U.S. company and assembled overseas with non-U.S.
components, Cain replied, “I have no idea,” adding that he
hadn’t examined the issue in detail.  Similar to VAT  Viard said Cain’s description of the business tax has been
misleading as it is nothing like the current corporate income
tax, which applies only to profits of companies organized as
corporations. The 9-9-9 regime would operate as a value-added
tax, or VAT, similar to those in the rest of the industrialized
world, which Republicans have often opposed.  A value-added tax is applied at every level of production
on most goods and services.  “The elephant in the room is the fact that Cain is
proposing a value-added tax,” said Viard, a former economist at
the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  who says a VAT will be
necessary to cover the government’s long-term fiscal needs.
“The question of whether the revenue numbers add up is almost
secondary to that.”  Cain has climbed in the polls in recent weeks and a Wall
Street Journal/NBC News poll released yesterday put him in the
lead, with 27 percent of primary voters supporting him. U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who is lower in the polls,
supports repealing the 16th Amendment to the Constitution, which
allows Congress to impose an income tax.  Tax Transformation?  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  raised
concerns about the sales tax turning into a VAT as she
criticized the 9-9-9 plan during Tuesday night’s debate.  “A sales tax can also lead to a value-added tax,” she
said. “Once you get a new revenue system, you are never going
to get rid of it.”  Expanding the tax base in the way Cain envisions means that
long-standing tax breaks, such as the mortgage interest
deduction and the exclusion from income of employer-sponsored
health insurance, would likely vanish to keep the rates low. In
the past, Congress has been unwilling to eliminate these
provisions; the mortgage deduction survived the last tax code
overhaul in 1986.  The analysis released by the campaign also doesn’t address
how the proposal would change the distribution of the federal
tax burden, other than including a provision for some sort of
“poverty grant,” which Cain has described as a lower rate in
targeted “empowerment zones.”  Difficult Task  Given these challenges, advancing the proposal through
Congress will be difficult, said Larry Sabato, the director of
the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics in
Charlottesville.  The plan’s success in turning Cain into a household name
underscores the frustration with the current U.S. tax system.  “We all know that the tax code is rotten and we’re looking
for a way out, and who doesn’t want a simpler way out?” Sabato
said.  In the debate, Cain said the simplicity of his plan will
build momentum behind it on  Capitol Hill  and prevent Congress
from eroding it or raising the rates.  “Because it is visible, simple and transparent, the
American people are going to be the ones to hold Congress’s feet
to the fire,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  