-- 
Calomiris Says ESRB May Be More Effective as a ‘Moral Authority’

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/calomiris-says-esrb-may-be-more-effective-as-a-moral-authority-.html
The European Systemic Risk Board may
be more effective as a “moral authority” for the financial
system rather than as an enforcer of bank rules, said Columbia
Business School Professor Charles Calomiris.  “It may actually be good as a standard setting body not to
have enforcement power,” Calomiris, a member of the ESRB’s
Advisory Scientific Committee, said in an interview late
yesterday in  London . “The absence of any enforcement power, or
having to have compliance immediately with your standard, frees
you to actually set a standard that won’t be politicised into
meaninglessness.”  The  ESRB , which aims to warn of developing risks in the
financial system, was set up in January as part of a new
European architecture designed to ward off another financial
crisis. As concerns mount that banks may not have enough capital
to withstand a Greek default, it urged policy makers last month
to tackle threats that have risen “considerably.”  “The argument is, ‘What good is it to be a standard setter
without authority?’’ Calomiris said. ‘‘The answer is that you
have moral authority. Your moral authority is greater because
you’re actually having a conversation at a high level about what
makes sense.’’  The ESRB board is led by European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , who defended the watchdog after its first
meeting in January, saying it has a ‘‘lot of moral authority.’’  ‘‘If the board in its recommendations earns the trust of
the sovereign nations within  Europe , then I think it can be
influential,’’ Calomiris said.  In the U.K., the government has set up the Financial Policy
Committee at the  Bank of England . While it’s currently working
on an interim basis and can only make recommendations, it will
gain fuller powers when approved by Parliament in 2012.  ‘‘I’m not saying that it wouldn’t be good to eventually
evolve toward having more authority and power” at the ESRB,
Calomiris said. “But I’m saying when you start off with very
different financial systems, it’s better to have that
endorsement approach where you’re able to have a more legitimate
discussion of what the standard should be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  