-- 
Canada Trade Deficit Narrower Than Forecast Amid Export Gain

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-10-13T13:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/canada-s-trade-deficit-narrower-than-forecast-amid-export-gain.html
Canada ’s merchandise trade deficit
was narrower than economists forecast in August as exports and
imports both rose, government figures showed.  The deficit of C$622 million ($609 million) in August was
smaller than the C$1 billion median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey with 22 responses. Statistics Canada today also reduced
its estimate of July’s deficit to C$539 million from an earlier
figure of C$753 million.  The August deficit was the country’s seventh straight. A
drop in exports, hobbled by the drag of a strong dollar and weak
U.S. demand, caused the economy to shrink in the second quarter.
Central bank Governor  Mark Carney  has said strains from abroad
have intensified in the last few months, citing  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a slow U.S. expansion.  “The bigger question is does something much more dire lie
ahead,” said Doug Porter, deputy chief economist with BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto. “We will see considerably slower
trade trends through the rest of this year.”  Canada’s dollar weakened today versus its U.S. counterpart
as declines in equities and crude oil, the nation’s biggest
export, dimmed the appeal of currencies tied to global economic
growth. The Canadian currency fell 0.5 percent to C$1.0223 per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:39 a.m. in Toronto.  Export Growth  Exports rose 0.5 percent in August to C$37.9 billion, as
shipments to non-U.S. countries grew 7.9 percent to a record
C$11.2 billion,  Statistics Canada  said.  Machinery and equipment exports advanced 7.3 percent to
C$7.36 billion. Industrial goods and materials shipments rose 2
percent to C$10.1 billion.  Imports grew 0.7 percent in August to C$38.5 billion,
Statistics Canada said. Machinery and equipment gained 2.5
percent to C$10.5 billion, and automotive imports rose 2.3
percent to C$6.25 billion.  The volume of exports, which excludes the impact of price
changes, fell 1.1 percent. Import volumes fell 0.1 percent.  The  trade surplus  with the U.S., which buys three-quarters
of Canada’s exports, narrowed to C$2.54 billion in August from
C$3.65 billion in July.  “The base case is continued growth, sluggish,”  Canadian
National Railway Co. (CNR)  Chief Executive Officer Claude Mongeau said
at a Sept. 22 investor conference. “It’s going to be sub-par
growth for many years to come,” he said, adding shipping
volumes had increased 4 percent from a year earlier.  The  U.S. trade deficit  was little changed in August at a
four-month low of $45.6 billion as exports held close to an all-
time high, the Commerce Department said from Washington today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  