-- 
Canada August International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-10-13T12:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/canada-august-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's international merchandise trade report for August
from  Statistics Canada .  Canada's merchandise imports grew 0.7% and exports
increased 0.5% in August. As a result, Canada's trade
deficit with the world went from $539 million in July to
$622 million in August.  Exports and imports  Imports increased to $38.5 billion as prices were up
0.8% and volumes decreased 0.1%. All sectors except energy
products recorded price increases.  Exports rose to $37.9 billion, as higher prices were
recorded in most sectors. Prices increased 1.6% while
volumes declined 1.1%. Machinery and equipment, and
industrial goods and materials were the main contributors
to the gain in the value of exports. Both sectors were up
for a fourth consecutive month.  Exports to the United States were down 2.3% to $26.6
billion. Imports from the  United States  rose 2.0% to $24.1
billion in August, the highest level since October 2008.
Canada's trade surplus with the United States decreased
from $3.7 billion in July to $2.5 billion in August.  Exports to countries other than the United States
increased 7.9% to a record high of $11.2 billion. This
represented a fourth consecutive monthly gain. Imports
from countries other than the United States fell 1.4% to
$14.4 billion. Consequently, Canada's trade deficit with
countries other than the United States declined from $4.2
billion in July to $3.2 billion in August.  Trade balance  Imports increase in most sectors  Imports of machinery and equipment gained 2.5% to reach
$10.5 billion in August, as a result of widespread gains.
The increase in the sector was a result of higher prices.
Imports of aircraft and other transportation equipment led
the increase in value of imports.  Imports of automotive products increased 2.3% to $6.2
billion, as prices rose 2.0%. Imports of passenger autos
and chassis rose for a fourth consecutive month. Trucks
and other motor vehicles reached a record high in August
as both price and volumes rose.  Imports of industrial goods and materials increased
1.7% to a record high of $8.3 billion. This gain was
primarily attributed to chemicals and plastics, as other
chemicals and related products rose 10.0%.  Moderating the overall increase in imports, the energy
products sector declined 13.6% to $3.9 billion as crude
petroleum fell 25.3%. The sector experienced growth in the
early months of 2011, reaching $5.1 billion in May.  Machinery and equipment leads the gain in exports  Exports of machinery and equipment rose 7.3% to $7.4
billion in August, as volumes were up 5.5%. Aircraft and
other transportation equipment increased for a fourth
consecutive month, gaining 18.0% in August. Also
contributing to the rise in the sector was other machinery
and equipment with an increase of 4.1%.  Exports of industrial goods and materials posted an
increase of 2.0% to $10.1 billion in August. Precious
metals and alloys; and nickel ores, concentrates and scrap
recorded the largest gains in the sector. These increases
were partially offset by declines in exports of copper
ores, concentrates and scrap.  Exports of energy products decreased 2.7% to $8.5
billion in August, led by declines in petroleum and coal
products. Exports of crude petroleum have been trending
downward after reaching a record high in January 2011.  Exports of automotive products decreased 7.5% to $4.5
billion as volumes fell 10.1%. Passenger autos and chassis
was the primary contributor, declining 11.1%.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada's
international balance of payments (BOP), which also
includes trade in services, investment income, current
transfers as well as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a BOP and a customs basis for the United
States,  Japan  and the  United Kingdom . Trade data for all
other individual countries are available on a customs
basis only. BOP data are derived from customs data by
making adjustments for factors such as valuation,
coverage, timing and residency. These adjustments are made
to conform to the concepts and definitions of the Canadian
System of National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a balance of payments
basis, seasonally adjusted in current dollars. Constant
dollars are calculated using the Laspeyres volume formula.  New aggregation structure  Statistics Canada will introduce a new aggregation
structure, the North American Product Classification
System (NAPCS), to organize and present import and export
statistics in various programs. The new structure will
replace the classification structures known as the summary
import groups (SIG) and the summary export groups (SEG)
and the higher level aggregations; major groups,
subsectors, sectors and sections that have been in use for
several decades. The first release of data using the new
structure will be on June 8, 2012 for the April reference
month.  Readers interested in this upcoming change can find
more detailed information on our website page dedicated to
classification consultation and notification.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  