-- 
Canada’s Dollar Weakens as Crude Oil Price Falls, Risk-Asset Demand Slips

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-13T21:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/canada-s-dollar-depreciates-as-crude-oil-falls-for-third-day-stocks-drop.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened versus its
U.S. counterpart as declines in commodities and stocks dimmed
the appeal of currencies tied to global economic growth.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, pared its losses
as oil, the nation’s biggest export, trimmed an earlier decline.
The Canadian currency rose the most yesterday on an intraday
basis in two months, rallying with other risk-sensitive assets,
on optimism officials will succeed in containing the European
sovereign debt crisis. The currency was among the weakest
performers today versus the greenback.  “As a result of the pick-up in commodities and in
equities, the Canadian dollar is picking up, too,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada  in Toronto, referring to the paring of losses in the
Canadian currency. “There appears to be some interest to buy
equities and that’s shaping the opinion to get long risk.” A
long position is a bet an asset will increase in price.  The Canadian currency fell 0.4 percent to C$1.0209 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier dropping as much as 1
percent. It’s headed for a 1.8 percent gain this week. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.95 U.S. cents.  The loonie advanced to a three-year high of 94.07 cents on
July 26 before plunging below parity. It has averaged 98 cents
per U.S. dollar this year, versus a 10-year average of about
C$1.20.  Bonds Fall  Yields on Government of Canada 10-year bonds fell six basis
points to 2.29 percent today, snapping a six-day string of
advances. Yields fell to a record low of 1.99 percent on Oct. 4.  The gap between yields on Canadian government 10-year bonds
and U.S. Treasuries of the same maturity was 11 basis points
today. The spread was 31 on Oct. 3.  Crude oil futures declined as much as 2.1 percent before
trading down 0.6 percent $84.47 on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw materials
fell 0.4 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3 percent after
falling as much as 1.4 percent. The S&P/TSX Composite Index
declined 1 percent.  September Drop  The currency lost 6.9 percent in September, the most in
almost three years, as volatility surged on speculation European
officials will fail to contain the region’s debt crisis. One-
month implied volatility on the  currency pair  touched 12.4
percent today and yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 22. It
climbed as high as 16 percent on Oct. 4. The average during the
past 10 years is about 10 percent.  Canada’s currency will weaken to C$1.02 versus the  U.S.
dollar  by year-end before rebounding to 98 cents by the close of
2012, according to the median forecast of 35 economists and
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The median forecast from a month
ago was for the loonie to end 2011 at 98 cents per U.S. dollar.  Canada’s merchandise trade deficit was narrower than
economists forecast in August as exports and imports both rose,
government figures showed.  The deficit of C$622 million ($609 million) in August was
smaller than the C$1 billion median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey with 22 responses.  Statistics Canada  today also reduced
its estimate of July’s deficit to C$539 million from an earlier
figure of C$753 million.  European Influence  “The Canadian dollar will benefit from weakness in
European currencies, but will also remain somewhat isolated from
U.S. domestic risks, particularly on the fiscal front,” said
Ned Rumpeltin, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London , by e-mail. “Domestic growth has held
up admirably, despite the slowdown in the U.S., and the
bilateral  trade balance  has moderated over time, but has not
suffered a big deterioration, despite the strong Canadian
dollar.”  Gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent to C$1.26 trillion
in July on a seasonally adjusted basis, Statistics Canada said
Sept. 30, matching the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
The first monthly report on output for the third quarter
suggested the economy has resumed growth after shrinking in the
April-to-June period. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg last
month predict a third-quarter annualized growth rate of 2
percent, averting a recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  