-- 
Cardinals Defeat Brewers 4-3; Rangers Top Tigers 7-3 in 11 Innings Again

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-13T04:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/cardinals-defeat-brewers-4-3-rangers-top-tigers-7-3-in-11-innings-again.html
Jon Jay,  Albert Pujols  and David Freese had run-scoring doubles in a four-run first inning in the
 St. Louis  Cardinals’ 4-3 win against the  Milwaukee Brewers  in
Game 3 of the National League Championship Series.  Earlier yesterday, the  Texas Rangers  moved within one win
of advancing to the World Series by defeating the Detroit Tigers
7-3 in 11 innings to take a three-games-to-one lead in the AL
Championship Series.  The Cardinals hold a 2-1 lead in games in the best-of-seven
NL series, which continues tonight at Busch Stadium in St.
Louis.  “Obviously, I was concerned after the first inning,”
Brewers manager Ron Roenicke said in a televised interview. “We
bounced back in the second, third innings and I thought we would
score a few more runs. They had a good bullpen.”  The Brewers rallied as Yuniesky Betancourt hit a run-
scoring single and Jerry Hairston Jr. scored on Yovani Gallardo’s sacrifice fly in the second and Mark Kotsay blasted a
home run in the third.  “The first inning was huge,” Freese said in a televised
interview. “Our bullpen -- what a job they did.”  Chris Carpenter allowed three runs on six hits and struck
out three in five innings. Jason Motte got the final four outs
for the save, striking out three.  “I think when that phone rings (in the bullpen) we’re
ready to go and battle our butts off,” Motte said.  More Cruz Heroics  At Comerica Park in  Detroit , Mike Napoli’s run-scoring
single off Detroit reliever Jose Valverde broke a 3-3 tie in the
11th, and Nelson Cruz followed with a three-run homer. Cruz, who
ended Game 2 with a grand slam in the 11th inning for another
Texas 7-3 win, has four home runs in the series.  “Unbelievable,” Napoli said in a televised interview.
“Everybody had a part of this game.”  Game 5 is set for today in Detroit, weather permitting, in
the best-of-seven series. The forecast is for rain. Yesterday’s
game started more than two hours late because of a rain delay.  Miguel Cabrera hit a two-run double in the third inning to
give the Tigers a 2-0 lead.  Ian Kinsler  had a run-scoring
double, and  Elvis Andrus  and  Michael Young  each hit run-scoring
singles to put Texas ahead 3-2 in the sixth.  Brandon Inge hit a home run in the seventh inning for the
Tigers to tie the game at 3-3 before Napoli and Cruz secured the
victory.  Scott Feldman got the win after pitching a perfect 10th
inning. Valverde gave up four runs on three hits in 1 1/3
innings for the loss.  Tigers manager Jim Leyland will have  Justin Verlander , who
led  Major League Baseball  with 24 victories during the regular
season, on the mound today against C.J. Wilson.  “We’re sendng a guy out there tomorrow who is pretty
good,” Leyland said. “We’ve got to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  