-- 
Carrefour Cuts Annual Forecast Again

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-10-13T08:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/carrefour-cuts-annual-forecast-again.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, lowered its 2011 profit forecast for the
second time in three months, saying it now expects earnings to
decline as much as 20 percent amid a slump in Europe.  “Faced with an increasingly uncertain environment, we are,
as a matter of prudence, broadening the range of our 2011
current operating income guidance to a decline of 15 percent to
20 percent,” Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson said today.
In August, the retailer forecast a drop of 15 percent.  Carrefour fell as much as 4.9 percent in Paris trading, the
steepest drop in the French benchmark CAC Index. The company,
based in Boulogne-Billancourt,  France , is adjusting prices and
remodeling its largest stores in a program dubbed “Reset,”
aimed at countering domestic competition. Third-quarter like-
for-like sales declined, in contrast to a 21 percent jump in
revenue reported yesterday by rival  Casino Guichard-Perrachon
SA (CO) , which was helped by growth in Latin America and  Asia .  “French sales were worse than expected, and the first
signs of the Reset plan are visible as the company reduces
promotions and loses traffic,” Jaime Vazquez, an analyst at
 Banco Santander  in  Madrid , said today by e-mail. “The
commercial repositioning is impossible without pain.” Vazquez
has a “hold” recommendation on the shares.  Fifth Forecast Cut  Carrefour shares dropped 89 cents to 17.03 euros as of
10:04 a.m., the day’s lowest price.  Today’s revision marked the fifth time in the past year the
grocer has predicted lower profit. Third-quarter sales were 22.8
billion euros ($31.5 billion), up 0.3 percent from a year
earlier at current exchange rates, Carrefour said today.
Analysts had expected revenue of 22.9 billion euros. Sales at
stores open a year or more fell 0.6 percent, excluding gasoline.  Risks to  Europe ’s economic outlook have increased as
governments struggle to contain the sovereign-debt crisis, the
European Commission said this week. France may enter a recession
next year, as growth in the euro-area economy slows to 0.1
percent, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted Oct. 3.  Sales at Carrefour stores open at least a year fell 2.3
percent in France and decreased 2.2 percent in the rest of
western Europe, excluding gasoline and adjusted for calendar
effects, the company said. French hypermarket sales on that
basis fell 4.4 percent. Like-for-like food sales at French
hypermarkets declined 2.6 percent, while non-food sales
decreased by 9.6 percent.  Same-store sales in so-called European growth markets
declined 4.1 percent, led by  Greece , where sales fell 9.4
percent. In  Latin America , where a proposal to merge Carrefour’s
Brazilian unit with Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar collapsed in July, same-store sales rose 7.4 percent.
Asian like-for-like sales declined 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  