-- 
Carrefour Cuts Annual Forecast Again

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-10-13T05:19:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/carrefour-cuts-annual-forecast-second-time-in-three-months-on-europe-slump.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, cut its 2011 profit forecast for the second
time in three months, saying it now expects a decline of as much
as 20 percent amid a slump in  Europe .  “Faced with an increasingly uncertain environment, we are,
as a matter of prudence, broadening the range of our 2011
current operating income guidance to a decline of 15 percent to
20 percent,” Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson said today
in a statement. The Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company
forecast in August a 15 percent drop in profit from restated
2010 figures.  Third-quarter sales totaled 22.8 billion euros ($31.5
billion), Carrefour said. That compares with the 22.9 billion-
euro average of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Macro conditions seem to be getting more difficult” in
 France , Spain, Italy and Greece, which account for 62 percent of
Carrefour sales, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts,
including Justin Scarborough in  London , wrote in an Oct. 7
report. The analysts, who have a “hold” recommendation on
Carrefour’s shares, expect profit to fall 17 percent in 2011.  Risks to Europe’s economic outlook have increased as
governments struggle to contain the sovereign-debt crisis, the
European Commission said this week. France may enter a recession
next year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted Oct. 3, as growth
in the euro-area economy slows to 0.1 percent.  Carrefour is adjusting prices and remodeling its largest
stores in a bid to revive earnings as competition intensifies in
France, its largest market. Today’s revision marked the fifth
time in the past year the grocer has predicted lower profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  