-- 
Chile Keeps Rate at 5.25% as Analysts See Space for Cuts

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-10-13T21:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/chile-keeps-rate-at-5-25-as-analysts-see-room-for-cut-this-year.html
Chile’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged today for the fourth straight
month, with policy makers indicating they may reduce borrowing
costs if the global economy deteriorates further.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, held the overnight rate at 5.25 percent, as forecast
by all but three of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two
analysts estimated the bank would cut rates to 5 percent and one
forecast a half-point reduction.  After raising its key rate faster than any major economy
behind Belarus in the first half of 2011, Chile has the
flexibility to stimulate growth if the European debt crisis
worsens. Policy makers may change rates depending on
macroeconomic conditions, they said in a statement accompanying
today’s decision.  “The deepening of the tendencies observed in the
international economy could create a more adverse external
environment,” policy makers wrote. That deterioration could
have “possible consequences for growth and inflation in  Chile ,
as well as for the direction of monetary policy.”  Today’s decision keeps the bank’s options open while
anchoring inflation to central bank targets, Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA economist  Alejandro Puente  said.  Copper Slump  “Future rate changes are going to depend on the impact of
the international scenario and Chile’s inflation expectations,”
he said by phone from Santiago yesterday. “Analysts were
expecting this decision, which as a result won’t change the
peso’s value.”  The peso declined 11 percent against the  U.S. dollar  last
month, the second worst performance among major Latin American
economies behind the Brazilian real, as copper prices slumped 25
percent. Copper accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports
and about one-third of fiscal revenue.  “This central bank has never reduced the monetary policy
rate in the face of a depreciation of this type and this
strength,” Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de Credito e
Inversiones, said by phone from Santiago last week. “Cutting
rates would feed inflationary pressures created by this change
in the  exchange rate .”  Inflation accelerated to 3.3 percent last month from 3.2
percent in August and 2.9 percent in July. The central bank,
which targets annual inflation of 3 percent, estimates consumer
prices will rise 3.3 percent in December from last year.  Economist Survey  The peso, which weakened 1.2 percent today to 505.08 per
dollar, will trade at 500 in December, according to the median
estimate of 58 economists in an Oct. 11 central bank survey.  The same survey showed economists expect policy makers to
reduce borrowing costs to 5 percent in December and 4.75 percent
by March after keeping them unchanged today.  The central bank is ready to change its current monetary
policy if the global economy deteriorates further, policy maker
Rodrigo Vergara said in a Sept. 28 interview. The bank last
reduced the key rate in July 2009 as the country suffered its
worst recession in more than a decade.  Chile has since recovered and may grow as much as 6.75
percent this year, which would be its fastest expansion since
1996, according to central bank forecasts. Growth will slow in
2012, expanding between 4.25 percent and 5.25 percent, according
to policy makers.  The Andean nation’s economic gains are moderating faster
than estimated as concerns mount about the European debt crisis,
the central bank’s research department said in a report
yesterday.  Slowing Down  Economic growth, as measured by the central bank’s Imacec
index that acts as a proxy for gross domestic product, increased
4.6 percent in August and 4 percent in July after GDP surged 8.4
percent in the first half of 2011.  The world’s top copper producer is able to keep interest
rates on hold because it is less exposed to a slowdown in the
U.S. and  Europe  than other emerging countries, Rafael de la Fuente, an economist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said by
telephone.  Chile, whose biggest export market is  China , depends more
on  Asia  and domestic consumption for economic growth than on
commercial and financial ties to the U.S. and Europe, he said.  China’s GDP will expand more than five-times faster than
the U.S. this year, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Chilean demand is showing signs of “major vigor” even as it
moderates, the central bank said in yesterday’s report.  “At the moment, we’re very happy with monetary policy, but
that’s something we will keep analyzing,” Vergara said from his
offices in Santiago. “There’s a danger in reacting too fast,
but there’s also a danger in reacting too slowly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  