-- 
Chile Peso Snaps Winning Streak as Copper Falls on China Concern

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-10-13T18:34:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/chile-peso-snaps-winning-streak-as-copper-falls-on-china-concern.html
The Chilean peso fell for the first
time in seven days as the price of copper slumped and global
stocks retreated after the  European Central Bank  said that
forcing investors to take losses on bailouts would hurt banks.  The peso slid 1.2 percent to 505.08 per  U.S. dollar  after
surging 7.1 percent in the previous six days. Interest-rate swap
rates fell before a central bank policy meeting today.  Copper, which makes up more than half of  Chile ’s exports,
fell as much as 2.7 percent on concern that  Europe ’s lingering
sovereign-debt crisis may hamper economies in Asian countries
such as China. Stocks in Europe weakened, dragging the  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index down 0.6 percent after six days of increases.  “It’s retracing some gains,” said Katia Diaz, an
economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York . “Copper is down on weak
Chinese trade data and there have been reports of record high
inventories in  China , which place a limit on the upside for the
peso.”  Exports from China, the biggest buyer of the metal, rose at
the slowest annual pace in seven months in September. Chinese
copper inventories climbed to a record 1.9 million metric tons
by the end of last year.  The central bank probably will keep its benchmark rate
unchanged at 5.25 percent today, according to the median
forecast of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The one-year interest-rate swap rate fell four basis points
today to 4.41 percent, after rising in five straight sessions.
The two-year swap rate fell nine basis points to 4.19 percent.  The one-year inflation-linked swap rate was little changed
at 2.04 percent. It has risen from a four-month low of 1.52
percent on Oct. 4.  The one-year breakeven inflation rate fell to 2.32 percent,
the lowest since Aug. 11. The inflation forwards market is
pricing in average inflation of 2.72 percent in the 12 months
from October 2011 to 2012, according to Bloomberg calculations.
Prices will rise 0.18 percent this month, according to forwards
prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  