-- 
Chile May Keep Rate at 5.25%, Signal Readiness to Cut to Safeguard Economy

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-10-13T12:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/chile-may-keep-rate-at-5-25-signal-readiness-to-cut-to-safeguard-economy.html
Chile’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a fourth straight
month today and may also signal its readiness to lower borrowing
costs to safeguard domestic growth against a worsening global
economy.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Jose  De Gregorio , will keep the overnight rate at 5.25 percent,
according to 17 of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two
analysts expect a quarter-point cut and one sees a half-point
reduction. The bank announces its decision after 6 p.m. Santiago
time.  Five interest rate increases in the first half of 2011 give
the central bank leeway to lower borrowing costs to stimulate
 South America ’s fifth-biggest economy should a global slowdown
batter financial markets and erode overseas demand for copper,
 Chile ’s biggest export. At the same time, policy makers at last
month’s meeting only discussed keeping the rate unchanged,
according to the  minutes  published Oct. 3.  “There hasn’t been an external crisis yet that makes an
immediate reduction necessary, but undoubtedly it will come,”
Matias  Madrid , chief economist at Banco Penta in Santiago, said
by telephone. “Now they’ll introduce a negative bias, preparing
the way to reduce the rate in November.”  As Chile’s $200 billion economy rebounded from the 2009
recession and last year’s 8.8-magnitude earthquake, policy
makers raised their key rate 13 times in 14 months before voting
to hold borrowing costs unchanged at the July 14 meeting.  Prices, Expectations  Since then, the central bank has kept borrowing costs
unchanged and one-year rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of future interest rates, declined 117 basis points, or 1.17
percentage points, to yesterday’s 4.45 percent. Swaps fell to
4.43 percent at 9:10 a.m. Santiago time today.  Policy makers may reduce the benchmark rate to 4.5 percent
within six months after keeping borrowing costs unchanged today,
according to the median estimate of traders and investors in an
Oct. 12  central bank survey .  Annual inflation quickened to 3.3 percent in September from
3.2 percent a month earlier, above the central bank’s 3 percent
target, as consumer prices rose 0.5 percent. A monthly central
bank survey published yesterday  showed  that economists expect
prices to rise 0.3 percent this month.  Inflation expectations also have declined since July 14 as
commodity prices have slumped on concern that a global economic
slowdown could damp demand for raw materials.  One-year breakeven inflation, which reflects traders’ views
of average price increases and is derived by the difference
between nominal and inflation-linked yields, declined 74 basis
point, or 0.74 percentage point, from July 14 to yesterday.
Breakeven inflation rose 1 basis point to 2.37 percent at 9:10
a.m. from yesterday.  Chile’s inflation-adjusted interest rate at 1.95 percent is
the second highest in  Latin America  after  Brazil  at 4.69
percent.  Growth Horizon, Policy  Bloomberg’s commodity index, which calculates the mean of
indexes including energy, grain, food and precious metals and
livestock, declined 9.7 percent over that period. The price of
copper, which accounts for more than half of Chilean exports,
fell 25 percent.  Economic growth will decelerate next year from 2011 as
Chile and other emerging markets feel the impact of a slowdown
in developed economies, De Gregorio told senators Sept. 7.  Gross domestic product, which grew 10 percent year on year
in the first quarter of 2011 followed by a 6.8 percent expansion
in the second quarter, will expand 6.25 percent to 6.75 percent
in 2011 and 4.25 percent to 5.25 percent next year, according to
central bank forecasts.  Policy makers are “very happy” with monetary policy at
the moment, and with interest rates at their highest level since
January 2009 in some ways are better prepared than they were in
2008 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, central bank
board member Rodrigo Vergara said Sept. 28.  ‘Tools,’ ‘Proactive’  “The central bank has all the tools, the will and the
space to act, and to act broadly and even aggressively if
necessary,” Vergara said in an interview from his offices in
Santiago. “There’s a danger in reacting too fast, but there’s
also a danger in reacting too slowly.”  To be sure, policy makers may surprise the market and act
faster than they did in the previous global crisis by reducing
rates today to stimulate growth, Cesar Guzman, head of
macroeconomic research at Inversiones Security, said in an Oct.
11 note to investors.  Four months after Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy, Chile’s
central bank changed policy and cut rates after keeping them
unchanged for three straight meetings at 8.25 percent.  “We estimate that the ‘experience’ won by the central bank
in the 2008 crisis will lead it to be more proactive, putting
itself ahead of the data and averting at all cost a more adverse
scenario in the local market,” Guzman said. “The central bank
is ready to reduce the monetary policy rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  