-- 
China Auto Sales Accelerate for Fourth Month on Discounts

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-13T08:22:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/china-sept-passenger-car-sales-rise-8-8-to-1-32-million-units.html
China ’s passenger-car sales rose at
a faster pace for a fourth straight month in September as
automakers offered discounts and consumers bought cars ahead of
a week-long national holiday.  Deliveries of cars including sport-utility vehicles and
minivans gained 8.8 percent to 1.32 million units last month,
the  China Association of Automobile Manufacturers  said today in
a statement. Sales climbed 7.3 percent in August, 6.7 percent in
July and 6.2 percent in June. Total sales of vehicles including
buses and trucks rose 5.5 percent to 1.65 million units in
September.  Automaker shares extended gains in  Hong Kong  after the
release of the data showed car sales grew at the fastest pace in
seven months. Shares of companies including BYD Co. and
Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. have declined this year on
concern that the withdraw of sales-tax breaks and rebates for
rural buyers in January would reduce demand.  “People have the impulse to buy vehicles ahead of a long
holiday, especially for October as it’s the best season for
travel,” said Han Weiqi, an analyst with CSC International
Holdings Ltd. in  Shanghai . “Discounts offered by automakers
also contributed to last month’s growth.”  Demand has also been reduced by the government’s efforts to
rein in consumer prices that grew at the fastest pace in three
years in July. The People’s Bank of China has raised  interest
rates  five times in the past 12 months and ordered lenders to
set aside a record amount as reserves.  Demand Forecast  The auto manufacturing association cut its 2011 sales
forecast for the second time in three months this week, saying
that deliveries are expected to grow less than 5 percent. The
revised projection is less than half of the association’s
estimates from January for sales growth of 10 percent to 15
percent. Vehicle sales grew 32 percent in 2010.  “Unstable international economic environment has affected
China’s overall economic growth and undermined its vehicle
demand,” Noh Jae Man, president of Beijing Hyundai Motor Co.,
said in an interview on Oct. 11.  Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest overseas
carmaker in China, said on Oct. 10 that sales rose 15 percent to
240,244 last month. Its minivan venture SAIC-GM-Wuling
introduced discounts starting May to spur sales.  In the first nine months of the year, overall sales
expanded 3.6 percent to 13.6 million units, with passenger-car
sales gaining 6.4 percent to 10.5 million units.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  