-- 
China Stocks’ 20% Surge Leads Asia as Government Acts on Crisis

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-10-13T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/china-stocks-20-surge-leads-asia-as-government-acts-on-crisis.html
The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index became the first of  Asia ’s major equity benchmark gauges
to exit a  bear market  as the Chinese government bought bank
shares and pledged support for small business, spurring the
biggest rally in three years.  Zijin Mining Group Co., Anhui Conch Cement Co. and
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  have rallied more than 39
percent since Oct. 4, sending the gauge of Chinese companies in
Hong Kong to a 21 percent advance. The surge trimmed the 2011
loss for the H-share index to 23 percent.  “People are now realizing stocks were oversold,” said
 Yoji Takeda , who manages about $1.1 billion at RBC Investment
Management (Asia) Ltd. in Hong Kong. “China’s H shares fell
more than other markets recently with fears, especially among
Western investors, about China’s hard landing and off-balance
sheet lending.”  Global stocks have rebounded on speculation that European
leaders will agree a plan to contain the region’s debt crisis
when they meet on Nov. 3, and that the  U.S. economy  will avoid
recession. The MSCI World All-Country Index has risen more than
6 percent this month, with Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies
accounting for nine of its 10 biggest advances.  The so-called H-share  stock index  last month posted its
worst quarterly loss in more than 10 years. It closed at its
lowest since April 2009 on Oct. 4. The gauge plunged 29 percent
as concerns about bank balance sheets and a wave of small
business closures in the city of Wenzhou spurred speculation
that the country was headed for a financial crisis.  It was the biggest drop since the three months to June
1998, when the Asian financial crisis helped send the index 39
percent lower.  Inflation Fight  The measure fell as much as 43 percent from a November peak
as  China  raised  interest rates  and reserve-requirement ratios
for banks to cool inflation that’s at the highest level in
almost three years.  China’s economy  grew 9.3 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Companies in the index trade at 8.1 times estimated
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a multiple of about 12 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and MSCI Asia Pacific gauge. Valuations on the Chinese stocks
fell as low as 6.7 times projected profit on Oct. 5, the lowest
level since October 2008.  “The market has gotten very cheap,” said Francis Cheung,
the head of China and Hong Kong strategy for CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets in Hong Kong. “Since the economy is doing okay, the
question is, ‘When does the market turn?’ The hard part is that
as long as the government is tightening, the market can’t rally
too much.”  Huijin Buys Banks  Agricultural Bank of China, the nation’s No. 3 lender by
market value, soared 39 percent since Oct. 4, and  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s biggest, increased 27
percent.  China’s state-run Central Huijin Investment started buying
shares in the nation’s four biggest banks on Oct. 10 and plans
to continue with “related market operations,” according to a
statement on its website.  Shares of Chinese companies also surged after the nation
announced measures to support small businesses after the
collapse of manufacturers in Wenzhou highlighted growing risks
to the economy. The government will provide financial support
and preferential tax policies for small companies, the State
Council said in a statement on Oct. 12.  Anhui Conch Cement surged 45 percent, and China Railway
Group Ltd., a builder of the nation’s railroads, jumped 48
percent.  Metals Companies Rebound  Stocks have rallied after repeated assurances from European
leaders that they will come up with a plan to stem the spread of
a sovereign-debt crisis that has spread from  Greece  to Ireland
and threatens Italy and  Spain . German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said governments will do “everything necessary” to ensure
banks have enough capital. An Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders
looms as a deadline for a breakthrough in combating a debt
crisis. Leaders have set Nov. 3 as the deadline for a plan.  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s No. 1 producer of the metal,
soared 49 percent and  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) , a copper and
alumina producer, jumped 46 percent from their lows on Oct. 4 as
the London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial
metals gained 7.6 percent from Oct. 4 through Oct. 12. Zijin
Mining, the mainland’s largest gold producer by market value,
surged 62 percent.  “China is a leveraged play on the rest of the world, so
we’ve been recovering really rapidly on the back of good news
out of  Europe ,” said CLSA’s Cheung. “I would take some risk
off the table ahead of Nov. 3 because if the European plan
disappoints, we could be in another correction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 