-- 
China’s HNA Group Said to Be Among Bidders for DLF-Owned Amanresorts Chain

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-13T04:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/china-s-hna-group-said-to-be-among-bidders-for-amanresorts.html
HNA Group Co. , the airline, shipping
and hotels group backed by the government of Hainan province, is
among companies bidding for luxury-hotel chain Amanresorts
International Pte., said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The people, who declined to be identified because the sale
process is private, didn’t say how much HNA offered.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) ,
the Indian real estate developer that owns  Amanresorts , has
received at least five non-binding bids of $400 million to $450
million for the company, a person familiar with the matter said
last month.  Buying Amanresorts would add hotels where rooms often cost
more than $1,000 a night for HNA, which is making acquisitions
in industries ranging from airports to shipping-container
leasing.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  is also among
potential bidders for Amanresorts, people familiar with the
matter said last month.  “Both sides are currently at preliminary stage of
discussion and no material progress has been made,” Eric Huang,
a spokesman at HNA, said in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg News on the bid for Amanresorts.  Amanresorts owns and manages 25 small luxury resorts
worldwide, according to its website. Sanjey Roy, a spokesman for
DLF in  New Delhi  declined to comment on the sale.  HNA said in August it’s bidding for Hochtief AG’s airport-
operating business and is in talks to buy commercial property in
Beijing owned by Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd.’s
jailed founder  Huang Guangyu . The same month,  General Electric
Co. (GE)  said it agreed to sell shipping-container lessor GE SeaCo
for $1.05 billion to HNA and Bravia Capital.  The Chinese company, based in Haikou City, Hainan province,
is in talks to buy a 20 percent stake in Spanish hotel chain NH
Hoteles SA, El Confidencial reported on Sept. 29, citing
unidentified people.  DLF bought a controlling stake in Amanresorts in November
2007 for about $400 million, including $150 million of net debt.
The developer took full ownership of the hotel chain during the
fiscal year that ended March 31 after settling litigation with
minority shareholders, according to its annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ; 