-- 
China Targets GE Wind Turbines With $15.5 Billion War Chest

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-14T11:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/china-targets-ge-s-wind-turbines-with-15-5-billion-war-chest.html
China  has taken on  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and Western peers that control the $70 billion wind-turbine
market, striving to repeat its 2010 coup when the Asian nation
sold more than half the world’s solar panels for the first time.  Armed with at least $15.5 billion in state-backed credit,
China’s biggest windmill makers Sinovel Wind Group Co. and
Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. won their first major
foreign orders in the past year. They plan to set up plants
abroad, including China’s first in the U.S., easing entry into
markets for delivering machines that can weigh 750 tons each.  Sinovel and Goldwind may counter the quality concerns of
customers and overtake Denmark’s Vestas Wind Systems A/S as the
biggest supplier by 2015, a Bloomberg New Energy Finance survey
forecast. That can erode sales and margins for suppliers such as
GE and Vestas that already face cutbacks in European subsidies
and a 22 percent plunge in turbine prices from their 2008 peak.  “The Chinese dragon is coming,” said Jose Antunes Sobrinho, chief executive officer of  Brazil ’s Desenvix SA, a
wind developer that ordered 23 Sinovel turbines in September.  The deal, South America’s first contract with a Chinese
supplier, “is going to be a stepping stone for them” to
showcase machines that are about 10 percent cheaper than those
sold by competitors in Brazil such as GE and  Germany ’s  Siemens
AG (SIE) , he said by telephone on Oct. 3.  Competing With Coal?  A shift to Chinese suppliers could even nudge down the cost
of wind power enough for it to compete with coal and natural gas
in the U.S. and  Europe  when the wind is blowing, threatening
fossil fuel-based business models at utilities such as Germany’s
 RWE AG  and  Centrica Plc  of the U.K.  While U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  both said developing clean energy is a top industrial
priority, China is increasingly gaining the manufacturing base
for equipment needed to wean their economies from fossil fuels.  Turbines marketed by the Western suppliers are increasingly
assembled from cheaper parts made elsewhere. Repower Systems SE,
Suzlon’s German unit, can reduce costs on average by 15 percent
by boosting the share of components from China and  India , Chief
Executive Officer Andreas Nauen said in June.  Gamesa Corp Tecnologica SA (GAM) ,  Spain ’s biggest turbine maker,
didn’t sell a single turbine in its home market last quarter and
is ramping up manufacturing capacity in China, Brazil and India,
where it expects to source as much as 70 percent of turbine
components locally by 2012, according to CEO Jorge Calvet.  Assembling in China  The U.S. “can’t compete with China to make solar panels
and  wind turbines ,” U.S. Representative Cliff Stearns, a
Florida Republican, told  National Public Radio  on Oct. 4.  Vestas, GE and Siemens AG all either assemble turbines or
produce parts in China. GE formed a joint venture in 2010 with
Harbin Electric Co. to make turbines for the Chinese market.  GE has said Chinese competitors face challenges taking
overseas market share, including the ability to provide long-
term maintenance.  “But at heart of the matter, we just got to have a better
product,” John Krenicki, GE vice chairman and CEO of GE Energy
Infrastructure, told investors Sept. 20. “We got to have better
stuff.”  Price competition helped kill higher-cost suppliers in the
U.S. solar panel industry. Three failed since August, unable to
stay afloat as prices plunged amid competition from Chinese
manufacturers including Suntech Power Holdings Co., the biggest.  Gaining Market Share  Sinovel and Goldwind derived more than 99 percent of their
revenue in 2010 from China, the world’s biggest wind market.  With turbine sales set to peak at home this year, Chinese
manufacturers are “looking outwards to maintain sales,”
especially in markets like Brazil, India and  Australia  where
there’s more growth to be tapped than in Europe or the U.S.,
said Lawrence Brader, investment analyst for Hong Kong-based
Environmental Investment Services Asia Ltd. Its  Green Dragon
Fund (GRNDRGN)  invests in regional clean-technology companies.  Since November, Sinovel, Goldwind and their peers have
publicly disclosed at least 2,800 megawatts in overseas orders
from  Greece  to Ireland to Australia, or about 7 percent of last
year’s global sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s more than India, the world’s third-largest market
for new capacity, erected in 2010. At Goldwind, 7.5 percent of
first-half revenue came from overseas sales, Vice President Ma Jinru said last month.  A-Power Energy Generation Systems Ltd. (APWR) , based in Shenyang,
plans to build a turbine plant in Nevada, the first by a Chinese
supplier in the U.S., to supply a 615-megawatt Texas wind park
and future North and South American customers. A-Power is
seeking external financing for that plan, it  said  in April.  Solar Conquest  Western manufacturers worried about price competition need
only look at solar panels. In three years, the Chinese went from
30 percent market share to more than half by improving quality
and slashing prices, New Energy Finance data shows.  China’s share of the global turbine market more than
doubled to 32 percent since 2008 and its manufacturers comprise
seven of the world’s top 15 suppliers, according to  BTM Consult
ApS , a Denmark-based wind industry researcher.  Within three years, they could take half of global
installations just from sales in their home market, said Justin Wu, head of wind analysis at New Energy Finance.  As soon as next year, China’s top five suppliers may grab
11 percent of turbine sales outside China compared to nothing in
2010, according to forecasts by CCB International Securities
Ltd., a unit of  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)   Ditlev Engel, Vestas’s CEO, says his aim is for the cost of
the Danish firm’s turbines in the U.S. and Europe to equal the
cost for Chinese manufacturers plus shipping abroad.  Cheaper Steel  Chinese windmill and component makers can sell in their own
market at prices that average 40 to 50 percent below those of
foreign counterparts thanks to cheaper steel costs and easier
access to  project financing , said Clarisse Pan, a Hong Kong-
based analyst for CCB International.  That’s enough of a discount to offset the extra cost of
shipping to far-flung markets. Vestas estimates it costs about
$200,000 to ship a single turbine from China to California,
about 20 percent of the price of the machine in the U.S.  Desenvix’s Antunes said Sinovel’s price, even after paying
up to 16 percent in Brazilian  import duties , was still 10
percent cheaper than other machines on the market.  “For a developer, that’s not something you ignore,” said
Antunes. “That’s a lot.”  ‘Buy Chinese, Borrow Chinese’  If wind park developers in the U.S. or Europe were to opt
for a “buy Chinese, borrow Chinese” approach, they might in
some cases be able to produce power more cheaply than a coal-
fired power plant and on par with a gas plant, according to an
August New Energy Finance note. The London-based researcher
calculated that cheaper Chinese hardware may reduce the cost of
wind power to a range whose mid-point would be $68 a megawatt hour.  Not everyone agrees Chinese turbine makers can emulate the
rapid global expansion of solar-gear suppliers.  “Chinese companies are producing at Chinese standards, but
all the banks are financing projects based on the German
standards,” said  Tulsi Tanti , chairman of  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,
which earned 64 percent of its revenue outside of its home
market of India last year. “It’ll take a long time.”  Two Sinovel turbines collapsed at a wind farm in Liaoning
province in early 2010, Shanghai Securities Co. said. One
supplied by Dongfang Electric Corp. in Ningxia collapsed in
January 2010, the Economic Information Daily reported.  “If the Chinese want to come, we’re insisting it should be
with certified machines,” said Ramesh Kymal, Gamesa’s head of
India. “They should be of the same quality so that we don’t
face the problem China is facing.”  ‘Substandard Turbines’  “Substandard wind turbines” were responsible for
accidents that have shut down parts of China’s grid, Gamesa´s
Calvet told analysts in July.  A poor-quality turbine can reduce a wind farm’s value by 80
percent or more, GE said in an e-mailed response to questions
about how it plans to compete against cheaper Chinese rivals.  When Chinese solar panel makers initially faced skepticism
about the quality of their products, lenders run by the
Communist state backed them, led by China Development Bank
Corp., which has more than twice the  World Bank ’s  assets .  Wuxi, Jiangsu-based Suntech Power overtook Tempe, Arizona-
based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  as the market’s top-selling panel brand
in 2010. In a 2009 filing, it disclosed $259 million in  loans
and credit facilities  from CDB,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , and the
China Construction Bank. In April 2010, it announced an
agreement with CDB for up to 50 billion yuan ($7.8 billion),
according to New Energy Finance.  “Suntech’s success is based on providing a high-quality
product and good service,” Suntech said in an e-mail today.
“We do not sell at the lowest market prices.”  Loans, Credit Lines  Sinovel, Goldwind and  China Ming Yang Wind Power Group Ltd. (MY) 
have disclosed at least $15.5 billion in loans and credit lines
since May 2010 to aid their international expansion from CDB and
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  in statements and filings.  Goldwind and Sinovel announced plans to raise as much as
10.5 billion yuan by selling bonds. Goldwind disclosed its move
in June, and Sinovel announced regulatory approval yesterday.  As part of Sinovel’s biggest European deal, CDB will
provide debt financing to its Irish partner, Mainstream
Renewable Power Ltd. A-Power plans to raise $260 million in debt
from Chinese lenders for its Texas wind park, it said in  May .  CDB is offering a yuan-denominated loan for Florianopolis-
based Desenvix’s 34.5-megawatt project at an  interest rate  about
four percentage points lower than what’s available through
Brazilian banks, though hedging the yuan  currency risk  might
offset that discount, Desenvix’s Antunes said.  “This is a way of tying the Chinese from one side of the
deal to another,” he said. “If I have their equipment, it
might be better if I have their financing as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 