-- 
China Export Growth Dwindles to Slowest Pace in Seven Months as Yuan Gains

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-13T09:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/china-trade-surplus-drops-to-lowest-in-four-months-as-export-growth-slows.html
China ’s exports rose the least in
seven months and the customs bureau warned of “severe”
challenges as the global economic outlook dims, giving Premier
Wen Jiabao’s government less incentive to let the yuan rise.  Exports rose a less-than-forecast 17.1 percent in September
from a year earlier, the bureau’s data showed in Beijing. The
trade surplus was $14.51 billion, the smallest since May. Growth
in shipments to  Europe , China’s biggest export market, slumped
to 9.8 percent, from 22 percent, amid the sovereign-debt crisis
in euro-region nations.  China may move to restrain the yuan, which has gained the
most against the dollar among 25 emerging-market currencies in
the past four years, even after the  U.S. Senate  voted this week
for legislation aimed at forcing faster appreciation. The risk
of a trade slump may also encourage China to refrain from
raising  interest rates  and to add to support for companies after
unveiling tax breaks for small businesses yesterday.  “Although  Washington  is ramping up the pressure on Beijing
to move faster on the currency, Chinese officials will be able
to cite today’s data as evidence that exporters are already
feeling the pinch,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based
strategist with Royal Bank of  Canada . Jackson noted that yuan
gains against the euro add to risks for exports to the region.  Yuan Against Euro  The Chinese currency has gained 4.3 percent versus the euro
since the start of August. The yuan slipped 0.3 percent to
6.3763 per dollar as of 12:43 p.m. in  Shanghai . Stocks in China
rose, joining a rally across  Asia . The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index was 0.5 percent higher at 2,432.19 at the 11:30
a.m. local-time break.  The U.S. may today report a trade deficit of $45.8 billion
for August, up from $44.8 billion in July, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  China’s imports advanced 20.9 percent in September, less
than analysts’ 24.2 percent median estimate and a 30 percent
gain in August. Export growth compared with a median forecast of
20.5 percent and a rise of 24.5 percent in August.  “The leading indicators from the developed economies
indicate that worse will follow” for exports, said Yao Wei, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Societe Generale AG.  ‘Sliding’ Confidence  The yuan’s appreciation has weakened competitiveness and
exporters are afraid to accept large or long-term orders, the
customs bureau said in a statement. “Serious development
problems, high unemployment rates and sliding  consumer
confidence ” in the EU, U.S. and  Japan , and slowing growth in
emerging economies “present severe challenges,” it said.  “Domestic demand is still quite strong,” said Zhang Zhiwei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Nomura Holdings Inc.  The import slowdown was driven mainly by weakening
purchases from companies processing goods for re-export, Zhang
said. China’s passenger-car sales rose at a faster pace for a
fourth straight month in September, climbing 8.8 percent, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said today.  Imports rose to $155.2 billion, just shy of August’s record.
Purchases of copper climbed to the highest level in 16 months as
lower prices lured traders to place orders and replenish stocks.  A reduction in duties on some commodities including refined
oil starting July 1 led to a 77 percent jump in imports of such
goods in the third quarter from a year earlier, the customs
bureau said.  Full-Year Forecasts  The agency estimates full-year export growth will drop to
18 percent from 31 percent in 2010 and expansion in imports will
ease to 21 percent from 39 percent. The  trade surplus  may narrow
to about $170 billion from $183 billion last year, Lu Peijun,
vice minister at the customs bureau, said. The excess has
dropped every year from a record $295 billion in 2008.  “A major shift in policy is unlikely until early December
when the central economic work conference is usually held,
although the government is already taking some selective easing
measures such as the support extended to small firms,” said
Chang Jian, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  Hong Kong  who
formerly worked for the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the
 World Bank .  The government will provide financial support and
preferential tax policies for small companies, the State Council
said in a statement yesterday, after a meeting where Premier  Wen Jiabao  presided. The government will be more tolerant of bad
loan ratios for small-company loans, the cabinet said.  Exporters' Woes  The collapse of some manufacturers in Wenzhou city in
Zhejiang province has highlighted concern that small companies
are facing a credit squeeze after monetary tightening.  In Guangdong, another export hub, footwear maker Wing Kwai
Trading Co. says it faces rising wage costs, weaker demand and a
stronger yuan.  “Demand for our products has been falling because of the
economic outlook,” said company owner David Huang before
today’s trade data. “The yuan keeps rising and workers are
asking for higher and higher wages.”  China’s foreign ministry warned U.S. lawmakers yesterday
that the proposed bill allowing penalties against countries that
undervalue their currencies would damage bilateral trade and
risks undermining the global recovery. The legislation will now
move to the Republican-controlled House of Representatives.  “Trade tensions, at least the rhetoric, are likely to heat
up between China and the U.S. as the global outlook
deteriorates,” Barclays’ Chang said.  A stronger yuan would help China curb inflation and reduce
the trade surplus, she said. A government report tomorrow may
show consumer prices climbed 6.1 percent last month from a year
earlier, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. That
compares with the government’s full-year target of 4 percent.  --Li Yanping, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan
in  Singapore ,  Andrea Wong  in Taipei and Fion Li in Hong
Kong. Editors:  Chris Anstey , Paul Panckhurst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  