-- 
China Money Rate at 2-Month Low on Ample Funds, Slowing Exports

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-13T09:17:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/china-money-rate-at-2-month-low-on-ample-funds-slowing-exports.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped to a two-month low as demand for cash eased after last
week’s public holiday amid signs the world’s second-largest
economy is slowing.  Customs bureau data showed today the weakest export growth
since February. The State Council unveiled measures including
tax breaks and easier access to bank loans to help small firms,
after the collapse of manufacturers in Wenzhou city. The seven-
day repurchase rate has fallen every day since the end of last
week’s National Day holiday.  “The money market is flush with funds after the Golden
holiday week,” said Pieter Van Der Schaft, the Hong Kong-based
head of Asian interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley.
“Although new measures were announced to promote more loans to
small and medium enterprises, the policy bias is still hawkish
until inflation is firmly brought under control.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell 21 basis points, or
0.21 percentage point, to 3.14 percent in  Shanghai , according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The rate was at the lowest level since Aug. 15.  Overseas sales rose 17.1 percent in September from a year
earlier, compared with 24.5 percent growth in August and the
20.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Consumer prices rose 6.1 percent in September from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before data due tomorrow. Inflation
in August was 6.2 percent, compared with a three-year high of
6.5 percent in July, and the government’s full-year target of 4
percent.  Bill Sales  The People’s Bank of China kept the yields on three-month
and three-year bills unchanged at auctions today. The bank
issued 7 billion yuan ($1.1 billion) of three month bills at
3.1618 percent for a seventh sale, while offering 20 billion
yuan of three-year bills at 3.97 percent, according to traders
at primary dealers required to bid at the auctions.  The three-year bills were last sold on Aug. 18 which is a
key sign the central bank still favors keeping monetary policy
tight, Van Der Schaft said.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, decreased seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 3.53 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  