-- 
China Proposes Rules to Help Banks Manage Short-Term Funding

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-13T03:12:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/china-proposes-rules-to-help-banks-manage-short-term-funding.html
China  plans to implement new rules
from Jan. 1 to ensure banks have adequate short-term funding to
cope with any potential shocks, the banking regulator said.  Lenders must ensure by the end of 2013 that easily sold
“premium” assets can fully cover net cash outflows for 30 days
in times of crisis, according to a  draft regulation  posted on
the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s website yesterday.  China is seeking to prevent the nation’s banks from
encountering the capital constraints faced by U.S. and European
rivals during the global financial crisis. The regulator has
been tightening oversight of banks and raising the reserve ratio
to prevent the $3.8 trillion of credit extended since September
2008 from souring.  “Chinese banks’ credit quality will improve as they no
longer need to lend as aggressively as they did during the
credit boom,” Wilson Li, a Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai
Junan Securities Co., said by telephone today. “These rules
requiring banks to have adequate short-term liquidity won’t
trigger a new round of equity raising as banks can get the
funding from the  interbank market .”  The regulator may limit banks’ acquisitions or raise
 capital requirements  if they fail to lower risk levels or fix
problems with the funding system, according to the  draft  rules.
The CBRC may also restrict foreign-invested banks’ asset-to-
liability ratios in China and cross-border fund outflows.  Lenders also must meet, by the end of 2016, a minimum 100
percent net stable funding ratio, which measures the adequacy of
funds that can be relied on for at least one year under stress
conditions, the regulator said.  Banks should submit stress-test reports on a quarterly
basis, according to the proposed rules. The CBRC is collecting
feedback on the recommendations until Nov. 12.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  