-- 
China Offers Loan, Tax Help to Small Companies as Wenzhou Risks Spreading

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-13T01:19:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/china-offers-loan-tax-help-to-small-companies-as-wenzhou-risks-spreading.html
China  announced a package of
measures to help small companies, including tax breaks and
easier access to bank loans, after the collapse of manufacturers
in Wenzhou city highlighted growing risks to the economy.  The government will provide financial support and
preferential tax policies for small companies, the State Council
said in a  statement  yesterday, after a meeting at which Premier
 Wen Jiabao  presided. The government will be more tolerant of bad
loan ratios for small-company loans, the Cabinet said.  Small companies play an “irreplaceable” role in  job
creation , technical innovation and social stability, and the
funding difficulties and tax burdens facing some of them
“deserve high attention,” according to the statement. The
support comes after Wen visited Wenzhou in Zhejiang province
during a public holiday this month, urging greater support for
small- and medium-sized companies.  “These measures are not likely to revamp the entire system
for SME financing, but they are long-awaited measures in the
right direction to help China’s small business cope with the
current monetary tightening and rising uncertainties of external
demand,” Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of
America Corp. who is currently in Wenzhou, wrote in a research
report today. “The private lending woes in Wenzhou could
potentially worsen if the local government and Beijing do not
take steps to intervene.”  Media “hype” surrounding reports of Wenzhou factory
owners fleeing after failing to pay debts unnerved investors
concerned about Chinese banks’ asset quality and a slowdown in
the  property market , UBS AG said in an Oct. 11 report. The city
is known for a “vibrant private sector,” non-bank lending, and
speculative investment in property, the brokerage said.  Informal Lending  Tighter credit policies have forced smaller manufacturers
to seek loans through informal channels. Excessively high
lending rates prompted Wenzhou to set an upper limit on the
interest rates that private non-bank lenders can charge, in an
effort to control risk in the banking industry.  China’s economic growth slowed to 9.2 percent in the third
quarter from 9.5 percent in the second, while gains in consumer
prices, exports and imports slowed in September, according to
Bloomberg surveys ahead of data to be released this month.  The government will extend income-tax breaks for small
businesses until the end of 2015 and encourage bank lending by
lowering requirements on bad loans and risk weightings,
yesterday’s statement said.  Low Ratios  China will maintain “relatively low” reserve ratios for
small financial institutions, and the growth in lending to small
companies should not be slower than banks’ overall credit
expansion, according to the statement.  Regulators will be “appropriately” more tolerant of bad-
loan ratios for small company loans, the statement said without
being specific. The government also seeks to expand bond sales
by small businesses and “strictly restrict” advisory fees
banks charge them.  There hasn’t been waves of closures among small and medium-
sized companies in China, although some face difficulties
operating and obtaining funding partly because of rising raw
material and labor costs and lending curbs aimed at fighting
inflation, the People’s Bank of China said in its second-quarter
report released in August.  China has raised  interest rates  three times this year and
ordered lenders to set aside a bigger portion of their deposits
to curb inflation, running near a three-year high.  Monetary tightening and smaller loan quotas have led to a
50 percent surge in informal lending this year as small
businesses and developers turned to state-owned companies,
private entrepreneurs and individuals for loans at interest
rates of 6 percent to 8 percent, according to Credit Suisse.  China plans to implement new rules on bank liquidity on
Jan. 1, 2012, to help lenders cope with potential shocks caused
by funding difficulties, the nation’s banking regulator said
yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  