-- 
Clean-Energy Investment Rises Annual 16% in Quarter, BNEF Says

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-10-13T12:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/clean-energy-investment-rises-annual-16-in-quarter-bnef-says.html
New investment in clean energy rose
16 percent in the third quarter to $45.4 billion, aided by a
surge in wind and solar plant financing as low equipment costs
drive installations, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  Asset financing of utility-scale renewable-energy projects
jumped to a record $41.8 billion in the quarter, the London-
based research company said today in a statement. Mergers and
acquisitions also surged 59 percent year-on-year to new high,
even as the European financial crisis unfolded and clean energy
share prices slid, the data show.  M&A was spurred by a slump in valuations in the quarter as
the Bloomberg Industries Large Solar Energy index slumped 60
percent and the Bloomberg Wind Energy Index declined 23 percent.
Investment was driven by a drop in solar panel and wind turbine
costs combined with sustained support from governments looking
to reduce  carbon emissions .  “Over the past three years we have seen extraordinary
falls in the prices of clean energy equipment,” Michael Liebreich, BNEF’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “This has driven up installation rates and asset
investment levels. However, there is still not enough demand to
soak up significant oversupply, so prices and margins have
remained under pressure and manufacturers’ share prices are
being crushed.”  The prices for solar modules have fallen by a third since a
year ago and wind turbine prices have tumbled 20 percent since
2009, BNEF data show.  Asset financing was dominated by large deals for solar
thermal, photovoltaic and biofuels in the U.S., as well as $6.3
billion for three offshore wind projects in  Europe . Investment
in onshore wind plants in  China  and  Brazil  was also strong, it
said.  Rise in Acquisitions  Large acquisitions in the three months included Electricite
de France SA’s purchase of the 50 percent it didn’t own in its
renewable energy unit EDF Energies Nouvelles SA and  Toshiba
Corp (6502) ’s takeover of Swiss electronic-metering company Landis+Gyr.  “The acquisitions we are seeing are only partially driven
by consolidation,” Liebreich said in the note. “The low
valuations for clean energy companies are giving industrial
groups and utilities the opportunity to move in on a sector that
they know will enjoy growth over the medium to long term.”  In contrast, the quarter was relatively quiet for capital
commitments from  venture capital , private equity and public
market players, BNEF said. Venture capital and private equity in
specialist clean energy companies dropped 27 percent from the
second quarter to $2.2 billion, while public market investment
dropped to $1.4 billion, down 62 percent from the previous
quarter, due to the turbulence in the financial markets, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  