-- 
Coal India May Face More Strikes on Higher Pay Demand

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-10-14T04:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/coal-india-may-face-more-strikes-as-workers-demand-higher-pay.html
Workers at  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the
world’s biggest producer of the fuel, may go on strike for three
days, demanding an increase of as much as 57 percent in bonus
payments, a union official said.  The five biggest unions, which called a nationwide one-day
strike on Oct. 10, will continue to push for higher payments,
Tapan Sen, general secretary at Centre of Indian Trade Unions,
said yesterday in a phone interview, without giving a date for
the strike. The unions may consider a six-day work-to-rule, said
Rajendra Prasad Singh, general secretary at the Indian National
Trade Union Congress.  Labor unions globally are stepping up demands for higher
wages and improved conditions as record commodity prices swell
profits at mining companies, including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  The
daylong strike at Coal India caused a production loss of 1.2
billion rupees ($25 million) and supply shortages at utilities,
including state-run NTPC Ltd., India’s biggest power producer,
Chairman Nirmal Chandra Jha has said.  “We’re holding talks with the unions to resolve the
matter,” R. Mohan Das, director of personnel at Coal India,
said yesterday in a phone interview. “I’m not able to say what
the outcome may be.”  Coal India shares declined as much as 2.4 percent to 324.05
rupees and traded at 324.80 rupees as of 9:54 a.m. in Mumbai.
The benchmark Sensitive Index gained 0.1 percent.  Rains, Strike  Supplies from five units of Coal  India  that account for
about 70 percent of NTPC’s contracted quantity have been
affected, the utility said Oct. 12. Heavy monsoon rain and the
one-day strike caused reduced deliveries and a 4,000-megawatt
generation shortfall at eight of NTPC’s stations, Jha said the
same day.  Coal India’s profit for the year ended March 31 rose 13
percent to 108.7 billion rupees. The company plans to use its
$9.2 billion of cash to increase production and pay more
dividends, Jha said in a Sept. 22 interview.  “When both profit and dividend payout have risen, why are
the workers deprived?” Sen said.  Coal India, which produced 431.3 million metric tons of
coal in the year ended March 31, or 81 percent of the nation’s
output, plans to increase production by about 5 percent this
year to meet demand from utilities and steelmakers. Production
in the first five months ended Aug. 31 fell 6.7 percent short of
a target of 163.5 million tons after heavy rains flooded mines.
The gap may have widened, Jha said on Oct. 10.  “The coal situation in the country is critical and I’m
sure the company will not invite another stir from the
workers,” said Singh, whose union is backed by India’s ruling
Congress party.  Work-to-rule is a situation where workers follow the terms
of their contract to the letter and refuse additional duties.
The work-to-rule will stall the working of earthmovers, dumpers
and shovels, Singh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  