-- 
Colombia’s Enka Heads to Three-Month High on U.S. Trade Accord

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-10-13T16:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/colombia-s-enka-heads-to-three-month-high-on-u-s-trade-accord.html
Enka de Colombia SA (ENKA) , a Medellin-
based synthetic fibers producer, headed to a three-month high
after U.S. lawmakers approved a free-trade accord with the South
American nation.  Enka gained 4.1 percent to 12.70 pesos at 10:49 a.m. Bogota
time. That’s the highest price on a closing basis since July 7.
It was the biggest gain on the benchmark IGBC index, which fell
0.1 percent.  U.S. lawmakers approved free-trade accords with Colombia,
Panama and  South Korea  first introduced four years ago under
President George W. Bush. President  Barack Obama  revised the
pacts and spent two years seeking to broaden Democratic support
for them.  “Enka will be able to export its yarns for fishing nets to
the U.S. without tariffs,” said Jairo Agudelo, analyst at
Celfin Capital. “It’s their most important product and the 12
percent U.S. tariff on it will fall to zero once the trade
agreement enters into effect.”  The accords overcame a stalemate with Republicans on aid
for workers who lose their jobs to foreign competition. The
bills, which supporters say would bring the biggest opening of
markets for American companies in almost two decades, now go to
Obama for his signature.  The  Colombia  accord faced the most opposition of the three
pacts, passing on votes of 66-33 in the Senate and 262-167 in
the House as democratic leaders, including Senator  Sherrod Brown 
of Ohio, said the South American nation has done too little to
protect union leaders after 51 were killed last year.  “Colombia remains the most dangerous place in the world to
be a trade unionist,” Brown said on the Senate floor yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  