-- 
Consumer Comfort Hovered Near Low Last Week

-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-10-13T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-hovered-near-record-low-last-week.html
Consumer confidence  hovered last
week near a record low as Americans turned more pessimistic
about the state of the  U.S. economy .  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 50.8 in
the week ended Oct. 9 from 50.2 the prior period. It was the
fourth consecutive reading lower than minus 50, something that
has happened just three previous times in its 26-year history.  The outlook for spending may dim as the economic recovery
fails to generate enough jobs to reduce unemployment and wage
gains trail inflation. Policy makers face growing discontent as
political independents, homeowners, full-time workers and even
the highest earners are among groups whose views are souring.  “Inflation-adjusted income gains are not sufficient to
support real spending even at the current relatively restrained
pace,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg
LP in  New York . “The process of paring down debt, while
attempting to maintain a living standard that is slipping for
millions of consumers, has damaged overall consumer
confidence.”  The index was minus 54 in November 2008, the lowest level
since records began in 1985. The gauge has seen four-week
stretches of readings lower than minus 50 just once in late 2008
and twice in 2009.  The gauge has averaged minus 46 so far this year, less than
2010’s minus 45.7.  Jobless Claims  Another report today showed the number of Americans filing
claims for jobless benefits was little changed last week,
showing the labor market is making scant progress.
Applications for unemployment insurance payments decreased
1,000 in the week ended Oct. 8 to 404,000, the Labor Department
said. The number of people on unemployment benefit rolls dropped
to the lowest level in six months.  The  U.S. trade deficit  was little changed in August at a
four-month low of $45.6 billion as exports held close to an all-
time high, Commerce Department figures showed today.  Stocks declined after JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s earnings
declined and the  European Central Bank  said forcing investors to
take losses in bailouts is a risk to financial stability. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.7 percent to 1,199.39 at
9:35 a.m. in New York.  Among the comfort index’s three components, the measure of
the state of the economy dropped to minus 87.1 last week from
minus 84.3. The share of households rating the economy as poor,
58 percent, was the highest since April 2009, in the midst of
the recession.  Personal Finances  The gauge of personal finances decreased to minus 11.5 last
week from minus 9.1. The buying climate index climbed to minus
53.7 from minus 57.3. It reached a three-year low of minus 61 in
late September.  Levi Strauss & Co. is among companies bracing for tepid
 consumer spending  this holiday season after back-to-school
shoppers balked at paying higher prices for its namesake jeans
and Dockers pants.  “It is hard to imagine a very robust holiday season
compared to last year,” Chief Financial Officer Blake Jorgensen
said in a telephone interview this week from  San Francisco ,
where closely held Levi is based.  “Until you see real job growth, you’re not going to see
real economic momentum,” Jorgensen said. “The U.S. has a long-
term issue with unemployment that for the average consumer is
going to remain challenging.”  Employers added 103,000 workers to payrolls in September,
and the jobless rate was at 9.1 percent for a third consecutive
month, according to Labor Department figures issued last week.  Jobless Rate  Unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest stretch of such elevated joblessness since monthly
records began in 1948. Through September, the economy had
recovered about 2.09 million of the 8.75 million jobs lost as a
result of the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  Sentiment among respondents who own their homes and among
registered independents dropped last week to the lowest level in
data going back to 1990. Confidence for households earning more
than $50,000 a year fell to the second-lowest in the data.  “Given their status as key swing voters, discontent among
independents signals serious danger for political incumbents,”
 Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New
York, which compiles the comfort index for Bloomberg, said in a
statement. “Incumbents are not alone in the danger zone,” he
said, “also consider retailers.”  Political squabbling is among reasons consumers are losing
confidence. The Senate derailed President  Barack Obama ’s effort
to enact a $447 billion jobs plan this week, falling short of
the 60 votes needed to advance the program.  Federal Reserve   Federal Reserve policy makers last month announced more
unconventional measures to stimulate growth. In a bid to bring
down longer-term lending rates, the central bank said it would
use the proceeds from the sale of shorter-term debt to buy
securities with maturities from six to 30 years.  The central bank said some officials last month wanted to
keep further asset purchases as an option to boost the economy
as they saw “considerable uncertainty” that growth will pick
up, according to minutes of the meeting released yesterday.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  