-- 
Cook Medical Wins FDA Panel’s Backing for Femoral Artery Stent

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-14T11:49:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/cook-medical-wins-fda-panel-s-backing-for-femoral-artery-stent.html
Cook Medical  Inc., a maker of
devices for minimally invasive medical procedures, won a U.S.
panel’s backing for a drug-coated stent to treat blocked femoral
arteries.  The benefits of closely held Cook’s device, known as the
Zilver PTX, outweigh its risks, outside advisers to the  Food and
Drug Administration  said yesterday in an 11-0 vote, Morgan
Liscinsky, an agency spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The device from Bloomington, Indiana-based Cook would be
the first drug-coated stent approved in the U.S. to treat
 peripheral vascular disease  in the largest artery of the upper
leg. The stent could reduce leg amputations and painful bypass
surgeries, the company said after winning approval for the
device in  Europe  two years ago.  Clinical trials showed the Zilver PTX worked as well as or
better than angioplasty and non-medicated stents in unclogging
vessels, FDA staff said Oct. 11 in a preliminary  review  of the
product.  The device works by propping open the femoral artery and
delivering the cancer drug paclitaxel to the vessel to reduce
the risk that fatty deposits will form new blockages.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  of Abbott Park, Illinois, and C.R. Bard
Inc. of  Murray Hill ,  New Jersey , are among other makers of
devices that treat arterial blockages in the leg.  Peripheral vascular devices, including stents, angioplasty
balloons and synthetic grafts, generated $4.3 billion in global
revenue last year and may earn $5.6 billion in 2014, according
to  Technavio , a market research firm in Elmhurst, Illinois.  Peripheral arterial disease affects 8 million to 12 million
people in the U.S., according to the  Peripheral Arterial Disease
Coalition  in Lakewood, Colorado. The disease can cause leg pain
and raise the risks of heart attack and stroke.  Bypass surgery and angioplasty, in which a tiny balloon is
inserted into the artery to clear the blockage, are among the
standard treatments for the disease, according to the  Mayo
Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  