-- 
Cure for Ailing U.K. Economy Turns Villagers Against Property Developers

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-10-14T10:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/cure-for-ailing-u-k-economy-turns-villagers-against-property-developers.html
English villager Matthew Champion is
trying to live up to his name.  The 42-year-old is fighting a proposal by a malting company
to add a truck depot to its plant near his home in Great Ryburgh
in the Norfolk countryside. The plan was approved last month by
the local municipality, which cited the U.K. government’s draft
National Planning Policy Framework, one of its remedies for
reviving the ailing economy by bolstering development.  “I can’t believe that the government is this dumb,” said
Champion, whose village of about 700 people has one pub (the
Blue Boar Inn), a butcher, a church and a store selling locally
grown fruit and vegetables. “We already have a 16-acre factory
in our backyard. We just didn’t want one on the patio as well.
Everything about this is wrong.”  An overhaul of who can build what, where and how fast is
kindling a nationwide spat pitting developers against
conservationists. At stake is a policy to help nurture economic
growth from a government coming under pressure to show it can
prevent Britain from entering a second recession in three years.  A committee of lawmakers will hear evidence from industry
associations on Oct. 17 before the government draws up the new
legislation. Commercial development activity fell for the third
straight month in September as the government slashed spending
on infrastructure projects, according to a survey of about 200
construction companies published by  Savills Plc (SVS)  yesterday.  Economic Tonic?  “It’s certainly no manifesto for rapacious development,”
said Stuart Robinson,  head of planning  for the U.K. at Los
Angeles-based property broker CBRE Group Inc. “The government
is under pressure from all of us to help grow the economy and
fossilizing the built environment will not support that.”  The number of homes built in  England  and  Wales  last year
fell to the lowest during peacetime since 1924, the Department
of Communities and Local Government estimates.  The new planning document has been whittled down from more
than 1,000 pages of dense regulation to 52 pages that try to
balance an area’s economic, social and environmental needs. In
simplifying the legislation, the government is hoping that
development and construction can kick-start Britain’s economy,
according to Planning Minister Greg Clark.  ‘Too Bureaucratic’  “The current planning system is too bureaucratic and
unwieldy for local residents and local firms to use
effectively,” Clark said in an e-mail requesting comment. “Its
sheer complexity slows down decision making and frustrates the
responsible, sustainable growth the country needs.”  Demand for commercial real estate in the U.K. declined in
the third quarter for the first time in a year because of
concern that the economy may not recover soon, a survey by the
 Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors showed today.  Gross domestic product rose at an annual pace of 0.6
percent in the second quarter, down from 1.6 percent in the
first three months of the year, as the government implements the
biggest budget cuts since World War II to narrow the deficit. A
report this week showed unemployment rose to the highest in 15
years in the three months through August.  Opponents of the draft legislation such as Champion say
that reforms may expose the countryside to unchecked Los
Angeles-style urban sprawl not seen in Britain since 1935, when
protected areas called  greenbelts were proposed  to keep the
spread of London in check.  In Great Ryburgh, 119 miles northeast of the British
capital, the  Crisp Malting Group Ltd.  used the draft bill to
push through plans to build space for trucks, a fuel depot and
two 3,000-ton silos. The company didn’t respond to calls seeking
comment for this story.  ‘Gross Misrepresentation’  North Norfolk District Council , which approved the
development, said it was a “gross misrepresentation” by the
opponents of the site that the new planning legislation was the
main driver of the approval.  “On occasions, the taking of a difficult decision will
mean a group or interest within the community will be
disappointed with the position of the authority,” Keith Johnson
of the council’s planning committee and Tom FitzPatrick, who is
in charge of business and enterprise, said in a Sept. 15 letter
to the Eastern Daily Press newspaper. “This does not
necessarily mean, however, that the decision is wrong.”  Current laws mean that  Redrow Plc (RDW) , the U.K.’s smallest
homebuilder by market value, spends more on planning fees than
on bricks, according the company’s chairman, Steve Morgan.  A total of 117 U.K.-based property companies and builders
went into administration in the three months through September,
up from 105 a year earlier, Deloitte LLP said on Oct. 5.  ‘Smokescreen’  The campaigners “frequently use concern for the
environment as a smokescreen, when their real concern is to
protect their own housing wealth at the expense of young
people,” Morgan said in a speech to the House Builders
Federation conference in London this week.  In 2007, Great Ryburgh’s post office, pub and shop faced
closure, threatening the village’s future. In response, Andrew
Purdy encouraged 124 residents to buy shares in a new store, of
which he is now the managing director.  “The shop is owned by the village, it is run by the
village,” Purdy, a lieutenant-colonel in the British Army who
retired in July, said in an interview as he walked through the
store. “The new planning guidance is riding roughshod over
everything that we’re doing.”  ‘Hands Off’  The villagers have the support of the  Daily Telegraph ,
which backed Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party 
during last year’s general election. The newspaper began its
“Hands Off Our Land” campaign on Sept. 1.  The  National Trust , a conservation group, used an aerial
picture of  Los Angeles  on its website to show that the reforms
may lead to unchecked urban growth. The image was justified
because the reforms give priority to economic development over
environment and social needs, said Fiona Reynolds, director-
general at the organization.  “If we didn’t have the planning system we now have, we
would certainly have seen the urban sprawl that surrounds Los
Angeles,” Reynolds said by telephone on Sept. 29. “There was a
shift in tone. We have had to send a very clear signal of
unhappiness with it.”  Brown-Field Sites  The National Trust is pushing for the government’s draft
law to be revised to say that developers should first build on
previously developed land, known as brown-field sites.  Westfield Group (WDC) , the world’s largest owner of shopping
centers, constructed its 1.45 billion-pound ($2.2 billion)
Stratford City Mall on a brown-field site in east London, said
Duncan Bower, its director of development and asset management.  “There’s been a lot of scaremongering,” Bower said.
“This isn’t concreting over the green belt. The government and
civil servants are looking at strengthening the brown-field-
first policy. If that’s the case, we’d welcome that.”  Great Ryburgh straddles a country road and is inaccessible
by public transport. Its tree-spotted street has only one
junction, used for the Crisp Malting plant.  Opposite a cluster of copper-color cylinders that tower
above some homes and flavor the air with the smell of malt is a
sign that says “Yes to the Lorry Park.” It’s outnumbered by
the “For Sale” signs outside some houses.  “There’s a lot of people considering moving,” said
Champion, who runs his own company advising clients on heritage
laws. “And I would include myself. This has gone too far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 