-- 
Brewers Beat Cardinals 4-2 in NL, Tigers Defeat Rangers 7-5 in AL Playoffs

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-14T04:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/detroit-tigers-beat-rangers-7-5-to-stay-alive-in-al-championship-series.html
The  Milwaukee Brewers  defeated the
 St. Louis  Cardinals 4-2 to tie the National League Championship
Series, while the  Detroit  Tigers beat the Texas Rangers 7-5 to
stay alive in the  American League .  The Brewers won their first  Major League Baseball 
postseason road game since 1982 to even the best-of-seven series
at two games each with Game 5 scheduled for tonight in St.
Louis. The Rangers have a 3-2 lead and will try tomorrow to
clinch a spot in the  World Series .  At Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Ryan Braun drove in Nyjer Morgan for the go-ahead run in the fifth inning after a two-run
fourth inning that tied the score at 2-2 when Jerry Hairston Jr.
hit a run-scoring double and then came home on Yuniesky Betancourt’s single.  “You’re not going to get a lot of opportunities against a
team like this, but when you get an opportunity, you have to get
those guys,” Braun said in a televised interview. “Facing
(Mitchell) Boggs, he was throwing 96, 97 miles per hour with a
good slider. I was trying to make sure I put the ball in play.”  Rickie Weeks scored on second baseman Ryan Theriot’s error
in the sixth as the Brewers guaranteed they will return home for
at least one more series game.  First Postseason Win  Randy Wolf, who struck out six in seven innings, got his
first postseason win in 13 years. He gave up the Cardinals’ only
two scores in the second and third innings on homers by Matt Holliday and Allen Craig.  “It was the biggest game I ever pitched in,” Wolf said.
“The one on Holliday, he just has that brute strength. Craig
did a great job of hitting and driving it the other way. Those
are two pitches I can live with.”  Kyle Lohse surrendered three runs on six hits in 4 1/3
innings for the Cardinals.  At Comerica Park in Detroit,  Justin Verlander  struggled
through 7 1/3 innings to keep the Tigers from being eliminated
in their series.  Verlander, who led Major League Baseball with 24 victories
during the regular season, allowed four runs on eight hits.  “My rhythm, I knew from the get-go it was going to be
tough, but I was able to make big pitches when I needed to,”
Verlander said in a radio interview after the game.  The Tigers scored four runs in the sixth inning to break a
2-2 tie. Ryan Raburn singled,  Miguel Cabrera  sent him home with
a double, Victor Martinez tripled for another run and Delmon
Young followed with a two-run homer, all off  Texas  starter C.J.
Wilson. It was Young’s second home run of the game. Raburn and
Alex Avila also had solo home runs for the Tigers.  Nelson Cruz  hit his fifth home run of the series for Texas,
a two-run shot in the eighth inning, and now has 11 runs batted
in during the ALCS.  Josh Hamilton  also drove in two runs for the
Rangers with a single and a sacrifice fly.  The Rangers closed within two runs in the ninth on a run-
scoring single by  Michael Young  and had the tying run on base
before reliever Phil Coke got Mike Napoli on a groundout to end
the game.  “Games like this are a lot of fun, back and forth,” Avila
said in a radio interview. “Now we’ve got a shot going back to
Texas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  