-- 
Dexia Covered Bond Rates Overestimate Risk, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-10-13T10:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/dexia-covered-bond-rates-overestimate-risk-morgan-stanley-says.html
Covered bonds sold by units of  Dexia
SA (DEXB) , the lender being rescued by Belgium and France, are trading
at “excessive” yield spreads that belie the quality of the
loans backing the notes, according to Morgan Stanley analysts.  Dexia Municipal Agency’s covered bond program is secured
mostly by loans to French public authorities, which account for
64 percent of the collateral pool, Leef Dierks, a London-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note to investors. Loans
to German borrowers comprise 67 percent of the assets backing
covered bonds issued by Dexia Kommunalbank AG, he wrote.  Dexia Municipal Agency’s 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of
3.75 percent covered bonds due 2016 yield 230 basis points more
than swaps, compared with 91 basis points in May when the notes
were sold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread
on Dexia Kommunalbank’s notes due 2014 has widened to 156 basis
points, a five-fold increase since the debt was priced in May.  “We believe the current spread discount to be excessive
given the geographical composition and the over-
collateralisation of the respective collateral pools,” Dierks
wrote in a note published yesterday. “Despite the elevated
uncertainty and possible rating actions ahead, we recommend
overweighing” the notes sold by Dexia’s units.  Belgium,  France  and Luxembourg provided a 90 billion-euro,
10-year guarantee to cover Dexia’s funding needs on Oct. 9. The
Belgian government is buying Dexia’s national consumer lending
unit for 4 billion euros, while France’s Caisse des Depots et
Consignations and La Banque Postale are in talks to take over
the bank’s French municipal lending unit.  Covered bonds are secured on mortgages or public-sector
loans and guaranteed by the issuer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  