-- 
Drought Monitor Report for Week Ending Oct. 11

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-10-13T12:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/drought-monitor-report-for-week-ending-oct-11-correct-.html
(Corrects date.)  Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  Weekly Summary: The overall weather pattern for this past week
featured a trough across the western half of the contiguous 48
states, a ridge east of the  Mississippi River , and a smaller
low-pressure system that moved across the Southeast. A low-
pressure system that moved out of the western trough brought the
first appreciable rains to the central and southern Plains since
the second week of August.  Dry conditions persisted across much
of the Northeast for the entire week, while a storm system
brought windy and wet conditions to the Southeast earlier this
week.  Southeast and Mid-Atlantic: A low-pressure system brought
significant rains to much of Florida and the Southeast.  Most
locations reported between 1.0 and 3.0 inches with some
locations across Florida reporting up to 10 inches of rain
through the data cutoff (8am Tuesday). Improvements were made
across  Florida  and  Georgia  to reflect these beneficial rains.
These heavy rains were especially beneficial, falling on the
Kissimmee River basin and the Chain of Lakes.  Farther north, across the Carolinas, the drought depiction
reflected continued dry conditions, with interspersed periods of
wetness leading to some disagreement among the indicators.  Many
of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) stream gauges
across central and eastern  North Carolina  are reporting below-
normal flows and longer-term Standardized Precipitation Index
(SPI) values indicate very dry conditions.  More recently,
eastern North Carolina and central and eastern  South Carolina 
have reported near or above-normal rainfall, indicated by SPI
values greater than 0.  Abnormal dryness returned across much of  Louisiana  in the wake
of Tropical Storm Lee during early September.  Statewide
rainfall deficits, as measured from September 6, 2011 are
averaging 3.61 inches, with some climate divisions having
precipitation deficits in excess of 4.0 inches.  Northern Great Plains and Upper-Midwest: The drought conditions
across much of the upper Mississippi River Valley deteriorated
as rainfall was near 0 for much of the region, highs nearly
reached 90 degree F, and weekly temperatures averaged 5 to 15
degrees F above normal. The above-normal temperatures increased
the demand for water. Pan evaporation, measured at the
University of Minnesota St. Paul Campus Climate Observatory, set
a record of 2.32 inches from October 1-10 with data going back
to 1972.  A small area of significant rainfall occurred across Nebraska
and  South Dakota , but the heaviest rains missed the current
drought areas.  D0 (abnormal dryness) was removed from the
western portions of South Dakota and Nebraska to reflect what
rains did fall across those locations. The impacts were more
mixed across eastern South Dakota as improvements were made east
of Aberdeen, but near Sioux Falls D1 (moderate drought)
conditions were expanded to reflect the on-going short-term
dryness and warm temperatures.  Southern Great Plains: Significant rains (0.75 inch to over 7.0
inches) fell across an area from  Kansas  to central Texas.  One
category improvements were made across central Kansas and
 Oklahoma , with isolated areas of 2-category improvements across
Texas.  Some areas received very little rain so the improvements
were minimal in spatial extent.  Across Oklahoma, only Great Salt Plains Lake and Arcadia Lake
showed any appreciable response to wide swatch of 3-5 inches of
rain.  Most of the rain was absorbed locally, with locations
across the panhandle and farther east receiving little rain.  Lubbock received 0.16 inch and now has deficits of 13.10 inches
(normal is 16.26 inches for the year). Childress reported over
1.5 inches but continues to have a deficit of nearly 14 inches.
Aspermont, TX, in Stonewall County, received over 2.75 inches. A
few of the West  Texas  Mesonet sites had modest soil moisture in
the upper part of the profile, but of the rainfall was absorbed
by the soil and did not contribute to significant run-off to
recharge streams and lakes.  The biggest beneficiaries to this
week?s rains would be pastures, ranges, and winter wheat.  Rockies and Southwest: Some improvements were made across
 Colorado  and northern  New Mexico  to reflect recent rains (SPI-3
values near or above 0 and weekly rainfall totals ranging from
0.5 -2.5 inches). Across the San Luis Valley, many areas in D3
(extreme drought) as of last week, received over 2 inches of
rain in the past week. Although top soil moisture in the area is
showing near normal conditions, longer term SPIs still depict
D2, thus severe drought remained in the region.  Across northern New Mexico, improvements were made to reflect
short-term wet conditions. Rainfall totals ranging from 0.9 inch
to 2.5 inches were reported for the week. The bulk of the rains
fell across Rio Arriba and Taos counties, so that is where the
most improvements were made. Longer term indicators (SPI6, SPI9,
and soil moisture) all indicate that the recent rains have not
overcome longer term deficits.  Across  Montana  and portions of  Idaho , rainfall in excess of 2.0
inches alleviated the abnormal dryness.  Dry conditions are
indicated from 30-90 days in the past, but beyond 3 months, SPI
and percent of normal precipitation all indicate wet conditions.  Hawaii : Drought conditions expanded slightly across Hawaii as
rainfall has been sparse across many locations.  SPI3 and SPI6
indicate mostly near normal conditions, except for the southwest
portions of the Big Island, where SPI3 shows dry conditions.
Weekly rainfall totals were less than 0.5 inch for most leeward
stations, so drought conditions expanded slightly on the leeward
sides of Oahu and Maui.  Looking Ahead: October 13-20, 2011: Early in the period, a pair
of storm systems will generate widespread, locally heavy showers
from the Midwest and Mississippi Valley into the mid-Atlantic
and Northeast, with lighter showers falling across the Gulf
Coast and Southeast.  Over the weekend, breezy, cooler
conditions will settle over much of the eastern U.S., while a
weak Pacific disturbance will bring light rain, and perhaps even
some wet snow, to northern portions of the Rockies and Great
Plains.  Elsewhere, high pressure will maintain dry,
increasingly warm weather from the central and southern Pacific
Coast into the central and southern Plains, including the Four
Corners Region.  The NWS 6- to 10-day outlook for October 18-22
calls for drier-than-normal conditions from the Pacific Coast to
the southern Plains.  Conversely, wetter-than-normal weather is
expected across the Midwest, Southeast, and northern Plains.
Above-normal temperatures across much of the western U.S. will
contrast with cooler-than-normal weather from the central and
southern Mississippi Valley into the Southeast.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  