-- 
Dutch Regulator Sees Bigger Risk of Property Finance Cartels

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-10-13T14:34:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/dutch-regulator-sees-risk-of-real-estate-financing-cartels.html
Dutch real-estate financing is
becoming increasingly consolidated as bigger firms gain at the
expense of smaller ones, narrowing options for consumers and
companies, the national competition regulator NMa said.  “The limited number of parties offering real-estate
financing and the lack of smaller providers and new entrants
means that NMa will closely watch developments,” the regulator
said in a statement today. It will pay special attention to
refinancing and syndicated loans, the watchdog said.  A study commissioned by NMa showed  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Real
Estate Finance unit increased its market share in new loans to
48 percent in 2009 from 27 percent in 2005. Rabobank Groep’s FGH
Bank had 23 percent of this market, up from 18 percent four
years earlier. Their growth came at the expense of smaller
companies including  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  and NIBC Bank NV, NMa said.  Competitive pressure is limited as the joint market share
of smaller players isn’t growing and few new parties entered the
market, NMa said. The financial crisis may be making it harder
to attract funds and new capital requirements can lead to higher
financing costs, according to the regulator.  Another factor potentially limiting competition is that it
isn’t easy for clients to switch to another property finance
offerer, NMa said.  Strategy Unchanged  “Our strategy remained unchanged and we continued to
facilitate our clients during the financial crisis,” said
Anneke van der Galien, a spokeswoman for ING Real Estate Finance
in The Hague. ING is studying the report, she said. Fransce
Verdeuzeldonk, a spokeswoman for Utrecht-based Rabobank, wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  Taking into account volumes of total outstanding loans, the
differences are smaller, NMa said. ING’s total loan portfolio
was 18.4 billion euros ($25.2 billion), while FGH Bank and ABN
Amro Group NV had 17.2 billion euros and 13.4 billion euros,
respectively.  The regulator also noted the study was based on data ending
in 2009. Possible changes in the market after the economic
recovery in 2010 aren’t visible yet, NMa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  