-- 
Mead Johnson Shares Jump After Company Increases Full-Year Forecast

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-10-13T20:22:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/mead-johnson-shares-rise-after-company-raises-full-year-forecast.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , maker of
Enfamil baby formula, gained 2.6 percent in New York trading
after raising its full-year profit forecast on higher sales in
emerging markets.  Mead Johnson rose to $73.73 at the close of trading, the
biggest single-day jump in a month. The company expects to earn
$2.73 to $2.78 a share this year, compared with an earlier
estimate of $2.70 to $2.75, the Glenview, Illinois-based formula
maker said in a statement. Mead Johnson released the forecast
before an investor meeting held today.  Mead Johnson, which was spun off by  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  in 2009, reported preliminary third-quarter earnings that
beat analyst estimates because of rising sales in  China ,  Hong
Kong  and  Latin America . Third-quarter profit was about 76 cents
to 78 cents a share, exceeding the average estimate of 66 cents
by 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “China-Hong Kong will become the largest market in 2011,”
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Golsby said at the investor
meeting in Chicago. The majority of the company’s future growth
will come in emerging markets, and he pointed to the company’s
expansion into Russia, India and Saudi Arabia.  Full results are scheduled to be released on Oct. 27, the
company said.  Chinese Pricing  Along with China and the rest of  Asia , Mead Johnson is also
increasing its operations in India, where it has a presence in
18 cities and is working to get regulators to approve its
products, he said.  “We’re very early in our efforts in  India ,” said Charles Urbain, president of Mead Johnson’s Asia Pacific and Europe
operations.  The company’s revenue in China grew by 11 percent from 2010
to 2011. “It’s a huge market, it’s about half of the global
dollar market,” Urbain said during the  investor meeting . The
company has full-scale sales operations in 240 cities there and
plans to expand further into the 1,000 other cities where they
have some presence.  The company’s success there is being driven by a rising
middle class.  “The one-child policy works for us, not against us,” said
Matthew Chapple, who heads the Chinese division of the company.
“When mothers and fathers only have one child, they really put
a high priority on giving that child the best start in life.”
That allows the company to charge prices there that are almost
as high as those in the U.S., he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in  New York  at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 