-- 
Health Care’s Brave New World of Compulsory Wellness: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-10-13T00:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/health-care-s-brave-new-world-of-compulsory-wellness-ezra-klein.html
The  Cleveland Clinic  is best known
for providing excellent health care. A bustling, brisk medical
campus, the clinic has been ranked the top hospital in the
country for cardiac care for 16 years.  It treats Saudi sheiks -- and funds itself, at least in
part, through their grateful, post-operation donations -- and is
constantly toured by campaigning politicians looking to
associate themselves with the best of American medicine.  But the clinic has a more interesting -- and more
consequential -- story to tell right now, and it has nothing to
do with providing health care to its patients and everything to
do with curtailing health care for its workers.  With 40,000 employees, the clinic is the second-largest
employer in  Ohio . Like most employers, it struggles to contain
health-care costs. But according to Michael Roizen, the clinic’s
director of wellness, over the past seven years a series of
reforms instituted by the clinic’s chief executive officer,
Delos Cosgrove, slowed and then arrested the growth in employee
health-care costs at the clinic. This year, inflation-adjusted
spending might actually fall -- an all but unprecedented
achievement in employer-based insurance.  What happened? Health care costs rose 6 percent a year
nationally. Yet there was no rationing of care or squeezing of
providers at the clinic. The clinic’s employees simply got
healthier. Whether that success is a model for American health
care or a preview of a dystopian surveillance state is an open
question.  Common Problems  Roizen says the initiative sprang from a single fact.
According to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 70
percent of all medical costs are related to smoking, physical
inactivity, food choices and portion size, or stress. Cut
smoking, increase physical activity, persuade people to make
better dietary decisions, and help them manage their stress, and
you can reduce health-care costs before an employee ever steps
into a hospital.  But consider what that actually entails: Changing habits.
Breaking addictions. Getting people to the gym. Who wants to
hear about any of that from their employer?  The clinic, however, didn’t give employees a choice. “First
thing we said was we had to make our institution toxin free,”
Roizen said. “The biggest toxin we have in the U.S. is tobacco.
So we began offering free tobacco-cessation programs to our
employees. Then we banned smoking on campus. You can’t even
smoke in the parking lot in your car. The first offense you get
a warning, and the second you get fired. We fired two high-
profile physicians who refused to quit. Then they knew we were
serious.”  Food came next. The clinic took out almost every deep-fryer
in the building. They removed sugared soda from every beverage
case. They eliminated  trans fats . On a tour of the campus, I
noticed a long line outside a  McDonald’s. (MCD)  My guide sighed.
McDonald’s, he explained, had a long-term contract that predated
Cosgrove’s wellness initiative. The clinic couldn’t throw them
out -- yet.  “We want to make it easy for you to do healthy things and
hard for you to do unhealthy things,” Roizen said. “If you want
a sugared drink, you have to go out of your way to bring it from
home. We’re not going to provide it.”  That left fitness and stress relief. The first step was
easy: Offer free fitness and stress-management classes. But the
clinic still had to get its employees to attend. So they
reversed the normal calculus. Usually, you have to pay to hit
the gym or attend a yoga class. If you work for the  Cleveland
Clinic , you have to pay if you don’t.  “We raised the premiums for all employees,” Roizen said.
But employees didn’t necessarily have to pay the increase. “If
you’re doing a healthy program -- attending Weight Watchers or
Shape Up and Go -- you get a rebate.”  Tracking Results  That left enforcement. The clinic tracks its employees’
blood pressure, lipids, blood sugar, weight and smoking habits.
If any of these are what the clinic calls “abnormal,” a doctor
must certify that the employee is taking steps to get them under
control. Otherwise, no insurance rebate. The idea is to force
employees to have regular conversations with their doctors about
wellness. If they participate, they can lock in the rates they
were paying two years ago. The savings amount to many thousands
of dollars.  It appears to be working. Not only has the clinic cut its
health-care costs, but its employees are also getting healthier
in measurable ways. Workers have lost a collective 250,000
pounds since 2005. Their  blood pressure  is lower than it was
three years ago. Smoking has declined from 15.4 percent of
employees to 6.8 percent.  In one sense, the clinic has achieved the health policy
ideal: cutting health-care costs by making people healthier. But
consider how the clinic has done it -- tying premiums to
personal decisions, firing smokers, tracking employee metrics,
eliminating popular sodas and foods from campus. By making it
harder and more expensive for employees to be unhealthy, the
clinic has radically overstepped the traditional, laissez-faire
approach of employers to their workers’ personal habits.  It also opens the door to onerous forms of discrimination.
The clinic no longer hires smokers. Will the obese eventually
face similar hurdles? What about fans of fast food?  The experiment might work at a famed medical center where
the CEO plausibly argues that aggressive leadership in health
care is central to the institution’s mission. But would it work
at General Motors? Caterpillar? Wal-Mart? Medicaid and Medicare?  Roizen thinks it can -- and should. He estimates that an
aggressive program could cut federal health spending by $300
billion to $600 billion a year. If he’s right, then simply
instituting such wellness reforms could cut the federal deficit
by far more than the Simpson-Bowles commission or the
congressional supercommittee would.  Medicare Proposal  Roizen has even proposed legislation to create a Medicare
pilot that sidesteps at least some of the concerns about
government intrusion. Participation by Medicare recipients would
be voluntary, with improved health leading to an increase in a
participant’s Social Security check.  As Roizen notes, tough choices are inevitable over the next
decade. The question is which ones we prefer to make. If we opt
for Cleveland Clinic-style wellness programs, we won’t have to
gut education, raise taxes or slash Medicare. And we’ll end up
healthier. But in a country where proposed counseling sessions
to discuss end-of-life options were denounced as “death panels,”
are we really ready to let employers -- much less the government
-- tell us to quit smoking, skip the junk food and lose weight?  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 