-- 
ECB Says New Tools to Ensure Banks Have No Liquidity Constraints

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-13T08:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ecb-says-new-tools-to-ensure-banks-have-no-liquidity-constraints.html
The  European Central Bank  said its
decision to extend the use of non-standard measures will help
banks weather the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Purchases of covered bonds, loans of up to 13 months as
well as unlimited cash provisions up to three months “will
continue to ensure that euro-area banks are not constrained on
the liquidity side,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its
monthly bulletin today. “All the non-standard measures taken
during the period of acute financial market tensions” are
“temporary in nature.”  The ECB last week resisted calls to cut  interest rates ,
instead opting to bolster the banking system to prevent a fiscal
crisis-induced credit crunch. European officials are seeking to
meet an end-of-month deadline to get to grips with the turmoil,
which has propelled  Greece  to the brink of default, shaken world
markets and fueled speculation that the euro might not survive
in its current form.  The ECB urged “all euro-area governments to fully
implement all aspects of the decisions they took” on July 21,
according to the report, which echoed President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s remarks on  Oct. 6 . Euro-region leaders agreed in July
to expand the role of the region’s rescue fund by allowing it to
buy sovereign bonds on the secondary market, grant aid to banks
and offer credit lines to distressed nations.  The 17-nation euro-region economy is facing “particularly
high uncertainty and intensified downside risks,” the ECB said.
While the inflation rate will remain above the 2 percent ceiling
“over the coming months,” it will “decline thereafter,” with
risks to  price stability  being “broadly balanced” as a weaker
economy damps price pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  