-- 
ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for October (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 
2011-10-13T08:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-october-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s October monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 6 October 2011 to
keep the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged. Inflation has
remained elevated and incoming information has confirmed that
inflation is likely to stay above 2% over the months ahead, but
to decline thereafter. At the same time, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be moderate. Ongoing tensions in
financial markets and unfavourable effects on financing
conditions are likely to dampen the pace of economic growth in
the euro area in the second half of this year. The economic
outlook remains subject to particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks. At the same time, short-term
interest rates remain low. It remains essential for monetary
policy to maintain price stability over the medium term, thereby
ensuring a firm anchoring of inflation expectations in the euro
area in line with the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining
inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term.
Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to make its
contribution towards supporting economic growth and  job creation 
in the euro area. A very thorough analysis of all incoming data
and developments over the period ahead is warranted.  The Governing Council also decided on the details of the
refinancing operations from October 2011 to 10 July 2012,
notably to conduct two longer-term refinancing operations - one
with a maturity of approximately 12 months in October 2011 and
another with a maturity of approximately 13 months in December
2011 - and to continue to apply the fixed rate tender procedure
with full allotment in all refinancing operations. In addition,
the Governing Council decided to launch a new covered bond
purchase programme in November 2011.1 The provision of liquidity
and the allotment modes for refinancing operations will continue
to ensure that euro area banks are not constrained on the
liquidity side.  ﻿All the non-standard measures taken during the period of acute
financial market tensions are, by construction, temporary in
nature.  As regards the economic analysis, real GDP growth in the euro
area, after slowing in the second quarter of 2011 to 0.2%
quarter on quarter, is now expected to be very moderate in the
second half of this year. In particular, a number of factors
seem to be dampening the underlying growth momentum in the euro
area, including a moderation in the pace of global demand,
falling consumer and business confidence, and unfavourable
effects on financing conditions resulting from ongoing tensions
in a number of euro area sovereign debt markets. At the same
time, the Governing Council continues to expect euro area
economic activity to benefit from continued positive growth in
the emerging market economies, as well as from the low short-
term interest rates and the various measures taken to support
the functioning of the financial sector.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to the economic
outlook for the euro area remain on the downside in an
environment of particularly high uncertainty. Downside risks
notably relate to the ongoing tensions in some segments of the
financial markets in the euro area and at the global level, as
well as to the potential for these pressures to further spill
over into the euro area real economy. They also relate to the
still high energy prices, protectionist pressures and the
possibility of a disorderly correction of global imbalances.  With regard to price developments, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 3.0% in September 2011, according to Eurostat’s
flash estimate, after 2.5% in August. Inflation rates have been
at elevated levels since the end of last year, mainly driven by
higher energy and other commodity prices. Looking ahead,
inflation rates are likely to stay clearly above 2% over the
coming months, but to decline thereafter. This pattern reflects
the expectation of relatively stable wage growth developments in
the context of moderate economic growth.  The Governing Council continues to view the risks to the medium-
term outlook for price developments as broadly balanced. On the
upside, the main risks relate to the possibility of increases in
indirect taxes and administered prices, owing to the ﻿need for
fiscal consolidation in the coming years. The main downside
risks relate to the impact of weaker than expected growth in the
euro area and globally.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of M3
was 2.8% in August 2011, up from 2.1% in July. The annual growth
rate of loans to the private sector, adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation, was 2.8% in August, after 2.6% in July. A number
of factors, possibly related to the intensification of tensions
in some financial markets, could have had an upward effect on
the components of M3. In particular, sizeable inflows into
overnight deposits and money market fund shares/units, as well
as a substantial inflow into  repurchase agreements , appear to
have driven monetary developments in August. The inflow into
repurchase agreements mainly reflected secured lending in the
 interbank market , which was increasingly settled via central
counterparties that are allocated to the money-holding sector.
Overall, M3 growth was driven in particular by the increase in
the annual growth rate of M1 from 1.0% in July to 1.7% in August
and the increase in the annual growth rate of marketable
instruments.  On the counterpart side, the annual growth rate of loans to non-
financial corporations and to households in August, both
adjusted for loan sales and securitisation, remained unchanged
from July, at 2.2% and 2.7% respectively. Taking the appropriate
medium-term perspective, trends in broad money and loan growth
have broadly stabilised over recent months. Overall, the
underlying pace of monetary expansion thus remains moderate.  The situation of the banking sector calls for particular
attention, taking into account the interplay between sovereign
risk issues and banks’ funding needs. As it has done in the past,
the Governing Council urges banks to do all that is necessary to
reinforce their balance sheets, to retain earnings, to ensure
moderation in remuneration, and to turn to the market to
strengthen further their capital bases. Where necessary, they
should take full advantage of government support measures, which
should be made totally operational, including the possibility in
future for the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) to
lend to governments in order to recapitalise banks.  ﻿To sum up, based on its regular economic and monetary analyses,
the Governing Council decided to keep the key ECB interest rates
unchanged. Inflation has remained elevated and incoming
information has confirmed that inflation is likely to stay above
2% over the months ahead, but to decline thereafter. A cross-
check with the information from the monetary analysis confirms
that the underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be
moderate. Ongoing tensions in financial markets and unfavourable
effects on financing conditions are likely to dampen the pace of
economic growth in the euro area in the second half of this year.
The economic outlook remains subject to particularly high
uncertainty and intensified downside risks. At the same time,
short-term interest rates remain low. It remains essential for
monetary policy to maintain  price stability  over the medium term,
thereby ensuring a firm anchoring of inflation expectations in
the euro area in line with the Governing Council’s aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary
policy to make its contribution towards supporting economic
growth and job creation in the euro area. A very thorough
analysis of all incoming data and developments over the period
ahead is warranted.  Turning to fiscal policies, with financial market uncertainty
remaining high, all governments need to take decisive and
frontloaded action to bolster public confidence in the
sustainability of government finances. All euro area governments
need to show their inflexible determination to fully honour
their own individual sovereign signature as a key element in
ensuring financial stability in the euro area as a whole.
Countries under joint EU-IMF adjustment programmes, as well as
those particularly vulnerable to financial market conditions,
need to unambiguously implement all announced measures for
fiscal consolidation and the strengthening of domestic fiscal
frameworks, and they need to stand ready to take any additional
measures that may become necessary owing to the evolution of
their situation.  Fiscal consolidation and structural reforms must go hand in hand
to strengthen confidence, growth prospects and job creation. The
Governing Council therefore urges all euro area governments to
decisively and swiftly implement substantial ﻿and comprehensive
structural reforms. This will help these countries to strengthen
competitiveness, increase the flexibility of their economies and
enhance their longer-term growth potential. In this respect,
labour market reforms are key, with a focus on the removal of
rigidities and the implementation of measures which enhance wage
flexibility, in particular the elimination of automatic wage
indexation clauses and a strengthening of firm-level agreements.
More generally, in these demanding times, moderation is of the
essence in terms of both profit margins and wages. These
measures should be accompanied by structural reforms that
increase competition in product markets, particularly in
services - including the liberalisation of closed professions -
and, where appropriate, the privatisation of services currently
provided by the public sector, thereby facilitating productivity
growth and supporting competitiveness. At the same time, the
Governing Council urges all euro area governments to fully
implement all aspects of the decisions they took on 21 July 2011.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains three articles. The
first article shows how information stemming from the analysis
of money and credit developments can help to identify the impact
of banks’ behaviour and intermediation activity on the economy.
The second article considers structural features of the
distributive trade sectors and their impact on euro area price
developments, and it suggests that there is ample scope for
further reforms to improve the Single Market. The third article
examines the evolution of the financial crisis from a flow-of-
funds perspective.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  