-- 
Lee Says U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement Will Be Force for Stability

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-13T23:36:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/lee-says-u-s-korea-trade-accord-will-be-force-for-stability-1-.html
A free-trade deal with the U.S. will
be a force for stability in Northeast Asia as nations pressure
Kim Jong Il to abandon  North Korea ’s nuclear-weapons program,
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said.  Speaking to the  U.S. Congress  during a visit to Washington
after meeting with President  Barack Obama , Lee said yesterday
the pact with the U.S., reached in 2007 and approved on Oct. 12,
opens a “new chapter” in the relationship between the two
nations.  “For Korea, America is not a distant land,” he said in
the speech in the House chamber. “America is our neighbor and
our friend."  The trade deal, which goes to Obama for his signature and
must be approved by South Korea’s National Assembly, may
increase U.S. exports as much as $10.9 billion in the first year
that it’s in full effect, according to the U.S. International
Trade Commission. The accord may increase imports from  South
Korea  by $6.9 billion, according to the commission.  "Our free trade agreement has significance because it will
be a force for stability," Lee said. "Because lasting stability,
again, depends on economic opportunity being open and robust.
Our relationship can the catalyst that generates growth all
along the Pacific Rim."  The two Koreas, facing off across the world’s most heavily
armed border, never signed a peace treaty after a 1950-53
conflict. The U.S. has troops in South Korea as a legacy of the
 Korean War , when  China  fought alongside North Korea.  Lee rolled back his predecessor’s ‘‘Sunshine Policy” of
engaging with North Korea when he took office in 2008, saying
the policy rewarded  Kim Jong Il ’s regime for provocative
behavior -- a view echoed by the Obama administration.  Torpedo Attack  Relations with North Korea have soured. Last year North
Korea shelled Yeonpyeong Island, killing four people, and was
blamed for a torpedo attack on a South Korea warship that
claimed 46 lives.  In an interview with Bloomberg News in  New York  last month,
Lee said plans to build a natural-gas pipeline across the
divided peninsula are realistic, signaling a potential easing of
tensions between the two nations. Lee said yesterday that North
Korea must give up its nuclear ambitions and that the two
nations need to achieve a “peaceful reunification.”  “A unified Korea will be a friend to all and a threat to
none,” Lee said. “We therefore must achieve the
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.”  The trade agreement between the U.S. and South  Korea 
removes duties on almost two-thirds of American farm exports,
and phases out tariffs on more than 95 percent of industrial and
consumer exports within five years.  Chemicals, Autos  The South Korean tariff phase-outs increase  market access 
for U.S. chemical, automobile, medical device and drug
companies, and the end of duties on a range of agricultural
exports would aid producers of meat, dairy, vegetables and
fruits and nuts. Banks and communications companies would also
gain opportunities through reductions in regulatory barriers.  The South Korea government expects to approve its own bill
on the agreement soon, enabling the trade pact to take effect on
Jan. 1, the nation’s foreign ministry said yesterday in a
statement on its website. Obama said at a news conference with
Lee yesterday that he will sign the agreement “in the coming
days.”  The U.S. Department of Energy said yesterday that the U.S.
and South Korea established a partnership to strengthen
cooperation in clean-energy and technology research and
development.  “As our countries move down this path, we will be moving
even closer together,” Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  