-- 
Egypt Keeps Interest Rates Unchanged to Help Economic Growth

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-10-13T15:44:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/egypt-keeps-interest-rates-unchanged-to-help-economic-growth-1-.html
Egypt ’s  central bank  kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at the lowest level in almost five years
to help the economy after the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak .  The Monetary Policy Committee left the key overnight
deposit rate at 8.25 percent and the overnight lending rate at
9.75 percent, the central bank said on its website. All five
economists surveyed by Bloomberg anticipated the decision. The
bank hasn’t changed either rate since September 2009.  “They’re trying to attract domestic investment and in
order to attract domestic investment, this is one kind of
incentive,”  Alia Mamdouh , an economist at Cairo-based
investment bank CI Capital, said by telephone. “Inflationary
pressures have started to ease and as long as growth is slowing,
the risk of upside inflationary pressure is very low.”  The Egyptian economy is struggling to recover from the
aftermath of this year’s turmoil, as tourists shun the country
and factory output is hit by strikes. Gross domestic product
grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal year that ended June 30, the
lowest for at least a decade. The benchmark EGX 30 stock index
is down more than 40 percent this year.  Inflation slowed to 8.2 percent last month from 8.5 percent
as food prices, one of the causes of the unrest that toppled
Mubarak, rose at a slower pace.  The central bank’s decision comes after Oct. 9 clashes
between Christian protesters and security forces that left at
least 25 people dead.  The violence will “likely have material repercussions on
the balance of payments, foreign reserves and domestic liquidity
during the rest of Q4-2011 and possibly beyond,” Cairo-based
Pharos Holding for Financial Investments said in a note
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 