-- 
Lehman Catastrophic Moment Invoked as EU Seeks Crisis End

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-10-14T07:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/lehman-catastrophic-moment-invoked-as-eu-leaders-press-for-crisis-solution.html
“Cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk” lie ahead for the world economy unless
Europe resolves its festering debt crisis,  Timothy F. Geithner 
told global finance chiefs on the morning of Sept. 24.  The U.S. Treasury secretary spoke from experience and
lessons learned. Three years ago, he was president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York and working to shore up a
financial system in the chaos following the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  His warning last month at a meeting of
the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington was the third in
three weekends after he jetted to conferences in France and
Poland to appeal directly to Europe’s policy makers for action.  After New York-based Lehman filed for bankruptcy on Sept.
15, 2008, financial institutions lost or wrote off almost $1
trillion; the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 40 percent in six
months; and the world slumped into the deepest recession since
World War II. The global economy still hasn’t recovered and has
been close to stalling anew for the past several months.  Europe ’s nightmare scenario would mean fresh financial
disaster, according to Nobel laureate economist  Robert Mundell .
In the worst case, authorities fail to prevent Greece from
defaulting on 356 billion euros ($489 billion) and investors
react by triggering insolvencies as far as Spain and Italy. Such
a firestorm would devastate bank balance sheets, rock markets,
derail economic growth and threaten to splinter the 17-nation
euro area. The  European Central Bank  would probably have to lead
the response as the Fed did in 2008.  ‘Scaring the World’  “Just before the Lehman crash, nobody expected anything
like what happened afterwards,” said Mundell, whose research is
credited with providing intellectual support for the euro, in a
Bloomberg Television interview Oct. 6. “We’re right in the
middle of crisis now. It’s not just a crisis of the sovereign
debt, it’s a crisis of the banks, and this is now a global
situation. It’s going to spread to the United States.”  Geithner’s comments last month were part of an apocalyptic
chorus. Europe “is scaring the world,” President Barack Obama
said Sept. 26. Bank of England Governor Mervyn King says the
financial turmoil may be worse than the Great Depression. The
crisis “has reached a systemic dimension,” said European
Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet on Oct. 11.  $13 Trillion Lost  The dire warnings reflect a mounting sense of urgency.
Concern that difficulties in refinancing debt are spreading
beyond the euro area’s smaller nations, and unease over the
financial system’s exposure to sovereign bonds are shaking
global markets. Europe’s woes are responsible for wiping out
about $13 trillion of wealth since July 1, analysts at Barclays
Capital estimate.  “It’s a horse race between the markets worried about the
politics and the politicians who can fix things,” said  William
White , a former head of the monetary and economics department at
the  Bank for International Settlements  in Basel, Switzerland.
“There’s a possibility that the markets win the race, and that
would be truly horrible.”  White says policy makers outside Europe are concerned that
if politicians fail to protect that continent’s economy and
banks, investors would view other markets as the next dominoes
to fall. The IMF estimates a U.S.  budget deficit  of about 10
percent of gross domestic product this year.  “At a global level, there’s a debt problem,” he said.
“The U.S. can see they’re next in line.”  Crisis Conferences  European policy makers and those of the world’s 20 major
advanced and emerging economies may have their last best chance
of forestalling a meltdown in a series of meetings starting
tonight in Paris, according to Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management.  This weekend’s talks involve finance ministers and central
bankers from the Group of 20. European leaders will then convene
in Brussels on Oct. 23 and those from the G-20 will gather Nov.
3-4 in Cannes, France.  With markets fragile and Greece negotiating a second
bailout, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said G-
20 officials agreed at a Sept. 23 meeting that the Cannes summit
would amount to a deadline for a plan because “patience is
running out.”  “If the G-20 comes out of Cannes with nothing, that will
be a nightmare,” said London-based O’Neill, who crafted the
concept of the BRIC nations to describe the growing economic
might of Brazil, Russia, India and China.  Central Bank’s Role  The ECB already needs “to be very active” in managing the
regional crisis, said David Mackie, chief European economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. This will include allowing its bond buying
program to reach as much as 1 trillion euros, maintaining
liquidity in banks, and cutting its key interest rate to 1
percent from 1.5 percent by early next year, Mackie said. He
forecasts an imminent recession.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  vowed Oct. 9 to devise a plan by the G-20 summit
that would create a “durable solution.” Underscoring the
urgency, a tightening of the interbank credit market forced
Belgium and France last week to break up  Dexia SA (DEXB) , once the
world’s biggest lender to municipalities.  “The failure of Greece would be the failure of all of
Europe,” Sarkozy said Sept. 30 in Paris. “Remember in 2008,
when the U.S. let Lehman Brothers fail, the global financial
system paid the price. For both economic reasons and moral
reasons, we can’t let Greece fail.”  Crisis Resolution Steps  To stop the crisis from spinning out of control, leaders
are working on multiple fronts to manage Greece’s finances,
protect banks and overhaul Europe’s economic governance to avoid
a repeat. A default or a country leaving the euro weren’t part
of the single currency’s original design.  The package of measures should include requiring banks to
hold more capital so they can withstand potential losses from
bond holdings, according to the IMF, which has put the cost as
high as $200 billion. Euro-area banks need at least 150 billion
euros of capital under a plan similar to the U.S. government’s
U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program, estimate analysts at
JPMorgan Cazenove led by Kian Abouhossein.  European governments also are laying plans to increase the
spending power of a 440 billion euro bailout fund, created in
May 2010 to provide loans to cash-strapped nations. It is now
being revamped to allow it to also buy bonds on primary and
secondary markets, offer precautionary credit lines and inject
money into banks.  2 Trillion Euros  With taxpayers balking at providing more cash and wealthy
countries worried about hurting their own credit ratings,
officials may try to leverage the fund’s capacity, perhaps by
insuring a portion of new bonds issued by debt-ridden nations.
Silvio Peruzzo, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in London, says 2 trillion euros of capacity is needed to
persuade investors that Spain and Italy would have enough
funding.  The need to make Greece’s borrowings more manageable also
may mean investors will have to take a bigger share of losses on
its debt than the 21 percent write-off that formed part of a
July aid deal. German banks are preparing for losses of as much
as 60 percent, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Any fresh measures may still fail because of the range of
differences over what to do, according to Mackie at JPMorgan
Chase. The Germans and Dutch, for example, want a deeper
restructuring of Greece’s debt than France and the ECB seem
willing to accept, he said.  ‘Not So Convinced’  “Markets want to believe that euro-area policy makers will
change the pattern of the past and finally deliver a
comprehensive package,” he said. “We are not so convinced.”  Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, says
leaders need to do more to embrace fiscal union, requiring rich
nations to dispatch money to the weak, which Germany has
resisted. The alternative is a smaller euro zone, he says.  The crisis began two years ago next week with the
announcement that Greece had understated its budget deficit.
Since then, divisions in Europe have resulted in steps that
consistently didn’t go far enough in the eyes of investors and
had to be revised.  In Greece, voters have resisted the ever-deepening
austerity measures demanded in return for aid, leaving Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  scrambling to find the parliamentary
votes he needs. Meanwhile, AAA-rated countries such as Germany
have roiled markets by seeking strict terms and trying to push
bailout costs onto investors.  ‘Unmanageable Political Problem’  “Europe has managed to turn a manageable economic problem
into an unmanageable political problem,” said  Guillermo Ortiz ,
who was Mexico’s finance chief dealing with the aftermath of its
1990s debt crisis, in an August interview.  The inability so far to resolve the crisis has investors
betting against government debt. Credit-insurance prices point
to a 91 percent chance of default in Greece. The cost of
insuring German debt has almost doubled this year to an Oct. 5
high of 121 basis points. A basis point is a hundredth of a
percent.  “The key issue for the euro zone isn’t the fate of tiny
Greece,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. “Instead, the euro zone needs to
prevent contagion from Greece to the much less troubled, but
much bigger bond market of Italy.”  The world’s eighth-largest economy, Italy has a debt of
almost 1.9 trillion euros, while Spain, the 12th-biggest, owes
about 650 billion euros. Fitch Ratings downgraded both Oct. 7 on
concern they will struggle to improve their finances. Standard &
Poor’s yesterday cut Spain’s credit rating for a third time in
three years.  Draghi’s Warning  Italy is already on the verge of a debt spiral that might
become “ungovernable” should reforms stall and sluggish
economic growth persist, said Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi , who will succeed Trichet as  ECB  president on Nov. 1. The
effect of higher borrowing costs, which have jumped 1 percentage
point in three months, could wipe out the savings targeted by
recent budget cuts, he said Oct. 12.  “Action must be taken quickly,” Draghi said. “Too much
time has already been wasted.”  The spark for a financial chain reaction may emerge from
anywhere. Papandreou could fail to persuade parliament as soon
as next week to accept more budget cuts; a country such as
Germany could tire of bailouts; a bank could cease to have
access to short-term funding; or international investors could
run out of patience with policy makers and stop buying European
assets.  Widening Capital Shortfalls  Greece’s lenders, led by National Bank of Greece SA, hold
about 40 billion euros of Greek sovereign bonds, about a third
of the total, leaving them most prone to losses should their
home nation go bankrupt.  If defaults spread to other countries, banks across Europe
would be endangered, said  Jon Peace , banking analyst at Nomura
International Plc in London. Marking down holdings of government
bonds to market value would create a capital shortfall of 350
billion euros, he said, based on prices last month for debt of
Greece, Italy, Ireland and Spain. The shortfall would widen to
675 billion euros in the event of actual default, assuming a
recovery rate of 40 percent, Peace estimated.  “No practical amount of capital injection can prepare the
sector for large-country sovereign impairment or default,”
Peace said. The capital gap would widen as corporate defaults
followed and economies plunged into recession, leading to more
writedowns and losses, he said.  There “would be a credit and payments system failure
caused by balance sheet damage to banks,” said Michael Spence,
a Nobel laureate in economics and a professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business.  Currency Union Web  The currency union created a web of assets and debt that
leaves lenders exposed across borders. Italy’s top two lenders,
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and UniCredit SpA, with 65 billion euros and
40 billion euros of sovereign debt exposure respectively, are
the biggest bank holders of Italian government debt. At the same
time, lenders in France and Germany have 508 billion euros in
total claims on Italy, according to Bank for International
Settlements data.  Contagion may be global. U.S. banks hold insurance on Greek
debt totaling 3.7 billion euros, economists at Fathom Financial
Consulting in London calculated in June. Adding the rest of the
European periphery leaves U.S. banks with a 193 billion euro
exposure.  40 Million Jobs  If financial markets freeze and governments cut budgets
even more, economies would probably be shoved back into
recession. The Geneva-based  International Labor Organization 
said last month that there is a risk of 40 million fewer jobs in
the G-20 next year than when the credit crisis began in 2008.  A Greek default with spillover into Spain and Italy may
cause the euro area to contract by 1.3 percent in 2012, using
the Lehman Brothers case as a benchmark, estimated Laurence Boone, chief European economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
in London.  At New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., economist
 Andrew Tilton  says Europe is already slowing the U.S. “to the
edge of recession” by tightening financial conditions and
limiting American exports.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ’s profit missed analysts’
estimates, the company said this week, as European customers
“dramatically” cut orders because of economic uncertainty.  Ultimate Casualty: Euro  In the worst-case scenario, the ultimate casualty from a
Greek default may be the euro. Its breakup may mean a repeat of
the Great Depression, according to HSBC Holdings Plc economists
Stephen King and Janet Henry.  Dissolving the single currency would threaten the region’s
financial system. Banks would have to disentangle a mass of
cross-border assets and liabilities. The reintroduction of
national currencies and legal ambiguities would rattle markets.
Peripheral nations may suffer hyperinflation as their currencies
plunged, while the core economies would be hammered by surging
exchange rates, the HSBC economists said in a Sept. 30 report.  “Lehman was bad enough for the world economy and its
financial markets, but, under any plausible scenario, a breakup
of the euro would be far worse,” King and Henry wrote.  If a weak country such as Greece left the euro first to
regain control of exchange and interest rates, its new currency
would drop 60 percent, and local borrowing costs would jump at
least 7 percentage points, imperiling the balance sheets of
banks and companies, according to a Sept. 6 study by  UBS AG (UBSN) 
economists. Departure from the European Union would cause trade
to fall by half even with devaluation. The cost in that country
would be as much as 11,500 euros a person in the first year
outside the euro and 4,000 euros in following years, the UBS
economists calculated.  Effect on Germany  If Germany, the region’s largest economy, quit the euro,
its new exchange rate would probably surge 40 percent and
interest rates 2 percentage points, UBS said. Banks would
require recapitalization and trade would slide 20 percent. Each
person would lose as much as 8,000 euros in the first year, UBS
estimated.  The pain would probably spread. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  would
tumble to about 750 from 1,203.66 yesterday, and company
earnings would slide as much as 45 percent, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG strategists. They assigned a 10 percent
probability to a euro breakup.  Such fallout explains why international policy makers are
urging European counterparts to rise to the challenge. The
failure of  Lehman Brothers  taught authorities how events in one
economy can affect another, said Robert Kimmitt, who was deputy
U.S. Treasury secretary at the time.  “European and U.S. policy makers are drawing on lessons
learned,” said Kimmitt, now the independent chairman of the
Deloitte Center for Cross-Border Investment. “People have very
much in mind what happened in the financial crisis of 2007-2009
and particularly in the eventful weeks of September 2008.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  