-- 
Telecom Italia, Iberdrola Sell Bonds Amid Rally in Europe’s Credit Markets

-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-10-13T11:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/telecom-italia-iberdrola-sell-bonds-amid-credit-market-rally.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) 
are selling bonds as optimism of a solution to the region’s
sovereign debt crisis fuels a credit-market rally.  Milan-based Telecom Italia is issuing 750 million euros ($1
billion) of notes due January 2017 to yield 7.15 percent, a
banker managing the deal said. Iberdrola, Spain’s biggest power
utility, is offering 600 million euros of five-year securities,
according to a banker with knowledge of the transaction.  Investors are counting on German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President Nicolas Sarkozy finding an exit from the
crisis that has forced the  European Central Bank  to support
Spanish and Italian government debt. A summit of euro leaders is
due Oct. 23 when aid for banks and a further strengthening of
the region’s rescue fund are due to be agreed.  “At this stage I’m expecting good performance from these
issues,” said Christophe Herpet, a  fund manager  at Axa
Investment Managers in Paris that covers about $735 billion of
assets.  They “are very attractive deals at a nice premium
versus Italian treasury bonds and Spanish government debt,” he
said.  This week’s rally has triggered an almost 10 percent
decline in benchmark credit-default swaps indexes. The Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps linked to 50 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped to 739.5 basis points
today from 813.5 on Oct. 7, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of 25
banks and insurers fell to 233 basis points from 253. Declines
signal improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  Iberdrola’s bonds will be priced to yield 290 basis points
more than the benchmark midswap rate, according to the banker,
who declined to be identified before the deal is completed.
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Bank of America Corp.,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., ING Groep NV and
Mizuho are managing the transaction.  Telecom Italia’s bond sale is being managed by BNP Paribas
SA, Deutsche Bank AG, Banca IMI SpA, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and
Mediobanca SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  