-- 
Emdeon Sets Rate on $1.224 Billion Loan for Blackstone LBO

-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 
2011-10-13T16:57:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/emdeon-said-to-set-rate-on-1-22-billion-loan-for-blackstone-lbo.html
Emdeon Inc. (EM) , a provider of billing
systems and software for health-care companies, set the  interest
rate  on the financing backing its buyout by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  A $1.2 billion term loan B maturing in seven years was
increased to $1.224 billion. The debt will pay 5.5 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate compared with
5.5 percentage points to 5.75 percentage points initially
offered, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the terms are private. Libor, a rate banks charge to lend to
each other, will have a 1.25 percent floor.  Emdeon will no longer seek a pricing step-down to 5.25
percentage points more than Libor when leverage, or debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
is less than 5.75 times, the person said.  The company will sell the loan at 97 cents on the dollar,
compared with 96 cents to 97 cents initially proposed, the
person said. Selling below face value reduces proceeds for the
company and boosts the yield to investors.  The Nashville, Tennessee-based company is also seeking a
five-year $125 million revolving line of credit that will pay
5.25 percentage points more than Libor. The revolver will not
have a Libor floor.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and SunTrust Banks Inc. are arranging
the deal and lenders must submit commitments by 12 p.m. today in
 New York . The banks plan to distribute the debt to investors
Oct. 14. The deal is expected to close and fund on Nov. 2, the
person said.  Blackstone spokeswomen  Christine Anderson  and Amanda
Woodhead for Emdeon, declined to comment.  A  term loan  B is mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank-loan mutual funds and
 hedge funds . In a revolving credit, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  