-- 
Enel Forced to Review Dividends, Investments

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-13T09:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/enel-forced-to-review-dividends-investments.html
Enel SpA (ENEL) , Italy’s biggest power
company, said it will be forced to review dividends and spending
to meet debt reduction targets after the government increased
taxes on energy companies.  “We’ll be forced to act in order to maintain our debt
reduction goal, which is of primary importance to us, and to
preserve our rating,” Chief Executive Officer Fulvio Conti said
in an interview in Rome. “The impact of increased taxation on
dividends and investment flow will be assessed and reviewed in
our next strategic plan.”  Enel became Europe’s most-indebted power company after
buying  Spain ’s Endesa SA in 2007 and has pledged to cut debt to
36.5 billion euros ($50 billion) in 2015 from a current 46.1
billion euros. That task became harder in August after  Silvio
Berlusconi ’s government raised a tax on power producers’ profits
by 4 percentage points to improve the country’s finances.  The government imposed the levy, known as the Robin Hood
tax, as part of a package of austerity measures that aimed to
shore up investor confidence after government bond yields surged
to euro-area records on concern Italy might fall victim to the
region’s debt crisis. The cost of insuring Enel’s debt has risen
34 percent since the tax increase was announced.  Shares fell as much as 18.6 cents, or 5.2 percent, to 3.41
euros, the biggest drop in a month. The stock traded at 3.45
euros as of 11:36 a.m. in Milan. The company has a market value
of 32.3 billion euros.  Enel, which sells electricity to 61 million clients in 40
countries, has the highest dividend yield among  Europe ’s 25
largest utilities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Government Forcing’  “The government is forcing us not to transfer the costs to
clients and so they’re reducing our ability to invest and pay
dividends,” Conti said. While he said the company would likely
“drop some smaller investments,” he declined to estimate how
much the dividend could be cut.  Enel said in March it planned to invest 31 billion euros in
the next five years on grids and digital meters, renewable
energy, and  power plants  in  Russia , Slovakia and  Latin America .
The company proposed a dividend of 0.28 euros a share, a current
yield of 7.8 percent. The biggest beneficiary of payments is the
Italian state, which owns 31 percent of the utility.  “Conti is right to keep his eye on debt reduction because
that’s what the market wants, his strategy is correct and one
can see that he’s had experience as a CFO,” said Patrizio Pazzaglia, head of financial investments at Bank Insinger de
Beaufort NV in Rome, which holds Enel shares. “Enel’s dividend
is very attractive and would likely stay that way even with a
small reduction.”  Italy  Downgrades  Following downgrades of Italy by  Fitch Ratings ,  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service, many Italian state-owned
or controlled companies also received rating cuts. While Moody’s
did cut its  credit rating  on Enel, S&P affirmed the company’s A-
/A-2 credit rating on Sept. 21, assessing its link with Italian
sovereign debt “as limited.”  A stable rating is valued by companies because it limits
the cost of funding. Credit default swaps to insure Enel debt
for five years stand at 272 basis points, up from 202 basis
points on Aug. 8. That means it costs $272,000 a year to protect
$10 million of debt against default for five years. Credit swaps
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Enel had forecast a 32 percent increase in profit in the
next five years to 2015 with net ordinary income reaching 5.8
billion euros. Conti said it was too early to quantify the
precise impact of the tax on earnings, adding that geographic
diversification would help the company overcome the economic
difficulties in Europe.  “The company is showing strong resilience and 2011 numbers
will be good,” Conti said. “We’ll continue to extract good
 cash flow  and continue to seek efficiency by cutting costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  