-- 
China’s Lenovo Aims to Lead in World PC Market, CEO Says

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-10-13T11:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/lenovo-aims-to-be-leader-in-pc-market-yang-says.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  aims to become the
world’s biggest maker of personal-computers after it overtook
Dell Inc. to rank second in the industry last quarter, Chief
Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said.  “We will continue to outgrow the market,” Yang said in a
phone interview from Beijing today. Demand from Lenovo’s
corporate clients in the U.S. and Europe is “very strong,”
helping the Chinese company weather a weakness in the consumer
division, he said.  Lenovo acquired control of Medion AG and the PC division of
NEC Corp. last quarter to expand in Europe and Japan, as the
maker of ThinkPad laptops also bolstered sales in the U.S. and
China. The Chinese company ranks behind only  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
among PC makers globally, after shipments rose 25 percent last
quarter, helped by “aggressive marketing,” researcher Gartner
Inc. said today.  “If we can do the price cuts, it’s because we have more
efficient operations, and have more competitive products,” Yang
said. “It doesn’t mean we are sacrificing gross profit.”  Lenovo shares rose 2.3 percent to HK$5.39 in Hong Kong
trading today, the highest closing price since Dec. 10. The
stock has gained 8.2 percent this year, compared with a 19
percent drop in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Yang said Lenovo will consider making more acquisitions to
expand, and declined to discuss specific targets.  Lenovo increased its share of the global PC market to 13.5
percent last quarter from 11.1 percent a year earlier,
overtaking Dell, whose market share fell to 11.6 percent from
12.2 percent, according to Gartner. Hewlett-Packard rose to 17.7
percent from 17.3 percent, the research company said.  The Chinese company aims to become the leader in the world
PC market, Yang said without specifying a timeframe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  