-- 
Esprit Soars After Clarifying Store Numbers

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-10-13T03:35:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/esprit-soars-after-clarifying-store-numbers.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the biggest
Hong Kong-listed clothing retailer, gained the most in almost
three years after saying a magazine may have used outdated
figures in report the company overstated China store numbers.  The clothier climbed as much as 18 percent, the biggest
intraday jump since Dec. 8, 2008, to HK$12, before trading at
HK$11.72 as of 11:23 a.m. in Hong Kong. The gain trimmed the
company’s decline to 36 percent since the company announced in
September profit dropped 98 percent last fiscal year.  Esprit fluctuated this week in Hong Kong trading, gaining
12 percent on Oct. 11 after Lone Pine Capital LLC, a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based hedge fund, doubled its stake to 6.23 percent.
The shares plunged 7.5 percent yesterday after Next Magazine
reported the clothier’s website listed 30 outlets in Shanghai
and Shenzhen that either didn’t exist or couldn’t be reached.  “Esprit’s clarification should soothe market nerves
today,” Emma Liu and Anita Chu, analysts at Nomura
International ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., wrote in a note to clients.  Esprit said the number of outlets it disclosed with
earnings was accurate as of June 30, and that it updates the
website only occasionally and it knew of no other reason for its
stock to move, according to Hong Kong stock exchange filing
yesterday.  Website Update  “The Next article probably picked up the numbers from our
store finder on the website,” Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun said in a phone interview yesterday in Hong Kong. “That
website is only updated every so often, so it may not reflect
the current status.”  Profit plummeted last fiscal year on costs to close stores
and sell the North American operations as Esprit contends with
intensified competition.  The retailer that  started  in California more than 40 years
ago had 300 directly operated stores in  China  as of June 30, a
net increase of 12 from last year, it said in its annual report.
It had 712 franchises, 69 more than last year, bringing the
total outlets to 1,012.  Esprit plans to more than double sales in China, the
world’s most populous nation, in four years to make up for
declining demand in  Europe . In the year ended June, it had
HK$2.68 billion ($344 million) in revenue from China, its
fastest-growing market.  To contact the reporters on this story: Michelle Yun in Hong
Kong at   myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  