-- 
Ethiopia’s ‘Distorted’ Monetary Plan Needs Reform, IMF Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-13T08:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ethiopia-s-distorted-monetary-policy-needs-reform-imf-says.html
Ethiopia ’s “highly distorted”
monetary policy requires urgent reorganization because it is
stunting growth and undermining macroeconomic stability, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  The Horn of Africa country’s five-year economic-development
 plan  that starts in the fiscal year beginning July 8, 2010, and
targets annual growth of 11.2 percent is “very ambitious,” the
Washington-based lender said. The IMF projects output for the
period will range from 6 percent to 8 percent a year.  “The main concerns stem from heavy financing needs that
have not been secured, insufficient prioritization and the
limited role envisaged for the private sector,” the IMF said in
an e-mailed  report  today. “High and rising inflation and
entrenched negative real  interest rates  also threaten Ethiopia’s
macroeconomic stability.”  The coffee-producing nation’s commodity-dependent economy
grew 8 percent last year, versus 10 percent in 2010, the  fifth-
fastest  in sub-Saharan Africa after the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo, Zimbabwe,  Botswana  and  Nigeria , IMF data showed.  Expansion may slow to 6 percent in the fiscal year through
July 7, 2012, from an estimated 7.5 percent last year, because
of rising inflation, restrictions on private-bank lending and a
difficult business environment, the IMF said on May 31.  Unrealistic  Ethiopia’s goal to reduce inflation to less than 10
percent, from 40.1 percent in September, won’t be easily
achievable mainly because the central bank’s monetary policy is
unsuitable to tackle rising prices, the IMF said today.  “Single digit-inflation projections in the plan appear
unrealistic as long as a loose monetary policy and a heavy
dependence of public-sector financing on bank credit
continues,” the lender said.  The development plan envisions Ethiopia increasing crop
production, boosting infrastructure and improving electricity
generation to meet its growth goals.  Ethiopia plans to ramp up debt offerings to finance its
planned 5,250-megawatt Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, after
raising 7 billion birr ($407.5 million) in bond auctions in the
past six months, Communications Minister Bereket Simon said on
Sept. 27. The 80 billion-birr hydropower project to build
 Africa ’s biggest power plant is being funded domestically to
demonstrate how Ethiopia’s economy is reviving, Simon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  