-- 
EU Rules May Increase Appeal of Insurer Subordinated Bonds

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-10-14T11:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/eu-rules-may-increase-appeal-of-insurers-subordinated-bonds.html
European insurers, including  Axa SA (CS) 
and  Allianz SE (ALV) , may redeem subordinated bonds depressed by the
region’s debt crisis because they won’t qualify as core capital
under rules being introduced in 2013, investors say.  The price of Paris-based Axa’s 1 billion-euro ($1.38
billion) subordinated bond sold in 2006 fell to 71 cents on the
euro from 89 cents since the end of June. That makes this type
of debt an attractive investment, said Daniel Grieger, a partner
at Zurich-based Twelve Capital AG, adding that European insurers
have about 85 billion euros of such bonds outstanding.  “Most insurers will redeem their callable subordinated
bonds as they won’t qualify as core capital under the new
regulation,” said Grieger, who manages 100 million euros of the
notes. “Future redemption at par value offers a great
opportunity at current prices.”  The European Union will introduce  Solvency II  rules from
2013 in a bid to align insurers’ risks with capital to offer
more protection to policyholders. There may be a  transition
period  for bonds that won’t count as core capital under the new
regulations. Some notes sold by insurers such as Axa and
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  have slumped amid concern over
holdings of debt from peripheral EU countries.  “The market has once again over-estimated risk,” Rafael Villarreal, a credit analyst at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a note
to clients dated Oct. 7. “This mispricing of risk creates
opportunities.”  ‘Cherry-Picking Time’  The debt crisis has created uncertainty that has pushed up
yields on subordinated bonds issued by insurers to an average of
about 15 percent over the past few months, said Narciso Quijano,
head of fixed income investments at Munich-based BayernInvest.  “All subordinated bonds issued by European insurers,
especially the ones from France and  Italy , have come under
pressure,” he said. “It’s absolute cherry-picking time at the
moment for investors who understand the bonds’ documentation.”  Even if Solvency II leads to more redemptions, it won’t
mean insurers will follow some European banks in buying back
bonds before their call date, said Quijano.  “I wouldn’t expect lots of extraordinary buyback offers by
insurers at current prices in a way we’ve seen them with banks
as there is no comparable pressure on insurers to improve their
core capital figures,” he said.  In case of bankruptcy, subordinated bonds are only repaid
after policyholders and senior debt holders. Some notes also
allow the issuer to stop paying interest or reduce the principal
if the company’s solvency is threatened or if it’s unprofitable.  ‘Complex Asset’  “Subordinated bonds are a rather complex asset and
investors need to closely examine their prospectus,” said
Moritz Rehmann, who helps manage about $14 billion at DJE
Kapital AG in Munich. “Axa may be seen as more risky than other
European insurers due to its exposure to French banks.”  Axa, Europe’s second-biggest insurer after Allianz, held
10.4 billion euros of  government bonds  from Italy,  Spain ,
 Portugal , Ireland and  Greece , net of tax and policyholder
participation, the company  said  Aug. 4. About 49 percent of its
142 billion-euro corporate bond portfolio was invested in notes
issued by the financial industry, Axa said.  “We currently have no plan to buy back our debt,” a
spokesman from Axa said. Allianz declined to comment on future
plans regarding their subordinated bonds.  ‘Best Value’  “Given that Axa is not affected by the losses under most
scenarios, the recent widening seems greatly overdone and
provides some of the best value,” BNP’s Villarreal wrote.  European insurers have already started redeeming
subordinated bonds.  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer, yesterday
announced it will redeem 800 million euros of subordinated notes
on their Nov. 14 call date. The bonds were trading at 99.5 cents
on the euro the day before the announcement.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
insurer, exercised an option to buy back $1 billion in two
subordinated bonds in November at par value. The notes were
trading at about 92 cents on the euro before the buyback.  Munich-based Allianz redeemed $500 million of subordinated
bonds in May, paying back principal plus any interest accrued
until the redemption date. The notes were trading at 101.69
cents on the euro before the announcement.  More insurers may follow with redemptions of subordinated
debt as low  interest rates  mean that strategy can offer
attractive returns, said DJE Kapital’s Rehmann.  “As soon as there is more clarity on the final calibration
of Solvency II, redeeming subordinated bonds that don’t qualify
as core capital could be the next big thing for insurers in
 Europe ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  