-- 
European Banks Face Investor Boycott in Search for Capital

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-10-14T07:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/european-banks-face-shareholder-boycott-in-search-for-capital.html
Shareholders in European banks are
resisting calls to pump more capital into the industry, pressure
that may leave taxpayers as the investors of last resort.  European Union leaders are working on a plan that may force
banks to raise 100 billion euros ($137 billion) to more than 300
billion euros in additional capital, according to analysts’
estimates. That money would come either from existing investors
or state funding that may come with strings attached.  Schroders
Plc (SDR)  and Swisscanto Asset Management say they’re reluctant to
invest, given a failure to resolve the region’s fiscal crisis
may send financial stocks even lower.  “Banks need to regain investor confidence and show how
they can perform before they can raise capital,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage 52 billion Swiss francs ($58 billion)
at Zurich-based Swisscanto, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  shares.
“The market is waiting for a good solution to the sovereign-
debt problems.”  Banks receiving national or EU aid may face restrictions on
bonuses and dividends, according to  Jose Barroso , president of
the European Commission. Barroso this week joined German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in urging lenders to boost capital by
selling shares to private investors. Failing that, he called for
banks to be bailed out by governments or, if the state can’t
afford it, by the European Financial Stability Facility.  Plunging Stocks  The 46-member Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and Financial
Services Index has dropped 29 percent this year, paced by  Dexia
SA (DEXB) , the Franco-Belgian lender that’s being broken up after
concern over its holdings of Greek sovereign debt blocked its
access to short-term funding.  The declines have left banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
 Italy ’s biggest, with a market value that’s less than half of
the lender’s tangible book value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Association of German Banks panned Barroso’s demands,
saying dividend restrictions would cripple future fundraising.
Some investors and analysts criticize the plan, too, saying that
forcing banks to raise more capital doesn’t address the
underlying issue of investor confidence in sovereign debt.  ‘Not the Solution’  “Recapitalizing the banks is not the solution,” said
Justin Bisseker, who helps manage 205 billion pounds ($323
billion) as a European bank analyst in London for Schroders,
Britain’s largest independent money manager. “Sovereign risk is
the principal concern. Once investors’ confidence in sovereigns
returns, then confidence in the banks will follow.”  European leaders are expected to announce a plan to tackle
the crisis at a meeting of Group of 20 nations on Nov. 3.  According to a person familiar with the situation, the
European Banking Authority, the EU’s chief bank regulator, is
considering forcing institutions to “temporarily” bolster
their core Tier 1 capital ratios, a measure of financial
strength, to 9 percent.  At least 66 of  Europe ’s biggest banks would fail a revised
European Union stress test and need to raise an additional 220
billion euros, Credit Suisse analysts said yesterday.  Roger Francis, a bank analyst at Mizuho Securities in
London, said that figure could rise to 338 billion euros if
“strict haircuts” are applied on Greek bonds, meaning the debt
writedowns reflect their full loss of market value.  A 7.8 billion-euro five-year bond issued by  Greece  in 2007
trades at 45.3 cents on the euro, according to Bloomberg prices.  Yields Rise  “I would find it very difficult to recommend investors
participate in bank rights issues in these circumstances,”
Francis said in a telephone interview.  Yields on 10-year Greek bonds have almost doubled to 24
percent this year. Yields on Italian 10-year bonds are
approaching 6 percent, the level that prompted the  European
Central Bank  to begin buying the securities in July.  Costs to insure European bank debt against default has
risen 39 basis points in 2011, credit-default swap prices show.  “Even if you are deemed to be a good bank and not a basket
case, it’s going to be very hard to raise money,” said Francis Dallaire, an analyst at Pareto Ohman in  Stockholm . “It’s much
better to start by making sure the sovereigns are in OK shape.
Otherwise, it would take a huge amount of capital to ensure the
bank against a large euro country going into difficulty.”  Unlimited Cash  Slovakian lawmakers yesterday approved an expansion of the
EFSF to 440 billion euros. The EFSF, which was created last
year, is authorized to buy stressed euro nations’ bonds and
offer credit lines to governments, which can then aid banks.
Politicians are considering whether to increase the fund’s
firepower to 1 trillion euros using leverage.  The ECB last week reintroduced yearlong loans, giving banks
unlimited access to cash through January 2013. Banks are
increasingly tapping the ECB as short-term funding evaporates.  The case of Commerzbank AG may show how pumping in cash has
not raised confidence, according to Nicolas Walewski, who
manages 1.8 billion euros in European equities at Alken Asset
Management LLP in  London . Commerzbank shares have slid 41
percent since  Germany ’s second-biggest lender raised 5.3 billion
euros in a May share sale, hurt by tumbling profit and
writedowns of its Greek bond holdings.  “As long as they’re deleveraging, you want to stay out of
banks,” said Walewski, whose only bank holding is  Switzerland ’s
UBS AG. “There will be relief rallies along the way, but while
economies aren’t growing and banks aren’t lending, earnings will
suffer. Recapitalizing is irrelevant in this environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 