-- 
Euro Extends Biggest Weekly Advance Since January Before G-20; Yen Falls

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-14T21:06:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/euro-declines-versus-dollar-yen-after-s-p-cuts-spain-s-rating-one-level.html
The euro extended its biggest weekly
gain versus the dollar in more than two years on speculation
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis will be contained as Group of 20
finance ministers met to confront the region’s turmoil.  The yen fell against the dollar on bets Japanese
authorities will take steps to limit its gains. A gauge of the
dollar against the currencies of major U.S. trading partners
dropped to a four-week low as an increase in retail sales buoyed
stocks and reduced demand for a refuge. The euro rose versus the
dollar as Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said “Europe
is clearly” moving to a crisis solution.  “There’s a combination of better U.S. economic data and
some progress, at least discussion-wise, that the European
policy makers are heading in the right direction,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. “People were pricing in a meltdown two weeks
ago, and now you’re seeing a short-covering rally for a lot of
these” higher-yielding currencies. A short is a bet the price
of an asset will fall.  The euro rose 0.8 percent to $1.3882 at 5 p.m. in New York
and was poised for a 3.8 percent gain this week, the most since
March 2009. The shared European currency tumbled 7.7 percent in
the third quarter, the most since June 2010. The euro
appreciated 1.2 percent to 107.20 yen today after touching
107.45, the highest level since Sept. 9.  A $4.2 billion increase in  China ’s currency reserves in the
third quarter to $3.2 trillion was the smallest gain since 2000,
according to Bloomberg data.  China’s Holdings  Weakness in the euro last quarter pulled down the dollar
value of China’s holdings in that currency and capital outflows
may have also limited the gain, said Ding Shuang, an economist
in  Hong Kong  at Citigroup Inc. The yuan rose 0.1 percent to
6.3776 per dollar today in  Shanghai .  The U.S. Treasury Department said today it would delay its
twice-yearly report on global exchange-rate policies, including
China’s, until later this year.  The Treasury said the delay will “give us a chance to
assess progress following several international meetings,”
including this week’s G-20 finance ministers’ session in Paris,
a G-20 summit in November and meetings involving Asia-Pacific
finance ministers and leaders in November.  The Australian dollar advanced 1.5 percent to $1.0340,
extending this week’s gain to 5.9 percent as the annual rate of
inflation in China, the South Pacific nation’s biggest trading
partner, stayed above 6 percent.  Yen Versus Dollar  The yen slid 0.4 percent to 77.22 versus the dollar as Dow
Jones Newswires reported government officials said they would
take new steps against a strong yen as early as next week.  “This is a very direct response to people not wanting to
be too long yen going into the weekend in case there’s some real
meat in the talk of action early next week,” said  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York. A long is a bet an asset may gain in value.  Dow Jones reported the steps may include more funding to
encourage foreign mergers and acquisitions and won’t include a
tax on currency transactions.  The yen increased to a post-World War II high of 75.95
against the dollar in August, making  Japan ’s exports more
expensive, even after the government intervened in the  currency
market  for the third time in the past year, selling yen in an
effort to curb its appreciation.  Dollar Index  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, decreased today as much as 0.7 percent to 76.508, the
lowest level since Sept. 16, on reduced demand for a refuge in
the world’s main reserve currency.  U.S. retail sales increased 1.1 percent last month, the
most since February, after a revised 0.3 percent gain in August,
the Commerce Department reported today. The median forecast of
85 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an advance of
0.7 percent.  “This report is a game changer, following nonfarm
payrolls,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in
 New York  at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest
custodial bank, with more than $26 trillion in assets under
administration. “These two reports have had a significant
impact on  market psychology .”  Nonfarm payrolls increased by 103,000 last month after a
57,000 gain in August, the Labor Department said last week. The
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  Rally in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 1.7 percent today
on the gain in U.S. retail sales. Crude oil for November
delivery surged 3.2 percent to $87.30 a barrel.  The euro rose as G-20 and International Monetary officials
said the ministers meeting in Paris are working on a European
rescue plan including boosting the IMF’s lending resources.  European leaders may complete the rescue plan at an Oct. 23
summit to present to a meeting of G-20 leaders on Nov. 3-4. The
aim is to put together what the French and German governments
call a “durable” fix to the turmoil that has propelled  Greece 
to the edge of default and is roiling global markets.  “They’re talking about a much more comprehensive package,
a much more forceful package and measures of backstop for
sovereign governments and the preventive recapitalization of
banks,” Geithner said in an interview on CNBC today. “Those
are the kinds of things they need to do. Of course, the hard
part is still ahead.”  Euro’s Gain  Europe’s currency has strengthened 1.2 percent in the past
month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, which gauge the currencies of 10 developed nations. The
yen has fallen 0.8 percent.  Investors should sell the euro against the Canadian dollar,
betting the shared currency will weaken to C$1.3660, Standard
Bank Plc said.  The bank recommends entering a short position on the euro
at C$1.4030 with an initial target of C$1.3850,  Steven Barrow ,
head of Group of 10 currency strategy in  London  at  South
Africa ’s largest bank, wrote today in a note to clients. The
trade should be abandoned if the euro strengthens to C$1.4380,
he wrote. The euro dropped 0.3 percent to C$1.4019 today.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased bets that
the dollar will gain against the yen, euro, Australian dollar,
Swiss franc, Canadian dollar, pound, Mexican peso and  New
Zealand dollar . Net dollar long positions increased to 132,835
contracts in the week ended Oct. 11, figures from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission showed today. That’s the highest
level since June 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  