-- 
Europe Crisis Poses ‘Severe’ Risk to Asia: IMF

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-10-13T09:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/europe-crisis-poses-severe-risk-to-asia-imf.html
An escalation in  Europe ’s debt
crisis may trigger a selloff in Asian assets, force foreign
banks to cut lending to the region and disrupt its currency
markets, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Asia ’s growth has slowed since the second quarter of 2011,
the fund said in a report today, cutting its forecast for this
year’s expansion to 6.3 percent from an April estimate of 6.8
percent. Inflationary pressures across the region are still
“elevated” and financial conditions remain accommodative in
most of Asia, the IMF said.  “An escalation of euro area financial turbulence and a
renewed slowdown in the U.S. could have severe macroeconomic and
financial spillovers to Asia,” it said. “Since 2009, investors
from advanced economies have built up substantial positions in
Asian markets. A sudden liquidation of these positions could
trigger a loss of confidence, and contagion could spread from
bond and equity markets to currency and other markets.”  The risk of another global recession has prompted Asian
officials from China to  Indonesia  to shield growth by boosting
fiscal measures or easing borrowing costs. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of stocks slumped 16 percent last quarter, the
biggest drop since 2008, and the IMF said today the “panic
selloffs” in the region show there is “no place to hide” when
advanced nations are in turmoil.  Foreign banks may sell Asian assets, cut credit lines to
the region and avoid rolling over maturing loans if they face
large losses in their home markets, the IMF said.  Contagion  “Such cutbacks could have a sizable impact in Asian
economies that have large exposures to European and U.S.
banks,” the fund said. “Contagion could also occur through
Asian  currency markets , as long and carry-trade positions are
unwound. A loss of liquidity in cross-currency swap markets --as
in 2008 -- could be particularly disruptive and spill over to
bank funding, as many banks rely on this market to fund dollar
assets or to meet regulatory currency matching requirements,
notably in Korea and  Japan .”  There hasn’t been the same selloff in Asian assets than
during the financial crisis of 2008, Anoop Singh, director of
the IMF’s Asia-Pacific department, said in an interview in  Tokyo .  “It’s been the greatest in the equity side in some
countries, but as you look at these effects, compared with what
happened in 2008, our sense is it’s still less,” Singh said.
“Were the shocks from advanced economies to get worse, we will
possibly see further outflows. We can be fairly confident that
since Asia growth remains much more robust than advanced
economies, eventually capital will come back to Asia.”  Slowing Growth  Evidence of slowing growth is increasing in Asia as  China 
reported today exports rose the least in seven months in
September. The  Philippines  unveiled a 72 billion-peso
($1.7 billion) stimulus package yesterday as its officials cut
growth forecasts for 2011, while Indonesia’s central bank
unexpectedly lowered its benchmark interest rate this week for
the first time in more than two years.  Asian policy makers are faced with a “delicate balancing
act” to guard against risks to growth while limiting the impact
of inflation, the IMF said. Headline inflation may peak in the
second half of 2011 and ease “gradually” in 2012 even as it
remains above the mid-point target range in most countries.  The IMF said economic growth in the region may be 6.7
percent in 2012, lowering its April estimate of 6.9 percent.  Monetary Policy   “In economies where such overheating pressures remain high,
inflation remains above target, and inflation expectations have
continued to rise, such as in China,  India , and  Korea , the
current pace of monetary tightening remains appropriate,” the
fund said. “In economies where inflation is within target and
with greater vulnerability to a global slowdown, a pause in
monetary tightening may be warranted at the current juncture,
until the downside risks to growth abate.”  The region’s economies have scope to cushion the impact of
slowing expansion, it said. Policy makers should also allow more
flexible currencies to better manage capital flows, the fund
said.  “Allowing greater exchange rate appreciation in line with
fundamentals would also help manage existing inflationary
pressures in addition to helping rebalance economic growth in
many economies,” the IMF said. “Moreover, enhanced upward
exchange rate flexibility would reduce the perception of a one-
way bet and enable the region to better deal with capital
inflows that are likely to be attracted by favorable growth and
 interest rate  differentials.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  