-- 
Yen Gains as JPMorgan Profit Falls; Euro Slumps on ECB Outlook for Banks

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-13T21:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/euro-depreciates-from-five-week-high-against-yen-as-regional-stocks-fall.html
The yen rallied versus most of its
major counterparts as JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s profit fell and
European bank stocks dropped, spurring demand for a refuge in
Japan’s currency.  Currencies of commodity exporters slumped against the
dollar as  China ’s exports rose less than forecast and the
nation’s customs bureau warned of “severe” challenges. The
euro slid from the highest level in almost five weeks against
the yen after the  European Central Bank  said involvement of
private banks in bailouts would risk financial stability. The
17-nation currency erased its drop versus the dollar as U.S.
stocks reduced their decline.  “The terrible levels from China overnight and from stocks
being down in the U.S. and in Europe has helped the yen,” said
 John Doyle , a strategist at the  currency-trading  firm Tempus
Consulting Inc. in  Washington . “The euro-dollar cross is
tracking equities closely, and the little turnaround in the euro
comes from equities pushing up.”  The yen appreciated 0.6 percent to 105.95 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York after sliding yesterday to 107.05, the weakest
level since Sept. 9. The dollar was 0.1 percent stronger at
$1.3777 per euro after earlier gaining as much as 0.8 percent.
The yen advanced 0.5 percent to 76.90 per dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.3 percent after
earlier falling 1.4 percent as JPMorgan’s profit dropped on a
slump in earnings from investment banking and trading.  Canadian Dollar  Canada ’s currency declined 0.4 percent to C$1.0209 per  U.S.
dollar  as crude oil slid for a third day in New York. Signs of
weakening gasoline demand in America and slowing crude imports
in China stoked speculation that consumption will falter for the
world’s largest energy users.  Crude oil for November delivery decreased 0.6 percent to
$84.47 a barrel. The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw
materials fell for the first time in seven sessions, dropping
0.4 percent.  China’s customs bureau said exports increased a less than
forecast 17.1 percent in September from a year earlier. The
 trade surplus  was $14.51 billion, the smallest since May. Growth
in shipments to Europe, China’s biggest export market, slumped
to 9.8 percent, from 22 percent.  “The market wanted the China numbers to show stronger
external demand to lean more toward stabilization and less to
slowdown,” said  Jessica Hoversen , an analyst at the futures
broker MF Global Holdings Ltd. in  New York . “Economic
indicators are obviously pointing to a slowdown, and the market
is trying to assess whether we’re going back into recession or
are we muddling along.”  Stronger Won  South  Korea ’s won appreciated as much as 1 percent to a
three-week high of 1,153.58 per dollar as overseas investors
bought more of the nation’s shares than they sold.  The  Bank of Korea  left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 3.25 percent, a decision predicted by all 15
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The euro fell versus the dollar as the ECB said in its
monthly bulletin that while private-sector involvement “is
certain to place significant stress on the solvency of banks and
other private financial institutions in the country concerned,
it will also have an impact on the balance sheets of banks” in
other nations in the euro region.  Banking Losses  German banks are preparing for losses of as much as 60
percent on their Greek government debt, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  The 46-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services
index fell as much as 3.3 percent, extending this year’s drop to
29 percent as policy makers decide how to recapitalize banks.  “The fact that these bank stocks, in talks of massive
recapitalization, have been hit very hard today tells you that
nothing has been resolved and the euro does not have much upside
potential,” said  John McCarthy , managing director of currency
trading at ING Groep NV in New York.  At least 66 lenders would fail a revised European Union
stress test and need to raise about 220 billion euros ($302
billion) of capital in a rerun of the exercise that used a 9
percent core Tier 1 capital ratio rather than the 5 percent one
used in July, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said in a report.  The euro pared its drop versus the dollar as Slovakian
lawmakers voted 114 to 30 with three abstentions to support the
European Financial Stability Facility in the second attempt this
week after parliament failed to approve the measures Oct. 11.  Europe’s currency has fallen 3.6 percent over past 12
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track the currencies of 10 developed nations. The dollar
has weakened 1.1 percent and the yen has risen 5.4 percent.  Japan ’s currency tends to appreciate during economic and
financial turmoil because the nation’s current-account surplus
makes the nation less reliant on foreign capital. The dollar
benefits as the world’s main reserve currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  