-- 
Europe Risks ‘Japanese Scenario’ Amid Crisis, Denmark’s ATP Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-10-13T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/europe-risks-japanese-scenario-amid-crisis-denmark-s-atp-says.html
Europe  is heading for a “Japanese
scenario” with asset prices and  interest rates  falling as
economic growth remains subdued, according to ATP, Denmark’s
biggest pension fund.  “The risk that we’re moving toward a Japanese scenario is
increasing as deleveraging curbs economic activity, asset prices
and interest rates,” ATP Chief Investment Officer Henrik Jepsen
said in an interview. “We can’t rule out a deep recession and
on the other hand we cannot rule out the chance of politicians
suddenly coming up with a solution to the debt crisis. But it’s
probably most likely that we will avoid the worst and keep
bumping down the road in a low-growth scenario.”  The 711 billion-krone ($130 billion) fund altered its
allocations this year to safeguard investments, cutting riskier
bets in all asset classes, including commodities,  government
bonds  and equities, he said. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index tumbled 26 percent from this year’s high in February
through Sept. 22 amid growing concern the sovereign debt crisis
is derailing the economic recovery.  “Europe is the decisive factor,” Jepsen said. “A
recession in the U.S. or a hard landing in  China  are both bad,
but there are more elements to the European crisis, including
securing the trust in the financial system and preventing
spillovers.”  German, French Pledge  As the crisis continues to engulf the euro region and
threatens its banks, German and French leaders pledged on Oct. 9
to devise a plan to recapitalize lenders, help  Greece  and
strengthen economic governance. German chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
after meeting French President Nicholas Sarkozy, said Europe
will do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks have
enough capital.  The value of pension commitments at ATP, the second-biggest
Nordic investor after the $553 billion Norwegian Government
Pension Fund Global, rise by 74 billion kroner for every 1
percentage-point drop in Danish swap rates, Jepsen said. The
two-year swap rate fell to 1.58 percent from 2.68 percent in
April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An increase in commitments reduces the fund’s liquidity and
underscores the need to buy options as insurance. ATP uses
options to protect against losses on oil, commodities and
equities and prefers to purchase contracts with a duration of 12
months to 18 months with strike prices about 25 percent below
the current market price, Jepsen said.  Gains on Commodities  The pension fund made a pretax return of 11.3 billion
kroner on its 388 billion-krone markets portfolio in the first
half, down from 15.2 billion kroner a year earlier, as earnings
were helped by gains on commodities and the fund’s holdings of
German and Danish government bonds.  ATP covers all wage earners in  Denmark  and is funded by
contributions paid by employers and workers. It reworked swap
agreements to exclude the use of bonds sold by  France ,  Italy  and
other southern European governments as collateral against equity
derivatives, interest-rate swaps and  repurchase agreements , or
repos, Chief Executive Officer Lars Rohde said last week.  “We’re in the middle of the third ‘100-year storm’ during
my 12 years at ATP,” Jepsen said, referring to events
considered to be rare such as the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. or the dot-com bubble. “A lot of things people
never expected to happen actually happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  