-- 
Europeans Won’t Let Italy Default, DBRS Chairman Schroeder Says

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-10-13T18:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/europeans-won-t-let-italy-default-dbrs-chairman-schroeder-says.html
European Union leaders are
determined to support  Italy  even if they let  Greece  default on
its debt, said Walter Schroeder, chairman of Toronto-based
credit-ratings company DBRS Ltd.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  called today for a
confidence vote in parliament to prove he has enough support to
rule after failing to muster a majority on a legislative ballot
this week. The prime minister is struggling to convince
investors he can cut  Europe ’s second-biggest debt load. Italy
has been downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings in the past month even after approving
54 billion euros ($74.4 billion) in austerity measures.  “They’re not going to allow Italy to fail,” Schroeder
said at a presentation to investors in Montreal yesterday.
“Whatever has to be done will be done. They’re not going to
allow  France  or any of other country like  Spain  to fail. They
are going to create whatever currency, do whatever they have to
do. They will rescue these countries. They can’t afford to let
them go.”  German banks are preparing for losses of as much as 60
percent on their Greek government debt holdings as European
officials push for more private-investor involvement in a rescue
of the debt-stricken country, people with knowledge of the
matter said today. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said that talks are
under way on the cost to investors of a second bailout package
for Greece.  Ratings Risk  “In the case of the big sovereigns, there may be a
restructuring in Greece, with a haircut of 50 cents,” Schroeder
said. DBRS doesn’t rate Greece and rates Italy as investment
grade at AA (Low).  Euro zone countries today account for as much as 95 percent
of all risks to ratings because of the potential consequences of
sovereign defaults on global banks, Schroeder said.  “The biggest risk is Europe and the euro,” he said. “I
think the  European Central Bank  is going to help out, it’s a
matter of time. What they need is a good crisis, but they
haven’t reached it yet. That will probably happen eventually,
and I am sure they will do the right thing.”  DBRS isn’t planning to cut its ratings on European
sovereign governments because some countries have already
announced measures to cut spending and rein in deficits,
Schroeder said. On Aug. 17, DBRS cut Ireland’s long-term foreign
and local currency debt was downgraded to A (Low) from A because
of deteriorating growth prospects for the nation’s economy.  “Our philosophy is: cut if there’s a structural problem,
confirm if it’s cyclical,” Schroeder said. “We’re not going to
cut excessively for short-term aberrations. We’ve been holding
our rating on some of the European countries on the basis that
steps are being taken and they are on the road to recovery in
some cases. It’s going to take maybe two, three or four years
but we are reluctant to cut just for headline news.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  