-- 
Ex-Brocade Chief Reyes Has Conviction for Backdating Upheld During Appeal

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-10-13T18:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ex-brocade-chief-reyes-conviction-for-stock-options-backdating-is-upheld.html
Greg Reyes, the former chief
executive officer of  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) , lost a
bid to reverse his conviction for backdating employee stock-
option grants and hiding the practice from auditors and
investors.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San Francisco today upheld the
18-month prison sentence and $15 million fine imposed after his
second criminal trial. Reyes’ first conviction was thrown out by
the same appeals court in 2009 because of prosecutorial
misconduct.  The three-judge appeals panel said that it found no
misconduct in the second trial and that there was sufficient
evidence that the backdating was material to investors. Reyes,
49, argued that prosecutors had falsely alleged that he granted
himself backdated  stock options  and had made other mistakes at
trial.  Seth Waxman, Reyes’s attorney, didn’t immediately return a
message seeking comment on the ruling.  In 2007, Reyes was the first chief executive convicted by
a jury in a broad government crackdown on options backdating.
Hiding the backdated stock grants inflated the  San Jose ,
California-based company’s shares because the costs associated
with the grants weren’t reported to shareholders or regulators,
prosecutors said.  Brocade investors lost as much as $197.8 million in 2005
when they sold shares that had fallen in value after the
practice was uncovered and the company restated financial
results, prosecutors said in court filings.  Grant Dates  Stock options allow holders to buy shares at a later date,
usually at the trading price on the day they were granted.
Through backdating, companies change the grant date to a day
with a lower stock price, giving recipients built-in profits.
Unless disclosed and recorded as an expense, the practice is
illegal because it hides costs from shareholders and regulators.  Brocade’s former human-resources manager, Stephanie Jensen,
was convicted of helping Reyes backdate options and was
sentenced to two months in prison. The company paid a $7 million
fine to resolve a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
lawsuit over backdating and $160 million to settle securities-
fraud claims by shareholders.  Reyes was ousted from Brocade, a maker of switches for
data-storage systems, in 2005.  The case is U.S. v. Reyes, 10-10323, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  