-- 
Ex-Bundesbank’s Weber Warns Debt Challenges Range Beyond Europe

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-10-13T00:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ex-bundesbank-s-weber-warns-debt-challenges-range-beyond-europe.html
Axel Weber , the former president of
 Germany ’s central bank, said heavily indebted countries outside
 Europe  that run deficits are in danger of facing surging
borrowing costs.  “No high-debt deficit country should feel safe,” Weber,
54, said today at Princeton University in  New Jersey . “Don’t
rest assured, and look over the Atlantic and say it’s a European
problem. It’s a global problem.”  Countries with high debt levels and annual budget
shortfalls including the U.S. should not have a “wrong sense of
security” about the ability to roll over bonds as they come due,
said Weber, who in February unexpectedly announced he would
resign from the Bundesbank and as a European Central Bank policy
maker.  “The bond markets are feeble animals -- they may just, at
some point, turn on you,” he said in a lecture to a crowd of
about 150 in an auditorium at  Princeton University ’s Woodrow
Wilson School of Public and International Affairs.  In Europe, policy makers are trapped by shorter-maturity
bonds that need to be reissued as investor appetite for the
region’s debt drops, Weber said.  “The amount they need to roll, like an avalanche or a
snowball you run down the hill, is becoming larger as the market
conditions deteriorate,” he said. Policy makers should work to
restructure Greek debt and prepare to recapitalize the region’s
banks, he said.  Lack of Acceptance  Weber said in February that a lack of “acceptance” among
euro-area leaders for his views on monetary policy caused him to
give up on becoming the next chief of the ECB. Mario Draghi,
head of  Italy ’s central bank, will succeed Jean-Claude Trichet
as ECB president on Nov. 1.  Weber is scheduled to become chairman of  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Switzerland’s largest bank. He is currently a visiting professor
of economics at the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business.  European Commission President Jose Barroso today called for
a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth loan
to  Greece  and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund to
master Europe’s debt woes.  An Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders looms as a deadline for a
breakthrough in combating the crisis, which has driven Greece
toward default, rattled world markets and dented confidence in
the survival of the 17-nation group that shares the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in Princeton via 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  