-- 
Perry’s Texas Had Highest Uninsured Rate, Census Data Show

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-13T21:18:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/texas-under-perry-registered-highest-uninsured-rate-in-u-s-census-says.html
Texans under Governor  Rick Perry 
were more likely to lack health insurance than residents of any
other state in 2009, U.S. census data released today show.  The survey found that 26.3 percent of people under age 65
in the state lacked insurance, 1.4 percentage points higher than
second-ranked  Florida .  Perry, who is seeking the Republican presidential
nomination, was criticized for his health policies by former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney during a debate on Oct. 11
sponsored by Bloomberg News and the Washington Post.
Massachusetts, where Romney enacted a law in 2006 requiring most
residents to obtain insurance, had the nation’s lowest rate of
uninsured residents at 4.9 percent, the census found.  “You have a million kids uninsured in Texas,” Romney told
Perry, in response to a question from Perry about the
 Massachusetts  law. “Under President Bush, the percentage
uninsured went down. Under your leadership, it’s gone up.”  Texas had 1.2 million  children  without insurance, more than
any other state, the data show. The percentage of Texans lacking
insurance has increased by 2.2 points since Perry took office in
2000, according to separate, historical census data.  Perry didn’t respond during the debate, according to a
transcript. A spokesman for his campaign, Mark Miner, didn’t
reply to an e-mail and a phone message seeking comment. A Romney
spokeswoman, Gail Gitcho, didn’t immediately comment in an e-
mail.  The census reported figures on health insurance coverage
for U.S. counties. Eight of the 10 counties with the highest
percentage of uninsured people were in  Texas , led by  Hudspeth 
County in West Texas, at the Mexican border, where 42.8 percent
of residents lack coverage.  About 80 percent of the rural county’s 3,476 residents were
Hispanic or Latino, according to the most recent census figures,
and 30 percent were beneath the poverty level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  