-- 
FirstEnergy Falls After Report of Nuclear Reactor Cracks

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-10-13T23:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/firstenergy-falls-after-report-of-nuclear-reactor-cracks-1-.html
FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  fell after a
report that engineers discovered cracks in the concrete shell of
its Davis-Besse nuclear plant.  FirstEnergy fell 2.8 percent to $43.76 at the close in New
York. The Akron, Ohio-based power company had earlier dropped 5
percent, its biggest intraday decline since Aug. 8, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Contractors on Oct. 10 discovered a hairline crack
measuring about 30 feet (9.1 meters) long as they sliced a hole
into the plant’s outer shell in order to install a new reactor
vessel head, said Jennifer Young, a FirstEnergy spokeswoman.  The damaged structure poses no safety hazard to Davis-
Besse, located 21 miles (34 kilometers) southeast of Toledo,
Young said. The cracked shell is the outermost of several layers
of steel and concrete that protect the reactor, which has been
shut down since Oct. 1 in preparation for the repair work.  “We’ll take any actions necessary to confirm the integrity
of the structure prior to restart,” Young said in a telephone
interview.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission is investigating the
structural damage to the concrete building that protects the
reactor from tornadoes and other hazards, said Viktoria Mitlyng,
spokeswoman for the nuclear agency, in a telephone interview.  Previous Problems  Davis-Besse was shuttered for more than three months in
2010 after workers discovered cooling water leaking through
cracks in some reactor-head nozzles, steel casings that hold
fuel and control rods.  Leaks and reactor corrosion prompted FirstEnergy to close
the plant for two years, from 2002 to 2004, while the company
retrained or replaced workers who ignored signs of damage, and
eventually replaced the reactor head.  The leaks found last year at the 900-megawatt plant
prompted the Union of Concerned Scientists in April 2010 to
demand that the plant remain closed until its owners established
better controls to maintain health and safety standards.  Repairing Davis-Besse should be less complicated than
fixing Progress Energy’s Crystal River plant, whose unit #3 has
been shut since 2009 because of concrete delamination, said
Michael Worms, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in  New York , in
a research note today.  “We believe the crack issues could be resolved relatively
quickly and should not affect the long-term outlook for the
company,” Worms said.  The Ohio plant’s outer shell lies 4.5 feet away from the
pressure containment building, made of 1.5-inch-thick steel,
which houses the reactor. Crystal River’s pressure containment
structure is connected to the damaged shell, Worms said.  Repairing Crystal River is expected to cost between $900
million and $1.3 billion, Progress said in a June 27 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  