-- 
First Mexican Trucking Permit Delayed by U.S. on Safety Concerns

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-10-13T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/first-mexican-trucking-permit-delayed-by-u-s-on-safety-concerns.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
is delaying the first permit for a Mexican trucking company to
start cross-border operations, citing safety questions raised in
public comments.  Grupo Behr de Baja California SA de CV, which passed a
preliminary Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
inspection Sept. 12, won’t be able to drive in the U.S. until
regulators review objections of the Owner-Operator Independent
Drivers Association, Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety and
the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the agency said in a
Federal Register notice to be published tomorrow.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration in March agreed to
allow Mexican trucks full access to the U.S. market as part of a
deal to end $2.4 billion worth of tariffs on U.S. goods that
Mexico imposed in 2009. The dispute dates to the signing of the
 North American Free Trade Agreement , which took effect in 1994.  Mexico agreed to roll back half the tariffs when a cross-
border trucking plan was signed. The rest is to be lifted when
the first Mexican company receives authorization to operate in
the U.S.  “The department’s lack of homework is catching up with
them,”  Todd Spencer , executive vice president of the Grain
Valley, Missouri-based owner-operators association, said in an
e-mail. “They still seem determined to move ahead with the
program regardless of the facts associated with those who have
applied to participate.”  Second Carrier  Advocates, a Washington-based watchdog group, and the
Teamsters cited FMCSA data showing that Grupo Behr had a higher-
than-average incidence of its vehicles being ordered off the
road. The company had 40 vehicle violations in two years,
Advocates said. The owner-operators said Grupo Behr’s
inspections indicated a lack of systemic maintenance.  The second carrier to get preliminary approval, Transportes
Olympic de  Mexico  S de RL de CV, meets U.S. requirements and
will receive authority to cross the border, the FMCSA said.  Transportes Olympics is owned by an individual who owns two
U.S.-based companies with documented driver-fitness violations,
the owner-operators said. A large number were related to lack of
fluency in English, and drivers in the pilot program will be
tested for language proficiency, the FMCSA said.  “The Federal Register notice speaks for itself,” Candice Tolliver, a FMCSA spokeswoman, said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  