-- 
Foreign Banks in Romania Must Add Capital, Central Bank Says

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-10-13T08:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/foreign-banks-in-romania-must-add-capital-central-bank-says.html
International banks operating in
 Romania  will need to inject more capital into their units to
weather market turmoil as the local industry heads for a second
consecutive year of losses, said Nicolae Cinteza, the central
bank’s supervision chief.  Foreign banks have brought 850 million lei ($271 million)
into Romania this year as they grapple with rising bad-loans,
low demand for new credits and high market volatility.  “All the banks, especially the Greek ones, must be
prepared to face contagion, even though they are well
capitalized right now. It’s a matter of credibility,” Cinteza
said in an interview. “If one of the parent banks has problems,
the Romanian units can be affected, that’s why we advise them to
have strong cash reserves.”  Romania’s banking industry posted a combined loss of 516
million lei last year as 22 of the 42 banks in the country were
unprofitable, central bank data show. Bad-loans accounted for
13.6 percent of total lending at the end of August, central bank
Deputy Governor Cristian Popa said on Oct. 5.  The central bank has asked Greek banks’ local units to
maintain “adequate liquidity” as protection against a possible
sovereign Greek default, while some Greek-owned lenders in the
country also needed capital hikes, according to Cinteza.  “We have our scenario regarding the impact of a Greek
default on the Romanian banking system, but we cannot disclose
it,” Cinteza said. There haven’t been any “significant capital
outflows” from the country this year, he said.  Inflows Peaked  The amount of money being brought into the country to
strengthen the banks is down from about $786 million last year
as bad loans accelerated.  Romania’s banking industry is dominated by Austrian
lenders, which control about 39 percent of the market, followed
by Greek banks with 15.5 percent and French lenders with more
than 10 percent, according to central bank data. Erste’s BCR is
the country’s largest lender by assets, followed by  BRD-Groupe
Societe Generale (BRD)  SA.  Alpha Bank AE (ALPHA)  has to date injected about 50 million euros
($69 million) into its Romanian subsidiary, the unit’s Chief
Executive Officer, Sergiu Oprescu said in an interview.  “We just completed a significant capital increase and we
don’t think we will need another one anytime soon,” Oprescu
said. “The situation in  Greece  has had no impact on our
business so far. Still, growing non-performing loans are the
biggest problem in Romania right now.”  ‘Strong Liquidity’  Alpha Bank Romania SA has a “strong liquidity position”
and doesn’t need to borrow money from the central bank,
according to Oprescu.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  said yesterday it plans to boost
capital at its Banca Comerciala Romana SA by as much as 618
million lei, pending shareholders approval on Nov. 14, while
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  will inject as much as 200
million euros in the Romanian unit.  As an industry, Romanian banks remain adequately
capitalized and passed the latest  stress test  against loan
losses carried out by the central bank in the first half of the
year, according to a central bank report.  The Financial Stability Report showed the lenders’ solvency
ratios would remain above the minimum requirements of 10 percent
in a worst-case scenario.  The banks’ solvency ratios and the core Tier-1 capital
ratios would drop 3.5 percentage points at most in a worst-case
scenario from 14.2 percent at the end of June and a Tier-1 ratio
of 13.6 percent, the Bucharest-based central bank said in its
2011  Financial Stability Report .  Policy makers expanded the list of assets they accept as
collateral in open-market operations, and said in September they
will accept euro-denominated bonds issued by Romania on
international markets and leu-denominated bonds issued by global
financial institutions, starting this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  