-- 
Pinault’s Artemis to Settle AIG Suit for $62.5 Million

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-10-13T20:57:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/francois-pinault-s-artemis-to-settle-aig-suit-for-62-5-million.html
French billionaire  Francois Pinault ’s holding company Artemis SA agreed to pay  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s SunAmerica unit $62.5 million to
settle a lawsuit over an investment in a California insurer.  AIG Retirement Services, as SunAmerica is now known, and
Artemis yesterday filed a request for U.S. District Judge John Walter in Los Angeles to approve the settlement, The other
defendants in the case, Credit Lyonnais SA and MAAF Assurances
SA, already settled with AIG.  With the Artemis settlement, AIG’s total recovery from the
lawsuit is $236.5 million.  “We’re very pleased to have resolved this matter
amicably,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, said
today in a phone interview. The case was scheduled for trial
Oct. 18.  The AIG unit sued a group of French companies including
Artemis in 2005, alleging that it was defrauded when it bought a
33 percent stake in New  California  Holdings Inc. because it
didn’t know that the French owners, a group led by MAAF
Assurances, were a front for Credit Lyonnais. At the time, the
French bank couldn’t own an insurer under U.S. law.  New California was the restructured successor of Executive
Life, which was taken over by the state of California after it
had become insolvent and was later sold to the MAAF group.
 France , on behalf of Credit Lyonnais, paid $600 million to
settle claims the bank misled regulators by not disclosing it
was the true owner of Executive Life.  Junk-Bond Portfolio  Artemis in 1992 agreed to buy part of Executive Life’s
junk-bond portfolio from the French group as well as a
controlling stake in the insurance business a few years later.  Pinault’s holding company, whose other investments include
auction house Christie’s International and retailer and luxury-
goods maker PPR SA, is still a defendant in a lawsuit by the
California Insurance Commissioner over the company’s role in the
Executive Life transactions.  Alan Salpeter, a lawyer representing Artemis, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the AIG settlement.  The case is AIG Retirement Services v. Altus Finance, 05-
1035, U.S. District Court, Central District of California ( Los
Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 