-- 
Free-Trade Deals With Korea, Colombia, Panama Pass U.S. Congress

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-10-13T00:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/free-trade-agreements-pass-u-s-congress.html
Congress cleared legislation for
U.S. free-trade agreements with  South Korea , Colombia and Panama
that lawmakers said will boost U.S. exports by about $13
billion. The measures now go to the president.  “These free-trade agreements will give our economy a much-
needed shot in the arm and create tens of thousands of American
jobs,” Senator  Max Baucus , the Montana Democrat who leads the
Senate Finance Committee, said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Passage of these agreements today is a significant victory for
American workers and businesses, and will help create jobs here
at home.”  The accords, reached under President  George W. Bush  and
revised by the Obama administration, were stymied in a stalemate
with Republicans over aid for workers who lose their jobs to
foreign competition. President  Barack Obama  submitted
legislation on Oct. 3 after House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, said he would consider the worker assistance in
tandem with the trade deals. The House voted 307-122 to pass the
worker-aid legislation.  “We want America to compete and win, and today’s action
shows our friends and allies around the world that America is
leading again by resurrecting a robust trade agenda,”
Representative  Dave Camp , the Michigan Republican who leads the
House Ways and Means Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.  The House and Senate passed the agreements as South Korean
President Lee Myung-bak visited Washington. Lee, who is to
address Congress tomorrow, said the trade accord will create
“good, decent jobs” that will help spur both economies.  Colombia  Opposition  The Senate voted 83-15 for the South Korea agreement, 77-22
on the Panama accord, and 66-33 on Colombia. The House voted
278-151 for the South Korea agreement, 300-129 for the Panama
deal and 262-167 to pass legislation on the Colombia accord. The
trade legislation now goes to Obama for his signature.  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the North American
Free Trade Agreement, would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year.  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest federation of labor unions and a frequent Democratic
ally, had urged lawmakers to oppose the Colombia deal, saying
the nation remains the world’s most dangerous for workers.
Fifty-one Colombian union members were killed last year, up from
47 in 2009, according to the National Union School, a labor-
rights organization based in Medellin, Colombia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  