-- 
Socialist Finalists Hollande, Aubry Seek Increased State Control of Banks

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-13T07:16:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/french-socialist-finalists-seek-greater-state-control-of-banks.html
The two finalists in the battle for
the  Socialist Party ’s nomination in the French presidential vote
said the state must take greater control of banks and called for
increased regulation of global financial transactions.  In their last televised debate  late yesterday  before the
party’s nomination vote on Oct. 16,  Francois Hollande  and
 Martine Aubry  said the country’s banks should be under state
guardianship. The winner will take on President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
who has yet to declare his intention to seek a second term, in
May 2012.  The finalists’ hardening stance shows they are endorsing
demands by Arnaud Montebourg, who came in third in the first
round of the nomination vote on Oct. 9 and whose support they
need. Montebourg, who advocates “de-globalization,” has called
for a move toward re-nationalizing French banks and for
increased financial regulation. He sent Hollande and Aubry a
letter dated Oct. 10 asking them to take his demands on board.  Hollande said also yesterday that he sees a Greek default
before the end of the year. Aubry said “the banks must pay”
for their Greek investments. Both called for increased global
regulations and barriers to trade if countries including  China 
don’t respect commercial and environmental rules.  Hollande, the former head of the Socialist Party, is
leading the race. Segolene Royal, the French 2007 Socialist
presidential candidate, called on her supporters yesterday to
vote for Hollande in the second round. Montebourg may reveal
today which of the two candidates he supports.  A poll for  Le Figaro  released Oct. 11 showed 54 percent of
voters who’ll participate in the primaries plan to choose
Hollande, compared with 46 percent for Aubry. The survey was
conducted by Paris-based OpinionWay institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  