-- 
Gasoline Cargoes to U.S. Poised to Advance by 45% on Refinery Maintenance

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-10-13T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/gasoline-cargoes-to-u-s-poised-to-advance-by-45-on-refinery-maintenance.html
Gasoline shipments from  Europe 
across the Atlantic Ocean will increase over the next two weeks
as U.S. refineries remain in a maintenance period, curbing
gasoline production.  Twenty-nine tankers were booked or are due to be chartered
for loading in the period, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of five shipbrokers, one owner and two
traders yesterday. That’s nine more cargoes than last week,
previous survey data show.  “In the U.S., the fluid catalytic cracking units at
several refineries are out of commission” while continued
gasoline exports from the U.S. Gulf to  Latin America  are also
diverting supplies from the East Coast,  Roy Jordan , a London-
based research associate for FACTS Global Energy, said today by
phone.  U.S. refineries step up maintenance during the first weeks
of October to get ready for more production of winter fuel.
Refinery utilization rates decreased to 87.7 percent by the end
of September, after jumping to a year-high in the third week of
August, according to data from the U.S.  Department of Energy .  Of the 29 vessels, known in the industry as medium-range
tankers, 14 have already been booked and 15 will probably be
hired, according to the survey. They will be able to carry about
9.1 million barrels of gasoline, or 651,000 barrels a day over
the next two weeks. The rate is about 78 percent of the daily
838,000 barrels the Department of Energy said the U.S. imported
over the past 12 months.  Ample Available Ships  The auto fuel for November delivery decreased 1.1 percent
to $2.7173 a gallon by 3:13 p.m. London time on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The October forward contract for the
Northwest Europe to U.S. East Coast freight route declined 7
percent yesterday to $6,745.54, according to data from Marex
Spectron.  “We heard there were about 13-14 ships that might be
booked but there were ample available ships to absorb the
increased activity,” Ben Goggin, a freight-derivatives broker
at SSY Futures Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail.  There are 28 vessels likely to be available to carry trans-
Atlantic gasoline cargoes, four less than last week, the survey
showed. Daily rental income for tankers carrying gasoline across
the Atlantic decreased 2.8 percent yesterday to $7,021,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London. That’s more than
double earnings of $2,493 owners were making a month earlier,
according to the exchange.  U.S. East Coast  The survey is based on so-called single-voyage, or spot,
charters and excludes loadings under longer-term contracts. It
assumes shipments to the U.S. East Coast from northwestern
Europe. Each tanker would normally haul about 37,000 tons of
cargo, or 315,000 barrels.  Charter rates on the route increased 0.1 percent to 151.04
industry-standard Worldscale points yesterday, according to the
exchange. The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  