-- 
Geithner in Paris Will Tell European Counterparts to Move Fast

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/geithner-in-paris-will-tell-european-counterparts-to-move-fast.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will increase pressure this week on his European
counterparts to act forcefully amid U.S. concern that the
continent’s debt crisis is hurting the global economy.  “The consequences of delay are growing,”  Lael Brainard ,
Treasury undersecretary for international affairs, said in a
press briefing in Washington yesterday. “Against a backdrop of
elevated risks to the recovery, the  United States  will intensify
our call for resolute action.”  Geithner, 50, will attend the Group of 20 finance ministers
meeting starting tomorrow in Paris. The crisis has pushed Greece
to the brink of default, shaken world markets and fueled
speculation the 17-nation euro currency might not survive in its
current form.  Geithner told Bloomberg Television Oct. 11 that “the
Europeans recognize that they have to put in place a much more
substantial, much more powerful response if they’re going to
achieve their objectives, which is helping countries reform.”  This will be Geithner’s third trip to  Europe  in five weeks
to consult his counterparts. He has not publicly specified any
plan for the euro area.  Europe “presents the most serious risk to the global
recovery,” Brainard, the department’s top-ranking international
official, said during yesterday’s briefing. “We in the United
States have a very significant stake. Europe’s strength and
stability matter greatly to the confidence of our own consumers
and financial markets, and to our recovery.”  European Rebuff  The Treasury secretary’s trip to Poland last month ended
with European counterparts rebuffing his suggestions and taking
shots at U.S. economic woes.  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said then that “the
situation would be better if the U.S. could show a sustainable
way forward.” Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said she
thought it was “peculiar that the Americans, although they
themselves have significantly worse fundamental data than the
euro area, explain to us what we should do.”  German and French leaders pledged at a meeting Oct. 9 to
devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help  Greece  and strengthen
Europe’s economic governance. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
after meeting French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , said Europe will
do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks have enough
capital.  Window Money  “U.S. authorities are concerned that the Europeans have
not put enough money in the window, in some sense, to convince
the markets,” Edwin M. Truman, a former assistant Treasury
secretary who’s now a senior fellow with the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in Washington, said in an interview.  The European Union’s top banking regulator has discussed
plans to require banks to maintain a capital benchmark of 9
percent following a review of their reserve levels, according to
a person familiar with the talks.  That figure would be a benchmark for assessing whether
lenders have enough capital to withstand sovereign-debt
writedowns in the wake of the crisis, said the person, who
couldn’t be identified because the talks are private. The
European Banking Authority discussed the possible 9 percent
threshold at a meeting of its supervisory board in  London  last
week, the person said.  Recapitalize Banks  U.S. officials are likely to maintain their message that
Europe needs “to recapitalize their banks or impose losses on
private investors,” said  Phillip Swagel , who was an assistant
Treasury secretary for economic policy in the George W. Bush
administration. “The longer they wait, the more uncertainty
there will be.”  European governments “want to send a message to their
countries that ‘we can handle this, we don’t need anyone telling
us what to do,’” said Paul Pilecki, a partner at law firm
Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP in Washington.  Still, Geithner can’t “change his tack,” said Pilecki,
who represents banks on regulatory matters. “He has to be
persistent about what he thinks needs to be done.”  At the meeting last month of European Union finance chiefs
and central bankers in Wroclaw,  Poland , Geithner urged European
leaders to set aside their differences to excise “catastrophic
risks” from the markets.  He also floated a variation of a 2008 policy he developed
while president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  to
expand the reach of Europe’s bailout fund that would use
leverage in a partnership between euro governments and the
central bank, according to Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan .  “My experience largely has been they welcome both the
support we’re giving them and they welcome the advice,”
Geithner said Oct. 5. “Although they like to remind people that
the U.S. has a lot of challenges to do, and no one feels that
more strongly than we do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  