-- 
German Institutes Cut 2012 Forecast, See No Recession

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-13T10:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/german-institutes-cut-2012-forecast-see-no-double-dip-recession.html
Germany ’s top economic institutes
cut their 2012 forecast for growth by more than half as the
spiraling debt crisis weighs on banks and spending, though they
said  Europe ’s largest economy will probably avoid recession.  German economic growth will slow to 0.8 percent next year
from 2.9 percent in 2011, according to a bi-annual independent
report commissioned by the German government. In April, the
group forecast 2 percent economic growth for 2012.  “Strongly intensified uncertainty will dampen consumption
and investment -- and exports will offer no more positive
impulses because of the difficult situation among several
important trade partners,” the group said in its report
published in Berlin today.  Any worsening of the European debt crisis spurred by a
collapse in confidence in financial markets and a lack of
political changes in countries such as Italy would have
“massive negative effects” on the euro area and Germany, the
group said. Still, the institutes said they “don’t expect it to
come to this.”  Germany’s budget deficit will narrow to 0.9 percent of
gross domestic product on a nominal basis this year, meeting the
euro area’s fiscal rules for the first time since 2008 on the
back of a surge in  tax revenue  generated from export-led growth,
the report said. The deficit should narrow further to 0.6
percent in 2012.  The 17-member euro region, the destination of most of
Germany’s exports, will probably report an average economic
growth rate this year of 1.5 percent followed by 0.4 percent in
2012, according to the group.  Unemployment to Fall  German unemployment, which typically reflects companies’
longer-term investment plans, will continue to fall in 2012,
said the economists. The rate will decline from 7.0 percent or
2.96 million this year to 6.7 percent or 2.81 million in 2012,
the institutes said.  The group’s forecast tallies with the view of German
business leaders. Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said growth should be “nearly” 1 percent next year
after “what will certainly be a difficult winter period
2011/2012.” The risk of a double-dip recession is “limited --
at least for the German economy,” Ackermann said today in a
speech in Berlin.  German inflation will average 2.3 percent this year before
the effects of eased global commodity prices help depress the
rate to 1.8 percent in 2012, said the group.  The four economic institute groups compiling the review are
Munich’s Ifo institute with the KOF institute in Zurich; the IfW
institute in Kiel with the ZEW Center for European Economic
Research; the IW Halle institute with Kiel Economics; and the
RWI Essen institute with the Institute for Advanced Studies in
Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  