-- 
German Banks Said to Prepare for Up to 60% Loss on Greek Debt

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-10-13T15:33:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/germany-s-banks-said-to-prepare-for-greece-debt-losses-of-as-much-as-60-.html
German banks are preparing for
losses of as much as 60 percent on their Greek government debt
holdings as European officials push for more private-investor
involvement in a rescue of the debt-stricken country, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  The country’s banks held a conference call this week and
participants discussed the potential for losses on Greek bonds
of between 50 percent and 60 percent, though no final figure has
been set, according to the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann ,
who led talks in July when  Europe ’s banks and insurers agreed to
a voluntary loss of about 21 percent, said he’ll go to Brussels
next week to discuss the potential for a bigger reduction.
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro-
area finance ministers, said separately that talks are under way
with the Washington-based  Institute of International Finance ,
which Ackermann chairs, on the cost to investors of a second
bailout package for Greece.  Greek 10-year government bonds are trading at about 40
percent of face value. Some German lenders have already written
down Greek holdings to market levels, while lenders that booked
smaller writedowns may face further losses, one person said.  Higher Capital Level  Increased private-sector involvement may be part of a
larger European Union package aimed at stemming the spread of
the sovereign debt crisis. An Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders
looms as a deadline for a breakthrough in combating the crisis,
which has driven  Greece  toward default, rattled world markets
and dented confidence in the survival of the 17-nation currency.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called yesterday
for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth
loan to Greece and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund to
ease Europe’s debt woes.  Banks may be required to maintain a 9 percent capital
buffer to absorb sovereign risks, up from the 5 percent core
capital level used in July’s stress tests, a person with
knowledge of discussions at the European Union’s top banking
regulator said yesterday.  European finance ministers are considering setting a new
timetable for banks to strengthen their balance sheets under the
Basel III framework, a French official said today. Asked if a 9
percent Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, would be acceptable, the official said “yes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  