-- 
German Inflation Accelerated More Than Inititally Estimated, Led by Energy

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-10-13T06:47:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/german-inflation-rose-more-than-estimated.html
Inflation in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, accelerated more than initially estimated to
the fastest in three years in September, led by energy costs.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, rose to 2.9 percent from 2.5 percent in August,
the  Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today. It had
previously reported an inflation rate of 2.8 percent. In the
month, prices rose 0.2 percent.  The  European Central Bank  last week kept its benchmark rate
at 1.5 percent and said euro-region inflation will stay
“clearly” above its 2 percent ceiling over the coming months.
While some economists had called for a rate cut as a worsening
debt crisis hurt economic growth, the central bank instead opted
to extend liquidity measures to lenders.  “Inflation is proving to be not as transitory as many had
expected,” said  Sylvain Broyer , chief euro-region economist at
Natixis in Frankfurt. “With this data, an ECB rate cut would be
very difficult to deliver.”  The euro was little changed, trading at $1.3788 at 8:46
a.m. in Frankfurt. The single currency has depreciated 4.4
percent against the dollar over the past four months as European
leaders struggled to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Price Pressures  While a weakening euro is bolstering exports, it’s also
making imports more expensive. Household energy was 9.8 percent
more expensive from a year ago, while prices of gas rose 5.4
percent, today’s report showed. Heating oil prices jumped 23.8
percent and diesel was 16.7 percent more expensive.  German wholesale prices rose 5.7 percent in September from
a year earlier after increasing 6.5 percent in the previous
month, the statistics office said yesterday. Annual gains in
import and producer prices both weakened in August.  A deepening economic slowdown and waning demand may further
ease price pressures. The ECB on Sept. 8 revised its forecast
for euro-area growth this year to 1.6 percent from 1.9 percent,
and to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent in 2012. Inflation may
average 2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent next, it said.  “All economic forecasts anticipate that inflation rates
will peak this quarter and decrease in 2012,” ECB council
member Ewald Nowotny said on Oct. 10. “However, fear is
justified on the development of the real economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  