-- 
German Banks Say EBA Stress Test May Worsen Sovereign Crisis

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-10-13T21:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/german-banks-say-eba-stress-test-may-worsen-sovereign-crisis.html
The European Union’s top banking
regulator risks worsening the sovereign debt crisis with a new
round of stress tests as policy makers push the region’s lenders
to raise capital levels,  Germany ’s banks said.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  should stop the
 European Banking Authority  from using stricter capital
definitions under future Basel III rules to test the strength of
lenders today, according to a letter to Schaeuble from Germany’s
five banking associations. The Oct. 12 letter, a copy of which
was obtained today by Bloomberg News, also was sent to the head
of Germany’s Bundesbank and financial regulator BaFin.  “It can’t be in the interests of stabilizing financial
markets to use an artificially tightened definition of capital
to feign the supposed weakness of the European banking sector,”
the banks said in the letter. “Self-fulfilling prophecies that
exacerbate the crisis should not be created.”  The lenders face core Tier 1 capital requirements as high
as 9 percent as part of European Commission President  Jose Barroso ’s plans to help banks survive the region’s debt woes, a
person familiar with the proposals said yesterday. “Systemic”
banks lacking capital should first seek market finance, tap
their own governments if that fails and draw on the European
rescue fund only as the ultimate backstop, Barroso said.  ‘Sufficient Time’  Banks should have “sufficient time” to raise capital
independently if needed because government involvement could
hurt acceptance of euro-zone stabilization measures and carry
legal risks, the banking groups said in the letter. National
governments should be a second option and the European Financial
Stability Facility should be relied upon only as a last resort,
according to the letter.  At least 66 of  Europe ’s biggest banks would fail a revised
EU stress test and need to raise about 220 billion euros ($303
billion) of capital, Credit Suisse AG analysts said in a note to
clients today. Eight banks out of about 90 tested failed the
 EBA ’s July stress test, with a combined capital shortfall of 2.5
billion euros, when the minimum pass level was set at 5 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann ,
63, said in a separate speech today that he doubts forcing
European lenders to boost their capital levels will solve the
debt crisis because the “actual problem” is that  government
bonds  have lost their status as risk-free assets.  His criticism was echoed by the five German associations,
which represent commercial, state-owned, cooperative, savings
and pfandbrief banks.  “This is a sovereign debt crisis and not a banking
crisis,” the associations said in the letter. “Therefore, a
spread of the sovereign debt crisis should be avoided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  