-- 
Goldman to Beat Nomura as Top Japan M&A Adviser for First Time Since 2006

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-10-14T06:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/goldman-on-the-way-to-top-nomura-as-no-1-japan-takeover-adviser.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is on its
way to taking the top spot among advisers on Japanese takeovers
for the first time in five years, supplanting  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) , as companies striving to compete globally turn
increasingly to foreign investment banks.  The New York-based firm was hired for $54.1 billion of
acquisitions announced this year involving Japanese companies,
surpassing Nomura’s $47.2 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In 2010, Nomura held the top spot with $47.6 billion
in deals, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was second with $27 billion
and Goldman Sachs at No. 7 with about $10 billion.  Overseas banks are set to occupy three of the top four
spots in a market that’s headed for a record this year as
clients seek advice on competing abroad while consolidating
domestic operations following March’s record earthquake. Goldman
Sachs, ranked No. 2 globally, won the top spot in  Japan  after
advising on two of this year’s three largest deals.  “Foreign banks are increasingly advising on domestic deals
because Japanese corporates are merging to compete overseas, and
they need their global expertise,” said Koji Hirai, chief
executive officer of M&A advisory firm  Kachitas Corp. 
“Goldman’s brand has value because of its history and track
record.”  Sumitomo Metal , Nycomed  Goldman Sachs advised Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. on its
$22.5 billion acquisition by Nippon Steel Corp. in what was
Japan’s biggest deal in at least five years as the companies
sought to increase competitiveness with Chinese and Korean
rivals. It also worked with Swiss drugmaker Nycomed on its $13.7
billion takeover by Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. as well as Hitachi
Ltd. on its sale of a hard disk drive business to Western
Digital Corp. for $4.3 billion.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  climbed to No. 3 this year, with $47
billion in deals, after advising Takeda on the Japanese drug
maker’s biggest acquisition, the data show. New York-based
JPMorgan is fourth and Morgan Stanley’s joint venture with
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  took the fifth spot.  Local investment banks were lower in the rankings even as
their transaction volumes jumped. The brokerage unit of  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-largest publicly
traded lender, is No. 7 this year; Mizuho Financial Group Inc.
ranked No. 8 and Tokyo-based  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) ,
Japan’s second-largest brokerage, was No. 9, the data show.  National Team  Japan has seen 1,663 transactions valued at $141.2 billion
this year to Oct. 13, a record for the equivalent period,
spurred mainly by domestic deals, according to Bloomberg data.  “It’s like each industry is building a national team to
play overseas, just like with soccer, rugby and baseball,”
Hirai said in an interview.  Yoshihiko Yano, head of M&A at Goldman Sachs in  Tokyo , said
he was surprised at how quickly business rebounded after the
quake. “Activity appears to have picked up as corporate
management in Japan becomes more focused on the domestic
industry outlook and the risk of stagnation,” Yano, 49, said in
an interview in Tokyo on Oct. 5.  Goldman Sachs, which has operated in Tokyo since 1974, is
poised to the take the top spot for the first time since 2006 in
a takeover-advisory market that has been dominated by Nomura,
Japan’s biggest brokerage, for the past four years.  Nomura’s Network  Shinsuke Tsunoda, head of M&A at Nomura, said the Tokyo-
based firm will “continue to leverage our unique insights into
Japan and extensive global network to respond to our clients’
needs.” Nomura remains the top adviser for Japanese companies
making acquisitions abroad this year, Bloomberg data show.  Nomura fell 1.7 percent to 291 yen at the close of trading
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today. The shares have dropped 44
percent this year and reached a 37-year low of 264 yen on Oct.
5. Goldman Sachs lost 3 percent to $96.15 in New York trading
yesterday, taking the year’s decline to 43 percent.  Goldman Sachs has an edge with local clients on domestic
transactions because more than 90 percent of its staff in the
Asian nation is Japanese, according to Masanori Mochida,
president of the U.S. firm’s Japan unit.  “You may think Goldman is a foreign firm, but it is fully
localized,” Mochida told  Keio University  students at a forum on
June 12, 2009. The bank has about 1,000 employees in Japan, of
whom 100 do work relating to mergers and acquisitions, according
to Hiroko Matsumoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman.  Tapped Koizumi  As part of efforts to seek business after the March 11
quake and tsunami, the U.S. bank tapped former Japanese Prime
Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  to speak to 300 investors and company
executives at a forum in Tokyo in June.  “Japanese firms have largely recovered from quake-related
damage and are well positioned relative to their global peers
because of their excess cash and low debt levels,” Yano said.
Companies are urgently seeking M&A to withstand global
competition, he said.  “Decision making by Japanese corporate management has
become faster and more dynamic,” Yano said. “It’s a sea change
from 10 years ago.”  Japanese companies have been involved in about $70 billion
of cross-border deals this year, the highest since 2008, taking
advantage of the yen’s appreciation to expand abroad. Japan’s
currency climbed to a postwar high against the dollar in August
and has gained more than 8 percent in the past six months, the
best performance of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Capitalize on Yen  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government is encouraging
businesses to capitalize on the stronger yen to purchase
enterprises overseas. The country’s three biggest banks received
a combined $43 billion credit line from the  Japan Bank for
International Cooperation  to lend dollars cheaply for
acquisitions, the state-run lender said on Oct. 5.  Nippon Steel agreed to buy Sumitomo Metal on Sept. 22 in a
deal aimed at cutting costs and increasing competition with
overseas rivals such as  China ’s Baosteel Group Corp. and  Korea ’s
Posco by creating the world’s second-largest steelmaker. As well
as Goldman Sachs, Sumitomo Metal selected Daiwa, Deutsche Bank
and  Sumitomo Mitsui  as its advisers. Nippon Steel chose Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan, Mizuho and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s venture
with Mitsubishi UFJ.  Nippon Steel “seems to be shifting its focus overseas
because that’s where it sees the main battlefield,” said Kenji Fujita, head of M&A at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co. in Tokyo.  Masato Suzuki, a spokesman for Nippon Steel, said the
company hired “several financial advisers to secure fairness of
the merger ratio,” without elaborating on why it chose global
firms. A spokesman for Sumitomo Metal, who didn’t want to be
identified, declined to comment.  Vulnerable Japan Inc.  Other deals Goldman Sachs worked on this year include
Sumitomo Mitsui’s plan to spend about 200 billion yen ($2.6
billion) making Promise Co., Japan’s second-biggest consumer
lender, a wholly owned subsidiary. The Wall Street firm also
advised Mizuho, Japan’s third-largest banking group, on buying
15 percent of Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of
 Vietnam  for about $570 million.  “Japanese companies are very vulnerable; the future is
uncertain because of the shrinking population, earthquake and
political risks,” said Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley’s Fujita.
“They have to be more conscious of the overseas market. No
overseas operations, no growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  