-- 
Goldman Sachs Wins Dismissal of Investor Lawsuit Over Executive Pay Plan

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-10-13T18:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/goldman-sachs-wins-dismissal-of-investor-lawsuit-over-executive-pay-plan.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  persuaded a
judge to throw out shareholders’ claims that the investment
bank’s compensation system improperly rewarded employees for
taking risks that hurt the firm’s stock price.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock concluded
yesterday that Goldman Sachs’s board acted properly in setting
up a pay plan for the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank . The judge
dismissed a consolidated investor lawsuit claiming the plan
wrongly awarded billions of dollars in bonuses to executives and
employees, including Chairman  Lloyd Blankfein , even as the
firm’s market value declined by $50 billion since 1999.  Delaware law “provides corporate directors and officers
with broad discretion to act as they find appropriate in the
conduct of corporate affairs” and “in the exercise of their
business judgment on behalf of the corporation,” Glasscock
wrote in a 67-page opinion.  Goldman Sachs, which set a Wall Street pay record in 2007,
faced criticism from politicians and labor unions for its
compensation practices after getting taxpayer aid during the
financial crisis.  In July, Goldman Sachs officials set aside $8.44 billion
for the New York-based company’s compensation pool in the first
six months of this year, according to its website. That was 9
percent less than in the same period in 2010 as revenue tumbled
11 percent.  ‘Limited Value’  “The complaint fails to present facts that demonstrate
that the work done by Goldman’s 31,000 employees was of such
limited value to the corporation that no reasonable person in
the directors’ position would have approved their levels of
compensation,” Glasscock said.  Lawyers for the  Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation
Authority , the operator of Philadelphia’s bus and rail network
and a Goldman Sachs shareholder, argued that the firm’s board
should be held accountable for not properly overseeing the
compensation system and employees’ wrongful conduct.  Septa’s lawyers said in court filings that Goldman Sachs
officials received billions of dollars in pay and bonuses last
year, while the firm settled U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission claims that executives misled investors in
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.  $550 Million Penalty  Goldman Sachs agreed to pay $550 million, the largest
penalty ever levied by the SEC against a Wall Street firm, to
resolve claims that marketing materials about the investments
had “incomplete information.”  Goldman Sachs created and sold the CDOs in 2007 as the U.S.
housing market faltered, without disclosing that a hedge fund
helped pick the underlying securities and then bet against the
investment vehicles, the SEC said in the suit Goldman settled.
The bank didn’t admit wrongdoing as part of the accord.  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the Delaware ruling.  Last month, a New York judge threw out another pension
fund’s suit that challenged Goldman Sachs’s compensation plan
for providing millions of dollars in bonuses to executives.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Bernard J. Fried
dismissed suits filed by the Security Police & Fire
Professionals of America Retirement Fund and investor Judith A.
Miller on Sept. 21, according to court dockets.  The Delaware case is In re the Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Shareholder Litigation, CA5215, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  