-- 
Google Is Said to Seek Rights From Record Labels for Online Music Store

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/google-said-to-seek-rights-by-month-s-end-to-start-music-store.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is seeking agreements
with record companies by the end of the month to start a music
store that will compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes, three people
with knowledge of the talks said.  Google is seeking permission to sell downloads and to
stream purchased music to its customers’ devices, said the
people, who requested anonymity because discussions are private.  Accords with record labels would help Google, the world’s
largest Internet-search company, extend its push into
entertainment. In May, the  Mountain View , California-based
company added music storage and movie-rental features to its
Android software for phones and tablets.  In an e-mailed statement, Google declined to comment on the
discussions, which were reported earlier by the New York Times.  Google’s Music Beta service, announced May 10, was started
without record-company licenses. It stores users’ song libraries
and playlists, and suggests music based on listeners’
collections. The company also offers movies for rent through the
Android Market.  The move into entertainment represents an effort to
diversify revenue, boost advertising sales and keep users on
Google’s sites longer.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , this month
introduced iCloud, a service that stores music, photos and
documents online for use on Mac computers and mobile devices
like the iPhone and iPad.  The company is in discussions with movie studios to put
films on iCloud, people with knowledge of the discussions said
this week.  Google yesterday reported quarterly sales and profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as businesses spent more on advertising
to online consumers. The shares rose 6.4 percent to $594.60 in
extended trading, from a close of $558.99 in the U.S. before the
results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  