-- 
Greece’s Bondholders Brace for Bigger Losses to Solve Crisis: Euro Credit

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-10-14T07:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/greece-s-bondholders-brace-for-bigger-losses-to-solve-crisis-euro-credit.html
Greek bondholders are preparing to
lose as much as 60 percent of their investments as European
leaders try to impose a solution that reduces the nation’s debt
burden by enough to end the debt crisis.  “Everyone is coming to the conclusion that a much deeper
restructuring is needed to make  Greece  in any way sustainable,”
said Emiel van den Heiligenberg, chief investment officer of
global balanced solutions at BNP Investment Partners in London,
which oversees about $742 billion. “If the stock of debt
doesn’t diminish, then the problems are going to be bigger and
bigger and Greece will require rescue package after rescue
package.”  Greek 10-year bonds yielded 23.98 percent at 8:31 a.m.
London time, with the price on the securities at 37.40 percent
of face amount. The rate was 2,186 basis points, or 21.86
percentage points, more than benchmark German bunds and compares
with a yield of 11.59 percent for similar-maturity Portuguese
debt and 5.87 percent for Italian bonds.  Europe’s leaders are intensifying efforts to contain the
crisis that broke out in Greece almost two years ago, drove up
state borrowing costs from Ireland to Italy and triggered the
collapse of  Dexia SA (DEXB) , Belgium’s biggest lender by assets.
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said two days ago the
region needs a coordinated approach to backstop the region’s
banks and “get ahead of the curve.”  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Spain yesterday, citing
heightened risks to growth prospects.  Fitch Ratings  cut the
long-term issuer default grades of  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , and put more than a
dozen other lenders on watch negative.  Fresh Plan  German banks are preparing for losses of as much as 60
percent on their Greek holdings, three people with knowledge of
the matter, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private, said yesterday. The risk is that creditors balk at
forgoing more than the 21 percent initially suggested in a plan
crafted in July, forcing Greece to miss debt payments and
sparking a chain-reaction across the euro area’s markets
involving rating downgrades and payouts on credit-default swaps.  Hatching a fresh plan for Greece would mean rewriting the
package agreed to in July, which included a 21 percent voluntary
reduction in repayments on some bonds. With a deepening
recession in Greece pushing the nation further away from the
July accord’s debt-reduction targets, the price of two-year
notes slid to as little as 36.79 percent of face value on Sept.
13, indicating dwindling faith in the nation’s ability to repay
investors even after the so-called haircut.  Brussels Talks  “A reopening of the deal is very likely,” said Patrick Armstrong, managing partner at Armstrong Investment, which has
about $345 million in assets under management. “In the past,
they were trying to avoid Greece defaulting and avoid
recapitalizing the banks and what’s going to happen now will
probably be more sensible. It will allow the  euro zone  to move
forward.”  The London-based  fund manager  owns a “small amount” of
Greek 4.3 percent bonds due March 20, 2012, which it bought in
July, Armstrong said.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann,
who led talks on private sector involvement in Greece’s rescue
package in July, said yesterday that he will go to Brussels next
week to discuss the potential for investors to accept deeper
losses. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said separately yesterday that
talks are under way with the Washington-based Institute of
International Finance on the cost to investors of a second
bailout package for Greece.  ‘Larger Haircut’  “You need a significantly larger haircut because what’s
being discussed now isn’t enough to put this country back on the
path of fiscal sustainability,” Pacific Investment Management
Co. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed A. El-Erian said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “We’re going to see it soon because I think the
politicians and policy makers understand that debt reduction is
part of the solution.”  Since German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy put bank recapitalization at the top of the
priority list in an Oct. 9 declaration, the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index of shares has risen 1.7 percent. Yields on benchmark
German bunds, perceived to be Europe’s safest government bonds,
rose to a six-week high yesterday, the euro rallied 2.8 percent
to $1.3751 and a measure of how much European banks pay to fund
in dollars slid to a five-week low today.  Bank Capabilities  Ensuring banks in Greece and the euro area are capable of
withstanding greater losses on Greek debt is “imperative,”
said Spyros Politis, CEO of TT-ELTA AEDAK, a Greek manager of
mutual funds with 262 million euros ($360 million) of assets.  “You need this society to function in order to, at the
minimum, guarantee that whatever is left after the haircuts is
repaid,” Politis said. “This in turn needs a functioning
domestic banking system.” TT-ELTA AEDAK values the Greek bonds
in its portfolio at 50 percent of face amount, he said. An
eventual haircut of around 35 percent “appears to be a solution
that keeps everyone less unhappy,” he said.  The drop in Greek bond prices already means investors are
going to save Greece more money through the July debt-exchange
plan than previously thought, because they save it from selling
securities at today’s higher yields,  Charles Dallara , managing
director of the IIF, said on Oct. 4.  Greek CDS  Credit-default swaps on Greece signal a more than 90
percent chance the government will renege on its obligations
within five years, assuming investors would recover 32 percent
of their holdings in the event, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices from dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The swaps market is factoring in a
62 percent probability Portugal will default in that time, a 47
percent chance for Ireland and about 8 percent for Germany, all
assuming a 40 percent recovery.  “A managed default in Greece may increase speculation of
restructurings elsewhere, which would certainly put Portugal
under pressure, also Ireland and we would see  Italy  and Spain
under greater speculative pressure,” said  Richard McGuire , a
senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “It’s a very difficult balancing act.”  S&P cut Spain’s long-term sovereign credit rating to AA-
from AA, the ratings company said in a statement late yesterday.
The country faces high unemployment and public sector debt,
tighter financial conditions and may be affected by the slowdown
of trading partners, S&P said.  ECB Involvement  The  European Central Bank  will also need to be persuaded to
allow a greater writedown on Greek bonds, potentially also
including its own holdings, amassed under a previous plan to
support the nation. The involvement of the private sector in
euro-area bailouts through enforced investor losses is a risk to
financial stability and would have “direct negative effects”
on the banking sector, the central bank said yesterday in its
monthly bulletin.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on June 30 that the
central bank didn’t expect to participate in the voluntary
rollover of Greece’s debt agreed to in July.  “Very likely the ECB will defend its position of taking no
haircut up until the last moment but I think at the end of the
day the ECB will stop being the blocking point,” said van den
Heiligenberg. “If you recapitalize the banks first then you
have more potential to do bigger haircuts on Greek bonds. If
they mix up the order then the market would probably get very
nervous.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  