-- 
Growth in Sports Gambling Helps Fuel Match Fixing, FIFA Says

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-10-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/growth-in-sports-gambling-helps-fuel-match-fixing-fifa-says.html
An “explosion” in the growth of
sports gambling is fueling a rise in match fixing, according to
the head of security for  FIFA,  soccer’s governing body.  “FIFA derives no benefit from gambling on football,” said
 Chris Eaton , who joined the Zurich-based organization from
international police group Interpol. “Match fixing has grown
because of the explosion of gambling.”  Concerns in the gambling industry about match fixing are
growing. Two Pakistani cricket players are on trial in London on
charges of conspiring to take bribes to fix plays in a Test
match against  England  last year. The father and uncle of
Manchester United striker  Wayne Rooney  were arrested earlier
this month as part of a probe into suspicious betting patterns
at a Scottish Premier League soccer match.  Worldwide sports betting grew by 66 percent between 2001
and 2011, to about $52.5 billion, as Internet and mobile-phone
wagers and live bets during games proliferated, according to
Lorien Pilling, head of research at Isle of Man-based Global
Betting and Gaming Consultancy.  Police have arrested people in  Asia ,  Europe  and  Africa  for
rigging matches. In August, FIFA banned six officials for life
after two exhibition games in Turkey in which all seven goals
were scored from penalty kicks. In July, a Singaporean, Wilson
Raj Perumal, was jailed for two years for bribing players in
 Finland .  The illegal gambling market may be worth $90 billion,
according to the World Lottery Association, a lobbying group for
state-backed lotteries.  In May, FIFA  pledged  20 million euros ($27.6 million) over
10 years to  Interpol  to help fight corruption in the sport.
FIFA’s revenue was about $1.3 billion in 2010, according to its
website.  “Those areas where sports betting is illegal, the market
is growing,” said David Henwood, a partner at Manchester-based
research firm H2 Gambling Capital. “That would probably
increase the temptation for sports figures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  