-- 
Alcatel-Lucent Told Microsoft Damages Award May Be Reduced

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-10-13T08:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/microsoft-award-to-alcatel-lucent-may-be-cut-to-26-3-million-judge-says.html
Alcatel-Lucent’s patent-infringement
jury award against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may be lowered to $26.3
million from $70 million, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Marilyn Huff in San Diego said at a
hearing yesterday that she will review more legal arguments
before issuing a ruling. Huff said she agreed with the world’s
largest software maker that the jury’s July 29 award wasn’t
supported by evidence presented during a 10-day trial.  The judge said she disagreed with how an expert witness for
Alcatel-Lucent calculated damages and told lawyers $26.3 million
is “a fair damages figure that is not excessive based on the
totality of the evidence.” She asked attorneys on both sides to
file additional legal arguments on her finding by the end of the
month before she makes her decision final.  The infringed patent relates to technology used in
Microsoft’s Outlook program and two other applications.
Microsoft asked the judge to reduce the award to no more than $5
million.  Microsoft attorney Roger Denning told the judge that
Alcatel-Lucent’s formula for computing damages didn’t comply
with guidelines set by Huff and appellate court rulings.  “Those went ignored,” he said. “Lucent put its head down
and bullied through with its $70 million figure ignoring the
guidance that was given.”  Alcatel-Lucent’s lawyers argued there was more than
sufficient evidence to support the jury’s verdict and that the
verdict should be respected.  ‘High’ Standard  “If the court is going to take the judgment out of the
jury’s hands the standard is extraordinarily high,” said
company attorney Luke Dauchot.  Lawyers for Alcatel-Lucent also asked Huff to award $38.3
million in prejudgment interest on top of the jury’s $70 million
award. Alcatel-Lucent,  France ’s largest maker of
telecommunications equipment, also has been awarded $450,479 in
trial costs.  The technology at issue, called the “Day patent,” was
described in court during the trial as involving a touch-screen
form entry. Microsoft argued the patent relates to a simple
“date-picker” function and has nothing to do with e-mail, the
most popular function on Outlook. Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent
described the technology as a tool that “plays a central role
in the entire operation” of Outlook.  Infringement  A different jury in San Diego in 2008 found that Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft had infringed the patent and awarded
$358 million in damages. An appeals court, upholding the
infringement verdict, overturned the damages award, finding the
calculation lacked sufficient evidentiary support. The case was
sent back for retrial on damages only.  The case is Lucent Technologies Inc. v. Gateway Inc., 07-
cv-02000 U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California 
( San Diego ).  Alcatel-Lucent today rose as much as 11 percent to 2.31
euros in Paris trading after the Financial Times reported,
without saying how it got the information, that the company
agreed to sell its corporate call-center business. Alcatel-
Lucent spokesman Simon Poulter declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at  callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  