-- 
LightSquared Says FCC Network Guidance Likely by Year’s End

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-10-13T22:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/lightsquared-says-fcc-guidance-on-network-likely-by-year-s-end.html
Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared
venture said it expects guidance from U.S. regulators by year’s
end on its proposed wireless network, which has sparked concerns
that it may disrupt the global-positioning system.  The Federal Communications Commission may request changes
to the company’s proposal such as deploying the network in
stages or avoiding the placement of antennas in certain
locations, Michael Montemarano, LightSquared’s chief financial
officer, said during a conference call today.  From an “engineering perspective, there are ways to deploy
around what the FCC would come forward with,” Montemarano said.
He said in a later interview that he did not mean the company
would evade FCC guidance and would work with whatever the agency
requires.  LightSquared, backed by $3 billion from Falcone’s Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund, is seeking FCC approval to offer
wholesale wireless Internet service using airwaves previously
reserved mainly for satellites. Makers and users of GPS devices,
which rely on satellite signals, say LightSquared would disrupt
navigation by cars, boats, airplanes and tractors.  The struggle has caught U.S. lawmakers’ scrutiny, prompting
hearings before the House committees on transportation, science,
armed services and small business. Seven Republicans on the
Science Committee have requested records of contacts between the
White House and Falcone, and others have called for an
investigation by the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform.  Additional Testing  The Reston, Virginia-based company envisions building a
network of 40,000 antennas to serve 260 million people
nationwide. It has faced months of tests that ended in June with
LightSquared saying it would refrain, at least temporarily, from
using airwaves nearest those used by GPS, a move the company
said would resolve interference for 99.5 percent of devices.  Regulators have demanded a second round of tests that is to
end by Nov. 30, according to the  National Telecommunications and
Information Administration .  LightSquared said today that three companies have developed
filtering technology to solve interference with precision GPS
devices, including a component that costs $6. The filters will
undergo “extensive” testing by the NTIA and FCC in the coming
weeks, the company said in a news release today.  “A majority of precision devices can be fixed by replacing
the external antenna, others will require a factory retrofit,
but in every case LightSquared has an affordable and efficient
fix,” Martin Harriman, a LightSquared executive vice president,
said in the release.  Oversimplified and Overstated  “LightSquared today has yet again oversimplified and
greatly overstated the significance of the claims of vendors to
have ‘solved’ the interference issue,” Jim Kirkland, general
counsel of  Trimble Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , a maker of GPS equipment,
said in an e-mail.  “There have been many vendor claims that have not proven
out in rigorous tests and the demanding tests of marketplace
acceptance,” said Kirkland, whose company is a founding member
of the Coalition to Save Our GPS, a group of GPS makers and
users formed to oppose LightSquared’s plans.  LightSquared needs FCC clearance to use its airwaves by
Dec. 31 or face a possible rupture of a 15-year, $13.5 billion
cost-sharing agreement to build a network with  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) ,  Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in
 New York , said in an interview last month.  “If they lose the Sprint deal the prospect of them raising
capital, I would say, would be zero,” Chaplin said.  Montemarano, who declined to speak on Sprint’s behalf, said
today that LightSquared doesn’t expect that the FCC’s eventual
decision will send the two companies back to the negotiating
table.  Tammy Sun, an FCC spokeswoman, didn’t immediately reply to
requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  