-- 
Maid Takes Abandoned Rich Kids to L.A. Slum, Cops Follow: Books

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/illegal-maid-takes-abandoned-rich-kids-to-l-a-slum-cops-follow-books.html
There are two dramas going on
in  Hector Tobar’s  novel “ The Barbarian Nurseries .” One is
about a Mexican maid in a gated Orange County community who
finds herself alone at home with two apparently abandoned
boys. The other one I’ll get to in a minute.  The boys’ parents have a fight about money -- Scott
isn’t making enough to support Maureen’s entitled
extravagance -- that ends, dramatically, with a push, a
loss of balance and a shattered coffee table.  Maureen takes the baby and heads for -- where else? --
a spa, leaving in such a rush that she forgets her mobile
phone. Scott, unaware of her flight, grabs enough clothes
to last until she has cooled down and he can slink home.  The maid, Araceli, lives in a guesthouse on their
property, and by the fourth day of their disappearance, all
she knows is that her bosses have left her with two
bewildered boys. The groceries are dwindling and she
doesn’t drive. Nobody on the emergency phone list answers.  She finds an old address for the boys’ grandfather, in
a Los Angeles neighborhood that (though she doesn’t know
it) has become a slum. So she sets off with them on a trip
to a world they didn’t know existed.  The parents return, find the house empty, panic and
call the cops. Cue the media. The last of the novel’s three
sections is titled “Circus Californianus.”  Novelist v. Journalist  The drama of the plot makes “The Barbarian Nurseries”
a real page-turner. But the deeper drama -- for me, anyway
-- is the battle inside Hector Tobar, between a talented
novelist and an editorial writer (he is, in fact, a regular
columnist for the Los Angeles Times) in a state of high
dudgeon. Even late in the book it’s hard to guess which of
them is going to get the upper hand.  Every time Tobar stopped to bring in yet another
character for yet another sociological walking tour into
the melting pot of  Southern California , I ground my teeth.
He doesn’t have a gift for sketching in minor characters
with the complexity of his major ones.  His attempt to summon some empathy for a Mexican-
hating bigot is as futile as Amy Waldman’s similar attempt
with a Muslim-hating bigot in her recent novel “The
Submission.” And I don’t think any of Tobar’s readers need
a demonstration that the criminal-justice system is nicer
to the rich than it is to undocumented aliens.  Wonderful Heroine  On the plus side, though -- and it’s a big plus -- is
Tobar’s altogether strange and wonderful heroine. Araceli
Noemi Ramirez Hinojosa has spent four years working, dourly
but efficiently, for Scott and Maureen. They don’t much
like her, and behind her back they call her Madame
Weirdness.  They have no idea she spent a year at the Instituto
Nacional de Bellas Artes in Mexico City. They first see
“The Garbage Phoenix” -- a floating sculpture she
painstakingly assembled from bits of their detritus -- only
when they invade her guesthouse, looking for the boys.  Araceli is proud, talented, bitter, bitterly funny,
naive, imposing and severe. She’s unlike the hero of any
novel I can remember reading, and she gives “The Barbarian
Nurseries” an authority that none of its flaws can mar.  “The Barbarian Nurseries” is published by Farrar,
Straus and Giroux (422 pages, $27). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 