-- 
El-Erian Says Bigger Losses for Greek Debtholders: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-10-13T14:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/imf-needs-to-show-leadership-in-europe-el-erian-tom-keene.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian  said European
leaders are beginning to recognize the need for Greek
bondholders to take bigger losses than previously agreed.  “You need a significantly larger haircut because what’s
being discussed now isn’t enough to put this country back on the
path of fiscal sustainability,” El-Erian said today in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “We’re going to see it soon because I think the
politicians and policy makers understand that debt reduction is
part of the solution.”  Greece is in the process of receiving its second bailout
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  as the
region’s officials struggle to contain the debt crisis that has
roiled world markets. Banks pledged in July to participate in a
bond exchange and debt buyback program where “all instruments
will be priced to produce a 21 percent net present value loss.”  “We have to deal with balance sheets everywhere,” said
El-Erian, who also serves as co-chief investment officer of the
world’s biggest manager of bond funds with Pimco founder  Bill Gross . “We have to allocate pain after the excesses of the
past.”  Investors in Greek bonds may take losses of 50 percent,
Nobel economics laureate  Christopher Pissarides  said today in a
separate interview on Bloomberg Television.  Conductor Needed  “I am very optimistic that there will be some kind of a
rescue plan that will not involve a full default,” Pissarides,
an economist and the first Cypriot to win the Nobel Prize, said
in an interview in Seoul. “But I don’t think the haircut that
has been applied so far, the discount on Greek debt, is going to
be enough.”  At the same time, the IMF needs to show bolder leadership
in resolving  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, in part because the
U.S. is no longer strong enough to the “undisputed leader,”
said El-Erian, who worked at the IMF for 15 years and served as
deputy director.  The situation needs a “conductor,” El-Erian said from
Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,  California . “The
cleanest dirty shirt when it comes to global leadership is the
IMF right now.”  Policy makers earlier this month pushed back a debt-crisis
summit to Oct. 23, as leaders are trying to solve a crisis that
started in Greece two years ago and is now threatening to tip
the global economy into recession. The  European Central Bank  has
shouldered the main burden of keeping Europe’s banking system
from collapsing throughout that period, while pushing
governments to take on more responsibility as leaders struggled
to contain the turmoil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  