-- 
Linc Plans More Oil Acquisitions on Strong Australian Dollar

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-10-13T05:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/linc-plans-more-oil-acquisitions-on-strong-australian-dollar-1-.html
Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC) , an Australian
company that bought oilfields in  Texas  from ERG Resources LLC,
said it is studying two or three more deals in the Gulf coast
region and may spend about $500 million on a single transaction.  “The Australian dollar is still strong, making it
attractive,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bond  said in a
telephone interview today from Brisbane after Linc completed the
$236 million acquisition of 13 oilfields from ERG.  Linc aims to double production at the ERG fields in Texas
and  Louisiana  within two years to more than 6,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day, Bond said. The company may add as much as
6,000 barrels a day of crude output with another Gulf area
purchase, he said, without identifying the asset.  The company plans to expand its oil business in the U.S. as
it seeks to take advantage of a strong Australian dollar and
“potential upside from medium- to long-term oil pricing,” Linc
said in a statement today announcing the ERG transaction.  The Australian dollar rose to a three-week high today,
gaining as much as 0.7 percent to $1.0233, after a report showed
the nation’s unemployment rate fell last month for the first
time since March as employers added more workers than forecast.  Linc advanced 1.5 percent to close at A$2.10 in Sydney,
compared with the 1 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index.  The company, which also converts coal into liquid fuels,
has narrowed the discussions to sell its Teresa coal project in
Queensland to two bidders, Bond said, declining to be more
specific. Linc is seeking to reach an agreement on the sale
within the “next few weeks,” he said.  Linc is in the final stages of talks with groups from  India 
and  China  to sell the assets, Bond said on Aug. 8.  The company is also exploring for oil and gas in the
Arckaringa Basin in  South Australia  and said last month it
discovered a “significant” shale-oil deposit in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  