-- 
Indian Stocks Have Priced-in Most Concerns, UBS’ Mahadevan Says

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-10-13T08:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/indian-stocks-have-priced-in-most-concerns-ubs-mahadevan-says.html
Suresh Mahadevan, head of  India 
research at UBS AG, comments on the outlook for Indian stocks.
He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg UTV today.  The BSE India Sensitive Index rose 0.4 percent to 17,025.19
at 1:02 p.m. in Mumbai, rising for a fourth day in five and
headed for its highest close since Sept. 21.  “Most of the local bad news is priced in and the rally we
saw was partly due to some hopes of  Europe ’s problems getting
resolved and partly due to short-covering. Sentiment and
liquidity are driving the markets in the short-term.  ‘‘We need domestic triggers for people to come and buy,
whether it is inflation coming down, the central bank ending its
tight monetary policy, the government pushing the envelope on
reforms or crude  oil prices  coming down.  ‘‘What may not be priced in is that if we have an external
event in Europe or wherever and that results in a totally risk-
off scenario and we see foreign funds’ outflows of a few billion
dollars, then markets can correct further.’’  On earnings:  ‘‘I don’t expect any big setbacks or any big positive
surprises this quarter. Earnings momentum is still going to be
negative, especially for FY13.’’  On sectors and stocks:  ‘‘We are underweight  information technology  with the
exception of Infosys Ltd.  ‘‘If the world is in a difficult position, then I am sure
the growth rates in this sector are going to come down, the
price-to-earnings multiples could come off. Infosys has already
corrected quite a bit earlier.  ‘‘We are neutral on Infosys and marginally underweight on
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ’’  Prefers telecom stocks like  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and Idea
Cellular Ltd., and Federal Bank Ltd. and  Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd. (MM)  for their ‘‘strong fundamentals.’’  ‘‘The biggest positive for the telecom sector is that
pricing power has come back. It’s a big fundamental shift, which
calls for a re-rating.  ‘‘Bharti, being the largest player in India with a 30-
percent-plus revenue market share, will emerge as a huge
beneficiary.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  