-- 
India to Cut Cooking Oil Imports by Boosting Local Supplies

-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-10-13T09:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/india-wants-to-cut-dependence-on-cooking-oil-imports-pawar-says.html
India , the world’s biggest buyer of
 palm oil  and lentils, plans to provide financial incentives to
farmers to boost domestic production and pare reliance on
imports in the next five years, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said.  “On pulses and oilseeds, I want that India should not
depend on any country,” Pawar said in an interview in New Delhi
yesterday. “I am not saying that we will become an exporter, at
least we will be self-sufficient in four to five years.”  Reduced purchases by India may weigh on palm oil prices,
which more than doubled in the three years through 2010, and
help cool inflation that’s the fastest in a more than a year.
Cash incentives to boost palm oil output may also benefit
producers  Ruchi Soya Industries Ltd. (RSI)  and Godrej Agrovet Ltd., a
unit of  Godrej Industries Ltd. (GDSP)   “We will definitely see some pressure on global prices of
edible oils, particularly on palm oil, if India becomes self-
reliant,” Prasoon Mathur, a senior analyst at Religare
Commodities Ltd. said by phone from New Delhi. “Past experience
shows that it is a remote possibility.”  India plans to develop oil palm as a major crop in the
north-eastern states as the region’s weather is suitable for its
plantation, Pawar said. The farm ministry may focus on
developing the central region as the hub for soybean
cultivation, while north India will be developed as an area for
growing mustard, he said. Peanut cultivation will be promoted
among the south Indian states, he said.  “It is possible for the country to become self-sufficient
in edible oils,” Pawar said. The government may soon announce
incentives for oilseed growers, he said.  High-yielding Seeds  The government should focus on developing high-yielding
varieties of oilseeds and making them available to farmers at
affordable prices, Religare’s Mathur said. A sharp increase in
oilseed prices “is not possible as it will lead to higher
inflation,” he said.  India meets more than 50 percent of its annual cooking oil
needs through imports. It buys palm oil from Indonesia and
 Malaysia , the biggest producers, and  soybean oil  from Argentina
and  Brazil .  Overseas purchases of vegetable oils may climb as much as
12 percent to 9.2 million metric tons in the year beginning Nov.
1 from an estimated 8.2 million tons this year, Sushil Goenka,
president of the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India, said
Sept. 20. The country imported 6.86 million tons of vegetable
oils in 10 months through Aug. 31, according to the group.  Palm oil futures for December delivery dropped as much 1
percent to 2,835 ringgit ($903) a ton. Prices have fallen 25
percent this year on prospects for rising supplies from
Indonesia and Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  