-- 
India Empowers Its State Firms to Compete With China for Overseas Minerals

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 
2011-10-13T18:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/india-frees-state-firms-to-compete-with-china-for-mines-abroad.html
India  granted state-run companies
greater powers to acquire coal, oil and other mineral assets
overseas without consulting the government as it bids to compete
with  China  for resources to power its economy.  The  policy  approved by the cabinet yesterday gives
companies enhanced powers to examine proposals and obtain the
approval of directors, and applies to units that have been
profitable for three consecutive years, Information and
Broadcasting Minister  Ambika Soni  said in New Delhi. The
government will “in due course” consider forming a sovereign
wealth fund to help companies compete, she said.  “Availability of raw material is a prerequisite not only
for the growth of the manufacturing sector, but for the economy
as a whole,” Soni said yesterday. “The acquisition of raw
material abroad will also help in improving energy security.”  Companies including Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s
biggest energy explorer, and  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s
largest producer of the fuel, are scouring the world for energy
and mining assets to meet demand in Asia’s second-fastest
growing major economy. They have often lost out to China, which
has promised billions of dollars in aid, investment and loans to
nations in exchange for oil and ores.  A committee of secretaries will be constituted to consider
proposals that require additional government funding or involve
multiple ministries, the government said in a statement without
elaborating. Indian embassies overseas will offer assistance to
the companies.  Existing rules requiring the approval of the federal
cabinet for purchases abroad can delay projects for months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  