-- 
India’s Silicon Valley Adds Rail as Jams Threaten Tech Grip

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-10-14T11:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/india-s-silicon-valley-adds-rail-as-jams-threaten-tech-grip.html
Bangalore,  India ’s Silicon Valley,
will open the first section of a $1.7 billion metro railway next
week as the city tackles congestion that has dented investment
and made it the world’s second-worst for parking.  A three-car train will run on a 6.7-kilometer (4.2 mile)
elevated track on the maiden trip on Oct. 20, according to the
 Bangalore Metro Rail Corp.  The network will stretch to 42
kilometers by 2013.  “The metro project will be a game-changer for the city,”
said Anshuman Magazine, managing director for  South Asia  at CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc. “The metro should’ve been there
before, but it’s still timely.”  Bangalore’s population has jumped almost 50 percent in a
decade to 9.6 million as a temperate climate and a pool of low-
wage software programmers attracted companies such as Infosys
Ltd. and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  Roads and power
systems have struggled to keep up with the pace of growth,
creating opportunities for Chennai and Hyderabad to challenge
the city’s grip on India’s booming outsourcing sector.  Bangalore’s administration “has to show it cares by
providing better services like power and transport,” said Vinod K Nowal, president of the Bangalore Chamber of Industry &
Commerce, and a director at JSW Steel Ltd. “There are now other
states who are more aggressively attracting investments.”  Facebook Inc. last year opened its first India office in
Hyderabad, about 570 kilometers north of Bangalore. The  Palo
Alto , California-based company didn’t immediately respond to e-
mailed Bloomberg News questions about its choice of the India
office location.  Colonial Rulers  Bangalore, which opened a  new airport  in 2008, had 554,000
technology workers in March 2009, about 25 percent of the
country’s total, according to latest data available from the
government. They mainly sat in Whitefield, a suburb that was
once a settlement of India’s former colonial rulers, where
companies such as  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s
largest software exporter, have set up offices.  The metro’s first phase will start from  Baiyappanahalli  in
the city’s east, about 14 kilometers short of Whitefield. Once
the network is completed, it will take 44 minutes to travel from
the city’s north to south and 33 minutes between the east and
west, according to Bangalore Metro’s website.  “I won’t think twice about giving up my car once the
service starts,” said Krishna Murthy, who runs an industrial
machinery company in the city’s north. “Now I take an hour to
travel eight kilometers to reach my home.”  Boycott Threat  The city is the world’s  sixth-most painful  for commuters
and worst for parking behind  New Delhi , according to a survey of
20 cities by IBM. In 2005, technology companies threatened to
boycott an annual industry event sponsored by the state to
protest the city’s poor infrastructure.  Bangalore, home to Infosys and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , two of India’s
three biggest software companies, and IBM’s local unit,
contributed 749 billion rupees ($15 billion) of software exports
in the year ended March 2009, according to official data.  Still, software exports expanded at the slowest pace in
four years in that year, as the global economy slowed and as
other Indian cities won business. Bangalore’s 23 percent growth
rate trailed a 29 percent gain for Chennai and a 25 percent
increase for Hyderabad.  ‘Preferred Destinatons’  Gurgaon and Noida near the nation’s capital are also
becoming “preferred destinations” for technology companies,
according to  The Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of
India , a New Delhi-based lobby group.  “When people look to make investments, the infrastructure
is a big part of what they look at,” S.D. Shibulal, chief
executive officer of Infosys, said in an interview in Bangalore.
“The better the infrastructure, the better it is for attracting
investments.”  The metro rail is owned by the federal government and
Karnataka state, of which Bangalore is the capital. The project
was funded by loans from Japan International Cooperation Agency
and  Asian Development Bank . A group of companies including
state-owned  BEML Ltd. (BEML) ,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Hyundai Rotem Co.
are supplying the railcars.  BEML climbed 5.3 percent, the most since Feb. 14, to 514.70
rupees at the close in Mumbai trading. The BSE India Sensitive
Index increased 1.2 percent.  The project is the nation’s first new metro system since
Delhi Metro Rail Corp. started services in 2002. India is now
stepping up investments in public transport as economic growth
spurs record car sales, worsening traffic bottlenecks.  Billionaire Ambani  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s biggest builder of airports
and power networks, has won a contract to build a rail network
in Hyderabad.  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI) , backed by
billionaire  Anil Ambani , is also constructing a similar project
in Mumbai, the financial capital. Overseas trainmakers
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  have set up railcar factories in
the country while  Alstom SA (ALO)  is building a plant.  India’s Planning Commission last year said the nation will
need to spend $1 trillion on highways, ports, airports and
utilities between April 2012 and March 2017 to support economic
growth.  About 66 percent of Bangalore’s people are expected to use
public transport for their commute in the city after the metro
is complete, from the present level of 55 percent, according to
the rail operator.  “Bangalore has been lucky in the past,” Richard Ellis’s
Magazine said. “In spite of not having an international airport
and not having an efficient public transport, it still got huge
investments. But, you can’t rest on that for too long.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  