-- 
Indonesia to Reintroduce Stock Options Trading Next Year, Exchange Says

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-10-13T23:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/indonesia-to-reintroduce-stock-options-trading-next-year-exchange-says.html
The  Indonesia  Stock Exchange plans
to reintroduce stock-option trading next year to lure investors
as it aims to double market capitalization by 2015, according to
a director at the bourse.  Options may begin as soon as the end of June, pending the
completion of a new trading system and a revision to rules on
derivatives, Friderica Widyasari Dewi, director of business
development at PT Bursa Efek Indonesia, which runs the exchange,
said in an interview. The bourse introduced options in 2004,
then shut them down in 2006 because of weak demand, Widyasari
said. Trading was thin partly because the bourse capped profits
on options to keep volatility in check, she said.  “We don’t want to make the same mistake again,” Widyasari
said in Jakarta on Oct. 12. “We will focus on foreign investors
and institutional investors, who have a need for hedging.”  New products may help the bourse,  Southeast Asia ’a third-
largest after Singapore and  Malaysia  with a market
capitalization of $369 billion, attract more investors.
Indonesia’s economy is forecast by the government to expand this
year at the fastest pace since 1996, boosting demand from
companies for funding.  Overseas investors bought a net $1.91 billion of Indonesian
equities this year through yesterday, down from $1.96 billion in
the same period last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  10,000 Contracts  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  dropped 0.8 percent this year
through yesterday as a slowdown in the  U.S. economy  and the
sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  prompted investors to abandon
riskier assets in emerging markets.  Indonesia plans to start options trading with 10,000
contracts, based on four stocks as underlying assets, Widyasari
said. The number of shares will eventually be expanded to 20,
she said. PT Astra International, the nation’s biggest company
by market value, PT Indofood Sukses Makmur and PT Telekomunikasi
Indonesia are among stocks that may be chosen, she said.  Option contracts give traders the right to buy or sell a
security at a set price at a certain time. Investors may use put
options, which offer the right to sell a security, to hedge
against a drop in the market.  “Foreign investors will wait and see because these types
of developments take time to build confidence up,” said Peter Chiang, director of global equities at Kuala Lumpur-based Hwang-
DBS Investment Management Bhd., which manages about $3.2 billion
in assets. “But it’s a step in the right direction.”  A new trading system that will combine stocks, derivatives
and futures in one platform is expected to be completed by the
end of this year, Widyasari said.  Expanding Economy  The bourse is also finalizing revisions to derivatives
rules that it will submit to the nation’s capital market
supervisory agency, she said. Changes to regulations include the
removal of caps on profit and shifting to electronic instead of
floor-based trading, she said.  Indonesia’s economy is forecast to expand 6.6 percent this
year, Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution said on Oct. 11.
That’s the fastest pace since 1996, according to data from the
central statistics office. The central bank reduced its
benchmark  interest rate  this week for the first time in more
than two years to spur growth. Domestic consumption accounts for
about 56 percent of the Indonesian economy, Southeast  Asia ’s
biggest.  Market Cap  The exchange is aiming to boost Indonesia’s market
capitalization to 7,500 trillion rupiah ($845 billion) by 2015,
Widyasari said. Futures, options, derivatives and exchange-
traded funds are traded in Malaysia and  Thailand , while the
Philippine Stock Exchange is planning to introduce ETFs and
securities lending to lure investors to one of Asia’s smallest
share markets, exchange President Hans Sicat said on Oct. 5.  An electronic market-maker system is being developed to
ensure liquidity for futures and options trading, Widyasari
said. Indonesia’s futures trading, the LQ45 Futures Index, is
inactive, and liquidity is low on its two ETFs partly because
there’s no market maker, she said.  “There’s a lot of interest from bourse members for  stock
options ,” Widyasari said. “We can increase our credibility by
having a liquid derivative market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  