-- 
Infrastructure Bank Plus Repatriation Holiday Equals Jobs

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-13T00:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/infrastructure-bank-plus-repatriation-holiday-equals-jobs-view.html
Call us optimists, but it’s possible
that the Senate’s decision Tuesday to block President  Barack
Obama ’s jobs bill was a blessing in disguise.  With a U.S. unemployment rate of 9.1 percent, jobs
legislation is essential. What the president had proposed,
however, was expensive and unwieldy. Fortunately, the stall-out
on  Capitol Hill  has given  Washington  a second chance as it has
led to talk of breaking the legislation’s proposals into smaller
parts and passing it piecemeal. Senator  Charles Schumer , a
Democrat of  New York , has advanced an approach along those
lines, one that combines worthwhile goals of both parties that
otherwise might not pass.  For Democrats, Schumer is championing a national
infrastructure bank that could help build roads, fix bridges and
create jobs. For Republicans, he is open to letting U.S.
corporations bring home vast amounts of overseas income without
having to pay the full 35 percent corporate- tax rate .  We’ve been consistent supporters of an infrastructure bank,
seeing it as both a short-term jobs boost and a long-term boon
to U.S. competitiveness and quality of life. The  details  will be
crucial. Among other requirements, the bank needs substantial
initial public and private investment, a chief executive officer
and independent oversight board, and safeguards to limit risks
to taxpayers. It should finance no more than half a project’s
costs and require dedicated funding streams. And the Davis-Bacon
Act rules that require paying unduly inflated “prevailing wages”
on federal projects shouldn’t apply to it.  A Better Deal  The  case  for a tax holiday for overseas earnings is weaker,
but new proposals by Senators  Kay Hagan , a Democrat, and  John McCain , a Republican, begin to address one of our longstanding
concerns. When the U.S. tried a similar tax break in 2004,
Congress wanted the repatriated cash channeled into domestic
jobs and investments. No such luck; most money went for
dividends and stock repurchases. A repeat performance would be
foolish.  If new hiring can’t be mandated, an alternative is to
create a two-tiered tax rate on repatriated cash. Hagan and
McCain propose a 5.25 percent tax rate for companies creating
jobs, and an 8.75 percent rate for those that don’t. We favor a
wider gap, with the non-jobs rate at a minimum of 15 percent.
(We’ve argued in the past, and still believe, that companies
should be allowed to pay a rate of 15 percent if they can show
an increased headcount over three years, and should otherwise
have to pay the top rate. We’ll take what we can get.)  If those tax proceeds can help fund an infrastructure bank,
then the whole country benefits.  The overall U.S. corporate tax code still needs attention.
It’s too easy for companies with lots of intangible assets, such
as banks and high-tech enterprises, to move profits into
overseas  tax havens . Simultaneously, the maximum U.S. rate of 35
percent is too high for retailers and other companies that can’t
play the tax-haven game. We shouldn’t let this proposal get in
the way of a broader tax overhaul.  For now, reviving jobs must be the top priority. If
imperfect compromises spare the U.S. from the embarrassment of
continued bickering and inaction, we’ll take imperfection.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 