-- 
Innkeepers, Cerberus May Announce Settlement of Suit Over Takeover Today

-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 
2011-10-13T14:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/innkeepers-cerberus-may-announce-lawsuit-settlement-as-early-as-today.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
New York-based private-equity firm, and hotelier  Innkeepers USA
Trust  may announce a settlement of their $1.12 billion lawsuit
as early as today, said a person familiar with the discussions
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  A trial originally was to start Oct. 10 on the suit in
which bankrupt Innkeepers sought to force Cerberus and  Chatham
Lodging Trust (CLDT)  to carry out a contract to buy 64 hotels for $1.12
billion. Completion of the sale would allow Innkeepers to carry
out the Chapter 11 reorganization plan that a U.S. bankruptcy
judge in New York approved in June. The trial has been delayed
four times, including twice yesterday, with it now scheduled to
begin Oct. 20 in  Manhattan .  Cerberus reached a tentative settlement over the weekend
with Innkeepers, according to two people with knowledge of the
discussions. Under that agreement, Cerberus and Chatham will cut
the amount they pay for Innkeepers, said the people, who didn’t
disclose the new price and asked not to be named because the
talks aren’t public.  The accord, the culmination of a weekend of negotiations,
isn’t final and could fall apart, the people said. A final
agreement is subject to approval by the  U.S. bankruptcy court 
judge overseeing Innkeepers’ restructuring.  “We don’t have anything to say at this time,” said Thomas
Mulligan of Sitrick & Co., an outside spokesman for Innkeepers
in  New York , in a telephone interview.  John Dillard, a spokesman for Cerberus, declined to comment
on the case in a telephone interview today.  The lawsuit against Cerberus is Innkeepers USA Trust v.
Cerberus Four Holdings LLC, 11-02557, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The Chapter 11 case
is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  