-- 
Lira Declines in Istanbul After Central Bank Says No Dollar Sale

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-13T14:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/lira-declines-in-istanbul-after-central-bank-says-no-dollar-sale.html
Turkey ’s lira declined after the
central bank did not sell dollars today, heading for the biggest
retreat in more than a week against the U.S. currency.  The lira dropped 0.9 percent to 1.8374 per dollar at 5:11
p.m. in Istanbul, trimming its weekly gain to 0.6 percent. The
currency has appreciated 2.7 percent since it reached a record
low of 1.9096 on Oct. 4 and forced the central bank to raise its
dollar sales to a record $750 million. The central bank has sold
dollars most days since Aug. 5 when it embarked on daily dollar
sales to shore up the currency.  “The lira is depreciating after the announcement,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said in
an e-mailed report to investors today. “We can explain the
bank’s decision with high risk appetite abroad today.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.5 percent to
928.11, gaining for a seventh day, the longest rally since
April. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.36 percent, according to
the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index.  Foreign investor holdings of bonds for the week ending Oct.
7 fell $35 million, paring annual net inflows to $8.9 billion,
central bank data showed today.  “It is possible that the central bank did not think an
additional intervention is necessary because of foreign flows
into the  bond market ,” Comert said.  The lira is the second worst-performer after  South Africa ’s
rand against the dollar among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, losing 16 percent this year as the current-account
deficit and the European financial woes dented investor
confidence in Turkey’s financial stability. The deficit narrowed
to $4 billion in August, the smallest gap since October last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  