-- 
IRS Auditing How Google Shifted Profits Offshore to Avoid Taxes

-- B y   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/irs-auditing-how-google-shifted-profits-offshore-to-avoid-taxes.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  is
auditing how  Google Inc. (GOOG)  avoided federal income taxes by
shifting profit into offshore subsidiaries, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  The agency is bringing more than typical scrutiny to how
the company valued software rights and other intellectual
property it licensed abroad, said the person, who requested
anonymity because the audit isn’t public. The IRS has requested
information from Google about its offshore deals after three
acquisitions, including its $1.65 billion purchase of YouTube, 
the person said. The transfer overseas of these kinds of rights
has enabled Google to attribute earnings to foreign units that
pay lower taxes, Bloomberg News reported a year ago.  While Google’s potential liability isn’t clear, similar
deals between companies and offshore arms are often the subject
of disputes over hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes, said
Daniel Frisch, an economist at Horst Frisch Inc. which advises
businesses on  transfer pricing  -- the allocation of income
between units in different countries. In 2006, the IRS settled a
case with drugmaker  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  for $3.4 billion.  “The very biggest transfer-pricing tax disputes are over
transfers of intangibles to offshore subsidiaries,” said
Frisch, whose firm is based in  Washington .  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
has cut its worldwide tax bill by about $1 billion a year using
a pair of strategies called the “Double Irish” and “Dutch
Sandwich,” which move profits through units in Ireland, the
Netherlands and  Bermuda . Google reported an effective tax rate
of 18.8 percent in the  second quarter , less than half the
average combined U.S. and state statutory rate of 39.2 percent.  Tax Holiday  “This is a routine inquiry,” said Jim Prosser, a
spokesman for  Mountain View , California-based Google. He
declined to comment further.  Dean Patterson, a spokesman for the IRS in Washington, said
federal law prohibits the agency from discussing specific
taxpayers.  U.S. companies are sitting on at least $1.375 trillion in
earnings in their foreign subsidiaries on which they have paid
no federal income taxes, according to a May report by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Companies including Google,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are lobbying
Congress for a tax holiday on bringing home those profits, which
would otherwise be subject to U.S. income tax at the 35 percent
corporate rate with a credit for foreign taxes already paid.  The Obama administration is opposed to that tax break and
has been stepping up criticism of tax preferences for various
industries and millionaires. Last week, Senate Democrats
proposed a new surtax on people earning at least $1 million a
year, a move that would generate an estimated $453 billion over
the coming decade.  France Probe  The  French tax authority  also began reviewing Google’s
income shifting in December, examining transactions between the
company’s French and Irish subsidiaries, according to two people
with knowledge of the probe. The French inquiry was prompted by
the October 2010 Bloomberg article on the company’s tax-cutting
strategy, the people said.  A spokesman for the French budget ministry, which oversees
the tax authority, declined to comment, saying the agency cannot
discuss individual cases.  Multinational companies cut their tax bills by shifting
earnings into subsidiaries in offshore  tax havens , a strategy
that is drawing increased scrutiny from the IRS.  In May, the IRS appointed its first  transfer-pricing 
director, Samuel Maruca. Last year, it announced the assignment
of additional agents and attorneys to examine a few large
companies as part of a pilot program. The IRS wouldn’t discuss
whether Google is one of those companies.  Valuable Patents  Moving profit abroad is particularly important for cutting
the tax bills of technology and pharmaceutical companies because
of their valuable and easily transportable collection of patents
and copyrights. Google, Cisco, Facebook Inc., Microsoft and
 Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , maker of the blockbuster
antidepressant Lexapro, have used tax-cutting strategies that
move profits into units -- often with no employees or offices --
in havens such as Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and Switzerland,
Bloomberg has reported.  In recent years, the IRS has engaged in a number of high
profile disagreements with multinational companies over their
transfer pricing. In 2006, the agency announced it was settling
its dispute with GlaxoSmithKline.  In 2009, the IRS lost a closely watched U.S. Tax Court case
with Veritas, now a part of computer-security software maker
 Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  In that dispute, over intellectual property
rights moved to an offshore subsidiary, the IRS sought $545
million.  Enforcement Setback  The win for Veritas was a major setback for the IRS’s
ability to enforce transfer-pricing rules, according to H. David Rosenbloom, an attorney at Caplin & Drysdale in Washington, and
director of the International Tax program at  New York  University
School of Law.  Income shifting by multinational companies cost the U.S.
$90 billion in federal  tax revenue  during 2008, according to a
March article in the trade journal Tax Notes by  Kimberly
Clausing , an economics professor at  Reed College  in Portland,
Oregon.  Google cuts its tax bill by about $1 billion a year using a
technique that allocates profits to a unit managed out of a  law
firm  in Bermuda, where there is no corporate income tax. In
2009, the most recent year for which records are available, this
subsidiary collected 4.34 billion euros (about $6.1 billion) in
royalties from a Google unit in the Netherlands, according to a
Dutch corporate filing.  As of June 30, Google held $18.8 billion in cash in its
foreign subsidiaries, almost half its total $39.1 billion in
cash and marketable securities.  ‘Buy In’  The IRS has already approved a major part of Google’s
strategy. In 2006, the agency signed off on a 2003 intracompany
transaction that moved foreign rights to its search technology
to an Irish subsidiary managed in Bermuda called Google Ireland
Holdings. That deal -- known as a “buy in” in tax parlance --
meant subsequent profit overseas based on those copyrights has
been attributed to foreign subsidiaries rather than to Google in
the U.S. where the technology was developed.  The IRS approval came in an accord known as an  advance
pricing agreement . Those arrangements are part of an agency
program intended to forestall disputes with companies, including
disagreements over the price paid by offshore units for patent
and other intellectual property rights.  Google Acquisitions  That deal between the IRS and Google only covered rights
the company held as of the 2003 licensing deal with its Irish
unit. It didn’t cover copyrights subsequently acquired by the
U.S. parent and then moved abroad.  Following that 2003 transaction, Google made several
acquisitions, spending $1.65 billion for online-video site
YouTube in 2006; $625 million for e-mail security service
Postini in 2007; and $3.2 billion for web-advertising company
DoubleClick Inc. in 2008. The IRS now is examining the prices
paid by the foreign subsidiaries for the rights to software and
other intangibles moved offshore that formerly belonged to those
three companies.  According to U.S. Treasury Department rules, foreign units
licensing rights from their U.S. parents are supposed to pay an
“arm’s length” price, or the amount that would be paid by an
unrelated company. If the offshore subsidiary pays too little,
that has the effect of shifting income overseas, thus helping
the parent avoid U.S. income taxes.  SEC Review  Google’s taxes have also drawn government scrutiny from the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Last December, the SEC asked
the company for “greater detail” about the profit it said it
had earned in countries with lower tax rates and the impact on
its effective  tax rate , according to correspondence released by
the agency in March. The SEC said in a February letter that it
had completed its review of Google’s filings. It is unclear what
action, if any, the agency took.  In August, Google announced it was spending $12.5 billion
to acquire Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., the Libertyville,
Illinois telecom-equipment and mobile-phone maker. Google said
it was doing the deal primarily for Motorola’s collection of
valuable patents. Prosser didn’t respond to a question about
whether Google would be moving any of those  patent rights 
offshore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  