-- 
Lithuania Would Consider IMF Help If Global Markets Worsen

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-10-13T13:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/lithuania-would-consider-imf-assistance-if-global-markets-worsen.html
Lithuanian Finance Minister  Ingrida Simonyte  said the government would consider turning to the
 International Monetary Fund  if global financial-market
conditions worsen.  IMF assistance has become “less sensitive politically”
than in 2009, when Lithuania considered seeking a loan, as the
Washington-based fund can now provide “more instruments than
just a standby agreement,” including credit lines and
insurance, Simonyte said. The Baltic nation doesn’t plan to
approach the IMF at present, she added.  “We can’t say we’d rule out assistance” from the IMF
“should such a need occur and uncertainty on international
markets continue,” Simonyte told a conference today in the
capital, Vilnius.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a weaker global economy
have roiled markets, prompting investors to sell stocks and
bonds in emerging nations. Lithuania’s government, which is
expected to approve next year’s budget today with a deficit of
2.8 percent of gross domestic product, needs to refinance 5.5
billion litai ($2.19 billion) of debt next year.  Lithuania is “likely to turn to the IMF” to keep
borrowing costs down in 2012, the  Baltic News Service  quoted
Kestutis Glaveckas, head of the parliamentary budget committee,
as saying today. Lithuania may borrow 3 billion to 4 billion
litai from the IMF at an interest rate of about 3 percent in
January or February, Glaveckas estimated, according to BNS.  Officials should consider IMF loans next year as they offer
lower rates than the market, Stasys Kropas, head of the
country’s Banking Association, told the same conference.  The government will borrow on the markets “if costs will
be reasonable,” Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius told
journalists in response to a question on potential IMF
assistance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  