-- 
Japanese Futures, Australia Shares Fall on Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-10-13T23:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/japan-futures-australia-shares-fall-as-spain-downgrade-stokes-europe-fear.html
Japanese stock futures and
Australian shares fell after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Spain’s
 credit rating , fueling concern that a deterioration of Europe’s
debt crisis will weigh on Asian economies and corporate earnings.  American depositary receipts of Nissan Motor Co., a
carmaker that gets about 80 percent of its sales overseas, slid
1 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest lender,
fell 1 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co., the second-largest
U.S. bank by assets, said profit declined.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s biggest mining company, lost 1.7 percent in Sydney
this morning after commodity prices slumped yesterday.  “Investors are hoping Europe will find a solution to the
sovereign-debt crisis, but if that doesn’t happen the market
could come back down again,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-
based fund manager at Schroders Plc, which oversaw $323 billion
as of June 30. “Politically, it’s going to be difficult to find
a solution. Governments in the U.S. and Europe are left with
limited stimulus options.”  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,795 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
8,800 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,780
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time after Spain had its long-term
sovereign credit rating cut to AA- from AA by Standard & Poor’s.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index sank 0.6 percent, while New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little changed.  JPMorgan Earnings  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.2 percent.
The U.S. gauge slipped 0.3 percent in New York yesterday, paring
gains from the best rally over seven days since 2009, after
JPMorgan’s earnings dropped and amid speculation that equities
rose too much on optimism  Europe ’s debt crisis may be contained.  Stocks in Europe fell yesterday after the  European Central
Bank  said imposing further losses on holders of Greek debt posed
a risk to the euro area’s financial stability.  New York-traded copper futures fell 2.6 percent yesterday,
while the London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals
including copper and aluminum sank 2.4 percent. Crude oil
futures in New York slipped 1.6 percent.  An escalation in Europe’s debt crisis may trigger a selloff
in Asian assets and disrupt  currency markets , the  International
Monetary Fund  said yesterday. The IMF report came even as
Slovakia approved Europe’s enhanced bailout fund, completing
ratification across the 17 euro countries.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 15 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4.3 percent loss by the  S&P
500  and a 14 percent decline by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.1 times for the S&P 500
and 10.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 