-- 
Jefferson County Democratic Lawmakers May Derail Debt Deal

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-10-13T21:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/jefferson-county-democratic-lawmakers-may-derail-debt-settlement.html
The Democratic half of the  Alabama 
Legislature’s 25-member Jefferson County delegation opposes a
settlement with holders of $3.14 billion in debt, throwing the
deal in doubt, according to three lawmakers.  Legislators met today with county commissioners to discuss
the plan to avert a record municipal bankruptcy. Democratic
state Representatives Patricia Todd,  John Rogers  and Mary Moore
said in phone interviews this week that most of the delegation
dislikes the terms of the deal. Their party in particular will
oppose bills necessary for its success because they believe it
gouges the poor, who would have to pay higher fees. In Alabama,
one lawmaker can block legislation pertaining to a county,
thanks to a tradition of “local courtesy.”  Todd said the delegation is unlikely to deliver the unity
that Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, a Republican, wants before
calling a legislative session next month to deliver the state’s
part of the settlement county commissioners approved in
September.  “They’re pressing us pretty hard to accept the deal and
get the legislative deals through,” Todd said of the commission
and governor’s staff. Opposition is so strong, she said, that
“I can’t imagine that we’ll have a special session. It would be
a waste of money. I told them, ‘I think you all are dreaming.’”  Three-Year Struggle  Municipalities across the nation have been battered by the
financial crisis. Central Falls,  Rhode Island , sought Chapter 9
bankruptcy protection on Aug. 1 because of problems meeting
pension obligations. Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , became the year’s
ninth filing by a municipal-bond issuer on Oct. 11. It was the
biggest since Vallejo,  California , in 2008, according to
Municipal Market Advisors, a Concord, Massachusetts, research
firm.  Bankruptcy has loomed over Jefferson County, home to
Birmingham and more than 658,000 residents, for more than three
years, thanks to the botched refinancing of a sewer renovation.  Without a settlement, Jefferson County might file the
biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history as early as
December. Commissioners avoided a filing Sept. 16 by voting 4-1
for a deal with creditors, who agreed to concessions worth $1.1
billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which arranged most of the debt,
would take the biggest loss.  Deadline for Deal  Jefferson County and its creditors set the end of this week
as a deadline for an agreement. Officials had said they hoped to
have a final draft by Oct. 15. At today’s meeting, however,
lawmakers said they wouldn’t support the proposal’s sewer-rate
increases. Not one spoke in favor of the deal.  Kenneth Klee, the county’s bankruptcy lawyer, told the
lawmakers that a Jefferson County filing “would be like
Chernobyl” for bond ratings in Alabama.  David Perry , Bentley’s chief of staff, said the governor
wouldn’t call a special session unless the Jefferson County
delegation united behind the needed legislation. He said he
wasn’t giving up.  “There’s a long history of things looking hopeless in one
instant and later being resolved,” Perry said.  Bentley said today that agreement isn’t close, the
Birmingham News reported on its website.  “I think a November special session is probably
unlikely,” the governor told the newspaper.  David Carrington , president of the County Commission, said
today’s meeting might have encouraged political posturing. He
said he planned to talk to lawmakers individually.  “I find that you often don’t accomplish much in meetings
like these,” Carrington said.  Paying Up  The settlement calls for three annual sewer-rate increases
of as much as 8.2 percent, followed by annual boosts of no more
than 3.25 percent. It requires the Legislature to approve
“moral obligation” backing for new sewer debt and to create an
independent authority -- a so-called government utility service
commission -- to operate the system. It also requires a fix for
a hole in the county operating revenue caused when a judge
struck down a tax on wages.  Democratic lawmakers oppose the rate increases, a provision
relieving JPMorgan of legal liability and the sewer authority,
which Rogers said “is going to make somebody very, very wealthy
on the backs of poor people.”  Legislators are also split along party lines on the revenue
question, with Democrats favoring a new tax and Republicans
wanting to use existing funds now earmarked for indigent medical
care.  First Things First  The revenue shortfall stems from a March state Supreme
Court ruling that struck down a tax on wages that generated
about $70 million a year. In June, the Legislature failed to
pass a bill that would have let the county raise taxes. The
county dismissed 547 employees that month. Its 2012 operating
budget still is $40 million short of meeting expenses.  Merely failing to replace that money could force Jefferson
County into bankruptcy, Commissioner Jimmie Stephens said this
week.  The chairman of the county legislative delegation,
Republican Senator Paul DeMarco of Homewood, urged fellow
lawmakers to concentrate first on replacing the lost revenue,
and to worry about other terms of the settlement later.  Three-Year Crisis  Jefferson County’s crisis erupted in 2008 when investors
dumped floating-rate bonds used to refinance fixed-rate sewer
debt after companies that insured them lost top credit ratings
because of investments in subprime mortgages.  The county’s floating-rate securities were coupled with
interest-rate swaps, a money-saving strategy pitched by banks,
which backfired. As credit markets convulsed, interest costs
soared. When banks demanded early bond payoffs, the county
defaulted.  In interviews in Birmingham this week, commissioners said
they had not given up on persuading the delegation to deliver
legislation to save the settlement. They remain “cautiously
optimistic,” Commissioner Joe Knight said in a phone interview
Oct. 11.  He said he believed the lawmakers were misreading the
public mood. “I’m not getting any backlash for settling,”
Knight said. “The people want resolution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Edwards in New York at 
 kedwards27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  