-- 
Johnson & Johnson, Mark Hurd, Insider Trading in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-10-13T11:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/johnson-johnson-mark-hurd-insider-trading-in-court-news.html
     Oct. 13 (Bloomberg)-- Just as his trial was set to start
its second day, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab yesterday pleaded
guilty to all eight charges in the attempted bombing of a
Northwest Airlines plane on Christmas Day 2009.  U.S. District Judge Nancy Edmunds in Detroit immediately
swore in the Nigerian-born Abdulmutallab, telling the so-called
underwear bomber he had the right to remain silent. He waived
the right and admitted the charges against him.  The surprise announcement by Abdulmutallab and attorney
Anthony Chambers, so-called standby counsel appointed to assist
him, came as the day’s first witness was about to be called.
Abdulmutallab planned to represent himself.  In a statement to the court, Abdulmutallab said he tried to
bomb the plane as an act of retaliation against the U.S. for the
“killing of my brothers and sisters in Muslim lands.”  “I intentionally carried an explosive device” onto the
plane, he said. The device was concealed in his underwear. He
was subdued by passengers after failing to set it off.  Asked if he was aware that his actions were against the
law, he replied, “Yes, U.S. law.” He called American law
unjust and oppressive according to the Koran.  Edmunds accepted his guilty pleas to all eight felony
counts and set sentencing for Jan. 12. The charges include
attempted murder and attempted use of a weapon of mass
destruction. Abdulmutallab has been in custody since his arrest.  Chambers and U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade said
Abdulmutallab will spend the rest of his life in prison.  “This case demonstrates that civilian courts are an
appropriate tool for bringing terrorists to justice,” McQuade
said in a press conference after the plea.  The case is U.S. v. Abdulmutallab, 10-cr-20005, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  Lawsuit News  Sprint, Cellular South Seek Access to U.S. Data in AT&T Case  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and Cellular South Inc. asked for
access to confidential information that the Justice Department
got from  AT&T Inc. (T)  in its probe of the company’s proposed merger
with T-Mobile USA Inc.  The companies said U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle
in  Washington  should allow their outside lawyers and experts to
use the private data to prepare for trial in their own lawsuits
challenging the T-Mobile deal. To deprive them of that
opportunity creates a “fundamental unfairness,” they said.  The companies, in a joint filing made public yesterday,
argued that, as competitors with relevant information, they have
been subpoenaed for documents by AT&T in the government’s
antitrust suit to block the deal. At the same time, Huvelle,
overseeing all the AT&T cases, froze document exchanges in the
private lawsuits while she weighs the company’s bid to dismiss
them.  In an order yesterday, Huvelle said AT&T and the Justice
Department had until Oct. 17 to respond to the request.  “Sprint’s filing is another step in their fight against
competition,” Mike Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states and Puerto Rico joined the
government’s effort to block the deal, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, brought its
antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6. The combination of AT&T and T-
Mobile would form the country’s largest mobile phone company.  Cellular South sued on Sept. 19 claiming the merger
threatened to “substantially” cut competition. Cellular South
based in Ridgeland, Mississippi, changed its name to C Spire
Wireless on Sept. 26, according to its website.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Cerberus, Innkeepers Trial Over Purchase Delayed to Oct. 20  A trial over Cerberus Capital Management LP’s decision to
end a deal to buy 64 hotels from  Innkeepers USA Trust  was
delayed for a fourth time yesterday.  The trial will begin Oct. 20, Innkeepers lawyer Dan Donovan
said yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  The start date was initially postponed from Oct. 10, when
two people with knowledge of settlement talks said Cerberus
might resolve the dispute by agreeing to buy the hotels at a
lower price. Innkeepers sued after Cerberus, a New York-based
private-equity firm, and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  in August sought
to cancel their $1.1 billion purchase.  The companies agreed to the sale in May and Innkeepers won
approval of its reorganization terms in June. The company, in
bankruptcy since July 2010, operates 71 hotels, including
Residence Inns, Marriott hotels and Hampton Inns.  Cerberus cited a clause in the sale agreement allowing the
buyers to back out if there was an adverse change in the lodging
company’s business or in the overall economy.  The lawsuit against Cerberus is Innkeepers USA Trust v.
Cerberus Four Holdings LLC, 11-02557, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The Chapter 11 case
is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, in the same court.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials and Appeals  Mark Hurd Lawyers Appeal Ruling on Unsealing Fisher Letter  Lawyers for former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer Mark Hurd sought to keep secret a letter about his
relationship with contractor Jodie Fisher, contending in
Delaware Supreme Court yesterday that the contents are private.  In March, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr.
ruled that a copy of the letter, with a few redactions, should
be made public. The order was stayed after Hurd appealed to the
state’s high court.  “The right to public access is non-existent,” and the
parties have “a constitutional right to privacy,” Hurd’s
lawyer, Rolin P. Bissell, told the justices at a public hearing
in Dover.  Publicizing the letter will provide “a full opportunity to
air out” background details of Hurd’s departure,’’ Felipe
Arroyo, a lawyer for shareholder Ernesto Espinoza, told the
panel.  The letter was sent to Hurd by Fisher’s lawyer, Gloria Allred, and is part of a Chancery case filed by Espinoza seeking
access to company books and records. The letter contains
accusations of sexual harassment and details of Hurd’s alleged
advances toward Fisher and her rejection of them, according to
Parsons’s ruling.  Hurd is now president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  He
resigned from Palo Alto, California-based HP in August 2010
after a company investigation determined he violated its
standards of business conduct. HP said it didn’t find that Hurd
had violated the company’s sexual-harassment policy.  Espinoza also wants to see an internal report prepared for
the HP board by lawyers at Covington & Burling LLP as part of
his investigation into possible waste by directors. Parsons on
March 25 denied Espinoza access to the report.  The Chancery case is Espinoza v. Hewlett-Packard Co.,
CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The appeal is Hurd
v. Spinoza, 167, 2001, Delaware Supreme Court (Dover).  J&J Didn’t Warn Levaquin Riskier Than Rivals, Lawyer Argues  A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit never warned users of the Levaquin
antibiotic that it posed a greater risk of tendon damage than
rival medications, a lawyer for two men suing the company said
yesterday.  Executives of J&J’s  Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceutical 
unit sought to protect sales by omitting information about
Levaquin’s “comparative risk”  from its warning label,  Andy
Alonso , a lawyer for Paul Gaffney and Robert Beare, said in
closing arguments in the trial of their lawsuits against the
drugmaker.  The case, in state court in Atlantic City,  New Jersey , is
the third over Levaquin tendon injuries to go to trial since
November and the first to be tried in New Jersey state courts.
J&J faces more than 2,600 claims in U.S. courts over the drug,
court dockets show.  A lawyer for the J&J unit countered that for more than a
decade starting in 1996, Levaquin’s labels contained repeated
warnings about the risk of tendon injuries associated with the
drug.  Gaffney’s and Beare’s own doctors said “they were aware”
of the tendon risk posed by the drug, Christy Jones, one of the
drugmaker’s lawyers, told jurors in her closing argument
yesterday.  Levaquin, which generated more than $1 billion in sales
over an eight-year period starting in 2000, was J&J’s third-
largest selling product at one point. In 2008, the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration required all makers of antibiotics in
Levaquin’s class to beef up warnings about tendon ruptures.  Regulators required the upgraded warnings after finding
that the antibiotics increased the risk of tendon ruptures to
three to four times that of the general population, FDA
officials said.  Lawyers for a Minnesota man relied on the FDA’s push for
stronger warnings on the class of antibiotics that included
Levaquin to convince a federal court jury in December 2010 to
award him a total of $1.8 million in damages over tendon damage
he blamed on the drug. A separate jury in June rejected another
former Levaquin user’s claim for damages over his Achilles-
tendon injury.  The case is Beare v. Johnson & Johnson, L-196-10-MT,
Superior Court of New Jersey for Atlantic County (Atlantic
City).  Strip Searches of Newly Arrested Questioned by High Court  The U.S. Supreme Court questioned whether jails can
constitutionally search the private body parts of all new
prisoners, including those arrested for traffic violations.  During an hourlong argument full of graphic descriptions of
jailhouse strip-search protocols, the justices yesterday sought
to draw a line that would both prevent the smuggling of weapons
and drugs and protect the privacy interests of people arrested
for minor violations.  Several justices questioned whether jails needed to strip-
search people charged with nonviolent offenses, pointing to
studies indicating that intrusive searches of such people rarely
uncover hidden items.  “It’s very hard to find somebody who really was in this
minor offender category who really was found to have
contraband,” Justice Stephen Breyer said.  In the case before the justices, Albert W. Florence says he
was strip-searched twice during the week he was jailed following
his arrest for failing to pay an old fine -- a penalty that he
had already paid. Florence is suing officials from two New
Jersey counties -- Burlington and Essex -- over the searches.  Federal appeals courts around the country are divided on
the issue, which turns on the Constitution’s Fourth Amendment. A
Philadelphia-based federal appeals court said the counties’
policies were reasonable ways to prevent prisoners from
smuggling in weapons and drugs.  Both sides in the case yesterday sought to narrow the
issues before the court. The lawyer for the two counties,  Carter Phillips , said jail officials might be barred from touching
inmates during a search.  Florence’s lawyer, Thomas Goldstein, allowed that jails
could perform body-cavity inspections on certain categories of
inmates, such as those charged with violent offenses. He also
said all new inmates could be required to strip naked and shower
in front of guards, as long as officials stopped short of a
close-range search of a prisoner’s genitals and anus.  That distinction was lost on Justice  Sonia Sotomayor .  “It’s OK to stand five feet away, but not two?” she
asked. She added, “That’s a line that doesn’t make much sense
to me.”  The Obama administration argued alongside the counties,
urging the court to give jail officials broad latitude. Nicole
Saharsky, a Justice Department lawyer, said federal jail
officials don’t have enough information to decide whether a
particular inmate needs to be searched.  The case is Florence v. Board of Chosen Freeholders of the
County of Burlington, New Jersey, 10-945, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts, Settlements and Sentences  Microsoft Award to Alcatel-Lucent May Be Lowered, Judge Says  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  shouldn’t have to pay $70 million to
Alcatel-Lucent for patent infringement and the jury award may be
lowered to $26.3 million, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Marilyn Huff in San Diego said at a
hearing yesterday that she will review more legal arguments
before issuing a ruling. Huff said she agreed with the world’s
largest software maker that the jury’s July 29 award wasn’t
supported by evidence presented during a 10-day trial.  The judge said $26.3 million is “a fair damages figure
that is not excessive based on the totality of the evidence.”
She asked lawyers on both sides to file additional legal
arguments on her finding by the end of the month before she
makes her decision final.  The jury found that an Alcatel-Lucent patent was infringed
by Microsoft in versions of its Outlook program and two other
applications. Microsoft asked the judge to reduce the award to
no more than $5 million.  A different jury in San Diego in 2008 found that Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft had infringed the patent and awarded
$358 million in damages. An appeals court, upholding the
infringement verdict, overturned the damages award, finding the
calculation lacked sufficient evidentiary support. The case was
sent back for retrial on damages only.  The case is Lucent Technologies Inc. v. Gateway Inc., 07-
cv-2000 U.S. District Court, Southern District of California
(San Diego).  Bayer Settles With Onyx Over Regorafenib Cancer Treatment  Bayer AG (BAYN)  settled a lawsuit with  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) 
over the promotion and sale of regorafenib, a cancer treatment.
Under the agreement reached Tuesday, Bayer will pay Onyx a 20
percent royalty on worldwide sales of regorafenib for use in
oncology, South San Francisco-based Onyx said yesterday in a
regulatory filing. Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer also will pay
Onyx $160 million for the Japanese royalty rights for Nexavar, a
liver-cancer treatment, according to the filing.  Regorafenib hasn’t been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration or the European Medicines Agency, according to
the statement. Nexavar is approved in the U.S.  The case is Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Bayer Corp.,
09-2145, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  Kimelman Gets 2 1/2 Years on Eve of Rajaratnam Sentencing  Michael Kimelman, the Incremental Capital LLC co-founder,
yesterday was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for insider
trading. Kimelman was found guilty in June with Zvi Goffer, a
former Galleon employee, and his brother, Emanuel Goffer, in a
scheme to bribe two lawyers at Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP for
secret information about transactions involving 3Com Corp.,
Axcan Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp.  “I was made aware when I went to trial that I could be
convicted,” Kimelman told U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan .
“Now that has happened, I am ready to pay the price and face
the consequences of my decision.”  Sullivan yesterday also ordered Kimelman to forfeit
$289,000, the amount prosecutors said he made from the scheme.
In September, Sullivan gave Zvi Goffer 10 years in prison, and
last week he sentenced Emanuel Goffer to three years.  Kimelman has continued to claim he is innocent and intends
to appeal the conviction. Last week Sullivan denied his requests
for acquittal or for a new trial.  Kimelman’s lawyer,  Michael Sommer , asked Sullivan for
leniency, arguing that his client never used a prepaid cell
phone to evade detection, as others in the ring did. Kimelman
never took or gave any bribes, wasn’t a leader of the scheme and
didn’t pass any tips to others, Sommer said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe urged Sullivan to
sentence Kimelman within the advisory federal guideline range of
33 months to 41 months. He said Kimelman created a phony paper
trail to disguise the insider trades.  Sullivan said he was influenced in his decision to sentence
Kimelman below the guideline range by the more than 100 letters
he received from Kimelman’s friends and family.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Rajaratnam Shouldn’t Get Bail After Sentencing, U.S. Says  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam shouldn’t be
granted bail pending appeal after he’s sentenced today for
insider trading, prosecutors said, because he has millions of
dollars and could flee the U.S.  Federal prosecutors said that Rajaratnam has failed to
prove that he isn’t a flight risk and hasn’t refuted their
argument that he has substantial ties outside the U.S.,
including in Sri Lanka where he was born, according to a filing
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. Rajaratnam, who is a
naturalized U.S. citizen, also retains his Sri Lankan
citizenship.  While the government has said it opposes bail pending
appeal, prosecutors also said yesterday they have told his
lawyers they won’t object if Rajaratnam surrenders shortly after
his sentencing and goes directly to the facility designated by
the U.S. Bureau of Prisons. Prosecutors said prison authorities
indicated it will take 21 days for them to process his
designation to a federal prison.  ‘Should Rajaratnam flee to Sri Lanka or elsewhere, he would
have access to tens of millions of dollars by the mere touch of
a keystroke and thus could use that money to live abroad,’’
wrote assistant U.S. attorneys Jonathan Streeter, Reed Brodsky
and Andrew Michaelson.  Prosecutors, saying he made $72 million from his crimes,
have asked for a prison term of 19 years and seven months to 24
1/2 years, which Rajaratnam’s lawyers called “grotesquely
severe.” Defense lawyers said that he only made $7.4 million
from the trades.  John Dowd, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the government’s
filing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Visa, Mastercard Accused of Price Fixing by ATM Operators  Visa Inc. (V)  and  Mastercard Inc. (MA) , the world’s biggest payment
networks, were sued by a trade group representing operators of
automated teller machines over claims the card companies fix
prices and suppress competition between ATM networks.  The companies, in a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal
court in Washington, are accused of “eliminating or severely
restricting independent decision-making” among ATM operators by
establishing a uniform agreement with almost every card-issuing
U.S. bank to “fix” ATM access fees.  The allegations were made by the National ATM Council Inc.,
a trade group based in Jacksonville, Florida, and 13 operators
of ATMs in nine states.  “The ATM restraints prevent ATM operators from offering
their customers a discount or benefit for completing a
transaction over a network that is less costly to the ATM
operator, so consumers cannot be rewarded for using a lower cost
and more efficient network,” the lawsuit states.  James Issokson, a spokesman for Mastercard, based in
Purchase, New York, declined to comment, saying the company had
not been served with the lawsuit. Will Valentine, a spokesman
for San Francisco-based Visa, declined to comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is National ATM Council v. Visa Inc., 11-1803,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  MassMutual, John Hancock Sued Over Madoff Investment  Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. and John Hancock
Life Insurance Co. USA were sued by a limited-liability company
that said they lost millions of the company’s dollars to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  SSR II LLC bought variable life insurance policies from
John Hancock and Security Life of Denver Insurance Co. Through
the investment-account component of the policies, SSR invested
$13 million in a Tremont Group Holdings Inc. fund, according to
a lawsuit filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court.  The fund, through its fund-of-funds structure, allocated 22
percent of its assets to other funds, substantially all of which
went to Madoff, according to the complaint. MassMutual and other
defendants “maintained significant influence and/or control
over and provided substantial assistance to” various Tremont
entities, SSR said.  “Rather than managing a portfolio of underlying
securities, however, defendants funneled over one-fifth of
plaintiff’s investment to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, where those
funds were dissipated,” SSR II said.  Representatives of Boston-based John Hancock, MassMutual
and Security Life of Denver couldn’t be reached for comment
after normal business hours.  The case is SSR II LLC v. John Hancock Life Insurance Co.,
652793-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Transocean Sued by U.S. Agency Over Gulf-Rig Blast Subpoenas  The  U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board  has
sued a  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  unit for its allegedly inadequate
response to requests for information related to the April 2010
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil drilling rig in the  Gulf of
Mexico .  Transocean Deepwater Drilling didn’t fully comply with “38
of 39 specific demands” in five subpoenas issued between Nov.
24, 2010, and April 7, 2011, Donald Holmstrom, an investigator
for the agency said in a sworn statement filed yesterday in
Houston federal court. The board is seeking to force the
drilling contractor to comply with its requests.  The Deepwater Horizon exploded and sank while drilling a
well for  BP Plc (BP/)  off the Louisiana coast, killing 11 workers and
causing the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. The board
has been investigating the incident since June 2010.  “Transocean’s ongoing failure to provide information has
impeded and delayed the CSB’s critical safety inquiry,”
Holmstrom said.  Transocean “produced a number of responsive documents”
under subpoenas issued by the board between July and August
2010, Holmstrom said. When the agency sought additional
documents and answers to “11 specific interrogatories,”
Transocean either refused to respond or provided an insufficient
response, he said.  Lou Colasuonno, a spokesman for Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, said the company’s lawyers advised the CSB in July
of its position that the Deepwater Horizon investigation should
be left to the U.S. Coast Guard.  “The Chemical Safety Board has no jurisdiction over marine
spills,” Colasuonno said in a phone interview.  Holmstrom said the information is “critical” to the
board’s analysis of the blast.  The case is U.S. v. Transocean Deepwater Drilling Inc.,
4:11-cv-3638, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 