-- 
JPMorgan’s Profits Decline 33%

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-10-13T20:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/jpmorgan-earnings-beat-estimates.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
largest  U.S. bank  by assets, fell 4.8 percent in New York
trading after the company reported that profit declined on a
slump in investment banking and trading.  JPMorgan dropped $1.60 to $31.60 at 4:15 p.m. on the New
York Stock Exchange. Third-quarter earnings at the New York-
based lender fell to about $3.1 billion, or 73 cents a share,
not including a 29-cent accounting gain, from $4.71 billion on
the same basis a year earlier.  Revenue at the investment-banking unit slid 13 percent from
the second quarter as concern that  Greece  would default and U.S.
lawmakers would fail to raise the debt ceiling roiled markets.
The firm  said  the division will face similar market conditions
for the rest of the year.  “There was a lot of noise in this number,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner with the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  and analyst at FBR Capital Markets. “When you look
at the core number and back out the benefit of securities gains
and tax benefit, it’s starting to look like a mid-70 cent
number” for earnings per share, he said.  Net income was $4.26 billion, or $1.02 a share, compared
with the average per-share estimate for adjusted earnings of 92
cents in a survey of 30 analysts by Bloomberg, the New York-
based company said today.  Underlying Business  The debt-valuation accounting gain “does not relate to the
underlying operations of the company,” Chief Executive Officer
Jamie Dimon, 55, said in a statement. Dimon said on a conference
call with journalists that the after-tax effect of the
accounting change was about 60 percent of the total gain for the
quarter.  Matthew Burnell, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , estimated
JPMorgan would post $350 million in gains from the change in
debt valuation. U.S. accounting rules require the adjustment
when the value of a company’s debt declines, under the theory
that a profit would be realized if it were repurchased at a
discount.  Third-quarter revenue declined 0.2 percent to $23.8 billion
from a year earlier. Fixed-income and equity-markets revenue
rose to $4.75 billion from $4.3 billion, driven by more than
$900 million in debt-valuation adjustments.  Jes Staley, CEO of JPMorgan’s investment bank, braced
investors last month for the drop in trading revenue from the
second quarter, when the company generated $5.5 billion from
that business. The investment bank’s staff dropped to 26,615 in
the third quarter from 27,716 in the second quarter, a decline
of 4 percent.  Deposit Growth  Total deposits surged 21 percent from a year earlier, to
$1.1 trillion.  The company’s credit-card division, which posted losses for
all of 2009, generated almost 20 percent of JPMorgan’s net
income for the quarter. The investment bank accounted for 38
percent.  Fewer consumers fell behind on their credit-card payments
in the third quarter. Loans at least 30 days overdue, a signal
of future write-offs, fell to 2.9 percent from 4.6 percent in
the same quarter in 2010 and 3.0 percent in the second quarter.
Write-offs dropped to 4.7 percent from 8.9 percent the prior
year and 5.8 percent in the previous quarter.  The slower decline in delinquency rates explains why the
company reduced its loan-loss reserve by only $170 million,
Dimon said on a conference call with analysts.  Mixed Results  “If you look at delinquencies, low rates, first-time
delinquent, all that kind of stuff, they’re kind of mixed. It
could very well improve again, but it’s flattened out,” Dimon
said.  Brennan Hawken at UBS Investment Research in  New York  was
expecting a reserve release closer to $1 billion.  “The worry is that they are seeing something in credit that
has caused them to stop releasing reserves,” Hawken said in an
interview. “That means there could be some trend going on that
has caused them to be cautious.”  Retail banking, which includes home loans and checking
accounts, earned $1.16 billion, compared with $383 million
during the second quarter and $716 million a year earlier. The
division benefited from a $370 million reduction in loan-loss
provisions to $1.03 billion.  Net Interest Margin  JPMorgan, which has benefited from record low costs of
funding mortgages and other assets, faces a squeeze on its net
interest margin -- the difference between what it pays to borrow
money and what it gets for loans and on securities.  The bank’s margin narrowed to 2.66 percent from 2.72
percent the previous quarter and 3.01 percent a year earlier.  “Trading overall in the third quarter is going to be
challenged amid dislocations both home and abroad,”  Jason Goldberg , a senior bank analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York,
said in an interview yesterday. “During the quarter, you saw
both a slowdown in investment-banking activity and more
challenging trading conditions amid a spike in volatility fueled
by concerns in  Europe .”  Slowing economic growth and heightened concern about
European sovereign debt have weighed on bank stocks all year.
The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  had dropped 28 percent this year, and the
worst performer,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , is down 53 percent. A
jump in borrowing costs at some banks, including New York-based
Morgan Stanley, subsided last week as investors became more
optimistic that European Union policy makers will find a
solution.  JPMorgan was the first of the major U.S. lenders to report
third-quarter results.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, may report a
profit of $2.49 billion when it releases results on Oct. 17, and
Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , will probably say it earned
$3.87 billion when it announces results the same day, the
surveys of analysts shows. Bank of America may report a profit
of $2.73 billion on Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  