-- 
JPMorgan’s Investment Bank Cut Workforce, Compensation Costs Last Quarter

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-13T15:08:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/jpmorgan-investment-bank-pay-pool-falls-to-289-611-per-person.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reduced its
investment-bank workforce by almost 4 percent in the third
quarter and cut employee compensation costs 28 percent as the 
division grappled with fallout from the European debt crisis.  The investment bank had 1,101 fewer employees at the end of
September than three months earlier and will continue to shrink
its staff of 26,615, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 55,
told reporters on a conference call after releasing third-
quarter earnings today.  While the bank isn’t planning layoffs, “we always trim our
sails,” Dimon said. “You’ll see the headcount coming down as
some of these systems get rolled off to reduce costs.” The firm
will be “squeezing a little bit here and squeezing a little bit
there” to trim the workforce by about 1,000 additional people,
or “maybe a little bit more” in the next 18 months, he said.  Jes Staley, CEO of JPMorgan’s investment bank, braced
investors last month for a drop in third-quarter revenue as the
European debt crisis roiled markets, and the bank today said it
may face similar challenges in the year’s final months. A pay
reduction won’t likely drive out top performers amid such a
difficult environment, said  Michael Holland , founder and
chairman of New York-based investment firm Holland & Co.  “When things get better they will participate,” Holland
said in an interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.” “When things are crummy, as they
have been for the last number of quarters, they participate in
the downside as well. A number of the star performers who are
getting paid less will stick around, and I think it’s exactly
the right way to run the business.”  Pay Per Employee  The investment bank generated a $1.64 billion profit in the
third quarter, compared with $2.06 billion in the prior three
months, according to figures posted today on the New York-based
company’s website. Revenue at the unit fell 13 percent from the
second quarter to $6.37 billion.  In the first three quarters, the unit set aside $7.71
billion, or 2 percent less than a year earlier, even as it
generated 10 percent more revenue. The expense, which includes
salaries, bonuses and benefits, was enough to give each of the
division’s employees $289,611. For the same period last year,
the unit set aside $7.88 billion to pay traders, dealmakers and
other personnel, or $298,866 for each of the 26,373 people on
staff as of Sept. 30, 2010.  Compensation costs fell to $1.85 billion in the third
quarter, compared with $2.56 billion in the second quarter.
Average compensation per employee dropped to $69,510 from
$92,510, the bank said. Companywide, staff expanded 3 percent to
256,663.  Less Revenue Spent  Staley set aside 35 percent of the division’s revenue for
pay in the first nine months, down from 37 percent in the same
period a year earlier, excluding a 2010 U.K. bonus tax,
according to today’s disclosure.  Fees from  investment banking  tumbled 46 percent to $1.04
billion in the third quarter, compared with the previous three
months. About $2 trillion in global corporate bond issues came
to market in the first half before volume plummeted to $553.3
billion in the three months ended Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The average compensation figures are derived by dividing
the overall compensation pool by the number of employees, and
they don’t represent individual workers’ actual pay. Investment
banks set aside revenue throughout the year for pay and
typically decide bonuses at year-end.  “The market-related businesses clearly experienced
pressure from the volatility, reduced volumes and mark-to-market
pressures” amid the quarter’s market tumoil, Chief Financial
Officer Doug Braunstein told reporters on a conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  