-- 
Kenya Lowers Banks’ Foreign Currency Limits to Help Shilling

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-13T14:32:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/kenya-lowers-banks-foreign-currency-limits-to-help-shilling-1-.html
Kenya ’s government imposed tighter
limits on foreign currency operations at the country’s banks, as
part of a set of measures to bolster the shilling.  The foreign exchange exposure limit for commercial banks
was lowered to 10 percent of core capital from 20 percent,
Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  told reporters in Nairobi today.
He spoke after meeting Richard Etemesi, chairman of the Kenya
Bankers Association, and central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u
to discuss the plan.  The government will also convene regular meetings between
central bank and commercial bank officials, and is examining
ways to cut unnecessary spending, Kenyatta said. Ndung’u said
that the central bank will “intensify” auctions of repurchase
and reverse  repurchase agreements , or repos, to manage
liquidity.  The shilling has dropped 21 percent against the dollar this
year, helping push inflation to 17.3 percent, more than triple
the government’s target. The central bank raised its key lending
rate by a record 4 percentage points last week to halt the
currency’s slide.  The shilling gained for a second day today, adding 1.5
percent to 102.4 per dollar at 4:20 p.m. in Nairobi.  Kenyatta said the government supports the central bank’s
rate decision and its declared readiness to carry out further
policy tightening. He said the shilling’s decline is “not
driven by changes in economic fundamentals.”  Investors lost confidence in the central bank after it sent
conflicting signals on monetary policy this year, the Kenyan
Parliamentary Budget Office, a non-partisan group whose research
informs lawmakers, said on Oct. 4. The bank cut rates in January
then reversed the decision two months later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  