-- 
Khazanah Said to Revive Its Offering of World’s First Yuan Islamic Bonds

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-10-13T05:51:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/khazanah-said-to-start-taking-orders-for-world-s-first-yuan-islamic-bonds.html
Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state investment company, has started taking orders for the sale
of the world’s first yuan-denominated Islamic bonds after an
initial delay, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The three-year bonds, which pay returns from assets that
comply with religious tenets, may price to yield about 3 percent,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the details are private. Average yields on yuan bonds sold in
Hong Kong are 28 basis points lower than those on global Islamic
notes, according to data from HSBC Holdings Plc.  Khazanah, which controls some of the Southeast Asian
nation’s biggest companies including power producer Tenaga
Nasional Bhd. and Malaysian Airline System Bhd., planned to sell
500 yuan of Islamic bonds last month, two people familiar with
the matter said on Sept 14. Its deferment made sense given the
volatility in global financial markets, central bank Governor
Zeti Akhtar Aziz said on Sept. 26.  Khazanah spokesman Mohd Asuki Abas declined to comment on
the sale when contacted by Bloomberg on his mobile today.  The  Kuala-Lumpur  based group joins Tesco Plc and
Caterpillar Inc. in selling so-called dim sum bonds as the
Chinese economy shows signs of resilience to the European debt
crisis.  The yuan has strengthened 30 percent against the dollar
since the start of 1999, the third-best performance of 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on  China ’s 3.26 percent government bonds maturing
June 2014 held at 3.50 percent today. Average yields on Shariah-
compliant debt dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point to 3.88 percent yesterday, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Khazanah has the equivalent of $8.1 billion of bonds and
loans maturing before 2024, with $1.9 billion falling due in
2013, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in  Hong Kong  at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 