-- 
Kidman Terrorized by Masked Robbers; Spacey’s Inventor: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-13T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/kidman-terrorized-by-masked-robbers-spacey-s-wacky-inventor-rick-warner.html
Nicolas Cage and  Nicole Kidman  look
terrified in the poster for “ Trespass .” No wonder.  They play a couple whose luxurious home is invaded by a
gang of robbers who terrorize them and their teenage daughter.
Think “Straw Dogs” (the original) without the moral posturing
and British accents.  While the film has a couple of major plot twists,
director Joel Schumacher and screenwriter Karl Gajdusek are
mostly interested in scaring us witless.  A paralyzing injection does the trick, though the blood-
curdling mood is often undercut by Cage’s tremulous overacting.
Kidman also works up a good sweat, displaying an impressive
array of deer-in-the-headlight looks and don’t-mess-with-me
moves.  Cage’s Kyle Miller is a workaholic diamond dealer who has
neglected his architect wife Sarah. Returning from an out-of-
town trip, he pulls his Porsche into the family’s gated driveway
and walks straight into an argument between his wife and
rebellious daughter Avery (Liana Liberato), who’s been told she
can’t attend a party.  Moments later, a man claiming to be a sheriff’s deputy
rings the buzzer at the security gate and says he’s
investigating robberies in the neighborhood. When Kyle opens the
door, he’s assaulted by three masked men (Ben Mendelsohn, Cam
Gigandet, Dash Mihok) and their female companion.  The gang includes a pair of brothers, one of whom scouted
the place while doing security work there. They order Kyle to
open his safe, where they expect to find a treasure of diamonds,
but he refuses.  Thus begins a bloody night of terror, during which
betrayals and secrets are revealed. If you’re willing to suspend
rational thought, “Trespass” can be a guilty pleasure.
Otherwise, it will make you wince.  “Trespass,” from Millennium Entertainment, opens tomorrow
in  New York  and Los Angeles. Rating: **  ‘Father of Invention’  After making a fortune with dual-purpose gadgets such as
the Ab Clicker (abdominal exerciser/remote control) and Pepper
Cam (pepper spray/digital camera), infomercial guru Robert Axle
gets busted when a flawed invention chops off customers’
fingers.  When he’s released from prison eight years later, Axle
( Kevin Spacey ) ends up working at a Wal-Mart clone and living
with his estranged daughter (Camilla Belle) and her two
roommates. He tries to make a comeback as a pitchman, but soon
realizes he’s slipping into his old ways.  Written and directed by Trent Cooper (“Larry the Cable
Guy: Health Inspector”), “ Father of Invention ” has some
memorable moments and Spacey’s sympathetic performance is fun to
watch. However, the story is as gimmicky and fleeting as Axle’s
products.  “Father of Invention,” from Anchor Bay Films, opens
tomorrow in New York and  Los Angeles : Rating: **  ‘Texas Killing Fields’  Ami Canaan Mann follows in her father’s footsteps with
“ Texas Killing Fields ,” a thriller about a serial killer who
mutilates his victims and dumps them in a marsh.  The director’s dad,  Michael Mann , is known for noirish
crime movies such as “Thief,” “Heat” and “Collateral.” Ami
Mann has yet to develop a distinctive style, but she clearly
shares her father’s fascination with the dark side of human
nature.  Two detectives, a local cop (Sam Worthington) and a
transplanted  New Yorker  (Jeffrey Dean Morgan), team up to hunt a
killer suspected of dozens of unsolved murders near a small
Texas town. They chase promising leads, fight jurisdictional
battles and send tracking dogs into the bayou, but the mystery
deepens.  The plot is hard to follow and some characters, including
the local detective’s former wife (Jessica Chastain), are
dispensable. Worthington and Morgan are a strong duo, though,
and the spooky mood is hard to shake.  “Texas Killing Fields,” from Anchor Bay Films, opens
tomorrow in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: **1/2  ‘Fireflies in Garden’  Despite a stellar cast that includes  Julia Roberts ,  Ryan Reynolds , Willem Dafoe and Emily Watson, the dysfunctional-
family story “Fireflies in the Garden” rarely rises above
soap-opera melodrama.  The high-achieving Taylor clan is fraught with strained
relationships -- between father and son, husband and wife,
brother and sister, aunt and nephew. When a family celebration
is marred by tragedy, all the conflicts surface and everyone is
forced to deal with the past as well as the present.  While the title of Dennis Lee’s film comes from Robert Frost, that’s as poetic as it gets.  “Fireflies in the Garden” opens tomorrow in New York and
Los Angeles. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 