-- 
KKR, Blackstone Are Said to Weigh Takeover Bids for Yahoo

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-13T20:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/kkr-blackstone-group-are-said-to-weigh-possible-takeover-offers-for-yahoo.html
KKR & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
are among the private-equity firms considering possible bids for
Yahoo! Inc., according to people with knowledge of the matter.  The firms may become part of a consortium that would pool
the financing needed, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the review is preliminary and the firms may
decide not to make an offer.  The field of potential bidders is crowding for Yahoo, which
embarked on a strategic review of its options last month after
firing Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz . Under Bartz, the Web
company had struggled to stem sales declines or compete with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. Any group of buyers likely will
need to work with Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., a Chinese e-
commerce company whose biggest shareholder is Yahoo.  Alibaba has discussed a plan with Silver Lake and Russia’s
Digital Sky Technologies to make a joint bid, people familiar
with the matter have said. Another group that is interested in a
possible offer includes Providence Equity Partners Inc. and
former  News Corp. (NWSA)  executive  Peter Chernin , people said.  Yahoo’s advisers have been fielding inquiries from
“multiple parties,” according to a September memo to
employees. The advisers view the Silver Lake group and the
Providence group as the two likeliest buyers, with Alibaba and
private-equity funds joining one of the efforts, a person said.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, declined to comment.  Christine Anderson , a
spokeswoman for Blackstone, and Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for
KKR, also declined to comment. Both firms are based in New York.  Shares rise  Yahoo shares rose 1 percent to close at $15.93, rebounding
from a decline earlier in the trading session. The stock has
dropped 4.2 percent this year.  Acquiring Yahoo won’t be easy. Aside from raising the
funding needed for a company with a market value of about $20
billion, buyers must also contend with tax liabilities related
to Yahoo’s overseas holdings, people close to the negotiations
have said. In addition to having an Alibaba stake, Yahoo owns
 Yahoo Japan  through a joint venture with  Softbank Corp. (9984) , a
Japanese telecommunication company.  Softbank and Yahoo Japan have been in talks with Yahoo to
buy its stake in Yahoo Japan for nine months and the
negotiations are complicated by tax considerations, according to
one person with direct knowledge of the situation.  Microsoft’s Role  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may join a group of investors to safeguard
its interest in Yahoo and bridge the financing gap a leveraged
buyout would require now, one person said this week. Microsoft
isn’t anywhere close to making an offer to acquire Yahoo on its
own, people familiar with the matter said last week.  Yahoo turned down a $47.5 billion offer from Microsoft in
2008, rankling investors. The two companies later forged a 10-
year agreement to outsource Yahoo’s search engine to Microsoft,
diminishing the chance of a full acquisition.  Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma has said he’s “very interested”
in buying Yahoo, which owns about 40 percent of his company.  Alibaba also has talked with Singapore’s Temasek Holdings
Pte about providing financing to buy out Yahoo’s stake,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Temasek, a state-owned  investment company , may help fund an
offer in return for a bigger share of privately owned Alibaba
Group, the people said. Temasek isn’t interested in owning
Yahoo, one person said. Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba may be worth
about $13 billion, using a valuation by the Singapore investor
last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  