-- 
Fed’s Kocherlakota Says Central Bank’s Credibility Hurt by Recent Stimulus

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-10-13T20:58:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/kocherlakota-says-fed-risks-its-credibility-with-easing-as-inflation-rises.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank has put
its credibility at risk by easing during a year in which
inflation rose and unemployment fell.  “The committee’s actions at the last two meetings are
inconsistent with a systematic pursuit of its communicated
objectives,” Kocherlakota said today in a speech in Sidney,
Montana. “It follows that these actions diminish the
committee’s credibility and so reduce the effectiveness of
future committee actions and communications.”  The speech marked the first time Kocherlakota has spoken
about policy since opposing a Federal Open Market Committee
decision to sell $400 billion of short-term  Treasury securities 
and replace them with $400 billion of longer-term securities.  “I believe that the FOMC’s ultimate effectiveness relies
critically on its communication and the credibility of that
communication,” Kocherlakota told business leaders from the
Sidney area in eastern Montana. “I’ve dissented at the last two
meetings because I believe that the committee’s decisions at
those meetings diminish that requisite credibility.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week at a Joint
Economic Committee hearing that the two-year-old recovery is
“close to faltering.” The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3
percent annual pace in the second quarter, up from 0.4 percent
in the first quarter.  Change Held at Zero  The Fed meeting and Bernanke’s testimony to Congress came
before an Oct. 7 report from the Labor Department showed the
economy created 103,000 jobs in September, an improvement from
the 57,000 positions added a month earlier.  Kocherlakota said the recovery has been slower than
expected, adding “some have suggested that the unexpected
slowness of the recovery is a justification for the FOMC’s
increasing the level of monetary accommodation over the past
couple of months. But I disagree with this argument.”  “As the economy recovers, the FOMC should respond by
reducing the level of monetary accommodation,” Kocherlakota
said.  “The FOMC should only increase accommodation if the
economy’s performance, relative to the dual mandate, actually
worsens over time,” he said, referring to the central bank’s
goals of maintaining  price stability  and ensuring full
employment.  Dissenting Vote  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and Philadelphia’s
 Charles Plosser  also cast a dissenting vote at the Sept. 20-21
meeting. In August, the three Fed district bank chiefs objected
to a pledge to hold the central bank’s interest rate near zero
through at least mid-2013.  Kocherlakota said in response to audience questions that
the plan to swap short-term debt for longer-term debt, known as
Operation Twist for its attempt to bend the yield curve, is
“not a game changer.” The policy will probably have
stimulative effects roughly equivalent to cutting the Fed’s
target interest rate by 0.5 percentage point, he said.  Kocherlakota also said that the Fed’s low-interest rate
policy has “redistributional” effects on the economy.  “When we keep rates low that ends up helping some people
more than it helps others,” he said, citing the example of
retirees who may be living off fixed-income investments. “Those
people have certainly been hurt by interest rate policy.”
Still, overall, “the net benefit from stimulating the economy
outweighs those losses.”  Stock Index Falls  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,203.64 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell three basis points to 2.178 percent. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Fed said some officials last month wanted to keep
further asset purchases as an option to boost the economy as
policy makers saw “considerable uncertainty” that U.S. growth
will pick up, according to minutes of the meeting released
yesterday in  Washington .  “Actions speak louder than words,” Kocherlakota said.
“The committee can claim that it intends to make monetary
policy so as to fulfill its dual mandate. But the public will
watch its actions carefully in this regard,” he said.  “If the committee fails to reduce its immense amount of
accommodation in a timely fashion, the public will begin to
doubt the committee’s claims about its goals,” he said.  Kocherlakota noted that the current 9.1 percent rate is an
improvement from the 9.8 percent rate in November last year. The
rate is little changed from January.  Inflation Accelerated  Inflation has accelerated since last year too. Prices rose
2.9 percent in August from a year earlier, according to the
personal consumption expenditures index. Costs excluding food
and energy rose 1.6 percent.  “In response to these changes in economic conditions, the
committee should have lowered the level of monetary
accommodation over the course of the year,” Kocherlakota said.
“Instead, through actions taken at its last two meetings, the
committee has raised the level of monetary accommodation. In
this sense, the committee’s recent actions in 2011 are
inconsistent with the evolution of the economic data in 2011.”  Most participants at the Fed’s last meeting favored giving
additional information on the central bank’s goals for the
economy and how they influence its decisions, the minutes said.  Policy makers also decided on Sept. 21 to reinvest maturing
housing debt into mortgage-backed securities to help the
depressed real estate industry and in part to keep the Fed’s
Treasury holdings from getting too large and possibly causing a
“deterioration in Treasury market functioning,” the minutes
said.  Kocherlakota, 48, received his doctorate in economics from
the  University of Chicago . He taught at the  University of
Minnesota  before becoming president of the  Minneapolis Fed  in
October 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Sidney,  Montana  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  