-- 
Kodak, Google, SF Giants, Steve Jobs: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-13T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/kodak-google-sf-giants-steve-jobs-bayer-intellectual-property.html
Avenue Capital Group and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ’s GSO Capital Partners LP unit are among investors that
own debt in  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  and are seeking to profit from a
potential sale of its digital-imaging patents, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  The creditors hold second-lien debt backed by Kodak’s
patent portfolio and want the company to use cash from an asset
sale to pay bondholders before pouring proceeds back into money-
losing operations, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private. Fidelity Investments and P.
Schoenfeld Asset Management LP also hold Kodak second-lien debt,
the people said.  Some bondholders have met with bankruptcy lawyers and
restructuring advisers during the past two weeks to study
forming a committee that would help ensure they are paid, said
these people. Rochester, New York-based Kodak, which announced a
sale process for its patents in July, may fetch about $3 billion
for the portfolio, investment bank MDB Capital Group estimates.  “Bondholders want the rights to the actual cash as opposed
to trusting management to figure out how to monetize the assets
and appropriately utilize the cash,” said  Shannon Cross , an
analyst at Cross Research in Livingston,  New Jersey .  Gerard Meuchner, a spokesman for Kodak, said it is
premature to discuss the use of patent proceeds before a sale is
concluded. He confirmed Kodak’s Sept. 30 statement that the
company has “no intention” of filing for bankruptcy.  Some potential bidders for the patents are wary of
proceeding because a purchase may amount to a so-called
fraudulent transfer if Kodak is insolvent, said the people.
Kodak confirmed Sept. 30 it hired Jones Day to advise it on
options.  “The patent sale will probably fetch a much better price
in bankruptcy court and that would therefore be a more favorable
outcome for much of the estate,” said Amer Tiwana, an analyst
at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If they
were to sell the patents outside of bankruptcy, then there will
be questions over fraudulent transfer and a potential for
litigation from bondholders.”  Financial advisers from Moelis & Co.,  Houlihan Lokey , and
Rothschild have spoken with creditors about their options, the
people said. Kodak’s second-lien debt holders have spoken with
lawyers at firms including Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP,
Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP, Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Akin
Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, the people said.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez, who took the helm in
2005, has sharpened Kodak’s focus on the printing business to
help revive revenue. Perez announced plans in July to explore
options for the portfolio of more than 1,100 patents, including
some for processing, editing and storing images.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is advising Kodak on options for the patent
portfolio. Lazard also helped Nortel Networks Corp. sell about
6,000 patents and applications to a group that included Apple
Inc. for $4.5 billion in June.  Bayer Settles With Onyx Over Regorafenib Cancer Treatment  Bayer AG (BAYN)  settled a lawsuit with Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc.
over the promotion and sale of regorafenib, a cancer treatment.  Under the agreement reached Oct. 11, Bayer will pay Onyx a
20 percent royalty on worldwide sales of regorafenib for use in
oncology, San Francisco-based Onyx said yesterday in a
regulatory filing. Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer also will pay
Onyx $160 million for the Japanese royalty rights for Nexavar, a
liver-cancer treatment, according to the filing.  “These new agreements strengthen the collaboration and
provide Onyx the opportunity to participate significantly in the
market potential of regorafenib,” Onyx Chief Executive Officer
N. Anthony Coles said in a statement.  Regorafenib hasn’t been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration or the European Medicines Agency, according to
the statement. Nexavar is approved in the U.S.  The case is  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  v. Bayer Corp., 09-
2145, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San
Francisco ).  Google, Verizon Gaining Against ‘Money-for-Nothing’ Patent Cases  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  are making headway in efforts to persuade the U.S.
International Trade Commission to limit patent-infringement
cases brought by licensing companies.  Letting licensors that don’t make products file cases is
contrary to the ITC’s role in protecting against unfair trade
practices, said Cisco General Counsel  Mark Chandler . An Oct. 4
ruling by a U.S. appeals court bolstered that argument when it
sided with the ITC’s determination that closely held PPC Inc.
failed to show it had a “domestic industry” to protect when it
brought an infringement case in 2008 over cable connectors.  The decision follows a June ruling by the ITC that cited a
lack of domestic industry in rejecting  Pioneer Corp. (6773) ’s claims
against GPS-device maker  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)   Research in Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ,  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and other
technology companies are seizing on the moment to press the ITC
to rethink whether licensing businesses can have a domestic
industry when they make no products or have no research
laboratories. Manufacturers also should be restricted from
bringing ITC cases if they are relying solely on the licensing
of patents not being used for products, Google,  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  and Cisco have argued as well.  Called  patent-assertion entities  or non-practicing entities
and sometimes derided as “trolls,” these businesses that sue
on their products but don’t make products covered by the patents
were once shut out from the ITC, which mainly heard cases from
companies that sold a physical product. The law changed in 1988,
when Congress said licensing programs also are worthy of
protection.  The presence of NPEs before the ITC in 2006 -- which stood
at one case -- increased after the  Supreme Court  that year made
it harder for licensing companies to obtain orders in district
courts for an infringer to stop using the invention. The threat
of such orders had driven most of the financial settlements that
non-practicing licensing companies sought.  There should be a direct connection between patents and
products on the market, Google, Hewlett-Packard and Cisco said
in a May 24 filing that commented on the Pioneer complaint
against Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based Garmin.  The commission in the past year has begun soliciting input
from third parties on cases that may affect the “public
interest” from the beginning instead of waiting for a judge to
rule on the underlying complaint. That’s opened the doors for
the technology companies to submit arguments on cases that would
normally settle before reaching the six commissioners.  The difficulty for the ITC is in determining what type of
licensing activities should be protected.  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  and
 Tessera Technologies Inc. (TSRA)  are among design firms that rely on
licensing their research rather than taking on the cost of
setting up manufacturing plants. Both have filed cases at the
ITC. San Diego-based  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , which makes phone chips and
licenses its technology, also filed an ITC complaint when it was
in a licensing dispute with Espoo, Finland-based phonemaker
 Nokia Oyj. (NOK)   Pioneer, the Kanagawa, Japan-based maker of car-navigation
systems and audio equipment, licenses a portfolio of patents.
The commission said in its June 24 ruling on the case that it
was impossible to determine that the three patents asserted
against Garmin were the drivers behind the licensing program.  The Pioneer decision may hurt operating companies with
large patent portfolios such as Royal Philips Electronics NV and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , Finnegan Henderson’s
Brittingham said. Pioneer, he said, “is not what people would
call an NPE.”  Pratt & Whitney Pays $1.5 Billion for Rolls-Royce Venture Stake  Pratt & Whitney said it’s buying  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) ’s
share of a venture that supplies engines for Airbus SAS jets and
forming a new partnership to power mid-size aircraft, following
a patent dispute.  Pratt & Whitney will buy Rolls-Royce’s portion of their
International Aero Engines venture for $1.5 billion, the
companies said in statements yesterday. The British engine maker
will also receive an undisclosed payment for each hour flown by
the current fleet of aircraft powered by V2500 engines for 15
years.  The companies will form a new partnership to power mid-size
aircraft, seating 120 to 230 passengers, the statement said.
Each will hold an equal share in that venture, which will focus
on high-bypass ratio geared turbofan technology.  Pratt & Whitney will continue its partnership in IAE with
 Germany ’s MTU Aero Engines AG and Japanese Aero Engines Corp.,
according to the statement. Rolls-Royce will continue to build
parts for the engines as well.  The two companies settled their patent dispute in mid-July.
This included two infringement suits in federal court and a case
before the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Terms of the resolution were not disclosed.  The Pratt & Whitney case is  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  v.
Rolls-Royce Plc, 10cv1523, U.S. District Court for the District
of Connecticut (New Haven). The Rolls-Royce case is Rolls-Royce
Plc v. United Technologies Corp., 10cv457, U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  SF Giants, MLB Sued by Gogo Over ‘San Francisco’ Trademark  Major League Baseball and the San  Francisco Giants Baseball
Club  were sued for trademark infringement by a Hayward,
California-based sporting goods manufacturer.  GoGo Sports Inc. has accused the team and the league of
infringing its “San Francisco, California” trademark.
According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, GoGo Sports registered the mark in March and claims to
have used it since 2008.  The mark has the words “San Francisco” in a stylized
script, with “California” written in a small text atop a
flourish underlining the text.  Counsel for the league said in a Sept. 5 letter to GoGo
Sports’s lawyer that the Hayward company’s registration is
limited in scope. Additionally, the Giants team has used this
script for more than 15 years and it has become “famous and
well-known for identifying the Giants,” according to the
letter.  In an e-mail sent Sept. 21, the league threatened to
litigate the dispute over the mark both at the patent office and
in federal district court. The correspondence back and forth
between counsel for GoGo Sports and for the league is included
in the court file as an exhibit to the complaint.  GoGo Sports said in its court filing that it hasn’t
infringed and isn’t infringing “either directly or indirectly,
contributorily, by inducement or otherwise, any trademark or
protectable interest of the Giants.”  The company asked the court to declare it doesn’t infringe
the team’s trademarks, and to bar the team and the league from
challenging the sporting goods company’s trademarks. It didn’t
ask for monetary damages.  GoGo Sports is represented by  Al Mohajerian  of  Mohajerian
Inc.  of  Los Angeles .  The case is Gogo sports Inc. v. Major League Baseball
Properties Inc., 2:11-cv-07992-JHN-JEM, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Creator of Steve Jobs Memorial Apple Logo Registered Design  An image of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  founder Steve Jobs that was widely
distributed over the Internet after Jobs’ death Oct. 5 from
pancreatic cancer has been registered by its creator, the San
Jose Mercury News reported.  The image of the Apple logo as a black silhouette with
Jobs’s profile taking the place of the iconic bite from the
apple was created by Los Angeles resident Farzin Adeli,
according to the Mercury News.  Adeli is  selling merchandise  bearing the image on  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s auction website and has raised about $200 to be donated
to support research on pancreatic cancer, the newspaper
reported.  He filed an application to register the copyright the day
after he created the image, and is working with IP counsel with
the intention of having his work used to promote more research
on pancreatic cancer, according to the newspaper.  Baltimore Art Museum’s Images to be Downloadable for Free  Baltimore’s  Walters Art Museum  has removed copyright
restrictions on more than 10,000 of its online artwork images,
the Artdaily.org newspaper  reported .  The museum’s goal is to have its artwork better known and
shared with national and international audiences, according to
the newspaper.  Users will be able to download the images for free,
Artdaily reported.  The works will be made available through a Creative Commons
license, according to Artdaily.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 