-- 
Komercni May Cut Profit, Payout on Greek Bonds, Cyrrus Says

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-10-13T15:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/komercni-price-estimate-cut-at-cyrrus-on-greek-bonds-dividend.html
Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit of
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, may curb dividends as additional losses on
Greek  government bonds  threaten to slash profit to the lowest in
five years, according to Cyrrus AS.  Komercni shares had their 12-month price estimate lowered
to 4,150 koruna from 4,503 koruna at Cyrrus to reflect the worse
earnings outlook, according to a report to clients today. The
Brno, Czech Republic-based brokerage kept Komercni at “buy.”  The lender, which took a 1.66 billion-koruna ($92 million)
impairment charge on Greek debt in the second quarter, still
holds “slightly more” than 5 billion koruna of the securities,
Chief Financial Officer Pavel Cejka told Lidove Noviny newspaper
on Sept. 22. Investors may be required to shoulder a 50 percent
cut in the value of Greek debt, Komercni Chief Executive Officer
Henri Bonnet told Hospodarske Noviny two days ago.  “More writedowns are likely by yearend, depending on how
talks on  Greece ’s managed default go,” Marek Hatlapatka said in
the Cyrrus report. “Greek writedowns will probably result in a
lower dividend from the 2011 profit. This year’s exceptionally
high dividend of 270 koruna will probably not be repeated.”  Spotless Liquidity  Komercni may take another charge on Greek bonds in the last
quarter of “nearly 2 billion koruna,” which would cut full-
year net income to less than 11 billion koruna from 13.3 billion
koruna last year, according to Cyrrus. That would be the lowest
profit since 2006, when Komercni netted 9.2 billion koruna.  “The loss from Greek bonds will be unpleasant for Komercni
earnings, but poses no risks for the bank’s capital stability or
liquidity,” Hatlapatka said. “With a core tier 1 capital ratio
of 14 percent, Komercni won’t need a capital increase. Its loan-
to-deposit ratio below 75 percent makes liquidity spotless.”  The stock fell 0.4 percent to 3,465 koruna at its 4:24 p.m.
close in Prague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  