-- 
Koreans With Chevys Aren’t Assured by U.S. Accord

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-13T23:30:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/koreans-driving-chevys-aren-t-assured-by-u-s-trade-accord-2-.html
President Barack Obama says he wants
“to see folks in  South Korea  driving Fords and Chevys and
Chryslers.” A trade agreement approved by Congress last night
may not separate Korean drivers from their Hyundais and Kias
anytime soon.  U.S. exports of beef, machinery and chemicals may all gain
from the agreement, according to projections by the U.S.
International Trade Commission. Congress gave final approval to
the accord yesterday, on the eve of Obama’s meeting at the White
House today with South Korea President  Lee Myung Bak .  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC
face a steeper challenge. South Korean producers accounted for
92 percent of new-vehicle sales in that nation last year,
compared with 1.1 percent for U.S.-made autos, according to data
cited by the U.S. trade panel. The trade agreement’s tariff
reductions won’t be enough to draw buyers away from cars made by
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  of Seoul and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ,
according to Bill Visnic, an auto-industry analyst.  “It’s not just about the mechanical things like tariffs
and duties and taxes,” Visnic of  Santa Monica , California-based
Edmunds.com, said in an interview. “The populace itself has to
be accepting of the notion of imported cars and imported makes.
It will probably be decades before you see a significant change
in the mix there like we have here.”  Hyundai Shares  Hyundai Motor rose 2.2 percent to 212,000 won ($183.41) at
the close of trading in Seoul after Congress passed the accord.
Kia was unchanged while parts maker Pyeong Hwa Automotive Co.
advanced 3.2 percent, outpacing the 0.8 percent gain for South
Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index. (KOSPI)   GM dropped 1.1 percent to $23.15 at the close of New York
trading and Ford slid 0.4 percent, more than the 0.3 percent
drop in the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index. Fiat SpA, which
controls Chrysler, dropped 5.5 percent in Milan.  Obama, who also won congressional approval yesterday of
free-trade agreements with Colombia and Panama, has made autos
central to his salesmanship for the South Korea accord.
Tomorrow, he and Lee plan to visit a GM plant in Lake Orion,
Michigan.  “If Americans can buy Kias and Hyundais, I want to see
folks in South Korea driving Fords and Chevys and Chryslers,”
Obama told Congress in a Sept. 8 speech on his job-creation
proposals. “I want to see more products sold around the world
stamped with three proud words: ‘Made in America.’”  ‘Good, Decent Jobs’  The South  Korea  accord is the biggest for the U.S. since
the  North American Free Trade Agreement  took effect in 1994. Lee
told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in  Washington  yesterday that
the agreement will create “good, decent jobs” in both nations
and will be “beneficial to workers, to small businesses.”  The agreement may increase U.S. exports by as much as $10.9
billion in the first year that it’s in full effect, more than
the $6.9 billion increase in imports from South Korea, because
U.S. tariffs that would be eliminated are already lower,
according to the U.S. trade commission.  Under the U.S.-South Korea accord, machinery and equipment
exports are projected to increase by as much as $2.9 billion, as
are chemicals and plastic products, according to the U.S.
commission. Beef exports may increase by as much as $1.8
billion, and pork and poultry may rise by $763 million.  “I don’t think you can judge this free-trade agreement or
any free-trade agreement by a single sector,” Susan Schwab, the
former U.S. Trade Representative who negotiated the Korea
accord, said in an interview. “There will be workers across the
 United States  that are going to benefit.”  European Competition  The U.S. exported about 13,000 cars to South Korea last
year, compared with about 562,000 South Korean-made vehicles
sold in the U.S., according to data cited in a March report by
the trade commission.  Among auto imports in South Korea in the past five years,
consumers bought 60 percent from the European Union, 29 percent
from  Japan  and 11 percent from the U.S.  U.S. exports of motor vehicles and parts to South Korea are
expected to jump by 54 percent, or about $194 million, as a
result of the trade accord, the commission estimated. Because
South Korea starts with a bigger role in the U.S. auto market,
the 11 percent gain it may receive represents $907 million in
added exports, the commission said.  South Korea’s two largest carmakers, Hyundai and Kia, share
engines, vehicle platforms and a chairman. Combined U.S. sales
for the two, which operate separately, were 860,319 this year
through September, and should reach 1.1. million units in 2011,
according to Jesse Toprak, an industry analyst in Santa Monica,
California, for TrueCar.com.  American-Built  Through September, more than 74 percent of Hyundai’s U.S.
volume was American-built, mostly at its Montgomery, Alabama,
factory, according to Ward’s Automotive data. About 27 percent
of Kia’s U.S. vehicles are from its plant in West Point,
 Georgia .  South Koreans are unlikely to buy U.S. cars that they
consider less safe and fuel-efficient even if the trade
agreement makes it less costly for them to do so, said Christian
Yang, a market analyst at IHS Automotive in  Seoul .  “The benefits that U.S. automakers will see are minimal,”
Yang said in an e-mail. “Consumers purchase cars in Korea for
the brand, style, safety. The U.S. auto companies still have
some work to do to better meet the wants and needs of the Korean
consumer.”  Deal Recrafted  The South Korea agreement was originally negotiated under
President  George W. Bush . Ford, the United Auto Workers union
and Representative Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat, led
opposition initially, saying not enough was done to change tax
and regulatory restrictions barriers in South Korea. Obama won
them over in December by recrafting parts of the deal that
affected autos.  The administration bargained to scale back provisions
making Hyundais and Kias more affordable and competitive in the
U.S., winning a compromise that will phase out a 2.5 percent
tariff on automobiles after four years instead of sooner.  The U.S. also was permitted to maintain a 25 percent tariff
on light-truck imports for eight years instead of starting to
phase it out immediately. South Korea’s tariff on U.S. cars will
drop from 8 percent to 4 percent when the agreement takes effect
and be eliminated entirely after four years.  The agreement also permits each U.S. automaker to export as
many as 25,000 cars annually that satisfy U.S. rather than South
Korean safety standards, and U.S. cars would have to be accepted
provided they don’t exceed South Korea’s emissions standards by
more than 19 percent.  Factory Visit  The GM factory that Obama and Lee will visit opened in 1983
and was dedicated at a ceremony by President  Ronald Reagan . It
was idled during GM’s bankruptcy. The automaker reorganized in
2009 with the help of $49.5 billion in federal funds.  In October 2010, Detroit-based GM reversed plans to close
the plant, and retained 1,550 hourly and salaried jobs there to
build the Chevrolet Sonic, which replaces its Korean-made Aveo.
The new subcompact was engineered in South Korea.  GM’s gains in South Korea may come mostly from cars made by
its unit there, previously known as GM Daewoo Auto & Technology
Co., Yang, the analyst, said.  Don Butler , vice president of sales and marketing for GM’s
Cadillac division, said the luxury brand sells about 2,000
vehicles a year in South Korea, “and we see that growing,” he
said in an Oct. 11 interview, without elaborating on sales
goals.  “We’re exporting Cadillacs to Korea as we speak,” he
said. “The trade agreement enables us to do what we’ve already
been doing to the next level.”  ‘Marketing Horsepower’  South Korea’s drivers favor midsize autos more than those
in Japan, and its wider roads can accommodate them, Butler said.  Ford plans to increase its dealer outlets in South Korea,
Meghan Keck, a spokeswoman for the Dearborn, Michigan-based
company said in an e-mail.  South Koreans’ loyalty to domestic brands won’t fade
easily, said  Jeff Schuster , executive director of global
forecasting at J.D. Power & Associates in Troy,  Michigan .  “It would take some marketing horsepower behind this in
Korea to build consumer awareness and create interest in some of
these vehicles. We could be looking at a fairly long road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  