-- 
Korean Air Says Europe Cargo Demand Below Forecast, Costs Surging on Fuel

-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 
2011-10-13T01:28:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/korean-air-says-europe-cargo-demand-below-forecast-costs-surging-on-fuel.html
Korean Air  Lines Co., the world’s
second-largest international cargo carrier, said European
freight demand was missing expectations as an economic slowdown
saps demand for mobile phones and consumer electronics.  “There should have been more demand from  Europe  this time
of the year,” Senior Vice President Cho Won Tae said yesterday
in an interview in Seoul. Cargo has been “weak” networkwide
all year, while passenger demand has risen steadily, he said.  The carrier has tumbled 33 percent in Seoul trading since
the end of June, the worst performance among major Asian
carriers, as cargo volumes wane and a weaker won exacerbates
rising fuel prices. The higher fuel costs will also likely damp
margins next year, Cho said.  “Revenue this year is pretty much similar to that of last
year, but costs have surged due to fuel,” he said. “We expect
the situation in 2012 to be worse.”  The carrier has received a boost from the introduction of
its Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos since June, Cho said. The
airline has four of the double-decker planes in service, each
fitted with 407 seats, which it flies to cities including  Hong
Kong ,  New York ,  Los Angeles  and Paris.  “The A380 has been doing very well for us,” he said. “It
has been very profitable.” He didn’t elaborate on sales.  The carrier added the planes to help compete with  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. for lucrative
business travelers. The company has said it intends to get 50
percent of passenger revenue from premium passengers by 2019,
compared with about 20 percent in 2009.  South America  Flights  The airline is also considering starting flights to South
America as it adds new long-haul planes, Cho said. The
destinations are still under consideration, he said. The airline
is also looking to start flights to Johannesburg or Nairobi by
2014, he said.  Korean Air rose 6.6 percent to 47,200 won as of 10:18 a.m.
in Seoul trading. The Bloomberg Asia-Pacific Airlines Index,
which tracks 17 airline stocks, has dropped 17 percent since the
end of June. Cathay Pacific, the world’s largest international
cargo carrier, has dropped 26 percent in the period.  The price of  jet fuel  has surged 31 percent in a year in
Singapore trading to $121.50 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The won has weakened about 8.5 percent
since the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  