-- 
Koruna Weakens as Czech Current-Account Deficit Widens More Than Estimates

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-10-13T15:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/koruna-weakens-as-czech-current-account-gap-widens-on-dividends.html
The koruna weakened against the euro
after a report showed the Czech current-account deficit widened
more than analysts estimated in August as companies sent
dividends to their foreign owners.  The Czech currency slid 0.5 percent to 24.769 per euro at
5:22 p.m. in  Prague , paring this year’s gains to 1 percent.  The gap expanded to 33.65 billion koruna ($1.87 billion)
from a shortfall of 12.8 billion koruna in July, as companies
repatriated 39 billion koruna in dividend payments in August,
the Czech central bank  said  today. The median estimate of nine
analysts polled by Bloomberg was for a 16 billion-koruna
deficit.  “Foreign investors are now reinvesting only about a fourth
of their profits in the Czech economy and transferring the rest
back home,” Tomas Vlk, an analyst at Patria Finance in Prague,
wrote in an e-mailed report today. “This unfavorable
development is a result of cautiousness as the economic outlook
is worsening.”  The deficit, the widest since July 2010, also  included  a
negative balance of 4.1 billion koruna for direct investment as
foreign owners reduced capital of Czech units and companies
provided loans to their owners abroad, the Czech National Bank
 said  on its website. Foreign trade posted a shortfall of 4.2
billion koruna, according to the bank’s figures.  “The enormously high current-account gap and the reported
structure of the overall balance of payments will likely weaken
the Czech currency,” Miroslav Frayer, an economist at Komercni
Banka AS in Prague, wrote in a report to clients today. “The
August balance-of-payments figure was a big disappointment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  