-- 
Kuwait’s Lending Growth to Slow on Faltering Investment Plan: Arab Credit

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-13T09:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/kuwait-s-lending-growth-to-slow-on-faltering-investment-plan-arab-credit.html
Kuwait will be the only member of
the Gulf Cooperation Council to experience a slowdown in
private-sector credit growth next year, according to  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , as the implementation of a $111 billion investment
program falters.  Real private-sector loans will increase 3.1 percent in 2012
compared with 4 percent this year, HSBC economists  Simon Williams  and Elizabeth Martins wrote in an Oct. 6 report.
Lending growth will accelerate in  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab
Emirates , Qatar, Bahrain and Oman, the report said.  Kuwait’s government wants investors to meet almost half the
cost of its four-year development plan aimed at modernizing the
oil-based economy. Opposition lawmakers tried in May to question
Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser Al-Mohammed Al-Sabah about the
delays. The  Constitutional Court  has yet to rule on the request.
Sheikh Nasser has been forced to form seven separate
administrations and has survived three confidence votes since
his appointment in 2006.  “We don’t expect to see a pick-up in credit growth until
there’s a meaningful implementation of  Kuwait ’s development plan
which co-opts the private sector,”  Monica Malik , a Dubai-based
economist at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the largest publicly traded
Arab investment bank, said in a phone interview yesterday.
Implementation of the non-hydrocarbon infrastructure projects
“is vital for credit growth and a wider economic pick up,”
Malik said.  Slowest Economic Growth  Economic growth in Kuwait has been the slowest in the GCC
over the past five years, according to International Monetary
Fund data. Gross domestic product expanded an average 2.6
percent a year, compared with 4.2 percent in the U.A.E., 5.7
percent in Bahrain and 18 percent in Qatar. Kuwait raised
spending by 11 percent to 19.44 billion dinars ($70.4 billion)
in the fiscal year that started in April to pay for higher
salaries and the development plan.  “ Government spending  has accelerated from last year,
including investment growth, but this hasn’t really led to
greater implementation of the wider investment plan including
private-sector involvement, which we see as being essential,”
Malik said.  The average yield on bonds in the Persian Gulf region fell
24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, this year to 5.04
percent on Oct. 12, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC
Conventional US Dollar Bond Index. The yield on Kuwait Projects
Co.’s 8.875 percent dollar bond due in October 2016 surged 94
basis points in the period to 8.05 percent.  Investment Projects  Kuwait is seeking investors to help implement projects
including investments that will increase oil and gas production,
the construction of a metro and rail network, the expansion of
the airport, new power stations, cities, hospitals, roads and a
port on Boubyan Island.  The country plans to choose a strategic investor in its
first Public Private Partnership project in the plan, Al-Zour
North power station, by the end of this year.  A tender was issued for Al-Zour in March, more than a year
after parliament approved the development program. Eleven
companies and consortia, including Mitsui & Co.,  Marubeni Corp. (8002) ,
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ) , pre-qualified to bid for the
combined generation power plant with a capacity of 1,500
megawatts and 100 million imperial gallons (120 million U.S.
gallons) of water a day.  Private-sector credit growth can be gauged “from seeing
how much is spent on the projects, almost none,” said Jassim al-Saadoun, head of Kuwait-based  Al-Shall Economic Consultants .  ‘Three Imbalances’  The three-month interbank interest rate in Kuwait has been
at 0.8125 percent for most of the past three months, about six
basis points above the record-low hit on June 26, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate is 0.66 percent in Saudi
Arabia, 1.48625 percent in the U.A.E. and 1.183 percent in
Bahrain.  Kuwait’s economy is struggling with “three imbalances”
including an overly dominant public sector and a state budget
dependent on oil revenue, the central bank Governor Sheikh Salem AbdulAziz Al-Sabah said in July.  “Without urgent and rapid capital spending on various
state projects, there will not be good growth,” Sheikh Salem
told CNBC Arabia in an interview. “Without providing good
investment opportunities to the private sector to enable it to
expand its local financial activities, the future outlook will
be limited.”  Investment Company Defaults  Some of the country’s nearly 100 investment companies
defaulted amid the credit crisis after the value of their assets
collapsed and frozen debt markets prevented them from raising
new loans.  Global Investment House KSCC (GLOBAL) , Kuwait’s biggest
investment bank that restructured $1.73 billion of debt in 2009,
last month requested its creditors’ support to defer debt
repayments due in December.  Investment Dar Co., the owner of half of Aston Martin
Lagonda Ltd., has altered the terms on $5 billion of loans after
defaulting in 2009. Finance company International Investment
Group KSCC missed periodic payments on a $200 million Islamic
bond in 2010, and Aayan Leasing & Investment Co. signed an
agreement with nine creditors to reorganize $741 million of debt
in May.  “Banks will hold back from giving loans, people are tense
and won’t spend money,” al-Saadoun said. “Loan growth is
almost zero, it’s been this way for two years. Sentiment is
negative everywhere, especially in the  Middle East , and the
political situation here adds to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  