-- 
KV Jumps as Doctors Say Makena Differs From Low-Cost Drugs

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-13T20:10:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/kv-surges-after-doctors-say-makena-differs-from-compounds.html
KV Pharmaceutical Co. (KV/A) , maker of the
Makena drug to prevent premature births, rose 27 percent after a
doctors’ group said the medicine isn’t identical to lower-cost
compounds.  Doctors should be free to choose the version they want, the
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists said in a
 statement  today. Previous statements by the group, which
criticized pricing for Makena, “may have been taken out of
context” by insurers “and used to interfere with physician’s
judgment,” the college said.  Two U.S. Senators criticized KV Pharmaceutical in March
after reports the Bridgeton, Missouri-based drugmaker planned to
charge $1,500 for an injection of Makena, compared with the $10
to $20 that compounded versions typically cost. The company’s
shares slid 21 percent on March 30 after the  Food and Drug
Administration  said pharmacists were free to provide the less-
expensive versions.  “This announcement strengthens KV’s argument that doctors
should provide the FDA-approved product, Makena, and shouldn’t
replace it with the much cheaper compounding pharmacy drug,”
said Kevin Kedra, a Gabelli & Co. analyst in Rye,  New York , in a
telephone interview. “This won’t stop compounding pharmacies,
but it lends a strong voice of support to Makena.”  KV Pharmaceutical rose to $1.65 at 4 p.m., for its biggest
increase since Aug. 11.  Marketing Rights  In February, the company became the first to win FDA
approval for a type of hydroxyprogesterone caproate, or 17P, to
prevent preterm labor and received seven years of marketing
exclusivity. The FDA for years has allowed pharmacists to mix
versions of the treatment for patients’ needs at the request of
their doctors.  Insurer coverage has “been influenced by a belief that
unapproved compounded 17P formulations are the same as Makena,”
KV Pharmaceutical said in a statement today. “These policies
should be modified to ensure that clinically-indicated patients
have unencumbered access to FDA-approved Makena” as doctors see
fit, the company said.  A second doctors’ group, the  Society for Maternal-Fetal
Medicine  joined the obstetricians’ group in today’s statement.
Both are based in  Washington .  KV Pharmaceutical cut Makena’s list price to $690 per shot
and offered rebates to further lower the cost, the company said
on April 1.  The two doctors’ groups, in a  statement  that day, called
the reduction a “woefully inadequate response.”  “Although there are clear benefits to having an FDA-
approved version of 17P, there is no evidence that Makena is
more effective or safer than the currently used compounded
version,” the physicians said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  