-- 
Kyrgyzstan Open to U.S. Access to Manas Air Base After 2014

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-10-13T18:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/kyrgyzstan-open-to-u-s-access-to-manas-air-base-after-2014.html
Kyrgyzstan is open to extending U.S.
military access to the Manas Transit Center, used to supply U.S.
and North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in  Afghanistan ,
following the planned 2014 departure of the troops.  “If the American government officially requests
prolongation of our bilateral agreement, we will certainly
consider it in due course,” Talaibek Kydyrov, Kyrgyzstan’s
ambassador to the  United Nations , said in a written answer to
questions. “Transit facilities and infrastructure in Kyrgyzstan
could play an even more effective role after 2014 for the
security and stability in the region.”  Kyrgyzstan previously suggested the U.S. would have to
leave the Manas base after 2014. The base will become a civilian
hub, the Russian news service Interfax said on Aug. 30, citing
Kyrgyz Prime Minister Almazbek Atambayev.  The U.S. is paying $77.1 million a year for use of Manas,
according to the  Congressional Research Service . In May 2010,
55,000 troops passed through Manas, served by 850 soldiers and
750 contractors, according to CRS. The leasehold was
renegotiated in 2009, when the yearly rent was raised to $60
million a year from $17.4 million. That excludes jet fuel
payments and money paid for upgrades to the air base’s
infrastructure.  Regional Security  “We clearly understand the role and significance of the
Transit Center,” Kydyrov said. “Kyrgyzstan continues to prove
its adherence to the efforts of the world community on
settlement of the situation in Afghanistan in accordance with
its international commitments. There is no doubt that, during
its 10-year existence in Kyrgyzstan, the Transit Center
considerably contributed in strengthening the security in
Afghanistan and the region in the whole.”  Manas is one card Kyrgyzstan may play in its bid for a seat
on the UN Security Council. The land-locked former Soviet state
is competing against  Pakistan  for a seat allocated to an Asian
nation. UN members will vote on Oct. 21 for five new council
members, who will serve two-year terms beginning Jan. 1.  It’s a strong play, according to John Heathershaw, a
professor of International Relations at the University of Exeter
who specializes in Central Asia.  “Most Kyrgyz feel that the primary American interest in
Kyrgyzstan is that it serves as a means to an end, which is the
mission in Afghanistan,” he said. “They are probably
correct.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  