-- 
Kyrgyzstan Bets on Air Base, Woman Reformer to Win UN Election

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-13T15:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/kyrgyzstan-bets-on-air-base-woman-reformer-to-win-un-election.html
Kyrgyzstan  may seem like an underdog
in its bid for a seat on the  United Nations Security Council .  The impoverished former Soviet state, which has no  credit
rating  or international bonds, has been criticized by the U.S.
and UN for corruption and a range of human rights abuses,
including the abduction of girls for forced marriages.  Still, it has two cards to play in seeking a place in the
UN’s most powerful group: a woman leader and air bases.  The land-locked country has Central Asia’s first female
president and is unique in having both Russia and U.S. use
military bases on its territory. The U.S. relies on the Manas
Transit Center to support operations in  Afghanistan  after
Uzbekistan evicted U.S. military from its airfield in 2005.  “We clearly understand the role and significance of
Manas,” said Kyrgyzstan’s envoy to the UN, Talaibek Kydyrov, in
an interview. “There is no doubt that, during its 10-year
existence in Kyrgyzstan, the Transit Center considerably
contributed in strengthening the security in Afghanistan and the
region.”  Roza Otunbayeva, a 61-year-old divorced mother of two, took
over as interim leader in April 2010 to enact much-praised
constitutional changes to pave the way for free elections. A
former foreign minister, who will step down after voters pick
her successor on Oct. 30, she has said “Kyrgyzstan needs to
make good friends.”  Seeking Western Votes  Otunbayeva “is certainly going to do her best to ensure
the maximum number of Western votes for the only democracy in
that part of the world with a valuable transit military base
leased by the U.S,” said Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based
analyst at IHS Global Insight.  There are five rotating  security council  seats in play.
Kyrgyzstan and Pakistan are competing for the “Asia” seat, now
occupied by Lebanon under a unwrittten rule which has an Arab
nation rotate in and out of that group to ensure representation.  For the U.S., the choice of which Muslim country replaces
Lebanon on the 15-member body is between two historically errant
allies. Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan are lobbying for support among
the 193 members of the General Assembly, which on Oct. 21 will
elect five new Security Council members for a two-year term
starting January 2012.  If successful, Kyrgyzstan would be the first ex-Soviet
Central Asian nation to serve on the Security Council.  Democratic Aspirations  Following independence from the  Soviet Union  in 1991,
Kyrgyzstan has struggled to shake its dependence on remittances
from workers in  Russia . Unlike its neighbors, Kyrgyzstan has few
energy resources to attract foreign investors. Its 2010
estimated gross domestic product per capita ranked 186, just
above  Cambodia , out of 227 nations, according to the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency.  Land-locked Kyrgyzstan is the “best hope for a democratic
breakthrough” in Central Asia, according to Thomas Melia,
deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights
and Labor. The U.S. State Department cited observers who
described the Oct. 2010 parliamentary elections as “generally
free and fair.”  “It happens to be the place where Manas Air Base is and
where we have access to Afghanistan,” Melia said at a July 26
hearing of the  Europe  and Eurasia Subcommittee of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee. “I think we need to demonstrate that
we’re interested in Kyrgyzstan and not just because of their
strategic location, but because we care about the people of
Kyrgyzstan.”  Clinton Visit  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visited the country
in December 2010 as part of a broader Obama administration
campaign to promote democracy and human rights and to broaden
ties. In July 2010, the U.S. pledged $45 million in aid to
Kyrgyzstan at a donors’ conference.  American relations with  Pakistan , which has served six
times on the Security Council, have soured since the May raid in
which U.S. SEALs killed  Osama bin Laden . The relationship
deteriorated further after Pakistan’s main spy agency was
suspected of involvement in the Sept. 20 killing of Burhanuddin Rabbani, the leading Afghan envoy seeking peace talks with
Taliban insurgents.  “Pakistan is one of the biggest contributors to UN
peacekeeping, but has gotten in deeper and deeper distemper with
a number of other countries,” Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at
the Century Foundation, a New York-based research group, said in
an interview.  Regional Rivals  The world body also might not want Pakistan and  India 
serving at the same time, given their tense relations, he said.
The neighboring Asian foes, both possessing nuclear weapons,
have overlapped at the Security Council three times, most
recently in 1984.  Stacked against Kyrgyzstan is a legacy of abuses against
girls and women highlighted in a report by the UN’s Special
Rapporteur on violence against women, Rashida Manjoo, who
visited the country  in November 2009  before deadly riots last
April unseated former president  Kurmanbek Bakiyev .  The kidnapping of girls, some of whom are raped to be
forced into marriage, is known as “ala kachuu,” which
literally means “take and flee”. Though outlawed, bride
kidnapping is still widespread, especially in rural areas, and
rarely persecuted, according to Manjoo.  Many women believe they have no rights. More than a third
of urban women don’t think sexual violence is a crime and 38
percent of women between ages 15 and 49 believe that a husband
has the right to beat his wife, according to Manjoo.  ‘Human Rights Problems’  The U.S. State Department 2010 human rights report, issued
in April 2011, cited a range of “human rights problems”
including  arbitrary killings, torture, and abuse by law
enforcement officials; arbitrary arrest and detention; lack of
judicial independence; pressure on independent media; pervasive
corruption; discrimination against women and ethnic  minorities;
child abuse; trafficking in persons; and child labor.  Kyrgyzstan, which has a population of 5.4 million, has also
proved politically fickle.  In 2009, former president Kurmanbek Bakiyev decided to
evict the U.S. Air Force after receiving a $2 billion Russian
aid package. He reversed that decision when the U.S. agreed to
pay more rent. Bakiyev, who came to power during a 2005 uprising
dubbed the Tulip Revolution, was ousted last year.  Looking to 2014  The U.S. ambassador to Kyrgyzstan, Tatiana C. Gfoeller,
said in an October 2009 dispatch that the “the Kyrgyz want to
feel like partners, and not simply landlords,” according to
 confidential diplomatic cables  obtained by WikiLeaks.org, a
website that publishes classified documents.  Still, with Obama accelerating a pullout from Afghanistan
by 2014, U.S. interest in Kyrgyzstan may wane. This may be
Kyrgyzstan’s year to play its cards to win a Security Council
seat. It’s also willing to consider an extension of the lease.  “If the U.S. government officially requests prolongation
of our bilateral agreement, we will certainly consider it,”
said Kydyrov. “Transit facilities and infrastructure in
Kyrgyzstan could play an even more effective role after 2014 for
the security and stability in the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  