-- 
Naira Falls on Speculation Central Bank Can’t Meet Dollar Demand

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-10-13T12:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/naira-falls-on-speculation-central-bank-can-t-meet-dollar-demand.html
Nigeria’s naira fell for the first
day in three against the dollar on speculation the central bank
can’t meet demand for the greenback from importers after
returning the naira to its target band at an auction yesterday.  The currency of sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-largest economy
retreated as much as 2.2 percent in the  interbank market  to
159.475 per dollar, before trading 2 percent weaker at 159.15 by
12:34 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital. The central bank
met demand in full for the first time in 26 auctions yesterday,
selling $591.67 million and bringing the currency back into its
target band of 3 percentage points below or above 150 per
dollar. The naira is the world’s second-worst performer today
against the dollar after Gambia’s dalasi.  Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi increased
the key lending rate by 2.75 percentage points and reiterated
the naira target range at an extraordinary meeting Oct. 10. The
bank raised the cash-reserve ratio to 8 percent from 4 percent.
The naira had its biggest one-day rally in almost eight years
after the decision.  There’s been “large demand for foreign currency from
importers, which has pushed the likes of the naira weaker,”
Dina Ahmad, a London-based emerging-markets strategist at BNP
Paribas SA, wrote today in e-mailed comments. “The central bank
has stepped up its foreign-exchange auction, but I don’t think
that they are comfortable with maintaining the size at these
levels -- I think thats partly the reason why they resorted to a
sharp rate hike.”  Oil-price declines and high import demand have depleted the
nation’s foreign-currency reserves, making it more difficult for
the regulator to support the naira.  Reserves, Oil Retreat  The West African nation’s  foreign-currency reserves  dropped
to $30.9 billion on Oct. 7, the lowest in more than a year,
according to data from the Abuja-based central bank. The
country’s benchmark Bonny Light crude oil has fallen 13 percent
since reaching a three-year high on April 8.  The naira breached its targeted band at a Sept. 26 auction
amid high demand for the U.S. currency, selling dollars for
155.02 naira apiece. The naira remained outside the band at the
following three sales.  The Nigerian bank joined policy makers in Kenya and  Uganda 
in raising rates to stem currency losses. The East African
nations’ currencies both slipped to record lows in the past
month and are the worst performers worldwide this year against
the dollar.  BNP Paribas estimates the naira weakening to 162 per dollar
by year-end, Ahmad said.  Nigeria ’s central bank won’t defend the naira “at all
costs,” Sanusi said Oct. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  