-- 
Netflix-Backed Bill on Video Disclosure Clears House Panel

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-10-13T16:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/netflix-backed-bill-on-video-disclosure-clears-u-s-house-panel.html
The House Judiciary Committee
approved legislation today backed by  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  that would
ease a 1988 law barring disclosure of movie-rental information
without a customer’s written consent.  Netflix says the two-decade-old law predates many of the
technologies popular with consumers today, including online
video, and stands in the way of an agreement signed last month
with Facebook Inc. that would make it easier for subscribers of
both services to share their favorite movies.  The House  bill , H.R. 2471, passed the committee in a voice
vote. The measure would let consumers give one-time online
consent to release their rental data, paving the way for U.S.
implementation of the Facebook deal. Netflix rose 2.5 percent to
$116.28 in Nasdaq trading at 12:06 p.m.  New York  time.  “Netflix would benefit immensely from Facebook,”  Richard
Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, said in a
research note yesterday. “Given the consumer goodwill/brand
damage Netflix has inflicted on itself in the past few months,
domestic Facebook integration appears more important than ever
for Netflix.”  The vote comes at a crucial moment for Los Gatos,
California-based Netflix, which is grappling with the fallout
from recent moves to raise prices and split its mail-order DVD
and Internet-streaming services. The company on Sept. 15 cut its
projected domestic subscriber numbers for the third quarter by 1
million, and it retreated on Oct. 10 from the decision to
separate its DVD and online streaming services.  Facebook Deal  Netflix’s partnership with Facebook is part of the social
network’s effort to become more of an entertainment destination.
Under changes unveiled Sept. 22 by Facebook Chief Executive
Officer Mark Zuckerberg, members can use the site to play their
friends’ favorite songs through deals with online music services
such as Spotify Ltd.  Netflix CEO Reed Hastings, a member of Facebook’s board,
took part in the announcement, but said Netflix members in the
U.S. wouldn’t be able to share their favorite movies on Facebook
because of the “outdated privacy law.” He said the Netflix-
Facebook integration would be available in the 44 other
countries where Netflix operates.  The House bill would change the Video Privacy Protection
Act, which was enacted after rental records of then-Supreme
Court nominee  Robert Bork  were published in the fall of 1987 by
a Washington tabloid. The Senate has yet to introduce its own
version of the measure.  Letter to Lawmakers  Last week, Facebook,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and IAC/InterActiveCorp.
joined Netflix in urging the Judiciary Committee to approve the
bill. The measure “empowers consumers to make decisions about
how they wish to share their experience on social network and
content sites,” the companies wrote in an Oct. 6 letter to the
committee’s chairman, Texas Republican  Lamar Smith , and its top
Democrat,  John Conyers  of  Michigan .  “People are socializing on the Internet in ways that were
unimaginable then,” Netflix spokesman  Steve Swasey  said in an
interview. The original video-privacy law is “from a previous
era and it’s not relevant now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  