-- 
Netflix Acquires CW Network Programming From Warner, CBS

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-10-13T23:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/netflix-signs-accord-for-cw-network-programming-from-warner-cbs.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online and mail-
order video service, acquired streaming rights to TV shows from
 CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  that air on the CW Network,
adding serialized programs that appeal to younger audiences.  The accord covers shows made through the 2014-2015 TV
season, the companies said today in a statement. Netflix gets
older programs and newer ones after they air. Financial terms
weren’t disclosed. Mike Morris, an analyst at Davenport & Co.,
estimated CBS and Warner Bros. Television would each receive $30
million in the first year.  CBS Chief Executive Officer Les Moonves said CW’s “Gossip
Girl” and “One Tree Hill” draw younger viewers who are more
likely to watch on Netflix. The online service is adding shows
as rights to newer films get harder to obtain. Starz LLC last
month ended talks to provide Netflix with continued online
access to movies from Sony Corp. and Walt Disney Co.  “The business of TV studios and networks has changed
drastically in the past few years,” Moonves said in an
interview. “In the business plan for CW, Netflix has become a
significant piece.”  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , gained 3 percent
to $117.01 at the close in  New York . The shares have slid 33
percent this year. CBS, owner of the most-watched TV network,
added 0.3 percent to $23.50 and New York-based Time Warner rose
0.2 percent to $32.98.  CW, owned by CBS and Time Warner, draws a smaller audience
and advertiser base than larger networks, making reruns, DVDs,
streaming and other revenue more important, Moonves said.  Program Revenue  The added revenue will lead to lower program amortization
for the two companies and reduced losses at CW, boosting CBS’s
2012 profit by 5 cents a share and Time Warner’s by 3 cents,
Morris wrote.  Netflix is gaining more than 700 hours of past seasons of
CW shows in addition to the future programs, according to the
statement. The company will have continued access to shows for
four years after they end their broadcast run, according to the
statement.  Netflix said last month it’s seeking to expand the number
of TV shows available for streaming. The company is battling a
subscriber backlash after raising prices by 60 percent for some
customers, in part to fund more online content, and cut its
third-quarter user forecast on Sept. 15.  Online Rights  Demand for online rights is increasing the value of TV
libraries, Bruce Rosenblum, president of  Warner Bros.
Television , said in an interview.  “The value of our current product has increased because
there are more buyers,” Rosenblum said. “When you are a studio
like ours, with a vast library of content, the value only
continues to grow along with these new distribution outlets.”  The CW shows are mostly serialized, making repeats less
appealing to cable networks, Moonves said. Netflix will expose
the shows to new viewers and allow fans to catch up on missed
episodes, he said.  “This is part of ongoing relationship we hope to have with
Netflix for many years,” Moonves said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  