-- 
Netflix Wanting Facebook Link Seeks to Ease Disclosure Ban

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-10-13T15:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/netflix-wants-disclosure-ban-eased-for-facebook-link.html
During the 1987 battle over  Robert Bork ’s U.S. Supreme Court nomination, a Washington tabloid
published Bork’s video rentals. The next year, Congress banned
such disclosures without customer consent.  That two-decade-old law is now the target of lobbying by
online video provider  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , which says the measure is
blocking its deal with Facebook Inc. to let U.S. customers link
their Netflix accounts to the world’s largest social network and
share movies and television shows with friends.  Today, the House Judiciary Committee approved a Netflix-
backed bill that would revamp the 1988 Video Privacy Protection
Act to allow consumers to provide one-time online consent to
release rental data, paving the way for U.S. implementation of
the Facebook deal. Netflix rose 2.2 percent to $116.17 in Nasdaq
trading at 11:40 a.m.  New York  time.  “Netflix would benefit immensely from Facebook,”  Richard Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, said in a
research note yesterday. “Given the consumer goodwill/brand
damage Netflix has inflicted on itself in the past few months,
domestic Facebook integration appears more important than ever
for Netflix.”  Netflix is grappling with fallout from recent moves to
raise prices and split its mail-order DVD and Internet-streaming
services. The  Los Gatos , California-based company on Sept. 15
cut its domestic subscriber estimates for the third quarter by 1
million, and on Oct. 10 it retreated from the decision to
separate the DVD and online streaming services. Netflix shares
 had fallen  62 percent in three months through yesterday, down
from $298.73 on July 13.  Lobbying Increase  Netflix has increased its lobbying in Washington this year,
spending $190,000 during the first six months of 2011, compared
with $130,000 spent for all of last year, according to reports
filed with the  U.S. Senate .  The company hired Michael Drobac as its first full-time
lobbyist last October. Drobac previously represented the online
travel service  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  IAC/InteractiveCorp. (IACI) , which runs
the dating website Match.com and other Internet businesses. He
has also served as an aide to Republican lawmakers, including
Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of  Texas  and former U.S. Senator
Norm Coleman of  Minnesota .  Between April and June, Drobac made $4,000 in political
donations to four House members, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington research group. Recipients
included Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican who introduced the
bill, and Linda Sanchez, a California Democrat and a co-sponsor.  Friending Facebook  Drobac also gave to House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, and Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican who
chairs a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee that has focused
on online privacy issues.  The Facebook partnership with Netflix is part of the social
network’s effort to become an entertainment destination by
giving its more than 800 million users new ways to share music
and movies. For example, under the changes unveiled Sept. 22 by
Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg, members can
use the site to play songs their friends are listening to
through deals with online music services such as Spotify Ltd.  Netflix CEO  Reed Hastings , a member of Facebook’s board,
took part in last month’s announcement, and said Netflix members
in the U.S. wouldn’t be able to share their favorite movies on
Facebook because of the “outdated privacy law.” He said the
Netflix-Facebook integration would be available in the 44 other
countries where Netflix operates.  In a blog  post  that same day, Drobac, the Netflix lobbyist,
encouraged consumers to e-mail lawmakers in support of the House
measure to change the law.  Privacy Implications  The bill “will spur growth and innovation for our business
and industry by allowing Netflix and others to offer the kinds
of new features and services that today’s consumers continue to
expect and enjoy,” Drobac said in an e-mail.  Privacy advocates are divided on the measure.  Marc Rotenberg , executive director of the Washington-based Electronic
Privacy Information Center, urged lawmakers to hold a hearing
before changing the law, saying it provides some of the
strongest consumer-privacy protections in the U.S.  “Why gut the one federal privacy law that actually
provides users with some rights?” Rotenberg said in an e-mail.
Congress should look at Facebook’s policies, which “provide no
meaningful privacy protections,” he said. Rotenberg’s group
last month asked the Federal Trade Commission to examine whether
Facebook tracks users after they log off the website.  ‘Driver’s Seat’  Jim Dempsey, vice president for public policy at the Center
for Democracy and Technology, another Washington-based privacy
group, said he didn’t see a problem with the proposed changes.  “A basic premise of privacy is that the consumer should be
in the driver’s seat,” Dempsey said in an interview. “If they
want to share their music listening habits or their movie
viewing habits, they should have the option to do that, if it’s
clear and easy to change their mind.”  The House  bill , H.R. 2471, was approved on a voice vote
today by the Judiciary Committee. The Senate has yet to put
forth its own version of the measure.  Last week, Facebook,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  IAC/InterActiveCorp. (IACI) 
joined Netflix in urging committee members to approve the bill.
The law was enacted when “many of the technologies consumers
use today had not been invented,” the companies wrote in an
Oct. 6 letter to the panel’s chairman, Texas Republican  Lamar Smith , and its top Democrat,  John Conyers  of  Michigan .  Facebook spokesman Andrew Noyes, Google spokeswoman
Mistique Cano, and IAC spokeswoman Stacy Simpson said they had
no comment beyond the letter.  Bork’s ‘Dull’ Life  Robert Bork, 84, the one-time Supreme Court nominee whose
leaked video-rental history sparked enactment of the 1988 law,
said the statute “may need revision.”  “I would hope that the privacy of the individual would be
preserved,” Bork said in a telephone interview from his home.
“I suppose if they can find a way to preserve privacy under the
statute I wouldn’t object.”  The report on his video-store rentals of movies including
“The Man Who Knew Too Much” by the  Washington  City Paper in
the fall of 1987 was a sideshow in a bruising nomination fight
that ended in Bork’s defeat after  Senate Democrats  and liberal
groups accused him of threatening the rights and privacy of
Americans.  Now a distinguished fellow at the  Hudson Institute , a
policy research organization in Washington, Bork said he’s
“never seen” Facebook and hasn’t studied issues related to the
online sharing of movies and other entertainment.  “My life is kind of dull,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  