-- 
New York Times Seeks Cuts in News Staff as Advertising Revenue Weakens

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-10-13T20:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/new-york-times-seeks-cuts-in-news-staff-as-advertising-revenue-weakens.html
New York Times Co. (NYT)  said it will
eliminate 20 newsroom positions at its namesake paper, three
weeks after chief executive officer Janet L. Robinson said a
worsening global economy had weakened advertising sales.  In a memo sent to staffers, the company said it would offer
buyout packages to volunteers, and that no one would be forcibly
laid off.  In addition to the buyouts being offered to editorial
staffers, positions on the business side of the operation will
also be cut “mostly by eliminating some open slots,” according
to the memo. The New York Times newspaper has a staff of 1,150
newsroom employees, according to company spokeswoman Eileen
Murphy. Asked whether the New York-based company would seek
similar cuts in newsroom staffing at its other properties, which
include The Boston Globe, Murphy responded via e-mail, stating:
“Today’s announcement applies to the  New York  Times.”  Robinson last month told a Goldman Sachs Communacopia
Conference in New York that economic conditions have gotten
“more difficult” since the company’s second-quarter conference
call in July, when New York Times Co. projected similar
advertising trends in the third quarter. The company will report
earnings on Oct. 20, and Robinson said it expects declines in
print and digital advertising revenue.  Analysts project the company will report third-quarter
earnings of 4 cents a share, based on a Bloomberg survey of 6
estimates. That compares to 14 cents in the prior period.  Times Co. dropped 0.6 percent to $6.81 at the close of
trading in New York. The shares have declined 30 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 