-- 
New Zealand Coaches Hold Sway Over Rugby World Cup Semifinals

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-14T04:06:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/new-zealand-coaches-hold-sway-over-rugby-world-cup-semifinals.html
France’s Marc Lievremont is the only
Rugby  World Cup  head coach on foreign soil heading into this
weekend’s semifinals in Auckland. Bookmakers rate him the least
likely to succeed.  Two-time runner-up France plays a Wales team tomorrow
coached by New Zealander Warren Gatland.  Graham Henry ’s New
Zealand faces  Robbie Deans ’s Australia the following day in the
15th matchup of the two Kiwi coaches since the latter took
charge of the Wallabies in 2008.  “We produce good rugby players and I guess it means if
you’re producing good rugby players someone has to be
controlling that and that’s usually the coaches,” All Blacks
assistant coach Steve Hansen said yesterday. “There’s obviously
good coaches in this country.”  Henry, who has a 85 percent winning ratio at the helm of
the All Blacks, is the most likely to guide his team to the
title, according to bookmakers including William Hill Plc, who
rate New Zealand the 4-7 favorite to end its 24-year drought at
rugby’s world championship.  Australia , the 1991 and 1999 winner, is the 9-2 second-
favorite to lift the Webb Ellis Cup for what would be an
unprecedented third time, according to William Hill. That means
a successful $2 bet would bring in $9 plus the original wager.
Wales is a 5-1 chance with France the 8-1 outsider.  The All Blacks are on a 25-match winning streak since 1994
at  Eden Park , which will host the semifinals and Oct. 23 final.
Australia, which has won 58 percent of its matches since Deans
was hired as its first non-native coach, last won there in 1986.  Strong Connections  “It’s often suggested to me that I’ve got mixed
emotions,” Deans said today at a news conference. “There’s
none of that. I’ve worked with this group for a long time. You
establish connections and particularly when you’ve suffered
together, it galvanizes those connections.”  Wallabies coaching coordinator David Nucifora, who was in
charge of Auckland’s Super Rugby team at the time of  New
Zealand ’s shock World Cup quarterfinal loss to France four years
ago, said the All Blacks’ home advantage brings with it the
burden of domestic expectations.  “It means a heck of a lot to New Zealanders, the game of
rugby, so I think that just puts a lot of pressure on their
team,” Nucifora, an Australian, told reporters. “The players
know and understand the expectation that sits on their shoulders
to win a World Cup. You only have to walk the streets: it’s
everywhere around you at the moment.”  The All Blacks, who’ve won three-quarters of their 482
Tests since 1903 for the best win ratio in rugby, took their
only World Cup title in 1987 when the tournament was last played
in New Zealand. Since then, the team has lost a final, three
semifinals and a quarterfinal.  Semifinal Losses  Two of those final-four losses came against Australia, in
1991 and 2003. Hansen, who had a stint as  Wales  coach before
joining Henry’s panel in 2004, said the All Blacks aren’t
allowing themselves to get bogged down by another potential
failure at the hands of their nearest neighbor.  “Everyone feels pressure, it’s how you react to it that’s
the key,” he said. “As long as you can walk toward the
pressure then you’re in control of it, it’s not in control of
you.”  New Zealand is the only team left with a 100 percent
record. Australia was upset by Ireland, Wales lost by a point to
 South Africa , while France shocked  England  in the quarterfinals
after back-to-back defeats to the All Blacks and Tonga. None of
the six previous World Cup winners lost a match.  ‘Under the Radar’  While  France  is in familiar territory after reaching its
fifth straight semifinal, Wales is playing for a spot in the
title match for the first time since 1987.  Gatland, whose 50 percent winning ratio in 46 Tests as
Wales coach is below that of Henry and Deans, said bringing a
northern hemisphere team to a World Cup in his home country has
its advantages.  “The fact that we’re in New Zealand is probably easier for
us because all the talk is about the All Blacks and Australia,”
Gatland told reporters at his team’s Auckland hotel. “We can
hopefully continue to come under the radar.”  While Gatland and Deans take different approaches to
coaching, they have similar backgrounds to Henry and his
assistants and all are committed to playing a free-flowing brand
of rugby, according to Hansen.  “All three sides want to move the ball,” Hansen said.  Wales’s performances at the tournament are even drawing
comparisons with those of top-ranked New Zealand among their
semifinal opponents, said France No. 8 Imanol Harinordoquy.  “We often say they’re the All Blacks of the north,”
Harinordoquy told reporters. “We can analyze their games from
video, but once the match is on the field, that is where the
problem starts. We will have to be able to face the challenge.
If they play free, that is when they are the most dangerous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  