-- 
New York Tops Massachusetts in U.S. Venture Deals for First Time

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/new-york-tops-massachusetts-in-u-s-venture-deals-for-first-time.html
New York  passed  Massachusetts  in
U.S.  venture-capital  deals for the first time since at least
1999, ranking second in the latest quarter behind California, as
investors seek growth in consumer Internet startups.  New York companies took in $831 million in 86 venture-
capital deals in the third quarter, compared with $710 million
for 83 investments in Massachusetts, according to a report
released today by  CB Insights , a venture-capital database. A
total of 790 U.S. firms received $7.9 billion in the fourth
straight quarter of venture investment growth.  “A lot of people have worked hard at building a startup
ecosystem in  New York City  for more than a decade, and in the
past few years you’ve seen it take hold,” said  Jerry Neumann ,
who has invested in technology companies in the city for about
15 years. “They’re coming here out of necessity.”  “Incubators” for entrepreneurs have opened in New York
City, and venture investors from Silicon Valley and Boston have
shown interest in the area, attracted by startups like
FourSquare Labs Inc. and Gilt Groupe Inc. Support for
entrepreneurs from investors and from city government is
growing, making the trend likely to stick, said Neumann, whose
firm is  NeuVC .  Internet startups accounted for almost two-thirds of the
deals and venture financing invested in New York companies, the
data show. The biggest rounds went to  Tumblr Inc. , a blog site;
 ZocDoc Inc. , which allows people to book medical appointments
online; and  Buddy Media Inc. , which provides social-media
marketing software.  Consumer Internet  “There was never a ton of consumer Internet in  Boston , and
a lot of that is happening in New York,” said Ian Sigalow, a
partner at New York-based Greycroft Partners LLC, an investor in
Buddy Media.  The market has matured enough that former entrepreneurs are
advising new ones, said Maria Gotsch, president of New York City
Investment Fund, who previously ran the incubator FinTech
Innovation Lab. This summer, there were at least eight
incubators for new companies in the city, compared with one last
year, she said.  “Everywhere I look, there’s a new incubator,” said Jay
Bhattacharya, a New York entrepreneur who formerly worked for
Citigroup Inc.  He spent time at FinTech Innovation Lab and the Founder
Institute before cofounding  Zipmark Inc. , which developed an
application that lets people exchange money through their
smartphones. Zipmark will close a $2 million funding round next
week, he said.  California  to New York  In recent years, Silicon Valley firms including  Accel
Partners  and Canaan Partners have opened offices in New York.
Greycroft has raised $205 million in two funds and has invested
in 57 startups, 18 of them in New York, Sigalow said.  “If you were on the Delta shuttle six years ago, it used
to be New York-based bankers going to Boston to do private
placement for clients,” Sigalow said. “Now it is Boston
venture capitalists coming down to meet New York-based
startups.”  California companies still dominate in venture capital,
with $3.83 billion in 315 deals in the latest quarter. That’s 40
percent of total U.S. venture investments, the data show.  Venture firms are increasing their funding to companies
even as they struggle to raise money themselves. The firms
raised $1.72 billion in the third quarter, down 53 percent from
the same period a year earlier and the lowest amount since the
third quarter of 2003, the  National Venture Capital Association 
said this week in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  