-- 
New York’s Borrowers Look Past 2040 as Rally Fuels Bond Sales: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   A n d r e a   R i q u i e r
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/new-york-s-borrowers-look-past-2040-as-rally-fuels-bond-sales-muni-credit.html
The biggest outperformance by long-
term tax-exempt debt since 2008 is helping issuers financing
some of  New York  City’s largest infrastructure projects extend
their borrowings beyond the usual outer limit of 30 years.  Thirty-year tax-free debt yields fell to about 3.7 percent
yesterday, from 4.72 percent at the start of 2011, according to
Bloomberg Valuation indexes. The gap above 10-year rates shrank
to 1.15 percentage points, the narrowest difference since
October 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors
have been buying longer-dated securities as signs of a slowing
economy help keep inflation expectations subdued.  “The long end remains very aggressively priced and issuer-
friendly,” said Matt Fabian, managing director with Municipal
Market Advisors, a Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm.
“There’s little supply out there and there’s a fair amount of
interest in owning munis from banks and insurance companies who
are looking for long-lived assets.”  Hudson Yards Infrastructure Corp., which is helping extend
subway service west of Midtown  Manhattan , next week plans to
sell $1 billion of debt due in 2047, its first offer in that
maturity since 2006. New York Liberty Development Corp., formed
to help finance rebuilding Lower Manhattan after the 2001 terror
attacks, plans to issue about $1.3 billion next month, with some
debt maturing in 40 years, for World Trade Center redevelopment.  The  Port Authority  of New York &  New Jersey  sold a record
$1 billion of taxable 40-year bonds to fund Trade Center
reconstruction last month, its longest issue since a tax-free
offering of 100-year debt in 1994. The authority owns the Trade
Center site.  Fed Plan  The  Federal Reserve ’s plan to buy long-term Treasuries to
support the economy has contributed to the decline in longer
tax-free rates, Ebby Gerry, who manages $14 billion of municipal
assets at UBS Global Asset Management Inc. in New York, said in
a telephone interview. An increase in taxable buyers purchasing
tax-exempt bonds also spurred the drop, he said.  Municipal debt due in more than 22 years has returned 11.3
percent this year, beating all other maturities, according to
Barclays Capital index data. Investors have bought longer-term
securities as local-government defaults have declined to about a
quarter of last year’s pace, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank’s buying program is a “significant step but not a game
changer” for reviving economic growth and reducing unemployment
stuck near 9 percent. Consumer prices will probably increase 2.1
percent next year and 2.2 percent in 2013, according to the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Economy ‘In Question’  “The trajectory of the economy is very much in question,”
 John Dillon , chief municipal-bond strategist at Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney in Purchase, New York, said in a telephone
interview. “And if that’s open to debate, people are more
likely to buy longer-term bonds.”  Hudson Yards will use the bond proceeds to finance the
extension of the No. 7 subway line westward in Manhattan from
Midtown and the construction of a park.  “It’s fortuitous that  interest rates  have remained low,”
said Alan Anders, deputy director of finance in the city’s
Office of Management and Budget, and president of Hudson Yards.
“We were lucky enough to hit a good market five years ago and
again now.”  The city will subsidize interest payments on the bonds for
the next seven years until the area generates sufficient revenue
from business and residential development to cover those costs
completely, according to the preliminary official statement.  Revenue securing the debt includes payments commercial
developers will make to the corporation instead of real-estate
taxes to the city and payments businesses will pay to increase
their density, among other revenue.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt:  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY is
set to issue about $235 million of revenue refunding bonds as
soon as today, according to an offering statement. The
authority, the largest public transit operator west of  Chicago ,
serves about 1.5 million riders on an average weekday. The
transaction will refund debt issued in 2001 and retire some
commercial paper, and help build reserves. The bonds are rated
Aa2, Moody’s third-highest grade. Stone & Youngberg LLC will
lead a syndicate of banks on the deal. (Added Oct. 13)  PENNSYLVANIA, whose capital city of Harrisburg filed for
bankruptcy this week, plans to sell $826 million of tax-exempt
general-obligation debt through competitive bid on Oct. 18,
according to a preliminary official statement. Proceeds will
finance upgrades to public buildings, roads and bridges, and
economic development projects, and also refund debt. The state
is rated AA,  Standard & Poor’s  third-highest grade. (Added Oct.
13)  CALIFORNIA plans to sell $2 billion of general-obligation
bonds as soon as next week to finance capital projects and
refund existing debt. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and JPMorgan Chase
will lead banks on the deal. The transaction is rated A1,
Moody’s fifth-highest grade. (Added Oct. 12)  CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU will sell $232 million of
wastewater-system revenue bonds as soon as Oct. 13 to finance
capital improvements and refinance debt. The utility system
serves about 640,000 residents across 600 square miles. The
bonds are rated AA, Fitch Rating’s third-highest grade. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch will underwrite the deal. (Added Oct. 12)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Riquier in New York at 
 ariquier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  