-- 
News Corp.’s German Pay TV Unit Links Up With Xbox to Slow Cancellations

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-10-14T08:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/news-corp-s-german-pay-tv-unit-links-up-with-xbox-to-slow-cancellations.html
Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD) , the German pay-
television operator controlled by Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
will offer programs through  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s  Xbox Live  service
as it seeks to bind clients to their contracts longer.  Sky Deutschland subscribers will be able to watch programs
via Xbox Live as early as this quarter, Chief Executive Officer
Brian Sullivan said in an interview. Customers need a 12 euro
($16.50) “Sky Go” monthly add-on subscription and a 59.99 euro
annual contract for Microsoft’s Xbox Live Gold platform.  The German company is accelerating efforts to keep
customers from cancelling their packages and spur growth as
providers including  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ,  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and Vodafone Group Plc are expanding TV offers. Churn
rate, which measures the pace of contract cancellations, fell by
almost half in the first six months to 9.7 percent on an
annualized basis. For Microsoft, the pact is another step to
convert the Xbox console into a family entertainment device by
offering non-game content.  “First and foremost this is about increasing customer
satisfaction,” Sullivan said by telephone yesterday. “If we
can acquire some additional new customers to the platform
because the experience is fun and cool, that’s great, but it’s
not the primary reason.”  Sky Deutschland shares rose as much as 6.2 percent to
2.10 euros and traded 5.3 percent higher at 2.08 euros as of
10:18 a.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the TV operator at 1.47 billion
euros. Microsoft gained 0.8 percent to $27.18 in  New York 
yesterday.  Market Share  Microsoft has added 9 percentage points to its share of the
German console market since introducing the Kinect motion-
sensing device last year, said Oliver Kaltner, Microsoft
 Germany ’s general manager for the consumer business. It aims to
add another 9 percentage points to claim first place in that
market ahead of Nintendo Co.’s Wii and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation
3, he said, declining to give actual market share estimates. The
Xbox Live service has more than 35 million customers worldwide.  Sky, based near Munich, and Microsoft are also working on
bundles of hardware, content and services that may be ready for
the Christmas holidays, said Kaltner.  In April, Sky introduced Sky Go, an add-on package that
lets users watch programs across multiple platforms such as
personal computers and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad. Sky Go will
be free for customers of the provider’s high-definition
television packages as of Oct. 18, Sullivan said. It also plans
to bring the service to mobile phones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system.  Time Warner, BSkyB  The company may end the year with enough subscribers to
start making a profit, Sullivan said in August. Sky had 2.76
million subscribers at the end of June and may add 200,000
customers in the second half, the CEO said at the time.  Sky’s TV packages cost between 16.90 euros and 65.90 euros
a month, and customers on average paid 30.74 euros a month
during the second quarter.  Microsoft has also agreed to show content of channels
including Time Warner Inc.’s HBO Go and NBC Universal’s Bravo
and Syfy in the U.S. as well as from British Sky Broadcasting
Group Corp. and the British Broadcasting Corp. in the U.K.  The new offer also features a voice-command function for
the Kinect controller, Sullivan said. The executives declined to
give customer targets.  “The moment is ideal for Microsoft as both Playstation and
Wii have in our view reached the end-of lifetime cycle while
we’re seeing a revitalization and a new peak of our current
console” because of Kinect, Kaltner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  