-- 
Hulu Owners Will Retain Control of Video Service

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-10-14T15:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/news-corp-disney-drop-plans-to-sell-hulu.html
Hulu LLC’s owners canceled their
auction of the online video service after inviting bids four
months ago, saying the company’s strategic value outweighed the
benefits of a sale.  “We have terminated the sale process and look forward to
working together to continue mapping out its path,” owners  News
Corp. (NWSA) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and Providence Equity Partners said
yesterday in a statement. “Hulu holds a unique and compelling
strategic value to its owners.”  By keeping Hulu, the media companies retain control over
how shows are distributed online and can use the service to
steer viewers to their networks, Fox, NBC and ABC, said  David Bank , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in New York. With
rival  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  trying to contain a subscriber backlash over
a price increase, Hulu is positioned to win users, he said.  “The media companies are really wise for terminating the
process,” Bank said in an interview. “They are making a very
smart move to leave their content in their own hands and not
leave their destiny to a third party.”  Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman for Hulu, said the company
wouldn’t comment beyond the statement. NBC Universal, also a co-
owner of Hulu, was required to give up oversight when it was
acquired by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Hulu offers free and paid services. The $7.99-a-month Hulu
Plus has more than 1 million subscribers, Chief Executive
Officer Jason Kilar said in an Oct. 5 blog  post . Los Angeles-
based Hulu expanded to  Japan  on Sept. 1 and has added to the
number of devices using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software that can
access its premium service.  Falling Prices  Hulu drew offers from Google Inc.,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Yahoo
Inc. and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , people familiar with the matter
said last month. Dish, which has started a Blockbuster-branded
online streaming service, bid $1.9 billion, one person said.  Marc Lumpkin, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based
Dish, declined to comment.  When Hulu was put up for sale in June, its price tag was
estimated to be $2 billion or more, based on data compiled then
by Bloomberg and SNL Kagan. The service never went forward with
a planned IPO last year that also envisioned a $2 billion value.  Netflix, Hulu’s larger rival in online streaming, has
fallen more than 50 percent since the Hulu sale plan was
reported in June. Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, rose
0.4 percent to $117.50 at 11:10 a.m.  New York  time.  This week Netflix reversed a decision to separate its
streaming and DVD-by-mail business, which was to be renamed
Qwikster. Analysts said Netflix, which cut its third-quarter
subscriber projection by 1 million on Sept. 15, changed its
plans to stem customer losses.  More Content  The developments show that Netflix is vulnerable and that
Hulu may be able to win subscribers and pay more for content,
 Laura Martin , a Needham & Co. analyst in Pasadena, California,
said in an interview.  “Netflix is in less of a position to pay Hulu’s owners for
content,” Martin said. “It’s probably in their best interest
to hold onto Hulu as a way to monetize their content.”  Hulu’s owners still need to obtain more programming, Martin
said.  CEO Kilar angered some of the service’s owners in February
by  suggesting  that online advertising was superior to
traditional TV marketing. Bank said Kilar has done a good job
building Hulu and should remain CEO.  To keep him, the owners will likely need to reconsider
going public, Martin said.  “If the owners commit to an IPO in the next two years,
markets permitting, I think they will be able to keep  Jason
Kilar ,” Martin said. “If not, I think they could lose him. He
wants to be the CEO of a public company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  