-- 
When No. 1 Financial-Strength Ranking Spells Doom

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-10-13T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/no-1-financial-strength-ranking-spells-doom-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Less than three months ago the
European Banking Authority said  Dexia SA (DEXB)  had passed its so-
called  stress test  with ease. The French-Belgian lender’s July
15  news release  carried this headline: “2011 EU-wide  Stress
Test  Results: No Need for Dexia to Raise Additional Capital.”  Then last weekend, 86 days after getting its  clean bill of
health , Dexia took a government bailout to avoid collapsing.
Nobody was surprised this happened. Nor should anyone have been.  The stress-test exercise was a charade, just as it was a
year earlier when Bank of Ireland Plc and Allied Irish Banks Plc
passed their tests and collapsed soon after. Once again the
rules were rigged so only a handful of unimportant banks would
flunk. Everyone who was paying attention understood this.  The European Union’s banking authority went through with
the  farce  anyway, presumably aware that in all likelihood some
big bank was bound to get a passing grade and quickly implode,
the same as last year, causing embarrassment for everyone
involved. All of which leads to the important question: Why?  Why would any self-respecting regulator participate in this
sort of reputational suicide? Is the problem mass corruption? Is
it mass stupidity? Assuming it’s both, where on the stupidity-
corruption continuum does one begin and the other end? Whatever
the case, the European Banking Authority is making even U.S.
regulators look good. That’s no small feat.  Balance Sheet Star  Consider Dexia’s balance sheet as of Dec. 31, which is the
date the banking authority used for its tests of 90 banks in 21
EU countries. Dexia’s tangible common shareholder equity was 6.7
billion euros, compared with 564.5 billion euros of tangible
assets. (Both figures exclude goodwill and other intangible
assets.) That gave it a 1.18 percent ratio, meaning Dexia had
little hard capital available to absorb future losses.  Dexia nonetheless managed to show a capital ratio of 12.1
percent, based in part on its calculation that it had 17 billion
euros of what the regulators call core  Tier 1 capital . Dexia
pointed to this figure in its latest  annual report  as proof that
it “enjoys robust solvency.”  Dexia got that ratio mainly by excluding the bulk of its
assets -- a process speciously referred to as risk-weighting --
along with billions of euros of pent-up losses on soured
holdings such as Greek  government bonds . The denominator in the
ratio got smaller, the numerator got bigger, and Dexia wound up
looking like one of Europe’s safest banks.  ‘Adverse Scenario’  Using Dexia’s regulatory math as a starting point, the
European Banking Authority then generously estimated Dexia’s
core Tier 1 ratio would fall to 10.4 percent in 2012 under the
“ adverse scenario ” it contemplated. The details of the
scenario don’t matter now because Dexia is toast.  The takeaway here is you can’t believe anything about
regulatory capital benchmarks, in Europe or elsewhere, stressed
or not. ( Citigroup Inc. (C)  was classified as “well capitalized”
in late 2008 when it got its second U.S. bailout.) It’s a lesson
the world should have learned long ago, yet keeps relearning.  In a way, by blowing its job so spectacularly, the European
Banking Authority may have done the public a favor. Now that we
have a clear point of reference, all you need to do to see what
other European banks we should be worried about is look up which
ones were sporting  capital ratios  similar to Dexia’s.  For instance, as of Dec. 31, four other European banks that
passed this year’s stress tests had Tier 1 capital ratios of
more than 10 percent while showing tangible common equity ratios
of less than 2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
France’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  was one. The others were  Germany ’s
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Landesbank Berlin AG and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   On Top  Alternatively, if you want a larger sample, click  here  for
a chart the Italian bank  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  showed at an Oct. 6
investor meeting in  London , comparing its stress-test results
with those of 20 of its peers. (This was one day after news
broke that government intervention at Dexia was imminent.)
Touting its fourth-place finish, Intesa said its “core Tier 1
ranks among the best under the adverse scenario.” And who was
No. 1? Dexia, of course. So at least we can thank Intesa for the
warning should the rest of  Europe ’s banks crater.  Bottom line, if Europe’s leaders want to further undermine
public confidence in the region’s banks, then they should keep
doing exactly what they’ve been doing the past couple of years.
A few more put-ons like the last two rounds of stress tests and
we’ll have the global financial crisis back to peak form in no
time. Dexia’s demise is only the start.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 