-- 
Obama Re-Election Campaign Ahead of 2007-08 Fundraising Totals

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-10-13T18:59:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/obama-re-election-campaign-says-more-than-70-million-raised-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  announced
raising $42.8 million for his re-election from July through
September, the fourth-largest fundraising quarter ever in a non-
election year.  Combined with $27.3 million for the  Democratic National
Committee , the Obama campaign operation took in $70 million in
the last three months.  Obama  has now taken in $89 million for his 2012 campaign.
Four years ago, he raised $80 million through Sept. 30, 2007,
when he started raising money three months earlier. His six-
month fundraising total is second only to the $98 million for
 George W. Bush  from July through December 1999,  Federal Election
Commission  records show.  “Democrats realize that Obama will face a very tough
reelection fight,” said  David Primo , a political science
professor at the University of Rochester in  New York .  Bush, running for re-election, raised $50 million from July
through September 2003 and $48 million from October through
December. Obama’s $46.3 million from April through June and the
$42.8 million announced today are third and fourth-biggest
fundraising quarters in non-election years recorded by the FEC.  Small Donors  Obama campaign manager  Jim Messina  said in an e-mail to
supporters that 606,027 people donated to the campaign from June
to September, and 98 percent of the donations were $250 or less.
Combined with his previous fundraising, Obama has now taken in
money from 982,967 people, Messina said.  “Getting to a million grassroots donors isn’t just a huge
accomplishment this early in the campaign,” Messina said in the
e-mail. “It’s our answer to our opponents, the press and anyone
who wants to know whether the president’s supporters have his
back.”  While Messina touted Obama’s fundraising, Primo and other
campaign finance experts say that it could be a sign of weakness
as well. Obama faces declining poll numbers amid an economy with
9.1 percent unemployment.  The president has acknowledged his fallen standing, calling
himself the underdog in the 2012 presidential campaign in an
Oct. 3 interview with ABC News.  No Primary  Four years ago, Obama faced a primary challenge from
 Hillary Rodham Clinton , now secretary of state;  Joe Biden , now
vice president, and other Democrats. This time, he has no
primary opposition so all of the money he raises can be spent
toward his re-election.  “He had formidable challengers in the  Democratic Party  and
now he’s the only game in town,” said Costas Panagopoulos,
director of the Center for Electoral Politics and Democracy at
 Fordham University  in New York. “One could say he could have
raised a lot more in this cycle. This reinforces the notion that
Obama is a voracious fundraiser but his campaign is fighting an
uphill battle for both dollars and votes.”  The combined total of $70 million was more than the
campaign’s $55 million goal though less than the $86 million the
campaign and the party took in from April to June. Obama and the
DNC are holding joint fundraisers where donors can contribute up
to $35,800 to the campaign and the party.  The campaign lowered its goal for the third quarter after
several fundraisers were canceled because Obama was engaged in
the congressional debate over raising the U.S. debt ceiling,
Matthew Barzun, the campaign’s national finance committee
chairman, told Bloomberg News in September.  Lowering Expectations  Obama raised a record $745 million for his 2008 campaign.
Messina has dismissed as speculation suggestions that the
campaign will raise $1 billion this election cycle.  Obama’s  top bundlers , who solicit money from a wide circle
of donors, have been asked to collect at least $350,000 this
year alone. Four years ago, members of Obama’s national finance
committee were asked to raise $250,000 for the 2007-08 cycle.  On the Republican side of the race, the campaign for Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  said Oct. 5 that it raised more than $17
million during the third quarter.  His money, disclosed to the FEC in advance of an Oct. 15
reporting date, likely will exceed anything raised by his rivals
for the Republican presidential nomination during the quarter.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul , a Texas Republican, said Oct.
5 that he raised more than $8 million in the quarter, which
could be third-most among the Republican presidential contenders
in the most recent quarter.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who leads in
some national polls of Republicans, hasn’t released his
fundraising total. He could report up to $14 million in the
quarter, according to a person close to the campaign who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the campaign hasn’t authorized
the disclosure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  