-- 
Obama Tax Rewrite Challenged by ’Missing Relationships’

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-10-13T22:52:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/obama-lacks-congress-ties-to-finish-tax-overhaul-mundaca-says.html
The Obama administration doesn’t
have the type of rapport with congressional leaders that would
be necessary to complete a U.S.  tax-code  overhaul, said Michael Mundaca, a former assistant Treasury secretary for  tax policy .  “What we’re missing is the relationships between the
administration and leaders on the Hill that can move this
forward,” Mundaca, who left the Obama administration in May,
said today at an international tax conference in  New York 
sponsored by Ernst & Young. “You need very strong cross-aisle
and cross-branch cooperation and we haven’t seen that yet.”  Mundaca, now the co-leader of the national tax department
at Ernst & Young, described an administration navigating with
caution the politics surrounding tax policy.  During his time at Treasury, Mundaca was part of a team
charged with developing an outline of the administration’s
priorities for a tax-code rewrite. He said the administration
will make a calculation about whether to release the paper as a
set of options or as a more definitive list of what President
 Barack Obama  is seeking.  “If it is straight up, this is a Treasury administration
recommendation on  tax reform , there are big challenges to
getting that out in this environment,” he said. “The
supercommittee is still working. There’s a lot of partisanship
on this issue.”  ‘Advancing the Ball’  A report exploring the alternatives Congress and the
administration could consider would be easier to release soon,
he said.  “It’s just advancing the ball to get to the next stage,”
he said. “The determination of what’s in the paper and what’s
going to be released is going to be made based on what can get
tax reform closer to the goal line.”  Mundaca said he doubts Congress will renew dozens of
targeted tax benefits such as the research and development tax
credit before they expire at the end of 2011. He said lawmakers
have established a “pattern” of allowing the breaks to expire
and then renewing them later on a retroactive basis, as Congress
did at the end of 2010.  Separately, it will be difficult for Congress and the
administration to agree on how or whether to pay for so-called
“extenders,” he said. Extending the tax breaks for one year
would cost the federal government about $30 billion in forgone
revenue, according to the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation. The package of extenders wasn’t offset last year, when
it was part of a bill extending expiring income tax cuts.  “There are not many revenue-raisers left that either the
president’s budget or anything else the administration can come
up with that are not controversial,” Mundaca said.  He said Obama and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
remain “very committed” to overhauling the tax code.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in New York at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  