-- 
Obama Says Korea Trade Accord Shows Parties Can Cooperate on Job Creation

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-14T02:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/obama-lee-begin-state-visit-with-trade-deal-as-centerpiece.html
President  Barack Obama  said
congressional passage of a free-trade agreement with South Korea
will help create 70,000 U.S. jobs and shows Republicans and
Democrats can cooperate on measures to improve the economy.  The trade deal “shows that we are happy to work with
Republicans where they are willing to put politics behind the
interests of the American people and come up with proposals that
are actually going to create jobs,” Obama said in a joint news
conference with South Korean President Lee Myung-bak.  At a state dinner at the White House tonight, the two
leaders exchanged toasts, with each calling the other a close
friend.  “You have so many new teacher fans in  Korea ,” Lee told
Obama. “And I have to be honest. I think quite a few of them
like you more than they like me.”  Obama said the Korean president’s life story is an
“inspiration” that “speaks to the truth that, with education and
hard work, anything is possible.” In English, Obama said, “We
translate it as ‘Yes, we can.’”  Earlier, Obama challenged Republicans, who control the U.S.
House, to back his $447 billion jobs plan, which he said will be
brought to Congress piecemeal after the Senate blocked
consideration of the full plan on Oct. 11.  Lot of Ideas  “Frankly we have not seen a lot of ideas coming forward
from Republicans that would indicate that same kind of
commitment to  job creation ,” Obama said. If congressional
Republican leaders propose an alternative for infrastructure
improvements, “I’ll be right there,” Obama said. “We’ll be
ready to go.”  Obama’s package includes tax increases on the wealthy, tax
cuts for the middle class and spending for items such as road
and bridge repairs and teacher salaries. Obama is pressing
Senate Democrats for a series of votes that would force
lawmakers to go on record with their positions on individual
components of the package.  Obama called House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, later in the day to congratulate him on passing the
free-trade agreements.  Boehner “respectfully challenged the president’s
assertion” that Republicans hadn’t offered job creation plans,
according to a statement from Boehner’s office.  All The Facts  “I want to make sure you have all the facts,” Boehner
told Obama, according to the statement. Boehner said House
Republicans released a jobs plan in May and said Republicans
considered Obama’s proposal and outlined areas “where they
believe common ground can be found.”  Boehner and Obama discussed transportation and
infrastructure, and the House leader “expressed his desire to
do something on the issue, but to do it in a fiscally
responsible way,” the statement said.  Obama welcomed Lee, 69, to the White House earlier today,
saying the U.S. alliance with  South Korea  is “unbreakable” and
“stronger than it has ever been.” Obama also said the U.S. is
“a Pacific nation.”  At the news conference, the leaders said the trade deal
represents a “win” for both countries in terms of job creation
and economic benefit.  Global Economy  The leaders said they also discussed the global economy,
North Korea,  Iran  and  Libya . Obama announced he will attend a
nuclear security summit in the South Korean capital of  Seoul 
next March.  Describing Obama as “one of my closest friends,” Lee said
through a translator that relations with the U.S. are built on a
“bedrock of stability, peace and progress.”  The visit from Lee “comes at a time that’s really a high
point in the bilateral relationship and in our alliance with
South Korea,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
yesterday. The relationship “has matured over the last two
years into a partnership building peace and prosperity
globally.”  The South Korea trade deal, which was cleared by Congress
last night along with accords with  Colombia  and Panama, is the
biggest for the U.S. since the North American Free Trade
Agreement in 1994. The U.S. International Trade Commission said
it would boost U.S. exports by as much as $10.9 billion in the
first year in which it is in full effect. U.S. trade with South
Korea  totaled  $87.6 billion last year, according to the U.S.
Census Bureau.  Broader Import  The accord with South Korea has a “broader import or
meaning for U.S. engagement in  Asia ,” said Michael Green, a
senior adviser with the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in  Washington  and a senior director for Asian affairs at
the National Security Council under President George W. Bush.  While Obama set out when he took office to intensify ties
with  China  and increase U.S. leverage in the region through
Japan and  India , Korea proved to be “the most reliable
partner” for the U.S. in Asia, Green said.  Green said he expects today’s discussions between Obama and
Lee to focus on “the larger strategic picture and the rise of
Chinese power” as well as on expected cuts to the U.S. defense
budget and efforts to discourage North Korean nuclear testing or
provocations.  Obama and Lee also have developed a “close personal
relationship” that has enhanced U.S.-South Korean strategic and
economic ties, said Tommy Vietor, a White House spokesman.  Addressing Congress  Lee spoke to the House and Senate this afternoon, saying
the trade agreement will be a force for stability in Asia.
Tonight, Obama is holding a state dinner for Lee at the White
House.  In speeches to promote his economic policies, Obama
regularly invokes Lee and South Korea to drive home the need for
the U.S. to spend on education.  Obama told the crowd at an Oct. 11 fundraiser in Orlando,
Florida, that Lee had once told him how demanding South Korean
parents are. “He says, they know education is the key to our
future, so I’m having to import teachers to teach kids English
in the first grade because they know that they want to
succeed,” Obama said. “So they’re hiring teachers as fast as
they can, and what are we doing? We’re laying them off in
droves.”  Tomorrow, Obama and Lee are scheduled to fly to Michigan to
tour a  General Motors Co. (GM)  plant that assembles the Chevrolet
Sonic. Obama has said repeatedly that he doesn’t mind Americans
driving Korean cars so long as Koreans are buying American cars
as well and that the trade agreement could help.  Companies such as  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
have led the effort to get the South Korea deal passed, while
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  were
among the biggest backers of the accord with Colombia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  