-- 
Loews Seeks Hotel Unit Chief as Jonathan Tisch Cedes Role, Adler Departs

-- B y   M a r y e l l e n   T i g h e
-- 
2011-10-13T20:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/loews-seeks-hotel-unit-ceo-as-tisch-cedes-role-adler-departs.html
Loews Corp. (L) , the owner or manager of
18 hotels in  North America , is searching for a new chief
executive officer of the lodging business after Jonathan Tisch
said he is stepping down from that role.  Korn/Ferry International was hired to look for a CEO who
will also be president, Loews said today in a statement. Tisch,
57, treasurer of the National Football League’s New York Giants
and co-chairman of the 2014 Super Bowl Host Committee, will
remain chairman of Loews Hotels and co-chairman of Loews Corp.  Jack Adler, who is president, will step down in 2012 after
more than 20 years with the firm, the company said. Adler began
working at the New York-based company in 1989 as senior vice
president of finance administration in the hotel division. He
was promoted to president in 2000, when Tisch dropped the title
to became chairman and CEO of Loews Hotels.  “Loews Corp. is committed to the hotel business and
specifically to expansion as well as investing in our existing
properties,” Tisch said in the statement.  Loews has been betting on increased business in Orlando,
 Florida , where it has three hotels. Other properties include the
Regency Hotel in New York and Ventana Canyon in Tucson, Arizona.
Loews also owns an oil-drilling company, natural-gas pipelines
and Chicago-based commercial insurer  CNA Financial Corp. (CNA)   The U.S. lodging industry has rebounded since the recession
depressed demand in 2009 and 2010. Hotel occupancies in the U.S.
climbed to  61 percent  year-to-date through August from 59
percent a year earlier, according to Hendersonville, Tennessee-
based Smith Travel Research Inc.  Loews hotels generated net income of $6 million on revenue
of $89 million in the second quarter. That compares with profit
of $4 million and revenue of $81 million a year earlier.  Slower growth in the  U.S. economy  could weigh on hotel
occupancy and room rates,  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets Corp., said last week. The U.S. jobless rate has
been at 9 percent or higher since the end of the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maryellen Tighe in  New York  at 
 mtighe6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  