-- 
Crude Oil Heads for Second Weekly Gain Amid U.S., Europe Demand Optimism

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-10-14T07:25:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/oil-near-one-week-low-as-u-s-fuel-use-declines-brent-premium-at-record.html
Oil rose in  New York , heading for
the second week of gains, on speculation  Europe  may contain its
debt crisis and the  U.S. economy  will recover, bolstering demand
for raw materials.  Prices gained as much as 0.8 percent, reversing earlier
declines, before Commerce Department data forecast to say U.S.
retail sales last month climbed at the fastest pace in six
months, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Oil and
equity futures rallied before Group of 20 finance ministers meet
to discuss Europe’s debt crisis. Technical indicators showed New
York crude was oversold.  “The oil markets moving up or pulling down is dependent on
the stock and financial markets,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a
commodity derivatives trading manager at broker Newedge in
 Tokyo . “Some of the U.S. data has been good recently. I don’t
think the markets will move up sharply as there is still a lot
of fear.”  Crude for November delivery climbed as much as 71 cents to
$84.94 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $84.61 at at 3:23 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract fell 1.6 percent yesterday to the lowest close since
Oct. 7. Prices are down 7.4 percent this year and up 2 percent
for the week.  Brent oil for November settlement rose 33 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $111.44 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark future, which expires
today, was at an intraday premium of $26.61 to U.S. crude,
compared with yesterday’s record close of $26.88. The more-
active December contract was up 24 cents at $109.44.  Oil is also rising in New York as stochastic oscillators on
the weekly technical chart show futures remain oversold,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price advance may
continue, with prices rising as high as $88.86 a barrel, the
lower of two leading-span lines that define a so-called
“ichimoku cloud” on the weekly chart. The cloud is an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  U.S. retail sales may have climbed 0.7 percent in
September, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before a report out today. That’s up from little changed in
August. Crude gained as equities on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index
advanced 0.6 percent. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
were little changed, while Nasdaq-100 Index contracts rose 0.1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  