-- 
Tokyo Mulls Dollar Bond Sale on Low Swap Rate

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-10-13T02:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/tokyo-considers-dollar-bond-sale-on-low-swap-rate-japan-credit.html
The  Tokyo  Metropolitan Government is
considering its first sale of dollar-denominated bonds in a
decade as global demand for the greenback pushes the cost to
swap the proceeds into yen to near record lows.  The five-year dollar-yen basis swap rate, which measures
the cost of exchanging interest payments from the U.S. currency
into yen, fell to as low as minus 70 basis points yesterday,
approaching the record of minus 73.2 basis points on Aug. 9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The swap was at 66.9
basis points as of 11:15 a.m. in Tokyo. A decline lowers the
cost for Japanese borrowers to sell bonds in U.S. dollars and
switch the proceeds into yen.  The government of Tokyo is taking advantage of a shortage
in liquidity in U.S. dollars, which has kept the basis swap rate
low. The Bank of Japan has maintained the overnight lending rate
between zero and 0.1 percent for a year, while Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this month said he’ll expand monetary
stimulus if needed to spur  consumer spending  and stimulate the
economy.  “We’ve taken an extensive look around the market and
picked up on where the situation is favorable for a sale,”
Yoshiko Aida, director at the Tokyo government’s bond section,
said in an interview in her office on Oct. 4. “We can only sell
dollar bonds if the cost of doing so is cheaper than domestic
deals.” Aida will meet potential investors in  Hong Kong  today
and Beijing tomorrow, she said.  Tokyo Metropolitan Government, which runs a municipality of
13 million people, is weighing the sale as part of its general
funding needs, and not for any specific purpose, Aida said.  Dollar Funding  Development Bank  of  Japan  on Sept. 28 sold $1 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds. The lender priced the five-year
securities to yield 45 basis points above the mid-swap rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By converting the
proceeds into yen, the spread equates to 27 basis points below
equivalent Japanese government debt at the time of the sale. The
state-owned bank yesterday paid 7 basis points more than
sovereign bonds to sell 20 billion yen ($259 million) of five-
year notes, Bloomberg data show.  The most recent dollar-denominated bond sale by a Japanese
company was Toyota Motor Credit Corp.’s $320 million of
floating-rate notes due in October 2013. The securities were
sold by the financing unit of  Asia ’s largest carmaker on Oct. 7
at 45 basis points more than Libor.  Borrowers typically use cross-currency basis swaps to
exchange floating-rate payments in one currency to another. The
Japanese yen  basis swap  measures the cost of switching interest
charges pegged to the dollar London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, for rates linked to yen Libor. Japan’s rate has declined
from this year’s high of minus 38.7 on Feb. 3.  Lehman Collapse  “This low level reflects a concern that getting dollar
funds hasn’t been that easy, such as what we experienced after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,” Makoto Noji, a
senior debt and currency strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
in Tokyo, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We’ll see
an increase in the trend of financing in dollars and swapping
the proceeds into yen.”  Japan’s 10-year government bond yield rose half a basis
point to close at 0.995 percent yesterday, after touching 0.965
percent on Sept. 22, the lowest since November, according to
Japan Bond Trading Co. Trading of the securities was delayed
today because of system problems.  The notes yield about 1.17 percentage points less than
equivalent-maturity Treasuries, with the extra yield that U.S.
notes pay widening from this year’s low of 0.73 percentage
points on Oct. 3.  Credit Markets  The yen fell to 77.10 against the  U.S. dollar  as of 11:32
a.m. in Tokyo, 1.5 percent above the post-World War II high of
75.95 reached on Aug. 19.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  Korea Development Bank 
sold 53.7 billion yen of Samurai bonds yesterday, including 47
billion yen of 1.3 percent notes due next year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mitsubishi Materials Corp. (5711)  raised 10
billion yen from a sale of five-year, 0.79 percent bonds
yesterday, the data show.  Mori Building Co., Japan’s biggest closely held developer,
hired Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.,  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. for a sale of bonds,
according to a faxed statement from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley today.  Credit-default swaps declined, indicating an increase in
perceptions of creditworthiness. The swaps show the cost of
protecting fixed-income securities against default. The Markit
iTraxx Japan index fell 7 basis points to 193.5 basis points as
of 9:24 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt agreements.  Government Guarantee  The Tokyo Metropolitan Government last sold dollar
securities in 2001, when it raised $170 million from a sale of
6.125 percent bonds that matured in March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It is rated AA-, the fourth-highest
investment-grade ranking by  Standard & Poor’s , and one level
above Development  Bank of Japan , known as DBJ.  The municipality will have to pay a yield premium over the
debt sold by DBJ because it has no dollar notes outstanding and
its bonds aren’t backed by the state, Hiroaki Kurosawa, team
leader for the Tokyo Metropolitan Government’s foreign bond team,
said in an interview on Oct. 4. DBJ’s securities have a
sovereign guarantee.  Public Debt  Kurosawa, who is accompanying Aida on the roadshows to
 China , said the city may have to pay as much as 15 basis points
more than DBJ’s dollar-denominated securities.  The capital’s fiscal situation is the best among Japan’s
municipalities, according to Aida. Tokyo’s outstanding debt was
7.6 percent of its 85 trillion yen gross domestic product as of
the fiscal year ended March. It made up 17.9 percent of Japan’s
economy in the year ended March 2010, according to a statement
on the government’s website.  In contrast, Japan’s public debt was 199.7 percent of GDP
in 2010, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development.  Tokyo Metropolitan Government’s most recent issue of
foreign-currency denominated securities was a 318 million euro
($438 million) sale of 4.9 percent 2035 notes in January 2008,
Bloomberg data show. It has 1.27 billion euros of bonds in the
currency outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors in Japanese fixed-income markets are seeking
alternatives to securities sold by energy companies, which
diminished after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that
crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant.  Yield Advantage  The city government paid 2 basis points more than sovereign
debt on its 20 billion yen of seven-year, 0.58 percent bonds
sold on Oct. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors seek to own Japan’s municipal
debt relative to  government securities  has averaged 9 basis
points since July 7, after declining from the year’s high of 19
basis points on March 23 to the lowest since December 2003,
according to a Bond Performance Index compiled by Nomura
Securities Co.  Spreads on U.S. municipal bonds rated AA versus Treasuries
averaged 19 basis points yesterday, down from 56 basis points
April 25, according to an index compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  Attractive Yield  The yield Japan’s top-rated borrowers offer is attractive,
even given the national debt burden, said Torbjorn Kronblad, a
portfolio manager at Nordea Asset Management, who manages 1
billion euros of assets.  Kronblad has been buying shorter-maturity agency bonds that
carry an explicit guarantee from the Japanese government because
they offer an attractive yield advantage over similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries, he said in an e-mailed response to questions on
Oct. 6 from Copenhagen. Kronblad declined to comment on a
potential dollar bond sale by the Tokyo government.  Japanese companies raised 6.37 trillion yen from bonds this
year, down 13.5 percent from 7.36 trillion yen of sales in the
same period a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese corporate
securities rather than government debt rose 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 75 basis points yesterday, according
to a Bond Performance Index compiled by Nomura.  “Not all Japanese borrowers can profit from a favorable
move in the basis swap,” Masanori Azuma, managing director for
capital markets at Nomura, which was a sale manager for DBJ’s
sale, said in a telephone interview on Oct. 11. “Dollar bond
spreads, including Nomura’s, have widened overall. So only those
whose credit spread is kept within a certain level, in other
words, the sovereign or the Tokyo Metropolitan Government,” are
able to use the swap to their advantage, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  