-- 
Tokyo, Yokohama Expand Checks After Radiation ‘Hot Spots’ Found in Cities

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   M a k o t o   M i y a z a k i
-- 
2011-10-13T12:17:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/tokyo-plans-radiation-checks-after-high-reading-in-setagaya.html
Tokyo ’s Setagaya district officials
said an investigation today of a “high” radiation reading in
the area indicates it may not have come from the crippled
Fukushima reactors.  The district in the western part of the capital said
earlier today it will expand tests in 258 locations after a
local resident alerted authorities to a radiation spike that
required partially blocking off a sidewalk to the public.  Investigators entered an unoccupied house alongside the
sidewalk and radiation readings led them to remove floorboards
where they found a case of unidentified substances in bottles,
public broadcaster NHK reported.  “When a dosimeter was brought close to the bottles the
radiation readings exceeded the limit of the device,” Setagaya
Mayor Nobuto Hosaka said in a press conference carried by NHK.
No further details were given on the possible contents of the
bottles.  The reading was more than 30 microsieverts per hour, NHK
reported, which equates to a dose of 157.7 millisieverts per
year, or more than 150 times the internationally recommended
safety level for the general public, according to a Science
Ministry formula.  The discovery follows a flurry of reports this week on a
rise in radiation readings in Tokyo and Yokohama, indicating
fallout from the Fukushima nuclear disaster has formed “hot
spots” in the cities.  Setagaya ward , a mostly residential district with a
population of more than 840,000 people, earlier said radiation
readings near the sidewalk in the Tsurumaki 5-chome area reached
2.7 microsieverts per hour. The ward, home to Komazawa park that
hosted events in the 1964 Olympics, is 233 kilometers (145
miles) from the Fukushima reactors leaking radiation.  More Testing  Other areas in Tokyo and Yokohama have reported radiation
readings requiring further investigation, with most originating
from local residents using personal dosimeters.  Setagaya adjoins Ota ward where radiation levels exceeding
the ward’s own safety standard of 0.25 microsieverts per hour
were detected at 13 schools, the Ota ward board of education
said today. The tests are continuing at the schools.  In Yokohama, officials are testing samples in an area of
 Kohoku ward  after a resident removed sediment from an apartment
building roof that laboratory tests showed contained strontium
found in radioactive fallout.  “We received data from a resident about strontium and we
are carrying out an investigation in the neighborhood by picking
up samples for lab tests,” said Yokohama city official John
Kuramochi. He declined to confirm if the first lab tests showed
the sediment contained strontium 90.  Strontium 90  has a similar structure to calcium and tends
to accumulate in bone and can cause bone cancer and leukemia,
Hiroaki Koide, a nuclear physics scientist at  Kyoto University ,
said on the phone today.  “It seems what was found in Yokohama is a relatively high
radiation dose, so they need to thoroughly investigate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Makoto Miyazaki in Tokyo at 
 mmiyazaki8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  