-- 
Lone Star Won’t Appeal Korean Conviction, Regulator Says

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-10-13T06:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/lone-star-won-t-appeal-korean-securities-conviction-fsc-says.html
Lone Star  Funds declined to appeal a
conviction for stock-price manipulation in  Korea , the nation’s
financial regulator said, avoiding another hurdle to gaining
approval for its $3.8 billion sale of a stake in a local bank.  The  Financial Services Commission  began a review to
determine the legitimacy of Lone Star’s eight-year-old stake in
Korea Exchange Bank after the U.S. buyout fund told the
regulator about its decision, Kim Seok Dong, chairman of the
regulator, told reporters in Seoul today. The FSC plans to
announce its position early next week, said Kim, whose remarks
were confirmed by the agency’s spokesman Ernst Lee.  Refraining from an appeal would end a five-year legal
dispute that has delayed the fund’s 4.4 trillion won ($3.8
billion) sale of its stake in Korea Exchange to  Hana Financial
Group Inc. (086790)  for almost a year. Hana shares advanced today on
speculation that the takeover will progress as court proceedings
draw to a close.  “The deal will gain pace,” said Hong Ki Seok, an analyst
at Kyobo AXA Investment Managers Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $4.9 billion. “Hana may be the best buyer of
Korea Exchange for now, given the global market turmoil. It’ll
be tough for Lone Star to find domestic or international buyers
who would be willing to pay a higher price than Hana.”  Appeal Deadline  Dallas-based Lone Star has until the end of today to appeal
to Korea’s highest court against its Oct. 6 conviction. The FSC
said last week that it may order Lone Star to sell most of its
stake in  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  if the ruling stands.  The regulator said in May that it won’t approve Hana’s
proposed takeover until Lone Star’s legal disputes are resolved.
That prompted Hana and Lone Star to extend the deal deadline to
Nov. 30 and cut the purchase price by 6 percent.  Lee Jung Dae, a spokesman for Seoul-based Hana Financial,
declined to comment on Kim’s remarks today.  Hana climbed 7 percent to 38,800 won, the highest close
since Aug. 4, in Seoul. The benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)  gained 0.8
percent and Korea Exchange Bank advanced 4.3 percent.  “Investors seem to be betting that Lone Star won’t file an
appeal by today’s deadline, which would close the legal
dispute,” said Hong Hun Pio, an analyst at KTB Investment &
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “At this point, the best thing for
Lone Star is to get the deal done with Hana.”  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star, declined to comment
on whether the fund will file an appeal in an e-mailed response
to questions.  The Seoul High Court fined Lone Star 25 billion won for its
part in the stock-price manipulation case and sentenced its
former local chief, Paul Yoo, to three years in prison. Yoo
appealed against his conviction on Oct. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  