-- 
Hong Kong Had Fastest Growth in Millionaires

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-10-13T04:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/hong-kong-posted-fastest-growth-in-millionaires-capgemini-says.html
Hong Kong  posted the fastest pace of
growth globally in the number of new millionaires for the second
consecutive year in 2010, Capgemini SA and Bank of America Corp.
said in a joint report.  The number of high net worth individuals in Hong Kong
climbed 33 percent to 101,300, and their wealth expanded 35
percent to $511 billion, according to the Asia-Pacific Wealth
Report distributed in Hong Kong today.  China ’s population of
millionaires grew 12 percent to 535,000 and accounted for $2.7
trillion in wealth, it said.  The gains helped drive up asset prices, with  Singapore  and
Hong Kong posting the biggest increases in property prices last
year, Bank of America’s Alistair Scarff said.  Asia ’s wealth
growth may slow this year as the world economic recovery falters,
curtailing further gains in asset values, the banks said.  “We expect the growth rate in Asia to moderate in 2011
because of a number of factors,” Wilson So, head of North Asia
advisory for Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch Global Wealth
Management unit, told reporters. “The key factor is the
monetary stimulus that central banks around the world have put
in place will be withdrawn.”  Japan  kept its ranking as home to the most millionaires and
the greatest amount of wealth in 2010, according to the report.
The nation had 1.74 million high net worth individuals,
accounting for more than half of the region’s millionaires, with
$4.14 trillion in wealth, or 38 percent of Asia’s total.  Hong Kong’s residential property prices may rise 5 percent
this year and then “moderate” in 2012 because of the global
rout in equities and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, said Scarff,
who is Bank of America’s head of financial institutions equity
research for Asia-Pacific, excluding Japan.  High net worth individuals have at least $1 million in
investable assets excluding primary residences and collectibles,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  