-- 
Irish Banks Have Enough Capital for Mortgages, Honohan Says

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-10-13T10:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/honohan-says-irish-banks-have-enough-capital-for-mortgage-issue.html
Ireland’s lenders have enough
capital to deal with the difficulties borrowers have meeting
mortgage payments, Ireland’s central bank governor said, urging
lenders to “ramp up” efforts to deal with unsustainable home
loans.  “Insufficient capital cannot be a reason for inaction,”
Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said at an event in
Dublin today. Lenders have restructured “relatively few”
mortgages, according to Honohan, who added that the country is
developing more “comprehensive solutions” to the arrears
problem.  Ireland’s banks should “warehouse” portions of home
loans, enabling cash-strapped borrowers to pay down a smaller
sum for a period, according to a government-appointed
committee’s proposals to ease mortgage burdens yesterday. The
country has tried to curb home repossessions, and warehousing
measure would be one way for its bailed-out banks to pass along
some of the relief they received to borrowers struggling to
remain solvent.  The share of Irish private home loans in arrears or
restructured rose to 12 percent in the three months through
June, according to data published by the country’s central bank.  Yesterday’s report, which said some 55,000 mortgages are
more than 90 days in arrears and another 70,000 have had
repayment terms relaxed, will be debated next week in the Irish
parliament. Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said he plans
to bring in measures to deal with mortgage arrears “straight
away” following the debate.  Matthew Elderfield, the central bank’s deputy governor and
head of financial regulation, will set out the bank’s position
on mortgage arrears tomorrow in the southern city of Cork,
Honohan said.  Ireland pumped about 62 billion euros ($85 billion) into
its financial system as its real estate crash forced the state
to seize control of five banks and take an international bailout
last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  