-- 
Top House Republican Urges Cuts to Entitlements, Not Defense

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-10-13T19:06:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/top-house-republican-urges-cuts-to-entitlements-not-defense.html
The top Republican on the U.S. House
Armed Services Committee today urged a special congressional
supercommittee to avoid further cuts to the Pentagon’s budget.  The supercommittee, tasked with finding as much as $1.5
trillion in cuts in  government spending , should “make no
further cuts to discretionary spending for national defense,”
California Republican Howard P. “Buck” McKeon said in a letter
to a 12-member panel.  McKeon called on the panel to find reductions in non-
defense entitlements, such as Medicare and Social Security,
instead.  McKeon said his message to the special panel is to “find
the other $1.2 trillion out of the mandatory side.” The
supercommittee is charged with finding cuts of between at least
$1.2 trillion and $1.5 trillion.  McKeon also cautioned against overhauling military health
care and military retirement benefits, which was suggested by a
Pentagon advisory board.  “We urge the joint select committee to exercise caution
when considering many of the existing deficit reduction
proposals relating to service-member benefits,” McKeon wrote on
behalf of Republican members of his panel.  “Avoid to the greatest possible extent adopting multiple
simultaneous changes to military retirement and health care,”
he said. The “combined effects will have a devastating impact
on the fiscal and quality of life of military retirees.”  Military benefits must be viewed with the dangers and the
extended absences from family in mind, McKeon said. The benefits
must also be formulated “in the context of expected life stream
earnings.”  If the supercommittee fails to produce a plan that Congress
would pass and President Barack Obama sign, government-wide
cutbacks would be triggered. Defense would automatically be cut
by $500 billion, not including interest, over the next decade.  If that happens the Pentagon would have its budget cut to
about $437 billion -- about the same amount as in fiscal year
2003, McKeon said. The Pentagon would operate under such a
budget through 2021, according to McKeon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  