-- 
Ophir Energy to Acquire Dominion Petroleum for $186 Million

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-10-13T15:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ophir-energy-to-acquire-dominion-petroleum-for-186-million-1-.html
Ophir Energy Plc, a U.K.-listed oil
explorer focused on  Africa , agreed to buy  Dominion Petroleum
Ltd. (DPL)  for 118 million pounds ($186 million) in stock to expand in
 Kenya  and  Tanzania .  The offer of 0.0244 new Ophir shares for each Dominion
share represents a premium of 64.2 percent to the target’s
closing share price yesterday, London-based Ophir said today in
a statement.  Dominion had dropped 40 percent this year in  London  trading
as of yesterday after the company tried to sell new shares to
raise money for drilling. Energy companies with strong balance
sheets are taking advantage of falling share prices to snap up
cash-hungry explorers. Last week, Premier Oil Plc bought North
Sea explorer EnCore Oil Plc for $340 million.  “Dominion failed to refinance early in the summer,”
Ophir’s Managing Director Nick Cooper said in a phone interview.
“That put them under pressure and there’s a fair amount of
opportunism in the transaction.”  Dominion rose 51 percent to 5.45 pence in London. Ophir
dropped 2.7 percent to 235.7 pence.  The offer reflects the “upside potential” seen in  East
Africa  as well as the gap in valuations between the stock market
and the industry, according to Richard Griffith, a London-based
analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd.  Tanzania, Kenya  Ophir is mainly interested in Dominion’s Block 7 in
Tanzania and its license in Kenya, Cooper said. The company’s
Ugandan assets “are not something that we would focus on,” he
said.  Ophir plans to drill nine to 11 wells from December through
next year. The company will invest about $300 million exploring
fields in Gabon,  Equatorial Guinea  and Tanzania, excluding the
amount that it will be required to spend on the Dominion assets.  “The offer provides greater certainty of value to our
shareholders than remaining independent against the background
of challenging market conditions, the funding needs faced by
Dominion and the inherent risks associated with frontier oil and
gas exploration,” Dominion Chairman Roger Cagle said in the
statement.  Ophir will sell new shares to buy Dominion’s equity and its
convertible bonds, Cooper said.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  RBC Capital Markets  advised
Dominion directors, who recommended shareholders accept the
offer. Ophir was advised by JP Morgan Cazenove Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net 
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  