-- 
Order Flow Conflicts, NYSE-Retail Liquidity, EU Banana Cartel: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-13T12:29:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/order-flow-conflicts-nyse-retail-liquidity-bananas-compliance.html
The U.K.’s  Financial Services
Authority  proposed that brokers that receive payments from
market-makers in return for orders be forced to prove to clients
that the deal didn’t damage their trade.  The practice, known as payment for order flow, may “lead
to client detriment through breaches of our conflicts of
interest, inducements and best execution rules,” according to a
 report  on the FSA’s website yesterday. Brokers would be banned
from accepting payments unless they can prove it doesn’t hurt
customers.  The  European Commission , the 27-nation European Union’s
executive arm, is scheduled to propose this month an overhaul of
trading rules for financial markets following the 2008
contraction in the credit markets that followed the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   Compliance Policy  NYSE Seeks SEC Approval for Plan to Win More Retail Orders  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  proposed creating a new class of traders at
the  New York  Stock Exchange that may help it win more business
from firms that handle orders from individual investors.  The New York-based company  filed  for Securities and
Exchange Commission permission to begin a pilot program for what
it called retail liquidity providers. It would let trading firms
say certain bids and offers are for small investors, so long as
the prices are better than what is publicly available. Quotes
from the firms wouldn’t be visible to everyone.  NYSE Euronext wants more retail orders because they are
usually more profitable than transactions from professional
investors, according to James Angel, a finance professor at
 Georgetown University  in  Washington . The exchange made the
announcement following a drop in its share of trading in
companies it lists to 26 percent last month from 82 percent in
2003, data compiled by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and NYSE Euronext show.  Most orders from individual investors who trade through
retail brokers are sent to wholesalers. NYSE Euronext’s plan
would provide an incentive to retail brokers to send orders
directly to the exchange, which may dissuade them from selling
orders to wholesalers. As more retail orders come in, the
institutional investors who trade on the exchange would see more
retail orders, attracting more business to NYSE Euronext.  Volcker Rule Gaps May Leave Banks Uncertain About Trading Bans  More than a year after they began crafting the Dodd-Frank
Act’s ban on proprietary trading by U.S. banks, regulators
published the so-called Volcker rule while acknowledging that
hundreds of questions remain unanswered.  The proposed rule, written by four regulatory agencies and
issued for public comment Oct. 11, would ban banks from trading
for their own accounts. Banks would be allowed to make short-
term trades for hedging or market-making while facing limits on
investments in  hedge funds  and private equity funds.  Within the rule’s 298 pages, regulators seek feedback
instead of offering precise definitions for many of the banned
activities, which may leave financial firms unsure about how to
prepare for the final adoption of the rule next year.  In their proposal, regulators said it was difficult to
define permitted activities. Still, regulators will have to make
the language more precise before a final rule goes into effect
July 21, 2012, because the proposal includes substantial
compliance requirements for banks, said Thomas Pax, head of the
bank regulatory practice at the  Clifford Chance LLP  law firm in
New York.  The board of the FDIC voted 3-0 Oct. 11 to seek comments on
the proposal through January 13. The Fed also said it would
accept feedback through that date.  For more, click here.  EU Seeks Higher Bank Capital, Greek Payout in Crisis Fight  European Commission  President  Jose Barroso  called for a
reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth loan to
Greece and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund to master
 Europe ’s debt woes.  Barroso  urged  a “coordinated approach” to deliver a
“significantly higher capital ratio of highest quality
capital” for banks, while offering government funds only as a
last resort. Banks that require aid would be barred from paying
dividends or bonuses. Barroso made the remarks yesterday to the
 European Parliament  in Brussels.  Banks face  capital requirements  as high as 9 percent as
part of Barroso’s plans to help lenders survive the region’s
debt woes, according to a person familiar with the proposals.  The  Association of German Banks  said Barroso’s proposal to
increase banks’ capital is “unsuitable” as it doesn’t solve
the problem of the current debt crisis.  An Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders looms as a deadline for a
breakthrough in combating the crisis, which has driven  Greece 
toward default, rattled world markets and dented confidence in
the survival of the 17-nation currency.  For more, click here and click here.  See EXT4 for more on the euro-area financial crisis.  House Lawmakers to Propose Repeal of Durbin Swipe-Fee Rule  Two U.S. House lawmakers say they will introduce a bill to
repeal a Federal Reserve  rule  capping debit-card swipe fees.  Representatives Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican, and Bill
Owens, a New York Democrat, were expected to introduce a measure
yesterday to repeal the rule required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act. The Fed on Oct. 1 implemented the rule, which limits fees
that card networks charge merchants to 21 cents per transaction  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 