-- 
30-Year Mortgage Rates Rise From Record Low

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-10-13T14:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/mortgage-rates-for-30-year-u-s-loans-climb-from-lowest-on-record-to-4-12-.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  climbed from the
lowest level on record after better-then-expected economic data
and optimism that  Europe ’s debt crisis will be contained drove
up yields for the Treasuries that guide home loans.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan increased to 4.12
percent in the week ended today from 3.94 percent,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement today. That was the lowest in Freddie Mac
records dating back to 1971. The average 15-year rate rose to
3.37 percent from 3.26 percent last week, according to the
McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company.  Ten-year Treasury yields, a benchmark for mortgages, rose
to a six-week high yesterday after European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  called for a “coordinated approach” to
recapitalize the region’s banks. U.S. employers added more
workers than forecast in September while the jobless rate held
at 9.1 percent, the Labor Department said last week.  “The economic news has not been nearly as bleak as we’ve
become accustomed to,” said  Keith Gumbinger , vice president of
HSH Associates, a loan-data firm in Pompton Plains,  New Jersey .
“Money has crept its way out of the safe havens of Treasuries
and back into equities and there’s been a slight lift in
 interest rates  as a result.”  Low borrowing costs have done little to bolster the housing
market as banks tighten credit and foreclosures mount. Default
notices sent to delinquent homeowners rose 14 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three months, according to
RealtyTrac Inc., a sign lenders may be speeding up the
repossession process after a probe into bank documentation
procedures.  Applications Increase  Home-loan applications increased in the period ended Oct. 7
from the prior week, according to a Mortgage Bankers Association
index. A gauge of refinancing rose 1.3 percent and the
purchasing measure climbed 1.1 percent, the Washington-based
group said yesterday.  The number of contracts to purchase previously owned homes
declined 1.2 percent in August, according to the National
Association of Realtors. The S&P Case-Shiller index of home
values in 20 U.S. cities decreased 4.1 percent in July from a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  