-- 
Emerging Stocks Post Longest Rally in Six Months

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-10-14T02:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/most-emerging-currencies-weaken-on-europe-brazil-stocks-rise.html
(Corrects job title in fourth paragraph of story first
published on Oct. 13.)  Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to its longest winning streak in six months,
on optimism policy makers around the world will step up efforts
to prevent the global economy from falling into a recession.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.5 percent to
927.68 at 2:29 p.m. in  Hong Kong , extending a six-day, 11
percent advance. The rally is the longest since April 6. South
Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 0.8 percent. The Hang Seng  China 
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong rose
2 percent, taking a rebound from its Oct. 4 low to 19 percent.  China unveiled a package of measures to help small
companies, including tax breaks and easier access to bank loans.
The  Federal Reserve  said some officials last month wanted to
keep further asset purchases as an option to boost the economy.
Slovakia is set to approve  Europe ’s enhanced bailout fund, while
European Commission President Jose Barroso yesterday called for
a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a loan to
 Greece  and a faster start for a rescue fund.  “We’ve had a lot of significant action from central
banks,” Mohammed Apabhai, head of  Asia  trading strategy at
Citigroup Global Markets Asia, said in Hong Kong. “Asian
central bankers have moved from a policy of tightening to a
policy of loosening almost within the space of a couple weeks.”  Consumer, industrial and financial stocks rose most among
the 10 industry groups in the emerging-markets gauge. Pyeong Hwa
Automotive Co. climbed 3.2 percent, leading gains by South
Korean makers of automobile parts, on speculation they will
benefit from a free-trade agreement with the U.S.  Korea Zinc Co., which produces gold and silver, climbed 2.7
percent in  Seoul  after metal prices rallied yesterday. Poongsan
Corp., a copper-products maker, advanced 1.3 percent.  China Support  MSCI’s developing-nation index has dropped 19 percent this
year, more than the 8 percent decline in the MSCI World Index of
developed countries. The emerging-market gauge trades at 9.8
times estimated earnings, less than 11.6 times for the MSCI
World, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.7 percent. The
government will provide financial support and preferential tax
policies for small companies, the State Council said in a
statement yesterday, after a meeting at which Premier Wen Jiabao
presided. The government will be more tolerant of bad loan
ratios for small-company loans, the Cabinet said.  China announced measures to help small companies after the
collapse of manufacturers in Wenzhou city highlighted growing
risks to the economy. A report today showed the nation’s trade
surplus last month fell to the lowest since May as export growth
slowed.  “The government’s package of measures may support a
rebound,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
Co. in  Shanghai . “The recent wave of government moves suggests
the worst part of the tightening has passed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  