-- 
Mouchel Opens Books to Lenders, Expects to Breach Covenants

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-10-13T15:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/mouchel-opens-books-to-lenders-expects-to-breach-covenants-1-.html
Mouchel Plc, the U.K. provider of
highway maintenance services that said last week an accounting
error would cut profit, said lenders are reviewing the books as
it’s likely to breach banking covenants.  “We do expect to breach our banking covenants at the end
of our financial year,” interim Chairman David Sugden said in a
phone interview today. “The banks have put in accountants to
look at the business to make sure the reviews are complete.”
Accounting firm KPMG LLP is preparing a review on behalf of
lenders, he said.  Mouchel shares dropped to a record low. The company has
lost two-thirds of its value since saying “an actuarial error”
erased 4.3 million pounds ($6.8 million) of profit from a
contract. Chief Executive Officer Richard Cuthbert resigned last
week, and Bo Lerenius stepped down as chairman today.  Lerenius, who was non-executive chairman, resigned as “he
didn’t have the time to devote to Mouchel for what it needed in
the current situation,” according to Sugden, who took over as
chairman at Findel Plc last April after the home-shopping
company reported accounting irregularities. His own experience
is “more appropriate” in a financial restructuring situation,
he said.  Mouchel announced Grant Rumbles as the new CEO in a
statement today.
      Mouchel shares fell 17 percent to close at 10.75 pence in
London trading. That gives the company a market value of 12.1
million pounds. Earlier this year, the Mouchel board rejected an
approach from Costain Group Plc that valued the shares at 164.26
pence each. The Financial Times said last week Mouchel was now
open to takeover offers, citing unidentified people “close” to
the company.  “Obviously any responsible board has to consider
approaches on their merits, but we see the ability to get the
share prices to a lot higher before we wish to go down that
road,” Sugden said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  