-- 
House Democrats Ask Justice Department to Probe Debit Fees

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-10-13T18:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/house-democrats-seek-antitrust-investigation-over-new-bank-debit-card-fees.html
Five House Democrats asked Attorney
General Eric Holder to investigate whether U.S. banks and their
trade groups colluded on decisions to impose new fees in
response to caps on what they can charge for using debit cards.  “Statements made by individual banks and their trade
associations raise questions about whether some price increases
that have occurred this year have actually been coordinated,”
Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont Democrat, wrote in a
letter sent to Holder today. Representatives  John Conyers  of
Michigan, Raul Grijalva of Arizona, Keith Ellison of Minnesota
and Mike Honda of California also signed the letter.  The Federal Reserve imposed rules on Oct. 1 limiting fees
card networks charge merchants to 21 cents per transaction,
about half what retailers had been paying. In response, lenders
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  have been
rolling out new charges for debit customers to make up some of
the $8 billion the largest banks may lose under the rules.  Bank executives and trade groups such as the  American
Bankers Association  said during debate over the fee caps that
lenders would need to raise other charges on debit-card users.  “The harm will fall largely on consumers; banks will be
forced to lose money on debit interchange transactions and
likely will compensate by increasing fees in some way for
deposit customers,”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon wrote in an April letter to shareholders.  Lobbying  Lawmakers and industry groups have fought over so-called
swipe fees for more than a year after the rule was included in
the Dodd-Frank Act. Retail and merchant groups lobbied to defend
the reduction in the fees. A competing banking-industry campaign
to delay the rules fell when the Senate rejected a proposed
amendment in June.  Welch and his colleagues “continue to feign surprise and
outrage at the consequences of an amendment that they themselves
advocated at the behest of giant retail,” Trish Wexler,
spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments Association, said today
in a statement.  Bank of America’s decision to charge some debit-card
holders a $5 monthly fee has drawn criticism from customers and
policy makers, including President  Barack Obama .  The lawmakers who sent the letter to Holder said they
didn’t have evidence of wrongdoing and were leaving it to the
 Justice Department  to determine whether banks engaged in illegal
activity. The letter will be reviewed,  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice
Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  ‘Open and Honest’  “American consumers deserve honest and open competition in
a market that is free of any hint of collusion,” Mallory
Duncan, senior vice president and general counsel for the
National Retail Federation, said in an e-mail. “We trust that
the Justice Department will ensure that this is the case.”  The result may be that banks and their trade groups are
aware that they are being watched, Ellison, a member of the
House Financial Services Committee, said at a news conference in
 Washington .  “The mere fact of an investigation encourages law-abiding
behavior,” Ellison said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  