-- 
Buffett’s Son Defends Occupy Wall Street Protests

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-10-13T20:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/howard-buffett-defends-occupy-wall-street-protests-to-make-things-happen-.html
Howard Buffett , the  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  director and son of Chairman Warren Buffett, said
Wall Street protesters were provoked by abuses from corporations
amid a widening disparity between rich and poor.  “I think it takes that to make things happen sometimes,”
Howard Buffett, 56, said of the demonstrations in an interview
yesterday in  Des Moines , Iowa. Over the past 15 years, “we saw
large corporations really screw people.”  Occupy Wall Street has drawn out protesters from New York
to Seattle and gained empathizers among the top executives at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and BlackRock Inc. Warren Buffett, the world’s
third-richest person, has said he is concerned about inequity in
the U.S. The younger Buffett, a farmer and philanthropist, said
obtaining enough food has become more difficult for more people.  “There has never been a larger gap between earnings in
this country,” said Howard Buffett, who was in Des Moines to
deliver a speech at the World Food Prize conference. “There has
never been a time in my lifetime when the government is going to
cut an incredible amount of programs that support poor people
and feed them.”  Protesters criticized the government for propping up
financial firms including Citigroup and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in
2008 while individuals struggled with unemployment, depressed
wages, foreclosures and reduced retirement savings. Republican
lawmakers oppose raising taxes to reduce the U.S. deficit and
have pushed for cuts to government programs.  ‘Get Some Balance’  “We’ve had protesting in the name of the  Tea Party  on the
right side, and now we’re having protesting from the left
side,” BlackRock Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, head
of the world’s biggest asset manager, said today at a conference
in New York organized by the Financial Times. “Maybe we’re going 
to get some balance this way. But I do believe that we should 
not turn our backs to this protesting.”  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor and a
candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, said
protesters are targeting “a scapegoat” and are wrong to divide
the country. President Barack Obama, who joined  Warren Buffett 
in a push to raise taxes on the wealthy, is guilty of “class
warfare,” Romney has said.  “There has been class warfare going on,” Buffett, 81,
said in a Sept. 30 interview with  Charlie Rose  on PBS. “It’s
just that my class is winning. And my class isn’t just winning,
I mean we’re killing them.”  Howard Buffett, a Berkshire director since 1993, said
hunger is rising in the U.S. as well as in poorer nations. A
record 45.3 million Americans received food stamps in July and
almost one in six live in poverty, the government said. Buffett
is president of the Howard G. Buffett Foundation, which advances
agriculture in developing nations.  Buffett’s Wagers  Warren Buffett has backed some of the biggest financial
firms while chiding bankers for excesses in risk-taking and
compensation. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire invested $700
million in Salomon Inc. in 1987, $5 billion in Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in 2008 and $5 billion in Bank of America this year.
Buffett, the father, has compared  Wall Street  to “a church
that’s running raffles on the weekend.”  Wall Street “does a lot of good things and then it has
this casino,” Buffett said in October 2010. “One of the
problems we still have is we have unbalanced incentives for
managers of huge financial institutions.”  Jim Chanos  of hedge fund Kynikos Associates said this month
he understands the anger directed at financial companies.  Bill Gross , who runs the biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a Twitter post that wage earners are
fighting back after three decades of class warfare in which they
were “being shot at.” Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit said
yesterday he’d be happy to talk with protesters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 