-- 
Howard Buffett Affirms Father’s Intention to Work Until Death

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-10-13T17:51:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/howard-buffett-affirms-father-s-intention-to-manage-berkshire-until-death.html
Howard Buffett said his father,
billionaire Warren Buffett, plans to work until death leading
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and isn’t considering retirement.  “That word is not in his vocabulary,” Howard Buffett said
in an interview yesterday in  Des Moines ,  Iowa . “He says when he
goes to the grave he will communicate with us via  Ouija board .”  Warren Buffett, 81, has told Berkshire shareholders for at
least  20 years  that the company is prepared for succession in
case he dies or becomes incapacitated. Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire cited Buffett’s eventual “retirement” in a statement
last month announcing the hiring of an investment manager.
Buffett biographer Andrew Kilpatrick said he had never seen a
Berkshire reference to his retirement before then.  “As hard-working as his dad probably is, it makes sense
that he would think he’s going to stay as long as he can,” said
Tom Lewandowski, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., who has a
“buy” rating on Berkshire shares. “The other side of that
coin is the acknowledgement that if he can’t do it at the same
capacity as he did it before, he’ll walk away.”  Buffett, the father, oversees more than $100 billion in
securities and about 70 subsidiaries he acquired in four decades
leading Berkshire.  Howard Buffett , a Berkshire director since
1993, is part of a 12-member board whose biggest responsibility
is assembling the next generation of managers.  “The primary job of our directors is to select my
successor, either upon my death or disability, or when I begin
to lose my marbles,” Buffett said in a  shareholder letter 
published in 2004. Buffett is chairman, chief executive officer
and head of investments.  Investment Managers  Berkshire on Sept. 12 announced the hiring of hedge-fund
manager Ted Weschler, who will help oversee the portfolio with
40-year-old Todd Combs, hired last year. Buffett will continue
to manage most of the holdings “until his retirement,”
Berkshire said in a statement. Kilpatrick, who wrote “Of
Permanent Value: The Story of  Warren Buffett ,” said “that’s
the first time I’ve seen that word.”  Howard Buffett is the president of the Howard G. Buffett
Foundation, which aids the development of agriculture in poorer
nations. Buffett, a Coca-Cola Co. director, was in Des Moines to
deliver a speech at the World Food Prize conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 