-- 
HP, GE Among Companies That Got Texas Grants, Gave Perry Money

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/hp-ge-among-companies-that-got-texas-grants-gave-perry-money.html
Texas Governor Rick Perry’s campaign
coffers and the  Republican Governors Association  that he once
headed collected $7 million from companies such as Hewlett-
Packard Co. and  General Electric Co. (GE)  that received taxpayer
subsidies from a state job-creation fund, a new report says.  Texans for Public Justice , an Austin-based watchdog group,
found that 43 companies receiving a total of $333 million from
the Texas Enterprise Fund contributed $7 million to various
Perry campaigns, the RGA, or both, from January 2001 for the
campaign and January 2006 for the association until July 2011.  Perry served as chairman of the RGA in 2008 and again in
2011 until he declared his presidential candidacy in August. The
RGA has given  $4 million  to Perry’s gubernatorial campaigns,
more than any other donor, according to TPJ. Companies gave
directly to the RGA, allowed under federal law, and supported
Perry through employee-funded political action committees.  The findings provide the latest examples of the
relationship between Perry, 61, a Republican candidate for
president, and his campaign donors, Texans for Public Justice
says.  “ Rick Perry  is a pay-to-play governor,” said Craig McDonald, the group’s director. “He takes in big contributions
and he gives out taxpayer money.”  “Funds are awarded on the merits of the projects,
including job creation,” said Katherine Cesinger, a Perry
campaign spokeswoman. The enterprise fund “is key to Texas’s
ability to successfully compete with other states
economically,” she said. She declined to comment on the report
because she hasn’t seen it.  Debate Response  As governor, Perry oversees the Texas Enterprise Fund and
signs off on awards with the lieutenant governor and the speaker
of the state’s House of Representatives.  Asked during the Oct. 11 Bloomberg- Washington  Post debate
in Hanover,  New Hampshire , about the taxpayer-funded programs,
he said most of the money spent on  job creation  didn’t go to
campaign donors, and that the Texas legislature looks at the
program every two years.  Those programs “are part of the reason that Texas has led
the nation in the creation of jobs,” Perry said. “You have to
be able to give a climate where people know they can risk their
capital and have a chance to have a return on that investment.”  The enterprise fund makes grants to businesses that agree,
in turn, to create a specific number of jobs. Only 11 of 50
recipients met their targets for creating jobs by 2009, TPJ said
in a  separate report .  Hewlett-Packard  Hewlett-Packard and its employees gave a total of $720,251
to Perry from January 2001 and the RGA from January 2006 through
July 2011, more than any other recipient of Texas Enterprise
Fund money, TPJ reported. HP received $5 million to create 420
jobs, though both sides later agreed to end the contract because
the company couldn’t meet the job target, TPJ said. The gover2
gnor’s office said it got the money back, plus $210,847 in
penalties, TPJ said in another report.  Rachel Decker, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-
based HP, said she hadn’t seen the report and couldn’t comment.  GE, second with $640,700 in campaign donations to Perry
from employees and the RGA in corporate cash, received $4.2
million this year to create 775 jobs, TPJ said.  ‘Misleading’  “The report is misleading,” said  Andrew Williams , a
spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based GE. The company
“donates to both the Democratic and Republican governors
associations annually on a nearly equal basis regardless of who
is chairing either association.”  In 2010, GE gave $205,900 to the RGA and $130,000 to the
Democratic Governors Association, Internal Revenue Service
records show.  The same records show that in 2010, HP gave $151,800 to the
RGA and $150,054 to the DGA.  Elected lieutenant governor in 1998, Perry became  Texas ’s
chief executive in December 2000 after  George W. Bush  resigned
the job before his inauguration as president. Perry won election
to the post in 2002 and was re-elected in 2006 and 2010.  During Perry’s governorship, other major donors have also
benefited from his actions, according to other reports.  Perry ordered preteen girls to be vaccinated against a
virus that causes cervical cancer; the vaccine maker, Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based Merck & Co. and its employees gave
more than $520,000 to Perry and the RGA.  Harold Simmons, Perry’s third-biggest lifetime donor at
$1.1 million and a $1 million contributor to the RGA, received a
permit to build a radioactive waste dump over the objections of
some Texas Commission on Environmental Quality staff members.  The governor endorsed  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s purchase of T-Mobile USA
Inc., saying in a May 25 letter to the  Federal Communications
Commission  that government approval would be a signal that the
U.S. was “serious about meeting the communication and
technology needs” of all Americans. On June 16, Dallas-based
AT&T contributed $250,000 to the Perry-led RGA. Claudia Jones, a
spokeswoman for AT&T, declined to comment.  The U.S. Justice Department sued Aug 31 to block the
merger, saying it would “substantially” reduce competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 