-- 
Pacnet Said to Seek Buyers as IPO Plan Hampered by Market Drop

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-10-13T03:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/pacnet-said-to-seek-buyers-instead-of-ipo.html
Pacnet Ltd., the undersea-cable
operator that’s been considering an initial public offering, may
instead try to sell itself as stock market swings make a share
sale more difficult, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Pacnet, which is being advised by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , hasn’t abandoned a potential IPO,
said two of the people, who declined to be identified as the
process is private. The company may seek to raise about $500
million in an initial share sale next year, one person said.  Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 10 cut the outlook for
Pacnet’s B1 credit rating to negative, citing “worse-than-
expected operating performance” in the second quarter. A month
earlier, Pacnet Chief Executive Officer Bill Barney said it was
“not a bad time” to explore acquisitions and the company may
look at targets in the range of $100 million to $500 million.  Barney said in 2008 that investments by  hedge funds  had
valued the company at about $2 billion. At the Sept. 14 briefing
in Singapore, he said Pacnet was considering a listing on the
Nasdaq Stock Market in the next two years. That option has been
made more difficult by the global stock market rout, two people
familiar with the matter said.  A spokesperson for Pacnet declined to comment.  Hong Kong  and Singapore-based Pacnet, formed through the
merger of Asia Netcom Corp. and Pacific Internet Ltd. in 2008,
is owned by an investor group including  Ashmore Investment
Management Ltd. , Spinnaker Capital Ltd. and Clearwater Capital
Partners.  ‘Challenging Fundamentals’  Pacnet is spending as much as $15 million on a new content
delivery network service over the next five years, and expects
15 percent of its revenue to come from that service over the
same period, Barney said at last month’s briefing.  Moody’s, in lowering its outlook for Pacnet’s B1 credit
rating, said “intense competition” and falling prices may
pressure the company’s cash flow. That may cause Pacnet to
“operate at a higher-than-expected level of leverage over the
intermediate term,” Moody’s said.  “We expect these challenging fundamentals to persist over
the next 6-12 months,” Moody’s analysts Annalisa Di Chiara and
Gary Lau wrote in the report. “This situation is likely to
impede the degree of deleveraging which we had previously
incorporated into the rating.”  A B1 rating is four levels below investment grade.  An IPO would mark Pacnet’s third attempt in as many years
to sell shares. In 2008, the company said it planned to raise
$500 million to $800 million. Two years later, Pacnet said it
expected to raise as much as $800 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  