-- 
Palm Oil May Advance 11% in ‘Relief Rally’: Technical Analysis

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-10-13T10:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/palm-oil-may-advance-11-in-relief-rally-technical-analysis.html
Palm oil , the most used cooking oil,
may advance 11 percent in the next two months as the relative
strength index and stochastic indicators signal a rally,
according to  technical analysis  by  TransGraph Consulting Pvt.   The most active futures contract on the  Malaysia  Derivative
Exchange may climb to 3,150 ringgit ($1,005) a metric ton, Ravi Chandra, vice president at Hyderabad, India-based TransGraph,
said in an interview today. Palm oil last traded above that
level in July.  “On the daily and weekly setup, the relative strength
Index and stochastic have turned higher from the oversold
region,” Chandra said. “Any further weakness would have
limited potential below 2,750-2,700 ringgit and eventually
result in a relief rally” in the next two months, he said.  The December-delivery contract fell 0.7 percent to 2,844
ringgit a ton in  Kuala Lumpur  today. The commodity has lost 25
percent this year on prospects for rising supplies from
Indonesia and Malaysia, the biggest growers.  “Futures prices are consistently lowering since the
February high of 3,967 ringgit and have recently broken below
the long term rising trend line at 2,950 ringgit,” Chandra
said. “This indicates the existing bearish trend is likely to
stretch further in the long term. Prices could turn lower and
likely to resume the overall bearish trend towards 2,400 ringgit
in more than six months after the relief rally.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. The stochastic indicator measures
the closing price of a security relative to its highs and lows
during a particular period to try to predict whether prices will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  