-- 
Panetta to Accelerate Drive for Clean Audit of Defense Books

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-13T19:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/panetta-to-accelerate-drive-for-clean-audit-of-defense-books.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has
ordered a review of the Pentagon’s financial controls and a
speed-up of preparations for a military-wide audit, steps he
said are needed to assure the public that his department is
minimizing waste.  Panetta, in testimony to the House Armed Services Committee
today, said he is telling the department to be ready for an
audit of its “Statement of Budgetary Resources” in 2014,
moving up the date from 2017.  “We owe it to the taxpayers to be transparent and
accountable for how we spend their dollars and under this plan
we will move closer to fulfilling this responsibility,” he
said. Panetta is trying to fend off spending cuts above the
roughly $450 billion through 2021 called for in the Budget
Control Act signed into law Aug. 2.  The new chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Army General
Martin Dempsey, told the committee today that cuts beyond $450
billion might cause “irrevocable” damage to the military’s
“core” for at least a decade. One result would be mid-level
military personnel retiring prematurely, he said.  Panetta said no decisions have been made on specific
strategy options. When pressed by the committee for an example
of a future trade-off, he suggested that a decision to boost
U.S. forces in  Asia  to counter  China  might mean a reduction of
forces in  South America  and  Africa .  Costs Versus Gains  The review will cover many areas, including whether costs
incurred in terminating some programs would outweigh budget
gains, Panetta and Dempsey said. Other subjects include overall
force structure reductions and the risks involved in reducing
the U.S. presence overseas in favor of a strategy that relies
upon U.S.-based forces, they said.  Dempsey was asked about the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35
fighter jet program, the Pentagon’s most expensive at $382
billion. The department plans different versions for the Air
Force, Navy and Marine Corps.  “Three variants create some fiscal challenges for us,” he
said. “I’m concerned about the three variants and about whether
we can afford all three.”  Dempsey spokesman Colonel  David Lapan  said in an e-mail
after the testimony that the general meant his comment to be in
a “broader” context “about looking at all acquisition
programs in this fiscal environment.”  Dempsey would have given “a similar answer” if he had
been asked about other specific programs, Lapan said. “His
point is that we have to look at all of them.”  Failed Audit  The Marine Corps recently failed an audit of its fiscal
2010 budget statement because of inadequate system controls and
processes. It was the first attempt to audit the military books
since Congress required resource statements in 1998, according
to the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm
of Congress.  “Although the Defense Department has dedicated significant
resources to improving its financial management, neither the
department nor its auditors have been able to verify the
weaknesses have been sufficiently corrected in order to pass an
audit,” the GAO reported Sept. 22 to a panel of the House
committee.  Panetta said the Pentagon is one of only two major agencies
that has never had a clean audit opinion on its financial
statements. The other is the Department of  Homeland Security ,
according to the GAO.  ‘Inexcusable’  “While the Department’s systems tell us where we are
spending taxpayers funds, we do not yet have the details and
controls necessary to pass an audit,” Panetta said in his
statement today. “This is inexcusable and must change.”  Audit readiness “will give our financial managers the key
tools they need to track spending, identify waste and improve
the way the Pentagon does business as soon as possible,” he
said.  The Defense Department already has made progress toward its
audit goal, said George Little, Panetta’s spokesman.  “Recently, for example, we received a clean opinion on our
funds distribution process -- a key element of the budget
statement -- and expect other audit successes to follow soon,”
he said in an e-mail.  GAO financial systems analyst Asif Khan said in an e-mailed
statement that Panetta’s declaration “shows the focus,
involvement, and commitment needed at DOD to lead the department
and its components to sustainable financial management reform
and audit-ability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  