-- 
Democrats Focus More on Jobs in Advice to Debt Panel

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-10-13T19:36:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/pelosi-seeks-big-bold-and-balanced-deficit-cutting-plan.html
House Democrats offered guidance to
Congress’s deficit-cutting supercommittee that is more focused
on raising new revenue and creating jobs than on trimming the
federal budget, illustrating the gulf between the two parties.  In a letter to the panel, Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
 California  reiterated her party’s call for higher revenue. She
said the committee also should consider the portions of
President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs package designed to
help small businesses.  “The American people overwhelmingly agree that significant
revenues must be included in any plan,” Pelosi told the co-
leaders of the 12-member bipartisan panel. She and other
Democratic leaders discussed their plan at a news conference
today in Washington.  Tomorrow is the deadline for congressional committees to
make recommendations to the supercommittee, which was assigned
to create, by Nov. 23, a 10-year plan to cut $1.5 trillion from
the federal budget. If the committee becomes deadlocked or
Congress doesn’t approve its recommendations by Dec. 23, across-
the-board spending cuts of $1.2 trillion are set to take effect
beginning in fiscal 2013.  Ranking Democratic members of at least 15 House committees
submitted proposals, including ideas rejected by Republicans in
previous budget negotiations. The emphasis on jobs in the
proposals underscored the Democrats’ shift from Obama’s onetime
goal of a “grand bargain” to rein in the debt to a jobs
campaign amid the prolonged economic slump.  ‘Critically Important’  House Speaker  John Boehner , at a separate news conference,
said the supercommittee’s work is “critically important.”  “No one expected this to occur without some difficulty,”
the Ohio Republican said. “I believe that an outcome and a
result is essential to reduce the debt burden on the American
people.”  Democrats on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee urged
the supercommittee to consider proposals in Obama’s jobs plan,
blocked by the Senate this week, including payroll tax cuts for
workers and employers and an extension of unemployment insurance
benefits.  In a reference to the supercommittee’s efforts to revise
taxes, they said eliminating incentives for domestic
manufacturing and research could hurt U.S. jobs and
competitiveness.  “Eliminating them in order to lower rates across the board
endangers precisely those industries that are in the best
position to provide the good jobs that this country needs,”
said the letter from Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan ,
the Ways and Means panel’s top Democrat.  Tax Breaks  Republicans have said any new money generated from the  tax
code  should come by lowering rates and eliminating tax breaks in
a way that encourages economic growth and generates higher tax
receipts. They also say entitlement programs such as Medicare,
which drive the long-term debt, must be taken on.  Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which
has authority over Medicare, proposed no changes to benefits for
current or future retirees, saying it was “premature” to offer
major health-care changes before Obama’s health-care law and its
provisions are fully implemented.  Instead, they proposed lowering drug costs and eliminating
waste and fraud in the Medicare system, a measure Republicans
and many outside analysts say is insufficient to control long-
term costs.  ‘Need for Action’  In outlining the “urgent need for action on jobs,”
Democrats also said the supercommittee should support an energy
manufacturing tax credit to encourage use of renewable energy.  Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts, senior
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, urged the
debt-cutting panel to impose a fee on the largest financial
firms, such as Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Frank proposed a “risk-based fee” on all financial
companies with more than $50 billion in assets and  hedge funds 
with more than $10 billion in assets. Frank also recommended
raising money by legalizing and taxing internet gambling and
raising the guarantee fees charged by mortgage companies  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  The House Democrats didn’t provide cost-savings numbers for
their proposals, many of which identified government programs
they said shouldn’t be cut.  Defense Cuts  Representative  Adam Smith  of  Washington , the top Democrat
on the Armed Services Committee, warned against further cuts to
the Pentagon’s budget beyond the roughly $450 billion in
reductions already projected over the next decade.  Smith’s position is similar to that of Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, a California Republican and chairman of the Armed
Services panel. While McKeon had said he opposes increases in
revenue, he would back revenue increases if there were no other
way to prevent defense reductions.  Representative Norm Dicks of Washington, who as the ranking
Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee helps set
program-by-program budgets for agencies, offered no specific
ideas for cutting spending.  Instead, his letter outlined his concern about harm to
government programs if the panel fails to agree on a plan and
sequestration, or an automatic spending cut, takes effect.  “Sequestration will have consequences,” Dicks wrote.
“The impact on our nation’s defense and security, economic
competitiveness and health, if even one year of sequestration is
allowed to take effect, has not been spelled out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  