-- 
Pentagon Says Grenade Caused Deadly NATO Helicopter Crash

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-10-13T01:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/pentagon-says-grenade-caused-deadly-nato-helicopter-crash.html
A rocket-propelled grenade fired by
a Taliban fighter caused the Aug. 6 helicopter crash in
 Afghanistan  that killed 30 U.S. special forces and military
personnel, seven Afghan commandos and a civilian interpreter,
the Pentagon announced today.  The U.S. Central Command, based at MacDill Air Force Base
in Tampa,  Florida , concluded that the grenade was the “primary
cause” of the crash of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
CH-47 Chinook helicopter in Wardak Province, according to a
Defense Department news release.  The grenade hit “the aft rotor blade as the helicopter
approached its combat landing zone,” according to the release.
“There was no evidence of a pre-planned ambush.”  The incident was the biggest loss of U.S. troops in a
single engagement since the start of the war 10 years ago.  The ill-fated mission targeted Qari Tahir, a Taliban leader
in the Tangi Valley. He was killed by coalition forces the
following month.  The initial assault force on Aug. 6 consisted of a U.S.
Army Ranger platoon, an Afghan unit and a female cultural
adviser. It was supported by two of the Chinook helicopters,
made by  Boeing Co. (BA) , based in  Chicago , two AH-64 Apache attack
helicopters, an AC-130 aerial gunship and a “team” of
surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft, according to an
unclassified  summary  of the investigation that was released on
the Central Command website.  The mission also included an Immediate Reaction Force built
around a troop of Navy SEALs with the two Chinook helicopters,
which returned to their base to refuel.  Two Into One  After the SEAL team was called for relief, a “decision was
made to load all personnel on one aircraft” because the
commander “wanted to mass troops quickly, and to mitigate the
increased risk to a second helicopter approaching the landing
zone,” according to the document.  The inquiry concluded that the decision to load the force
on one helicopter to minimize its exposure to ground fire and
mass the troops “was tactically sound.”  After the Chinook carrying the SEALs descended to about 100
to 150 feet above the ground and slowed to about 58 miles per
hour, a “previously undetected group of suspected Taliban
fighters fired two or three RPGs,” rocket-propelled grenades,
“in rapid succession from the tower of a two-story mud-brick
building” about 220 meters south of the Chinook, according to
the summary.  The first round missed the helicopter and the second struck
and exploded, taking out about 10 feet of the rotor blade, the
document states.  Multiple Explosions  “Within a matter of seconds, while the aircraft spun
violently, the aft, then forward rotor blade systems separated
from the aircraft, and the main fuselage dropped vertically into
a dry creek bed. The airframe was immediately engulfed in a
fireball, causing multiple secondary explosions of fuel and
munitions until the aircraft burned out several hours later,”
according to the summary.  Seventeen of the Americans killed were U.S. Navy SEALs,
most from the elite force once known as SEAL Team Six that
carried out the May 2 raid that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad,  Pakistan . None of those killed were from
the unit involved in the bin Laden raid.  A full copy of the redacted report will be made available
on the  site  after a final briefing of the findings, scheduled
for Thursday afternoon, according to the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  