-- 
Perry Pins Comeback Hopes on Texas Tenure

-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 
2011-10-13T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/perry-pins-presidential-race-comeback-hopes-on-his-texas-tenure.html
“Here is what you need to impress
upon your readers,”  Rick Perry  said, putting down his barbecue
to jab a finger at me. “What happened in Texas over the last
decade is not a miracle. Miracles are things that happen, and
they’re unexplained. Miracles are what God does.”  He grinned. “That’s not what we did. What we did happened
because of our philosophical refusal to spend money we didn’t
have or raise taxes.” He glanced around the table at his aides
and cocked another grin. “Now, you’re welcome to call it that,”
he said. “But just say that the governor didn’t agree.”  Everybody broke up laughing. Only Perry wasn’t really
joking. He would return to this theme again and again during our
September lunch at a Texas-style barbecue restaurant he chose in
New York --- Perry doesn’t shy from stereotype --- because his
claim on the White House rests on his record as the three-term
governor of  Texas .  Over the last two years, as the U.S. struggled to emerge
from recession, Texas created half the new jobs in the country.
Perry’s supporters have dubbed this the “Texas Miracle,” though
many other people, including some of the state’s top business
leaders, are less rapturous.  When the governor got in the race in August, he shot to the
top of Republican presidential polls on his reputation as a
potential savior whose know-how and conviction could turn the
economy around, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 17
issue.  Perry’s Promise  That’s Perry’s promise: He’ll do for the country what he’s
done for Texas. “I’m the guy who led what many would consider to
be the greatest resurgence in America during the 2000s,” he told
me. “That’s why I think Americans look at us and go, ‘You’re the
guy we want leading America.’”  At the time, Perry was enjoying his fleeting moment as the
front-runner. He had not yet collapsed in the polls after
struggling to defend tuition breaks for illegal immigrants and
mandatory vaccines for schoolgirls, and none but a few rural
Texans knew of the “Niggerhead Ranch.”  His allure was easy to see. Perry swept into the restaurant
with a phalanx of  Texas Rangers , security men, drivers and aides
---16 in all --- dressed identically in dark suits and white
shirts, many wearing earpieces. He looked great.  Perry has the dark, slightly exaggerated good looks of the
villain in a daytime soap opera and puts more effort into
personal grooming than most politicians would dare. He wore a
fine charcoal suit with pick-stitched lapels, gold Star of Texas
cufflinks and a cornflower-blue silk tie he tucked into his
shirt before he ate.  Oozing Self-Confidence  His cowboy boots were polished to a high sheen. He oozed
self-confidence. It was easy to imagine him convincing some
beleaguered CEO, probably in an overregulated hellhole like
 California , that he’d be richer, happier and much better off
were he to relocate his company to Texas.  This is one of Perry’s favorite things to do, and a big
part of his success story.  He hadn’t gotten a chance to talk about that during the
Republican debate a few days earlier, and this bothered him. In
fact, he’d been knocked around.  Michele Bachmann  hit him with charges of cronyism. Mitt Romney said he was frightening seniors by calling Social
Security a “ Ponzi scheme .”  Perry has never lost an election and rarely gets challenged
at home. He seemed annoyed at even being compared to the likes
of Bachmann and Romney. “Every person on that stage is a minor
player in the grand scheme of  job creation ,” he said. Romney,
his chief tormenter, was “an abject failure.”  Lack of Recognition  As lunch progressed, it became clear that his frustration
over this lack of recognition extended clear back to Texas.
Perry has served longer than any other governor in the state’s
history, but until recently he had almost no profile beyond its
borders.  Even now, when most people think Texas governor, they think
 George W. Bush . After just six years as governor --- half of
Perry’s time in office --- Bush had already set himself up for a
successful presidential campaign.  I asked Perry if he ever felt overshadowed by Bush.
“Listen,” he said, “nobody ever served 11 years as the governor
of the state of Texas. Now the individual who follows me,
they’ll be the one living under a shadow.”  That bravado was all but gone after another shaky debate
performance on Oct. 11. But Perry’s candidacy isn’t doomed.  Up for Grabs  Republicans haven’t coalesced around Romney; the populist
vote is up for grabs; and the $17 million he has raised will buy
plenty of attention. To recover, he will have to get the country
to start thinking of him in the same outsize way he thinks of
himself: as the guy who ought to be leading America.  Perry took office with ambitious goals: to cut taxes,
shrink the government and set Texas on a course to long-term
prosperity. He is certain he succeeded.  “I’m Rick Perry,” he told me. “I’ve got a record. Go look
at my record.” Anyone who does, he believes, will see that he
really did make a miracle happen in Texas. There is just one
flaw in this plan: Texas isn’t cooperating with Rick Perry.  For a century after Reconstruction, Texas was a one-party
state, dominated by conservative Democrats and oriented toward
the business establishment.  Growing Up in Texas  When Perry was growing up in the 1950s and ‘60s in Paint
Creek, Texas, his father and grandfather, both local Democratic
politicians, embodied the era and, briefly, so did he.  After earning a degree in animal science from Texas A&M
University and serving five years as a U.S. Air Force pilot, he
returned home to farm cotton with his father, and in 1984 he won
a seat in the statehouse as a Democrat.  Always attuned to political currents, he switched parties
five years later to run for agriculture commissioner as a
Republican. At the time, Texas was undergoing a political shift.  Under Governor Bush, that dominant, business-friendly
 Democratic Party  was replaced by an equally dominant  Republican
Party  that operated in much the same way. The party in charge
may have changed, but economic development remained the focus of
the state’s politicians.  A lot of Texans today look back fondly on Bush’s amiable,
cooperative style, which now seems quaintly archaic. Bush had to
work with Democrats to get anything done. His major achievement,
and the basis of his presidential campaign, was an education
reform law that’s a good illustration of how Texas once worked.  Business Leaders  In the 1980s, business leaders led by H. Ross Perot began
pushing for tougher curriculum standards to ensure access to
skilled workers in the future. This became a major issue in the
legislature for many years. The law Bush ultimately signed with
support from Democrats and Republicans improved the public
schools, which helped not just business owners but everyone else
too.  Perry, by then lieutenant governor, inherited the top job
when Bush went to the White House. He quickly signaled that he
had no interest in cutting deals. In June 2001, just months
after taking office, he vetoed 78 bills on a single day in what
became known as the “Father’s Day Massacre” --- a blunt
assertion of power that marked an end to the comity of the Bush
years.  Today, Texas is a one-party state --- Republican --- and
the fight is between the establishment and the insurgent right
wing. At the time Perry took over, it wasn’t yet clear just how
much the relationship between business and Texas was about to
change.  Bold Things  Perry set out to do bold things that resembled Bush’s
education reform in benefiting business and the broader public
alike.  His early speeches identified three areas where problems
had to be fixed to ensure the state’s future prosperity: water,
power and roads. This diagnosis showed foresight.  Texas has always been driven by the rapid growth of its
population, which spurs economic development but imposes ever-
increasing demands on the state’s resources and infrastructure.
Without much fanfare, Perry’s predecessor had signed a landmark
bill to create a system of reservoirs over 50 years designed to
prevent the shortages and attendant feuds that plague Western
states.  The next task was to fortify Texas’s aging power grid and
improve its highways. Just before Perry became governor, Texas
had suffered a humiliation when Dell, one of the state’s premier
corporations, opted to build a new factory in Nashville, rather
than near its headquarters outside Austin, because Texas roads
were too congested.  Trans-Texas Corridor  Perry’s solution was grand, even visionary. In 2002 he
proposed a Trans-Texas Corridor, an idea dreamed up by an old
friend from his statehouse days, Ric Williamson, who became his
transportation commissioner.  A sort of mad genius, Williamson foresaw a 4,000-mile
network of roads weaving together the state’s large urban areas.
The crisscrossing paths would combine highways for commercial
and passenger vehicles with commuter and freight rail, pipelines
and high-voltage power lines, all crammed into a 1,200-foot-wide
corridor.  “The idea was that if we’re going to make a transportation
investment, we’d make sure that it’s big enough to encompass all
of our needs,” says Timothy J. Lomax, an engineer at Texas A&M’s
Texas Transportation Institute.  Largest Project  It was the largest engineering project in state history,
designed to encourage the private sector to take on much of its
$183 billion cost. At first it looked like nothing could stop
it. The bill approving the project sailed through the
legislature.  Then the details began to emerge, and everything fell
apart. The corridor would include toll roads, which were rare in
Texas and unpopular, but necessary because Perry wouldn’t agree
to hike the gas tax to pay for it.  “There’s no road fairy,” he and Williamson said. Some
people were upset that the project was contracted out to a
Spanish corporation. The greatest objection was to the
government’s plan to seize thousands of acres of land to build
the roads, infuriating farmers and ranchers. Before there were
Tea Parties in Texas, Toll Parties sprang up to fight the
corridor.  Perry made several futile attempts to save his project, but
the legislature, fearing a backlash, turned against him. In
2007, Williamson died of a heart attack. The corridor plan was
set aside, then broken into pieces and finally killed off
altogether.  Electricity Initiative  Perry’s electricity initiative met the same fate for
similar reasons. In 2006 the state’s largest electric utility,
TXU Energy, announced plans to build 11 coal-fired  power plants .
This would have helped meet an obvious need.  Texas is unique in having an electricity grid separate from
the rest of the country’s, built that way in the 1930s to avoid
federal oversight. But this makes it difficult to import power
when there are shortages. Rolling blackouts are a continual
problem.  The source of the new power, coal, guaranteed an outcry.
Rather than go out and try to build support, Perry bypassed the
public and the legislature and issued an executive order
accelerating the permits, thereby intensifying the opposition.  He argued, correctly, that the state needed to generate
more power. But he either didn’t anticipate or didn’t care who
would object: not only environmentalists but also whole swaths
of suburban Republicans. Perry’s order was challenged in court
and found unconstitutional. A private equity group later bought
TXU and scrapped most of the plans.  Quick to Act  Both episodes reveal a lot about how Perry governs. He
recognized problems and acted on them. He wasn’t afraid to stick
his neck out. He was also impulsive and disinclined to work at
winning others to his side. And when things did not go his way,
he moved on, leaving the problems to linger.  Perry has fared much better in situations where success
depends upon his own formidable charm.  The leading example of this, often touted by the governor
and his campaign, is the Texas Enterprise Fund. In 2003, even as
the state was facing a $10 billion budget shortfall, Perry
persuaded the legislature to commit $295 million to lure
businesses from out of state.  He has taken on the role of chief corporate raider with
great relish, traveling as far as  South Korea  and  China  to pitch
companies and even individual scientists, on the wonders of
Texas. Often these companies wind up with multimillion-dollar
grants.  Hands-On Player  “He has believed very much in being a hands-on player,”
says Mike Rollins, who runs the Greater Austin Chamber of
Commerce.  In the last few years, Facebook, EBay and General Electric,
to name just a few, have set up operations in the state after
being awarded grants.  The fund has had some problems. A few recipients were
busts, notably Countrywide Financial, which promised 7,500 jobs
but collapsed in the housing crisis. A whiff of cronyism has
attached to several deals that benefited donors to Perry’s
campaigns. But overall the fund has been a boon for Texas. At
his urging, a similar one has been established to invest in
emerging technologies.  Perry has also taken advantage of the steady erosion of the
Texas Democratic Party to protect business. In 2002, after
Republicans captured the statehouse, he steamrolled the trial
bar, a pillar of the Democratic Party throughout the South,
capping lawsuit damage awards. This year he added a “loser pays”
provision on lawsuits.  Power From Incumbency  By now, much of his power in Texas derives simply from his
having been around for so long.  Nearly every agency and commission, the state  Supreme
Court , and the university boards of regents are stocked with his
loyalists, and he’s built up a network of rich donors. This
gives Texas politics a certain transactional flavor which hadn’t
hurt him politically until recently, when it became an issue in
the Republican debates.  Perry had trouble answering Bachmann’s accusation that he
mandated HPV shots for girls in Texas after taking campaign
contributions from Merck, the vaccine’s maker. He shot back that
he was “offended,” but Bachmann got the better of him.  When I met him, Perry was still irritated by the exchange,
which he frankly conceded he had bungled.  “Here is the answer,” he said. “Even Ben Bernanke is not
spending enough money to buy my influence.”  Relationship With Donors  Even so, the charge raised doubts about Perry’s
relationship with donors.  “George Bush’s close friends were businessmen from the oil
patch,” says Tom Banning, who heads the Texas Academy of Family
Physicians in Austin. “Perry’s close friends are all lobbyists.”  Perry excels at the tactical side of politics, and over the
past two years he has veered sharply right. He spotted the rise
of the Tea Party movement well before most others and aligned
himself with it.  He became a budget warrior, more invested in cutting
government than using it in the traditional Texas way to fuel
economic development. By the beginning of this year he looked
like a man planning to ride a Tea Party wave to the White House.  “We must cut spending to keep our economic engine on
track,” he said in his 2011 inaugural address.  Budget Shortfall  When the legislature convened in January, it confronted a
massive budget shortfall of $27 billion from the collapse of
sales  tax revenue  in the recession. Offsetting this grim figure
was a $6 billion rainy day fund that the business community, the
Democrats and many Republicans wanted to use to protect school
budgets. But Perry refused to touch the money and made
preserving the fund a litmus test of conservatism.  Instead, through a combination of deep cuts and audacious
gimmickry, the shortfall was erased. This entailed cutting
$5 billion from the public schools and breaking a commitment,
dating back to World War II, to budget for the thousands of new
students who enroll every year.  The state’s population is rising at twice the national
rate. Its schools will absorb 85,000 new students this year
alone, and for the first time without any new money to pay for
them.  The legislature made another $5 billion disappear by
pretending the state’s population isn’t rising. The budget
assumes no growth in Medicaid claims, although these track
population growth.  Medicaid Entitlement  Lawmakers allotted enough money for 18 months but declared
that it will last 24 months. Of course, Medicaid is an
entitlement, so eventually the state will have to pay up. It is
universally understood this will claim the entire rainy day
fund. But that bill, and others, won’t come due until the next
legislature convenes in January 2013. By then, Perry intends to
be in the White House.  This is not the record Perry highlights when he urges
people to look at what he’s done as governor. The idea of a
Texas miracle is based on a single alluring fact: Texas managed
to create jobs when other states were losing them.  Historically, Texas unemployment hasn’t been dramatically
higher or lower than the national rate. But in early 2007 it
dropped below and has stayed there ever since.  Texas has fared better than most other states for a number
of reasons. Its energy-intensive economy has been sustained by
high  oil prices . Cross-border commerce with  Mexico  and its
rising middle class helped Texas businesses.  Large Concentration  Also, the state doesn’t have a large concentration of
financial-services companies and avoided the worst excesses of
the housing bubble thanks to state regulations limiting the size
of home equity loans.  As Don Baylor, senior policy analyst at the Center for
Public Policy Priorities in Austin, says: “We didn’t have a lot
of the things that precipitated the Great Recession.”  Perry’s low-tax, pro-business policies have certainly
helped, too. The state became an even more desirable destination
for companies and job seekers. During the 18 months of the
recession, Texas grew by 800,000 people, the equivalent of
adding everyone in  San Francisco .  Government has also played a large role in sustaining the
state’s economy. The federal stimulus saved or created 210,000
jobs in Texas, according to Baylor’s analysis of a national
study by economists Mark Zandi and Alan Blinder.  Texas Quirk  A quirk of state government also helped. Unlike most other
states, Texas is on a two-year budget cycle. The effects of the
recession didn’t begin to register there until the end of 2008,
about a year later than the rest of the country.  So there hadn’t been much of a drop-off in revenue when the
legislature wrote the 2009 budget, and by then the state had
begun receiving federal stimulus funds. Consequently, while
other states had already slashed spending, Texas was carried
through the next two years with a budget that was much more
robust.  This is the big reason why Texas kept adding jobs during
the recession, even as the rest of the country lost them:
65 percent of the net new jobs there since the beginning of 2007
were government positions. That puts an entirely different cast
on the Texas Miracle than the one Perry promotes.  It’s also why the miracle is evaporating.  The deep cuts in this year’s budget have already begun
kicking in. Baylor estimates they’ll cost up to 50,000 public-
sector jobs. Unemployment in Texas is now on the rise. In fact,
the state is one of only a dozen with growing unemployment since
the end of the recession. In August, joblessness in the state
hit 8.5 percent as Texas experienced a net loss of 1,300 jobs.  Old Establishment  In Austin, I went to see Bill Hammond, president of the
Texas Association of Business, at his office near the state
capitol. Bluff and friendly, Hammond is a former Republican
representative and chairman of the Texas Workforce Commission,
whose walls are lined with portraits of Ronald Reagan and Barry Goldwater.  He personifies the old business establishment wing of the
Republican Party, the opposite side of the widening ideological
divide with the Tea Party.  Hammond’s role in Texas is like Ross Perot’s 30 years ago.
He is the tribune for better schools and infrastructure because
that’s what Texas business needs to thrive.  Scattered about his office were pamphlets urgently calling
attention to the blackout threats and high dropout rates. He
looked a little worn out.  ‘Hell of a Challenge’  “We’ve got a hell of a challenge addressing the gap between
demand and income,” he said. “But I don’t think there’s support
for a tax bill.”  Hammond was a leading voice in favor of using the rainy day
fund for public schools, and instead saw everything from pre-
kindergarten Head Start and reading, math and science
initiatives to high school completion programs and graduate
medical fellowships wiped out.  Not long ago, Hammond was part of a group of business and
civic leaders convened by the governor’s office to examine how
the state was positioned to fare in the global economy. The news
was bleak.  “Texas is not globally competitive,” it reported. “The
state faces a downward spiral in both quality of life and
economic competitiveness if it fails to educate more of its
growing population.”  The truth is Hammond and the business lobby no longer have
the power over Texas politics that earlier generations did. The
old system, whereby business leaders could compel the necessary
changes, has stopped working.  Worse Infrastructure  That’s apparent from the state’s worsening infrastructure.
After the Trans-Texas Corridor collapsed, federal stimulus money
helped build some roads and bridges, but that’s dried up now.  Congestion has grown with the population. A couple of years
ago, when it became clear the corridor was doomed, Perry
assembled a commission to figure out what it would cost to bring
everything up to par.  The group returned with a figure of $315 billion and a
report showing that the main source of revenue, the gas tax, was
about to begin falling.  “Everybody kind of blanched at the size of that number,”
says Lomax, the Texas A&M transportation engineer, who served on
the commission. Perry ordered the members to find cheaper
options, but paying for even the least of these will be hard
without more tax revenue.  Meanwhile, the state’s power shortages, still unaddressed,
continue. Over the summer, Texas was hit with record heat and an
enduring drought that strained capacity and revived worries
about how it will meet growing demand.  Power Generators  Earlier this year the state’s power generators failed again
when a cold snap set off another series of blackouts and forced
utilities to import power from Mexico.  “Perry correctly saw the problem coming six or seven years
ago,” says Harvey Kronberg, publisher of the Texas Energy
Report. “But he didn’t sell the legislature on the idea that
this is going to be a choke point for business growth. If we
have another summer like this one, we’ll have more power
failures.”  And Perry hasn’t done much at all about the dwindling water
supply.  Bush’s landmark law to create a system of reservoirs and
pipelines was never funded but still requires the state to
update its water plan every five years. The latest update
arrived late last month and put the cost of the plan at
$53 billion.  Lacking Revenue  No revenue source has been dedicated to pay for it.
Shortages have forced the state to cut off water to South Texas
rice farmers. They’ve also pitted Dow Chemical, based in
Freeport, against nearby cities over which entity has priority
in tapping the Brazos River.      “When you run out of water, who do
you cut off first, industries or cities?” says Kip Averitt, a
lobbyist and former chairman of the state Senate Natural
Resources Committee. “You cut off industry, because no one is
going to allow the cities along the Brazos to go dry. The folks
in the cities are the voters.”  This struggle will intensify in the years ahead.  “We have already given permission for more water to be
withdrawn from many of our rivers than is actually in them,”
says Andy Sansom, former director of the Texas Parks and
Wildlife Dept. who now teaches at Texas State University.  Perry’s most visible action on this front came in April
when he issued a proclamation calling on Texans to pray for
rain.  Lot of Mileage  Although the governor gets a lot of mileage from playing
the buccaneering raider who lures companies to Texas, it is
rarely mentioned that things can just as easily go the other
way.  A company that decides it can no longer count on reliable
roads or power can pick up stakes and move elsewhere. Business
in Texas is more globally focused, and less dependent on the
state’s general well-being, than it was in the 1980s and ‘90s.  “The CEOs in Texas view the world in terms of quarterly
returns,” says the Texas Academy of Family Physicians’ Banning.
“They’re not looking 10 years out: Will we have a competitive
environment where we can provide health care to our employees?
Will we have an educated workforce? Will we have water? It’s
frightening.”  Perry, of course, doesn’t agree. “I’ve created an
environment for the private sector to create jobs,” he says.
“That’s the beauty of what we’ve done.”  He brushes away any suggestion that Texas might have a
revenue problem rather than a spending one, as he has often
claimed. It’s a presentation that rejects any doubt or
culpability.  Helped by Certitude  Politically, such certitude may help him. The basis of
Perry’s appeal is the idea that he is an uncompromising
conservative, sure of what he knows. And what he knows best is
that America would be a lot better off if it were a little more
like Texas.  “We’re gonna translate what’s happened in Texas to
 Washington , D.C.,” Perry says.  But look closely at Rick Perry’s Texas and it seems less
like an answer to Washington’s problems and more like a
reflection of them: rising poverty and unemployment, too many
people without health insurance, serious long-term challenges
and not nearly enough revenue to meet them.  Texas, like America, has postponed this reckoning, and
confronting it will take leadership and a willingness to prepare
for the future. Absent that, it may take a miracle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 Jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel in  New York  at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  