-- 
Peruvian Yields Fall on Bets Global Slowdown to Trigger Rate Cut

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-13T17:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/peruvian-yields-fall-on-bets-global-slowdown-to-trigger-rate-cut.html
Peruvian bonds rose, pushing down
yields to a three-week low, amid speculation slower global
growth will lead the nation’s central bank to lower borrowing
costs for the first time since 2009.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 5.69 percent at 11:52 a.m. Lima time,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The security’s price
rose 0.24 centimo to 114.72 centimos per sol.  Peru ’s central bank signaled Oct. 6 it is ready to change
its monetary policy stance after keeping its benchmark rate
unchanged for a fifth month on concern about economic stagnation
in  Europe  and the U.S. Growth in the Andean nation will be
slower than expected this year and next as prices for the
country’s commodity exports ease, according to the bank.  “Peru’s central bank was the first in the region to pause
in June when no-one was talking about a global recession,” said
 Diego Donadio , a Latin America strategist at BNP Paribas Brasil
SA in  Sao Paulo . “It justifies the call for a rate cut in
December. If anything, they could cut earlier.”  China ’s exports rose the least in seven months in September
amid slowing demand from Europe, the country’s customs bureau
said today.  The Peruvian government will expand a fiscal stimulus plan
as the probability the world will enter a recession has
increased, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said Oct. 7.  The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.7245 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 2.7232 yesterday.  The central bank will lower rates by early 2012 as the
Peruvian economy decelerates, Credit Suisse AG said yesterday in
an e-mailed report to clients. The bank recommended investors
buy the nation’s sol-denominated bond due August 2031 after
prices fell during September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  