-- 
PetroChina, Shell, Qatar Agree to Build Refinery in Zhejiang

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-13T08:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/petrochina-shell-qatar-sign-agreement-on-zhejiang-refinery.html
PetroChina Co.,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , Qatar Petroleum and Zhejiang province’s Taizhou city
government signed an agreement to build a petrochemicals and
refining complex in one of eastern China’s manufacturing hubs.  The three  oil companies  plan to use imported condensate oil
to produce petrochemical products including ethylene,
PetroChina’s parent China National Petroleum Corp. said in a
 statement  on its website today without providing further details.  The project will “significantly” improve Zhejiang
province’s self-sufficiency in petrochemical products, the
statement said. PetroChina spokesman  Mao Zefeng  didn’t
immediately respond to two phone calls seeking comment.  “We hope to see the central government’s approval in due
course,” Shell China said in an e-mail response to Bloomberg.
“There is no change of partnership since the signing of the
letter of intent in 2008.”  PetroChina will hold a 51 percent stake in the venture,
while Shell and  Qatar Petroleum  will each own 24.5 percent under
the agreement signed by the three companies to jointly start
studying the complex, Shell  said  in 2008.  The three oil firms plan to invest about 80 billion yuan
($12.5 billion) to build a 20 million metric-ton-a-year, or
400,000 barrel-a-day, refinery in Taizhou, the local municipal
development and reform commission said in a statement in 2009.
The complex will also include a 1.2 million ton-a-year ethylene
plant, according to the statement.  The National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top
economic planner, approved in March  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028)  and Kuwait Petroleum Corp.’s plan to build a 15 million
ton-a-year or 300,000 barrel-a-day refinery in the southern
province of Guangdong. The venture will also have a 1 million
ton-a-year ethylene plant.  --Jing Yang. Editors:  Mike Anderson , Ryan Woo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  