-- 
Pierre Fabre Unit May Lose Antitrust Case, Top EU Court Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-13T15:08:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/pierre-fabre-unit-may-lose-antitrust-challenge-at-eu-high-court.html
A unit of Pierre Fabre may have
breached European Union antitrust rules with distribution
agreements blocking online sales of personal-care brands such as
Avene, Ducray and Klorane, the EU’s top court said.  While the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg said it was for
the French court in charge of the case to decide based on the
facts of the dispute, it ruled that “the need to maintain the
prestigious image of” Pierre Fabre Dermo-Cosmetique “is not a
legitimate aim for restricting competition.”  Pierre Fabre Dermo-Cosmetique is challenging a decision by
the French competition authority, which said in 2008 the
company’s distribution agreements breached competition rules.
The case is pending before the Paris appeals court, which in
2009 sought the EU tribunal’s guidance on whether sales
restrictions, such as those in this case, could benefit from an
exemption under EU competition rules.  The EU court today also rejected arguments that the need to
provide customers with personal advice and to protect against
the incorrect use of the company’s products justified a ban on
 Internet sales .  It said the French court should decide whether the company
qualifies for an exemption under EU law for agreements that
improve the distribution of products or contribute to promoting
economic progress.  Pharmacist Guarantees  Pierre Fabre said in a statement it opposes online sales of
skincare cosmetics because only the presence of a trained
pharmacist guarantees that consumers get the right advice. The
Paris-based company said distance selling is also more
“favorable to counterfeiting.”  The company said it’s “pleased” that the EU court sees
the possibility of an individual exemption. It expects the
French appeals court to rule in the first quarter of 2012.  The ruling “confirms that a restriction on selective
distributors that results in a ban of online sales, is a
restriction that violates competition rules unless objectively
justified,” the European Commission, the EU’s executive
agency, said in a statement.  The case is: C-439/09, Pierre Fabre Dermo-Cosmetique SAS v.
President de l’Autorite de la Concurrence, Ministre de
l’Economie de l’Industrie et de l’Emploi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  