-- 
Polish Inflation Slows Below Forecast, Remains Above Target

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-10-13T12:35:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/polish-inflation-slows-tops-central-bank-target-for-12th-month.html
Poland’s inflation rate fell more
than forecast in September while staying above the central
bank’s target for a 12th month, suggesting the central bank may
wait until next year before cutting borrowing costs as the
economy weakens.  Consumer prices rose 3.9 percent from a year ago compared
with 4.3 percent in August, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistical
Office  said today. That’s below the 4.1 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of 32 economists. Prices rose 0.1 percent
from the previous month.  “This confirms the easing of price pressure we’re seeing,
including sales promotions by retailers that suggest weaker
consumer demand ahead,” said Ernest Pytlarczyk, head of
financial markets research at BRE Bank in Warsaw.  The Narodowy Bank Polski, which left its benchmark seven-
day rate at 4.5 percent for a third meeting Oct. 5, is betting
four quarter-point increases in the first half of the year and a
weaker economy will bring inflation toward its 2.5 percent
target in the medium term. The  International Monetary Fund  cut
 Poland ’s 2011 growth forecast to 3.8 percent from 4 percent
Sept. 20 as demand for its exports dwindles among western
European nations struggling with a sovereign-debt crisis.  “Inflation isn’t slowing enough to start talking about an
interest-rate cut,”  Zyta Gilowska , a member of the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Council, said in an Oct. 11 interview in
Warsaw. “I still think expectations for one are definitely
premature.”  BRE’s Pytlarczyk said today’s data increase the likelihood
that the policy makers will begin rate cuts in the first
quarter.  The zloty extended losses after the data, trading at 4.3119
per euro at 2:28 p.m., down 0.5 percent on the day. Investors
raised their expectation for interest-rate cuts following the
release. Three-month forward rate agreements fell 1 basis points
to 4.695, or 6 basis points below the three-month Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate of 4.745 percent.  The zloty had declined 7.4 percent in the third quarter,
the third-biggest fall among emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  