-- 
Possible Departure of Ailing Chavez Could Destabilize Venezuelan Politics

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-10-13T12:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/possible-departure-of-ailing-chavez-could-destabilize-venezuelan-politics.html
A possible departure of Venezuelan
president  Hugo Chavez , now undergoing treatment for cancer, from
the political scene could destabilize the South American nation.  That’s because Chavismo, Chavez’s highly centralized
governing style based on subsidies for the poor and state
control of the economy, has weakened institutions and made day-
to-day governance highly dependent on the 57-year-old former
coup-leader, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 17
edition.  Complicating matters, Chavez has deliberately stymied the
emergence of other leaders in his movement. Chavez ignored calls
to name Vice President Elias Jaua as interim president when he
received treatment in Cuba. Instead he signed laws
electronically.  “ Venezuela  is accustomed to having Chávez at the center of
political dynamics,” said Diego Moya­Ocampos, a political risk
analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London . “President Chávez sets
the agenda not only for the government but also for the
opposition. His death would lead to a vacuum of power, more
political instability ... and a political crisis.”  Venezuelan bonds rallied after Chávez confirmed that he had
a tumor removed from his pelvic area in June on speculation that
he would be replaced. Investors anticipated a new regime may
reverse economic policies that have fueled the fastest inflation
rate in the Americas.  Transition Step-by-step  In theory, a transition to a new government would be smooth
if Chavez died or became too ill to rule. Elections would still
take place as scheduled on Oct. 7, 2012. Vice-President Jaua
would serve as president until January 2013 when the winner of
the 2012 election is to take power.  In the event that Chavez runs, wins and leaves office
before or during the first four years of his six-year term, an
election would be called within 30 days, according to the
constitution. If he dies five years after, the vice president
assumes power until the end of the term.  Though the political opposition should be helped by a
possible departure by Chavez, the anti-Chavez coalition could
splinter as individual leaders compete for political power, says
 Boris Segura , Latin American strategist at Nomura Securities
International.  Opposition figures would also have to deal with radical
supporters of Chávez, including high-ranking military officers,
who have said they would not accept their rival in power. In
that case, says Segura, street violence between chavistas and
the opposition can’t be ruled out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 