-- 
Properst to Boost Property Projects as Revival Process Ends

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-10-13T06:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/properst-to-quadruple-property-projects-as-revival-process-ends.html
Properst Co., a Japanese condominium
builder which is emerging from bankruptcy, plans to quadruple
the number of residential projects in  Tokyo  this year as part of
efforts to boost profit. The stock rose the most in seven months.  Properst, which finished the legal process of corporate
rehabilitation in February after filing for bankruptcy in May
2010, plans to increase development projects to about 12 in its
current business year ending May 31 from three a year earlier,
said President Masayuki Tsue. The Tokyo-based company plans to
start building smaller apartment buildings with about 30 to 50
units and work jointly with partners who provide financial
support, he said.  Properst is the only company in  Japan  to remain publicly
traded after filing for bankruptcy, according to Tokyo Shoko
Research Ltd., as the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in September 2008 dented demand and reduced condominium prices.
The company, which has been collecting fees by building and
selling apartments for its partners in the last couple of years,
plans to begin buying land to develop on its own, Tsue said.  “We have just been reborn,” said Tsue in an interview in
Tokyo on Oct. 11. “We would like to work on projects on our own
soon.”  As a first step, the company started to acquire land to
develop for the first time in more than two years with investors
in December, according to Tsue. Properst, which used Madonna to
promote its high-rise apartment sales in central Tokyo in 2007,
has already bought three land sites and has a plan to acquire
nine more by the fiscal-year end jointly with partners, he said.  Revival  The developer’s liabilities totaled 55.4 billion yen ($719
million) at the time of bankruptcy, according to a company
statement in May last year. A total of 26.2 billion yen in debt
that the company owed was forgiven by its lenders, while 2.7
billion of liabilities were converted to equity through debt-to-
equity swaps, the company said.  Properst shares, which more than tripled since the company
filed for bankruptcy last year, surged 14 percent to 3,620 yen
at the close on the Osaka Securities Exchange’s Jasdaq Standard
market, the biggest gain since March 18.  Properst, which was established in 1987, has focused its
business on property development in the Tokyo metropolitan area,
ranging from small-sized apartments to condominiums in high-rise
buildings. The company had a profit of 27.3 billion yen for the
year ended May 31 compared with a loss of 28.3 billion yen a
year earlier. It is forecasting a profit of 547 million yen for
the year ending May 2012 on sales of 7 billion yen.  The company, which has about 40 staff, plans to add 10 more
before the end of the year, Tsue said.  The number of condominiums offered for sale in Tokyo and
surrounding areas rose 1.7 percent in August, the Real Estate
Economic Research Institute said in a report released in Tokyo
on Sept. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  