-- 
Wall Street Protesters Should Remember Stones Tune: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-10-13T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/protesters-should-remember-rolling-stones-tune-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
What do they want, and what do they
need? That’s the question about the protesters who now occupy
 Wall Street , Washington and just about everywhere else. Theirs
is what might be called a Rolling Stones situation: They can’t
always get what they want, but if somebody tries, some time,
they may get what they need.  Protesters want redress of a proximate wrong, or some
“efforts to crack down on abusive practices” of Wall Street, as
President  Barack Obama  put it last week. They need something
more general: a job or a better job; cash or insurance for
health bills; a way to pay off  student loans . In other words, a
stronger economy.  These days, political leaders typically respond to the
want, and tend to overlook the need. After all, there’s nothing
more dangerous to a politician than giving a compelling crowd
the cold shoulder.  But history offers evidence that focusing on the want over
the need can be destructive, even for the wanting. And as
 Washington ’s response to an earlier protest movement -- the
Bonus Army -- reveals, the converse also holds: When you get
what you need, the wants seem a lot less urgent.  During the recession of the early 1920s, the U.S. was stuck
in the same tired mood as today. Unemployment was as high as 15
percent in some cities. The more than 4 million men who had
served in World War I had a hard time finding jobs, especially
because almost 40 percent had returned from the war with
injuries or disabilities. Amputations, in those pre-antibiotic
days, were especially common.  There were not yet mass protests like those that would
follow in the 1930s. Still, the veterans made their case with
their physical presence in Washington. Legless soldiers stunned
the crowds when they were carried out of trucks from Walter Reed
hospital to attend Warren G. Harding’s inauguration.  In 1921, the Senate passed a bill that would have paid
veterans a bonus of $1.25 for each day they served overseas and
$1 for each day of domestic service. To the vets, the Republican
president seemed sure to sign the bill. Elected in 1920 as a
good old boy from  Ohio  who would mend party divisions, the 29th
president seemed to want, above all, to be loved.  ‘A Disaster’  But instead of giving in to the Senate’s plan, Harding
spoke out against it. At a time when the White House and
Congress were trying to cut tax rates and reduce the budget by
half -- to $3 billion from $6 billion -- the new legislation
would cost more than $1 billion, he warned. It would prevent tax
cuts that would yield recovery down the road and amount to a
“disaster to the Nation’s finances.” Harding even walked over to
the Senate and, standing at the vice president’s desk, made his
case personally.  Harding was able to kill the legislation, but many senators
considered his aggressive move an insult, and they tried again
the next year. The president threatened a veto: It was wrong,
Harding said, to “establish the precedent of distributing public
funds whenever the proposal and numbers made it seem easy to do
so.” The bill was stopped once more.  Harding was dead within two years, too soon to see his
wager’s outcome. But something surprising happened. The
government, the country and even many of the vets won out. The
federal budget stabilized in surplus. Unemployment dropped below
5 percent. Jobs for vets were plentiful for almost a decade. The
Depression that followed was terrible, of course, but there’s no
way one can blame it on Harding. Most of the growth in that
period was real, driven by productivity gains of a quality we
admire today.  March on Washington  Still, by the early 1930s, after the Great Crash,
unemployment had returned, and reached levels double those of
today. After Harding died, Congress had finally delivered a
bonus, in the World War Adjusted Compensation Act of 1924. The
law promised vets a payment for time served, but it was
structured as insurance, payable only in 1945.  The vets, by now well into their thirties, converged on
Washington in 1932 to demand that the bonus be paid early.
President  Herbert Hoover  gave them the cold shoulder, and even
sent the cavalry to clear their tents, thereby providing
snapshots of cruelty that helped ensure the victory of his
opponent,  Franklin D. Roosevelt , in the next election.  Roosevelt was better at public relations, but also refused
to sign legislation that would pay the full bonus early and cost
the Treasury billions. Congress overrode Roosevelt and in 1936,
the protesters got their want -- a bill paying the full bonus
immediately, passed over FDR’s veto.  Needs, Not Wants  That made for a happy snapshot. The vets spent the money
they received, reviving the economy and pulling unemployment
below 10 percent. But only for a year or so. Both Roosevelt and
Congress failed to take longer-term pro-growth measures,
including creating an environment hospitable to employers. When
the stimulus petered out, the economy contracted again.
Joblessness rose back to pre-bonus levels and stayed high for
three years. Looking back at the 1930s, it was hard to say the
bonus had done much, even for the vets.  The story of the bonus protesters suggests that what
presidents and lawmakers do for the general economy is more
important than meeting the specific wants of a group of
protesters, no matter how sympathetic their cause. The
equivalent policy to Harding’s today would be reining in
entitlements, cutting the budget and keeping tax rates as low as
possible.  Such reforms may not give the Occupy Wall Street protesters
what they want. But it’s still possible they’ll get what they
need.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 