-- 
Rajaratnam Stays Silent as His Wiretapped Words Earn Him Decade in Prison

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rajaratnam-stays-silent-facing-more-than-a-decade-behind-bars.html
Raj Rajaratnam began his odyssey
through the court system in silence, remaining mute on the day
of his  insider-trading  arrest two years ago. In the end, after
choosing not to testify at his trial, he uttered next to nothing
as he was sentenced to prison for 11 years.  The hedge fund manager’s silence stood in contrast to a
government case built on his words -- words secretly recorded by
investigators using wiretaps for the first time as part of a
federal insider-trading investigation. As prosecutors said
during yesterday’s sentencing in Manhattan federal court, the
offense was all about talking.  “The crime of insider trading is essentially committed
through communication,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky
said as U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell imposed sentence.  The number of words Rajaratnam uttered yesterday might have
been counted on one hand. He said, “Yes,” when Holwell asked
whether he had read the probation department’s presentence
report, and “No, thank you,” after being asked if he wanted to
speak before he was sentenced. His final word was “Yes,” when
the judge asked whether he understood his right to appeal.  Rajaratnam, 54, must report to federal prison Nov. 28 after
being convicted in what prosecutors said is the largest insider-
trading case ever. The co-founder of the Galleon Group LLC hedge
fund didn’t speak publicly before his trial, take the witness
stand during it, or comment afterwards.  ‘Detective Work’  The only indication of what Rajaratnam was thinking came in
a court filing last month, when prosecutors said he told a
probation official he wasn’t “clear” on “the line between
permissible ‘detective work’ and impermissible insider
trading.”  In court yesterday, Rajaratnam gave no hint of how he
viewed the case against him. His expression remained inscrutable
-- he exhibited neither anger nor excitement, even when the
judge handed down a sentence that was less than half of the
maximum sought by the government.  In a striped blue tie and charcoal suit, Rajaratnam sat
still in his seat as Brodsky called his crimes “brazen,
pervasive and egregious.” He didn’t react when defense attorney
Terence Lynam said the prison term sought by prosecutors was as
long as a murderer might get.  Swayed Slightly  At most, Rajaratnam swayed slightly as Holwell said he
would remain on probation for two years even after leaving
prison about a decade from now. Otherwise, the hedge fund
manager was motionless. He never expressed remorse or
apologized, often part of the usual ritual of sentencing.  Nor did the court hear from Rajaratnam’s wife, Asha, who
sat in the third row in the gallery and listened as Holwell
weighed her husband’s fate. As she left the courthouse,
Rajaratnam’s bodyguard stood between her and members of the
media.  Rajaratnam’s taciturn manner inside the courtroom differed
from his effusiveness outside of it.  Friends testified during his trial that Rajaratnam was a
friendly, outgoing man. On wiretaps played in court, he cracked
jokes and chuckled. In the hour before sentencing, he sat in the
courthouse cafeteria talking with his lawyers, his hands arched
beneath his chin as the attorneys leaned forward to hear.  Key Players  While Rajaratnam didn’t say much in court since his arrest
Oct. 16, 2009, most other key players in his prosecution did.  Brodsky called for a sentence that “sends a clear and
unmistakable message to money managers and  hedge funds ” that
insider trading will be punished.  Lynam urged Holwell not to be swayed by the “nonstop”
media attention to the case.  And four former Securities and Exchange Commission
commissioners wrote to the judge detailing why insider trading
harms the public markets.  Scores of Rajaratnam’s friends, family and associates wrote
about his charity, good works and public spiritedness.  The last word, however, belonged to the judge, who rarely
if ever voiced his opinions about the case.  “Simple justice,” said Holwell, looking down on
Rajaratnam from the bench, “requires a lengthy sentence.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 