-- 
Rajaratnam Suffered ‘Severe’ Stroke in 2007, Needs Dialysis, Defense Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-13T19:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rajaratnam-suffered-severe-stroke-in-2007-defense-says-in-case.html
Convicted inside-trader  Raj Rajaratnam  suffered a “severe cryptogenic stroke” in 2007,
according to court papers, more than two years before he was
arrested for masterminding the biggest hedge fund insider-
trading scheme in U.S. history.  Phillip Wise, a former warden at federal prison facilities
in Minnesota and  West Virginia , said he was consulted by
Rajaratnam’s defense team to review records showing that the co-
founder of Galleon Group LLC suffered from a “severe
cryptogenic stroke” in February 2007, diabetes, high blood
pressure, high cholesterol and sleep apnea, according to filings
unsealed today in federal court in  Manhattan .  “His diabetes remains under poor control,” Wise said in a
July 11 court filing. “As a result he has suffered diabetic
nerve damage, diabetic eye damage, advanced diabetic kidney
damage and chronic anemia.”  Wise said all of the physicians interviewed concurred that
Rajaratnam’s need for dialysis is imminent. One doctor said
dialysis should begin right away, according to the July filing.  Rajaratnam was diagnosed with Type II diabetes in 1992 and
became insulin-dependent in 2003, Wise said. Doctors working for
the defendant have begun the process for obtaining a kidney
transplant, Wise said.  Wise previously was a warden at the Federal Medical Center
at Rochester,  Minnesota , and at the Federal Prison Camp at
Alderson, West Virginia.  ‘Significant Challenges’  “In my opinion, based on review of the medical records,
Mr. Rajaratnam and the Bureau of Prisons will face significant
challenges and will result in an overall lower level of medical
care should Mr. Rajaratnam receive a period of incarceration,”
Wise wrote in the court filing.  Rajaratnam, 54, was sentenced today to 11 years in prison,
which prosecutors said is the longest term ever imposed for
insider trading, though less than half of the maximum sought by
the government. U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell cited
Rajaratnam’s condition as a reason for imposing a term of less
than the 15 years recommended by U.S. Probation officials.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment on Rajaratnam’s medical
condition.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  