-- 
Rajaratnam Sentence Sends the Right Message to Wall Street: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-13T21:04:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rajaratnam-insider-trading-sentence-sends-wall-street-right-message-view.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC hedge fund executive who fought his  insider-trading 
prosecution at every stage, today ended up with an 11-year
prison sentence and an order to forfeit $53.8 million. Some are
decrying the punishment as too lenient, but it is both
appropriate and exemplary.  After Rajaratnam’s conviction in May, sentencing was left
to U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in  New York . Prosecutors
wanted a prison sentence as long as 24 1/2 years, and the return
of the full $72 million they say he gained through illegal tips.
Rajaratnam’s defense lawyers pushed for as little as 6 1/2 years
in prison, the return of $7.4 million and the chance to stay
free on bail while appeals proceed.  Holwell’s sentence to some extent splits the difference --
but it does so in a way that underscores the severity of
Rajaratnam’s crimes. “Insider trading is an assault upon our
free markets,” Holwell said, in meting out one of the longest
sentences on record for such crimes.  Holwell acknowledged the 54-year-old Rajaratnam’s health
concerns: diabetes and the need for a kidney transplant. But
medical centers can be found in prisons, too. Holwell refused to
grant bail pending appeals, and told Rajaratnam to report to a
North Carolina prison in 45 days (where, appropriately, he will
join convicted Ponzi-scheme artist  Bernard Madoff ).  Rajaratnam still faces a Securities and Exchange Commission
lawsuit against himself and Galleon. More than two dozen people
have been convicted in prosecutions related to Galleon. Prison
terms for defendants other than Rajaratnam have averaged 35.4
months.  The case has fascinated both  Wall Street  and the general
public with its detailed disclosures of the ways that privileged
information seeped out of boardrooms, law firms and other
centers of power, to be exploited by traders looking for quick
profits.  Every day, thousands of directors, lawyers, corporate
officers and bankers are expected to keep privileged information
secure. If any of them have trouble remembering why it’s
necessary to do so, Rajaratnam’s 11-year prison sentence should
help them regain their moral compass.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 