-- 
Rajaratnam Gets 11-Year Prison Term

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-10-13T19:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rajaratnam-gets-11-year-prison-sentence-for-galleon-insider-trading-scheme.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder whom prosecutors called “the modern face of
illegal insider trading,” was sentenced to 11 years in prison,
one of the longest terms ever for insider trading, though less
than half of the maximum sought by the government.  Rajaratnam, 54, is the central figure in what U.S.
investigators called the largest hedge fund insider trading case
in U.S. history. The probe, which leveraged the widespread use
of FBI wiretaps for the first time in such an inquiry, led to
convictions of more than two dozen people. Prosecutors said he
made more than $72 million by using illegal tips to trade in
stocks of companies including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell sentenced Rajaratnam
today before a packed courtroom in Manhattan. Holwell, who
agreed with prosecutors that Rajaratnam led the scheme and that
he obstructed a Securities and Exchange Commission probe,
pointed to Rajaratnam’s philanthropy and his diabetes and kidney
disease in giving him less time than prosecutors had sought.  ‘Lighter Sentence’  “This is a lighter sentence than anticipated,” said
Anthony Sabino, a professor at St. John’s University in New
York, pointing to the U.S. request for as many as 24 1/2 years.
Sabino said the judge still sent a message with the 11-year
term. “Holwell is clearly achieving a crucial goal here, that
is, telling Wall Street that this kind of criminality will not
be tolerated, and will be severely punished.”  Holwell denied Rajaratnam’s request to remain free on bail
while he appeals his conviction, and told him to surrender on
Nov. 28. The judge said he would recommend sending him to the
medical center at the federal correctional complex in Butner,
North Carolina. Bernard Madoff, the convicted Ponzi scheme
mastermind, is serving a 150-year term at the facility.  The judge also ordered Rajaratnam to forfeit $53.8 million
and sentenced him to two years of supervised release after his
prison term is up.  “ Insider trading  is an assault upon our free markets,”
Holwell said. He gave Rajaratnam a shorter term than the U.S.
sought, citing the defendant’s charitable works and poor health.
“Prison provides a more intense punishment for critically ill
prisoners,” the judge said.  Rajaratnam said nothing to reporters as he left the
courthouse and got into a black sport-utility vehicle.  ‘Financial Empire’  “Two years ago, Raj Rajaratnam stood at the summit of Wall
Street, commanding his own financial empire,” Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement after the hearing.
“Today, Mr. Rajaratnam stood once more and faced justice which
was meted out to him. It is a sad conclusion to what once seemed
to be a glittering story.” Bharara said Rajaratnam’s is the
longest prison sentence given for insider trading.  The Galleon case helped trigger two other overlapping
insider-trading investigations that relied heavily on wiretaps,
a tool more commonly used to probe organized crime. In the past
18 months, Bharara charged more than 50 people in the three
schemes with insider-trading crimes.  A federal jury in Manhattan convicted Rajaratnam on May 11
of all 14 counts of  securities fraud  and conspiracy against him.
During the two-month trial, the panel heard evidence that he
engaged in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside
information from corporate executives, bankers, consultants,
traders and directors of public companies.  ‘No Different’  “Raj Rajaratnam is no different from a host of others who
falsely attributed impressive investment results to superior
research and acumen,” said Janice Fedarcyk, head of the New
York office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “His
considerable fortune was built on a clandestine network of
corruption and concealment. Raj Rajaratnam did not merely bend
the rules; he broke the law.”  Prosecutors asked for a prison term ranging from 19 years
and seven months to 24 1/2 years, citing federal sentencing
guidelines and the ‘historic nature of his crimes.”  The U.S. compared Rajaratnam to Enron Corp.’s  Jeffrey Skilling , who helped bring down the massive energy trader, and
WorldCom Inc.’s Bernard Ebbers, convicted in what prosecutors
called “the worst of accounting frauds.”  Skilling was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges
that included fraud and insider trading, and Ebbers got 25
years. The Galleon Group hedge fund manager was also put in the
same category as Madoff, whose massive scam they said
represented “the worst of Ponzi schemes.”  ‘Grotesquely Severe’  Rajaratnam’s lawyers had asked for a sentence below the
term sought by the government, one that was “fair,
dispassionate and proportionate.” They said the federal
guideline range overstated the seriousness of Rajaratnam’s
crimes, and called the term sought by the U.S. “grotesquely
severe.”  Today, defense attorney Terence Lynam requested leniency
for his client, calling him a “kind, considerate, polite,
generous and caring person.”  More than 200 people wrote letters to the court on
Rajaratnam’s behalf, according to Holwell.  Lynam said Rajaratnam asked family members not to come to
the sentencing hearing because of the media attention the case
has drawn. Rajaratnam's wife, Asha, however, was in the third 
row. Lynam also emphasized Rajaratnam’s ill health.  “Any lengthy term of imprisonment would likely shorten his
life,” Lynam said. “Based on the conduct for which he was
convicted, he does not deserve to die in prison.”  Claiming Rajaratnam’s actions made him only $7.4 million,
the defense had asked for 6 1/2 to 8 years, according to a
person familiar with the defense case who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  No Parole  There is no parole under the federal prison system.  Rajaratnam claimed a flawed loss calculation was
responsible for most of the government’s requested prison
sentence. Federal sentencing guidelines, which are advisory,
increase the recommended term for financial crimes based on the
amount of money lost. Holwell held a hearing Oct. 4 to determine
the loss resulting from Rajaratnam’s crimes.  “This court’s role is not to validate a prosecutorial
public relations effort, nor is it to single out one man to
serve as the whipping boy for Wall Street misdeeds,”
Rajaratnam’s lawyers argued in court papers.  Calling insider trading “thievery,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Reed Brodsky argued for a longer sentence.  ‘Mockery’  “Insider trading simply makes a mockery of the principle
that no one individual has an advantage in the market,” Brodsky
told Holwell. “It’s completely wrong that it’s a victimless
crime.”  Brodsky also said there are prisoners in federal custody
suffering from the same maladies that afflict Rajaratnam, who
has known about his condition since 2007.  Rajaratnam, who didn’t take the stand at trial in his own
defense, was convicted of five counts of conspiracy and nine
counts of securities fraud. He still faces a lawsuit against
both him and Galleon by the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission.  The far-flung Galleon scandal may have derailed or damaged
the careers of executives who weren’t involved in the trading.  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam’s sources of information
included  Rajat Gupta , who until last year was a director at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and  Kamal Ahmed , a Morgan Stanley
investment banker who prosecutors said passed tips through a
Galleon trader. Both deny wrongdoing, and neither has been
charged with a crime in the case.  Lloyd Blankfein  Witnesses testifying for the prosecution included Goldman
Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, who said Gupta
violated the company’s confidentiality policies by allegedly
telling Rajaratnam about its earnings and strategic plans.  Robert Moffat , a former International Business Machines
Corp. executive, was sentenced to six months in prison for
leaking tips to Rajaratnam co-defendant and New Castle Funds LLC
analyst  Danielle Chiesi . Moffat said he had an “intimate
relationship” with Chiesi and said she had “played him” to
get inside information.  Hector Ruiz , the former chairman of  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD) , also gave inside information to Chiesi, according to
prosecutors. Ruiz hasn’t been charged with a crime.  Galleon was once among the 10 largest hedge funds, managing
$7 billion at its peak in 2008. Rajaratnam’s net worth of $1.3
billion made him the 559th richest person in the world, Forbes
Magazine said in 2009.  Before his arrest on Oct. 16, 2009, Rajaratnam claimed that
Galleon analysts had an advantage over rivals because most were
trained as engineers and all focused exclusively on research.  ‘Marketing Hype’  “They don’t get blindsided by the marketing hype,”
Rajaratnam said of his analysts in the book “The New Investment
Superstars: 13 Great Investors and Their Strategies for Superior
Returns,” by Lois Peltz. At trial, Rajaratnam’s lawyers claimed
his trades were based on Galleon research.  Adam Smith , a former Galleon trader, testified that
Galleon’s edge came from illegal tips from company insiders.
Rajaratnam emphasized “getting the number” -- or learning
revenue figures before they became public -- from insiders at
Intel,  Intersil Corp. (ISIL)  and other publicly traded companies, Smith
said.  “Research is sort of doing your homework ahead of time,”
Smith, who pleaded guilty to insider trading and agreed to
cooperate with prosecutors, told jurors. “Getting the number is
more like cheating on the test.”  Phone Taps  Jurors at Rajaratnam’s trial heard more than 40 recordings
of the Galleon co-founder, made by the FBI, where he chatted and
joked with sources while getting information about sales
projections and mergers.  “They’re gonna guide down,” Chiesi told Rajaratnam on
July 24, 2008, after she got an insider’s leak that  Akamai
Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  would reduce its forecast. “I just got a tip
from my guy.”  Rajaratnam’s lawyers argued that wiretaps shouldn’t be used
at the trial because the U.S. failed to disclose key facts about
the investigation. Holwell granted prosecutors the right to use
about 2,400 recorded conversations between Rajaratnam and more
than 130 friends, business associates and alleged accomplices.  Samidh Guha, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, today said the
defense would challenge the government’s wiretaps. He said
federal statutes don’t authorize their use to intercept insider-
trading calls.  ‘Different Danger’  “The defendant downplays the seriousness of the offenses
while the government declines to draw any distinctions,” Holwell
said today. “Insider trading is insidious but poses a different
danger in Enron-type frauds and Madoff-like Ponzi schemes.  Some
distinction, therefore, is reasonable.”  Born in Sri Lanka’s capital, Colombo, Rajaratnam was
educated there at St. Thomas’ Preparatory School before leaving
for England, where he studied engineering at the University of
Sussex. He came to the U.S. to get his master’s of business
administration, graduating from the University of Pennsylvania’s
Wharton School in 1983.  Two of his Wharton classmates -- Anil Kumar, who became a
partner at McKinsey & Co., and Rajiv Goel, who was a managing
director at Intel -- testified against him at the trial, saying
Rajaratnam corrupted their friendships as he sought them out as
sources of secret information. Both have pleaded guilty.  Rajaratnam’s first job after graduation was at Chase
Manhattan Bank, where he was a lending officer in the group that
made loans to high-tech companies. In 1985, he joined Needham &
Co., a New York-based investment bank that specialized in
technology and health-care companies.  Electronics Analyst  He started as an analyst covering the electronics industry
and rose through the ranks, becoming head of research in 1987,
chief operating officer in 1989 and president in 1991. A year
later, at 34, Rajaratnam started a fund, Needham Emerging Growth
Partners LP, according to Galleon’s marketing documents.  Rajaratnam and Needham colleagues Krishen Sud, Gary Rosenbach and Ari Arjavalingam formed Galleon Group in January
1997. By the end of that year, they were managing $830 million,
much of it from technology company executives Rajaratnam had
gotten to know throughout his career, according to “The New
Investment Superstars.”  Bharara’s office has charged more than two dozen people in
cases related to Galleon. In June,  Zvi Goffer , a former Galleon
trader, his brother Emanuel, and Michael Kimelman were convicted
of conspiracy and securities fraud. The three men started
Incremental Capital LLC after Zvi Goffer was fired by Galleon in
2008.  Lawyer Tips  Trial testimony showed the three used tips on pending
acquisitions from two lawyers, then working at the Boston-based
law firm Ropes & Gray LLP, to profit on trades in 3Com Corp.,
Axcan Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp.  Zvi Goffer was referred to by some of his associates as
“Octopussy,” according to the government. The James Bond movie
allusion sprung from Goffer’s many tentacles reaching for
confidential corporate information, prosecutors said.  At least 15 other people were convicted in Manhattan in a
third round of insider-trading cases brought by Bharara’s office
since November. They involved so-called expert-networking firms,
which match industry experts with fund managers.  Trial testimony showed that some employees at public
companies, while moonlighting for firms such as Mountain View,
California-base Primary Global Research LLC, passed nonpublic
information to fund managers for fees.  Goffer Sentence  Zvi Goffer was sentenced to 10 years in prison by U.S.
District Judge  Richard Sullivan . Chiesi was sentenced by Holwell
to 30 months in prison. Craig Drimal, a former Galleon trader,
was sentenced by Sullivan to 66 months. Jason Goldfarb, who was
part of Zvi Goffer’s ring, was sentenced to three years in
prison by Sullivan.  Moffat was sentenced to six months in prison by U.S.
District Judge Deborah Batts. Mark Kurland, a fund manager at
New Castle Funds and Chiesi’s boss, was sentenced to 27 months
by U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero.  A former Primary Global consultant, Winifred Jiau, was
sentenced in September to four years in prison for passing
earnings and other information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund managers. Two of those fund
managers, Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based
Barai Capital Management LP, previously pleaded guilty in the
case.  Freeman said he made from $5 million to $10 million by
trading on Jiau’s Nvidia information.  Portfolio Manager  Donald Longueuil, another former SAC Capital Advisors
portfolio manager, was sentenced in July to 2 1/2 years in
prison for his role in the scheme.  Longueuil admitted that after reading a newspaper article
about the probe of Primary Global, he went to his office and
took pliers to two drives on his computer, destroying them.
Prosecutors said he walked 20 blocks and dumped the parts in
four different garbage trucks.  “Chopped it up, chopped up everything,” Longueuil wrote
in a text message to Freeman, according to the complaint filed
by the U.S. in February.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  