-- 
Rajaratnam to Be Sentenced Today for Hedge-Fund Insider Scheme

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-10-13T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rajaratnam-faces-sentencing-for-directing-hedge-fund-insider-trading-ring.html
Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam
will be sentenced today for masterminding the biggest hedge-fund
 insider trading  scheme in U.S. history, facing a federal judge
who has broad discretion in setting his punishment.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan presided
over the  jury trial  in which Rajaratnam was convicted of 14
counts of  securities fraud  and conspiracy. He will consult
federal sentencing guidelines and his own “gut feeling,” one
legal expert said. Depending on the result, Rajaratnam, 54, may
spend much of the rest of his life in prison.  Holwell will consider additional factors including the
sentences given to other defendants in the ring and the utility
of “sending a message” to those who might be tempted to trade
on illegal inside tips, according to  Anthony Sabino , who teaches
law at  St. John’s University  in New York.  “He is supposed to look at everything,” said Sabino, who
predicted Rajaratnam will get almost 15 years. “It’s always a
matter of discretion or gut feeling.”  Prosecutors called Rajaratnam a “serial insider trader”
who illegally made $72 million by corrupting friends and
business associates. The government is asking Holwell to
sentence Rajaratnam to 19 1/2 years to 24 1/2 years, which,
prosecutors said, is the term suggested by the federal
guidelines.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers said the government overstated the
amount of money their client gained in the fraud and
miscalculated other sentencing factors, resulting in a
“grotesquely severe” recommendation. Rajaratnam is seeking a
sentence “substantially below” the guideline range.  Eight Years  Rajaratnam made only $7.4 million, they said. They argued
for a guideline calculation that would call for a sentence of 6
1/2 to 8 years, according to a person familiar with the defense
case who spoke on condition of anonymity.  The sentencing guidelines were binding until 2005, when the
U.S. Supreme Court ruled that judges may give sentences outside
the prescribed range. There is no parole under the federal
prison system.  Rajaratnam has also asked for leniency based on medical
conditions he said would be life-threatening if he’s sent to
prison. He hasn’t publicly disclosed the nature of his ailment,
and Holwell has kept court papers discussing it secret.  Rajaratnam was convicted in May. A juror interviewed after
the verdict said the 12-member panel never argued that
Rajaratnam was innocent, finding him guilty of all 14 counts.  Public Companies  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam was at the center of a seven-
year conspiracy to trade on inside information from corporate
executives, bankers, consultants, traders and directors of
public companies. He used the information to trade in the shares
of more than a dozen companies, including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies Inc. and
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Sabino said he would be surprised if Holwell gives
Rajaratnam the sentence the government is seeking.  “This is a nonviolent crime,” said Sabino. “He’s not a
drug kingpin, he’s not a terrorist, he didn’t murder anybody.
And most of all, this is his first offense.”  Holwell is also unlikely to sentence Rajaratnam to eight
years or less, according to Sabino. The judge will probably use
the sentence to try to deter would-be  Wall Street  inside
traders, Sabino said.  ‘Serious Crime’  “A message needs to be sent to the Street,” Sabino said.
“This was a very serious crime by Rajaratnam. It must be
punished and it must be punished severely.”  In court papers, the government urged Holwell to make an
example of Rajaratnam, saying he “represents the worst of
illegal insider trading.” Prosecutors compared him to Enron
Corp.’s  Jeffrey Skilling  and WorldCom Inc.’s Bernard Ebbers,
convicted in what prosecutors called “the worst of accounting
frauds,” and  Bernard Madoff , the man behind history’s biggest
Ponzi scheme. Skilling was sentenced to 24 years in prison,
Ebbers to 25 years and Madoff to 150 years.  Judges have sentenced defendants convicted in connection
with the Galleon investigation to an average of about three
years. Last month, U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  gave Zvi Goffer 10 years for leading a Galleon-linked ring that bribed
lawyers for inside tips about transactions involving their law
firm’s clients. Yesterday, Sullivan sentenced Michael Kimelman,
convicted after a trial that included Goffer and his brother
Emanuel Goffer, to 2 1/2 years.  Guilty Pleas  Craig Drimal, another ex-Galleon trader, was sentenced to 5
1/2 years in prison. Danielle Chiesi, a former analyst at New
Castle Funds LLC, got 2 1/2 years for passing tips to Rajaratnam
and others. Drimal and Chiesi both pleaded guilty.  As of February, almost half of the 43 defendants sentenced
for insider trading in the  New York  court from 2003 to 2010
avoided jail altogether, according to a Bloomberg analysis of
court records. Many of those defendants cooperated with the
government or pleaded guilty, which often results in a lesser
sentence.  The longest insider-trading sentence before Galleon was 10
years, given to former Credit Suisse Group AG banker Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem, who was convicted in 2008 of leading a
$7.8 million scheme.  Yesterday, prosecutors told Holwell that Rajaratnam
shouldn’t be granted bail pending his appeal because he’s a
flight risk. Rajaratnam, a naturalized U.S. citizen, has ties to
 Sri Lanka , where he was born, they said in court papers.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  