-- 
Real Gold Mining Says Deloitte Resigns as Auditor Over Omissions

-- B y   B i l l y   C h a n   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-10-13T19:07:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/real-gold-mining-says-deloitte-resigns-as-auditor-over-omissions.html
Real Gold Mining Ltd. (246) , a Hong Kong-
listed Chinese gold producer halted from trading since May 27,
said  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  quit as auditor because the
company failed to disclose “material” information.  Deloitte said its report on Real Gold’s 2010 earnings isn’t
reliable because of the omissions, according to a Hong Kong
stock exchange filing yesterday. Real Gold said it previously
disclosed all matters related to the resignation, is
“disappointed” by the accounting firm’s departure and is
seeking a replacement auditor.  Real Gold has been suspended in Hong Kong since the city’s
South China Morning Post newspaper said the company may have
filed two different sets of accounts. Real Gold was searched by
the city’s Securities and Futures Commission in August,
according to a lawsuit. It has hired an independent forensic
specialist to probe company accounts and dealings with
controlling stockholder Wu Ruilin.  Regulators and investors have increased scrutiny of Chinese
companies traded overseas amid allegations against Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd., Chaoda Modern Agriculture
(Holdings) Ltd. and  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)   Real Gold said on June 20 it was released from loan pledges
made improperly by Wu. The entire issued share capital of Real
Gold unit Fubon Industrial Huizhou Co. was pledged as security
for loans for non-Real Gold entities controlled personally by
Wu.  Connected Purchase  The company also agreed to buy two phosphorus mines in
Mongolia from Wu for HK$520 million ($67 million) and loaned him
HK$955 million, of which HK$316 million was outstanding on June
30, according to an exchange filing on Aug. 22.  Real Gold said on June 1 the Morning Post’s allegations
were “inaccurate and untrue,” and that it was gathering
information to respond to queries by the  Hong Kong  exchange.  The mining company said on Aug. 25 that Independent
Director Wan Kam To, who was leading an internal investigation
of the allegations, resigned after disagreeing with the board on
the approach, strategy and timing of the probe.  Real Gold’s first-half net income increased to 355.2
million yuan ($55.7 million) from 322 million yuan a year
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  