-- 
Treasuries Snap Loss on Speculation Data to Show Exports Slowed

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-10-13T01:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/treasuries-snap-loss-on-speculation-data-to-show-exports-slowed.html
Treasuries snapped a six-day loss
before a government report that analysts said will show the  U.S.
trade deficit  deepened as a slowing global economy curbed
American exports.  The U.S. plans to auction $13 billion of 30-year bonds
today, the last of three sales of coupon-bearing debt this week
totaling $66 billion. Signs of improvement in the  U.S. economy 
and European efforts to tackle a debt crisis in the region
interrupted a rally that sent yields to a record low last month.  “Treasury yields will fall again,” said Masazumi Fukuoka,
a senior dealer at the Singapore branch of Mitsubishi Trust &
Banking Corp., a unit of  Japan ’s largest publicly traded lender.
“I don’t believe there’s recovery in the economy, and there’s
still concern over  Europe .”  Benchmark 10-year notes yielded 2.21 percent as of 9:48 a.m.
in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125
percent security due in August 2021 changed hands at 99 9/32.  The rate has risen 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage
point, in the past six sessions. The record low was 1.67 percent
on Sept. 23.  The U.S. trade deficit probably widened 2.2 percent in
August from July to $45.8 billion, according to the median of
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Jobless claims rose last
week, a separate government report today will show, based on
other surveys.  European Plan  Treasuries fell yesterday, pushing 10-year note yields to
the highest level in six weeks, as optimism European leaders
will be able to contain the region’s debt crisis reduced the
haven appeal of the securities at a $21 billion auction.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called for a
reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a loan to
 Greece  and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund to
alleviate Europe’s debt woes, addressing the European Parliament
in Brussels yesterday.  U.S. government securities have fluctuated as European
officials attempt to tackle the debt crisis, which has pushed
Greece toward default, threatened to curb world economic growth
and fueled speculation that the 17-nation currency may not
survive in its current form.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  