-- 
Treasury 30-Year Bonds Break Longest Losing Streak Since 2007 Before Sale

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-13T15:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/treasuries-pare-gains-before-30-year-bond-auction-report-on-trade-balance.html
U.S. 30-year bonds snapped their
longest losing streak in more than four years as the U.S.
prepared to sell $13 billion of the securities amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatens the global economy.  Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year yields down from almost a
six-week high, as Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said at least
66 of Europe’s biggest banks would fail a revised European Union
stress test. Minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s September meeting
released yesterday showed some policy makers saw “considerable
uncertainty” U.S. growth will pick up and wanted to keep bond
purchases under quantitative easing as an option.  “The world is not a better place,” said  Scott Graham ,
head of government bond trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital Markets unit in  Chicago , one of the 22 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “Europe is kicking tires of a possible
solution, but we haven’t seen any credible package yet. The
front end is getting a pop from what the Fed said yesterday with
regard to the possibility of more quantitative easing.”  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped six basis points, or 0.6
percentage point, to 3.14 percent at 11:31 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Earlier they touched
3.11 percent. Long bonds had fallen for six days in the longest
set of losses since May 2007. The price of the 3.75 percent
securities maturing in August 2041 climbed 1 5/32, or $11.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 111 3/4.  Benchmark 10-year note yields fell six basis points to 2.15
percent. They rose yesterday to 2.27 percent, the highest level
since Sept. 1. Three-year note yields decreased four basis
points to 0.49 percent.  220 Billion Euros  The banks failing a revised EU stress test would need to
raise about 220 billion euros ($302.3 billion) of capital,
Credit Suisse analysts led by Carla Antunes-Silva wrote in a
note to clients today. Eight banks out of the 90 tested failed
the European Banking Authority’s July 15 stress test, with a
combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros.  The  European Central Bank  said involvement of private-
sector banks in euro-area bailouts through enforced investor
losses would risk financial stability.  “Stress in European banks is the main driver in the
market,” said  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New
York at the primary dealer Credit Suisse. “It’s clear that the
optimism was much too strong in the market. Any negative
headlines can easily be a catalyst to lower rates, and that is
what we are seeing.”  Treasuries pared gains after lawmakers in Slovakia approved
an expansion of Europe’s bailout fund, completing ratification
across the 17 euro countries as the region’s leaders prepare for
a summit.  Treasury Auction  The 30-year U.S. bonds being sold today yielded 3.13
percent in pre-auction trading, beating the record low of 3.31
percent drawn at the last sale of the securities on Sept. 14.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
the amount bid with the amount sold, was 2.85 times last month,
the highest level in an auction of the maturity since March.
Indirect bidders, the category that includes foreign central
banks, bought 39.4 percent of the securities, the highest level
since April.  The Treasury sold $21 billion of 10-year securities
yesterday, drawing the lowest bid-to-cover ratio since November
2010, 2.86. The government auctioned $32 billion of three-year
notes on Oct. 11.  “Yields have pushed far enough up to bring in buyers in
the wake of the 10-year auction yesterday,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “The selling momentum seems to be getting tired
without any material uptick in the economic outlook. Yields have
backed up to a point that brings in buyer interest.”  ‘Considerable Uncertainty’  Fed officials at their Sept. 20-21 meeting saw
“considerable uncertainty” that U.S. economic growth will pick
up, minutes showed. Policy makers decided at the gathering to
replace through June $400 billion of Treasuries in the bank’s
portfolio with longer-term debt to reduce borrowing costs in a
program called Operation Twist after a similar effort in the
1960s. The Fed previously bought $2.35 trillion of assets in two
rounds of quantitative easing to spur the economy.  The central bank bought $4.88 billion of Treasuries today
maturing from October 2017 to August 2019 as part of the
program, according to its website.  “The twist operation is in the driver’s seat today so far,
so we should do better going into the operation,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at the primary dealer Societe Generale SA in
New York. “The Fed leaving the door open for QE3 sort of set
the stage for a bit of a rally as it brings potential for more
buying into the market, which would sterilize operation twist.”  Treasuries have lost 1.3 percent this month after returning
5 percent in the third quarter, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index shows. German bunds, perceived to be Europe’s safest
government debt securities, have lost 1.6 percent in October
after gaining 6.2 percent from July through September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  