-- 
Refund of $75 Billion Wouldn’t Fix Postal Service, GAO Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-10-13T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/refund-of-75-billion-wouldn-t-fix-postal-service-gao-says.html
Refunding as much as $75 billion
that the U.S.  Postal Service  claims to have overpaid to a U.S.
Treasury pension fund wouldn’t fix the longer-term finances of
the service, the Government Accountability Office said.  The Postal Service, which is shuttering post offices and
seeking to end Saturday delivery to reduce costs, forecasts a
$20 billion loss by 2015 as Internet use drives down mail
volumes. The service last month said it expected to reach its
$15 billion debt limit by Sept. 30, the end of its fiscal year,
and warned that it may not have the cash to carry the mail
beyond next August.  A refund wouldn’t “be sufficient to repay all of USPS’s
debt and address current and future operating deficits related
to USPS’s inability to cut costs quickly enough to match
declining mail volume and revenue,” the GAO, the investigative
arm of Congress, said in a report it plans to issue today.  The Postal Service and its labor unions have said that
getting back the $50 billion to $75 billion it has paid into the
civil-service retirement system would reduce the need to
eliminate as many as 220,000 jobs and close up to 15 percent of
its post offices.  Giving the money to the Postal Service would increase the
U.S. government’s pension liability by as much as $85 billion
and would cause it to borrow or use  tax revenue  to make up the
difference, the GAO said.  The Postal Service’s inspector general and regulator in
2010 issued reports that they commissioned from outside analysts
concluding the agency had overpaid for its retirement fund. The
Postal Service, which is designed to operate as a self-
supporting entity, has been required since 1974 to split
payments into the retirement fund with the federal government.  The GAO said in its report it didn’t find evidence of any
errors leading to overpayments.  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, had asked the GAO
to review whether an overpayment exists. Carper is the sponsor
of a bill that would allow the Postal Service to use any money
overpaid into the civil-service retirement system to pay, as
required by law, for health benefits of future retirees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  