-- 
Reid’s Senate Rule Change Was Purely Partisan: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-10-13T00:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/reid-s-senate-rule-change-was-purely-partisan-stephen-l-carter.html
Unless you follow chess, you
probably missed the news that  Hikaru Nakamura , the most talented
player America has produced in a generation, lost a game in
Bilbao,  Spain , the other day when he  overstepped the time limit .  Chess is played with a dual clock, and each player has a
set amount of time to make a given number of moves. If you do so
before reaching what is known as the time control, you get more
time to make more moves; otherwise you lose. Nakamura, believing
that he had reached the time control in his game against a less-
talented opponent, left the table to get an orange juice.
Unfortunately, he had made only 39 moves, not the required 40.
He returned to discover that his time had run out, and the
arbiter had declared the game lost.  Nakamura has a huge Internet following, and already there
has been chatter among his fans that the time-control rule is
stupid and should be changed -- the only rationale evidently
being that the rule cost Nakamura first place.  This story comes to mind as one thinks about the recent
decision by Democrats to eliminate, in the heat of the moment,
one of the Senate’s many strange, hoary traditions: the ability
of Senators to offer non-germane amendments to bills after the
body has invoked cloture, ending debate.  The controversy arose during efforts by Republicans to
amend legislation trying to punish  China  for currency
manipulation. Perhaps the most striking of those amendments
would have attached the original text of President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs bill, in order to force Democrats to
vote up or down on the White House proposal.  Out of Order  Because the amendments were not germane -- not related to
the legislative subject matter -- they could be offered only by
unanimous consent of the body. Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell 
sought that consent, and although the Senate parliamentarian
said the motion was in order, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  quashed
it. Instead, the body adopted a new interpretation, ruling such
requests dilatory, and therefore out of order.  Unlike the House, the Senate has long operated in ways that
give the minority a significant ability to block or at least
slow the majority’s legislative agenda. Reid’s detractors have
pointed to the long
tradition of allowing senators to offer amendments even after
cloture. His supporters have insisted that the Republicans were
abusing the Senate procedures by insisting on their parade of
amendments.  Both sides would seem to have a point. But here is what’s
striking about Reid’s sudden decision to force a rules change:
Nobody imagines that a single member of the Senate considered it
on the merits, on what was best for the future of the body. The
only question the senators considered in choosing up sides on
the motion was where partisan advantage might lie.  The rules of Congress, contrary to the wails of some
furious commentators, weren’t handed down on stone tablets. As
the historian  William Lee Miller  established in his 1998 book
“Arguing About Slavery,” many of the now-accepted traditions
of both houses were originally developed as tools to restrict
legislative debate on the institution of slavery. So let’s not
pretend that tradition alone is evidence of the wholesome all-
American character of any particular rule.  On the other hand, it also matters why a change is made. It
is one thing to dump a rule after sober consideration, on the
grounds that it turns out to have been a mistake. It is
something else altogether to change it in the midst of heated
partisan debate to gain momentary advantage. The first is the
proper work of governance; the second is an effort to transform
the practice of lawmaking into the game of Tegwar.  Game Without Rules  Tegwar -- short for “the exciting game without any rules”
-- was immortalized in the 1973 film version of Mark Harris’s
tragicomic novel, “Bang the Drum Slowly.” Tegwar was a scam
through which the baseball players in the story, back in the
days before sports millionaires, would earn extra money. On the
road, they would play a card game that appeared to the
uninitiated to be poker. A passerby would ask to join in,
without ever inquiring what the game was -- and then would be
taken by surprise when, hand after hand, he would lose because
of rules he had never heard of. The rules were manufactured on
the spot, so that the players could win every hand. If the mark
ever complained, he was told they were playing not poker, but
Tegwar -- surely he knew the difference? -- and he went away
mystified.  Sadly, we live in an era when, more and more, the rules are
changed as the game goes along, to make sure that the right side
wins. Consider, for example, the Telephone Consumer Protection
Act of 1991, which bans debt collectors who use robo-dialing
from calling cell phones, and imposes substantial fines for
every violation. Now that the federal government is the
principal originator of  student loans , the Obama administration
has proposed removing this prohibition on robo-calling cell
phones in some cases when the money is owed to the Treasury.  Maybe the anti-calling rule is a bad one. Certainly
creditors have been arguing against it for years, pointing out -
- as, ironically, the White House does in pushing for the
exception -- that fewer and fewer people have land lines. Young
people, in particular, tend nowadays to rely entirely on their
cell phones. But the administration isn’t calling for a blanket
repeal, only to exempt debt collectors working for the federal
government. In other words, the intrusiveness of calling cell
phones to collect a debt turns out to depend on whose ox is
being gored.  The notion that a civilization is constituted by clear
rules has been part of the Western tradition at least since
Immanuel Kant, and may be found in many religious traditions
long before. Of course, there are terrible rules that should be
reformed or abandoned. But the grounds for overturning them
should be precisely that -- that they are terrible -- and not
that they suddenly interfere with somebody’s agenda.  Hikaru Nakamura has filed an appeal against the arbiter’s
decision in that Bilbao chess match. I count myself as one of
his fans, but I hope the appeal is rejected. He lost fair and
square under the rules. His defeat doesn’t prove a defect in the
rules, only that he should be more careful next time.  Chess is just a game. Politics is the serious work of
governance. Certainly the rules of our legislative bodies -- or
of anything else -- should be subject to fair criticism and
debate. When necessary, they should be changed. But we should
make those decisions after sober reflection on how to make the
legislative process better. The worst possible reason to change
the rules is to make it easier for one side to win.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at  Yale
University  and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s
Wars in the Age of Obama,” is a  Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  