-- 
Revolt in Virginia Hollow Complicates Postal Service Survival

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-10-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/revolt-in-virginia-hollow-complicates-postal-service-survival.html
The post office in Breaks,  Virginia ,
sits on an Appalachian country road near a white-steepled
church, off a highway pounded by coal and logging trucks.  Inside are 208 boxes, one for about every two residents.
Because there’s no mail delivery, Breaks townspeople have to go
to the post office to pick it up.  They also go there to conduct financial transactions. The
nearest banks are about 30 minutes away by car across a
mountain. A bulletin board out front advertises yard sales,
seeks help locating a missing person, and informs residents that
the post office may be about to close.  If a retail location or plant is losing money, a company
can close it. That’s not so simple for the U.S.  Postal Service ,
even as it says it will run out of money to deliver mail by
August without dramatic changes. Obstacles include the U.S.
Constitution’s clause empowering Congress to establish post
offices.  More than 80 percent of its locations, including Breaks,
lose money, the Postal Service says. Residents of the poorest
part of Virginia say they’re sympathetic to the service’s
plight. To them, though, their post office is a central
gathering place, economic hub and part of their identity, not
something that can be measured by profits and losses.  “This would devastate the community,” James Childress,
the Breaks resident leading a petition drive to stop the
closing, said. “The post office is the heart and soul of the
community.”  Not Like Businesses  More than 400 miles away in  Washington , Postal Service Vice
President Dean Granholm holds a computer mouse he can click to
decide whether post offices live or die.  The Breaks office, which the service already decided to
close, is one of about 4,800, or 15 percent of post offices,
that the service may close in its fight for survival. The
service lost about $10 billion in the year ended Sept. 30.  “Retailers close without the perceived discomfort of
congressional review, Postal Regulatory Commission overview,
internal angst,” Granholm, vice president of delivery and post-
office operations, said in an interview at the service’s
Washington headquarters.  Business customers applaud the service’s efforts to cutting
costs through shuttering small post offices, which they don’t
use. Direct mail would still get to postal customers through
rural delivery.  “Mailers are the ones who pay rates that have to be
sufficient to cover all the costs of operating the postal
system,” said Gene Del Polito, president of the Association for
Postal Commerce, an Alexandria, Virginia-based group that
represents postal customers such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  “If we have to pay for it and rates
are going up, one would expect that we can have services
provided nationwide in the most cost-efficient manner.”  Internet No Competition  The Postal Service has blamed its losses on a 22 percent
drop in mail volume since 2006 as individuals and businesses
have switched to e-mail and electronic billing.  In Breaks, located along Virginia’s border with Kentucky,
“there’s not that many people that pay their bills by
Internet,” Wayne Cline Jr., 53, a retired coal truck driver,
said. There is no broadband  Internet access . Few families can
afford to pay $50 a month or so for dial-up Internet, said Keith
Mullins, 66, a retired coal miner whom Childress recruited to
help save the post office.  The office serves residents of Buchanan and Dickenson
Counties, the two poorest in Virginia with 2009 median household
incomes of $27,538 and $28,296, respectively, according to the
 U.S. Census Bureau . That leaves 27 percent of Buchanan County
residents and 21 percent of those in Dickenson County living
below the U.S. poverty line, higher than the 11 percent average
of Virginia, according to the Census Bureau.  ‘Ain’t No Way’  The Postal Service says it can save $31,516 annually by
closing the post office and going to rural delivery, which it
says would cost $12,763 a year.  Mullins scoffs at the service’s estimate of the cost of
rural delivery in an area with roads that wind through mountain
hollows. “There ain’t no way they could run a route for that,”
Mullins said. “You can’t even buy a pop and a Moon Pie a day
for that.”  He and other residents also say they’re worried rural
delivery would exacerbate prescription-drug abuse by making it
easy for addicts to steal painkiller deliveries from unlocked
mail boxes.  Childress, 83, a retired superintendent of  Breaks
Interstate Park , a 4,600-acre preserve straddling the Virginia
and  Kentucky  Appalachians that calls itself the “Grand Canyon
of the South,” said in an interview that residents realize
“there’s got to be changes.” They just don’t want this change.  Petition Drive  With help from Mullins and Cline, Childress organized a
petition signed by almost every Breaks resident and filed a
complaint at the Washington-based  Postal Regulatory Commission ,
which reviews closings that are challenged.  Childress also contacted U.S. Representative Morgan Griffith, a freshman Republican whose congressional district
includes Breaks.  Griffith in 2010 defeated 14-term Democratic Representative
Rick Boucher with  support  from the  Tea Party , a political
movement whose goals include reducing federal spending and
budget deficits. One of Griffith’s first votes in Congress was
against raising the U.S. debt limit.  Cut Somewhere Else  Still, Griffith says, the Postal Service should look
elsewhere for savings. A list of about 3,650 locations to close,
announced by the service in July, included 20 in Griffith’s
district, which spans from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University in Blacksburg to the borders with  West
Virginia , Kentucky,  Tennessee  and  North Carolina .  “I understand the post office like all government agencies
has to take a look at their spending,” Griffith said in a
telephone interview as he rode to a rally to support balancing
the U.S. budget. “But there are other ways to cut their
costs.”  Griffith wrote a letter July 29 to Postmaster General
Patrick Donahoe asking him to spare the Breaks post office.  Anyone affected by a proposed post-office closing can ask
the Postal Regulatory Commission to  review  a decision in the 30
days after the Postal Service issues a “final determination.”  Commission reviews, which the panel is trying to simplify,
can take up to 120 days. It can affirm the decision or send it
back to the service for another look. If it affirms, which it
did in all 14 cases decided in fiscal year 2011, the Postal
Service can close the office immediately.  Review Commission  Breaks’ office is one of about 90 whose proposed closings
are being  appealed . The number grows daily as the Postal Service
tries to accelerate the reduction of its network.  “There’s an administrative process that they have to
follow, and it’s our hope that in following that administrative
process, they will get information and hear concerns of citizens
that will perhaps make them decide not to close the post
office,” Commission Chairman Ruth Goldway said in a telephone
interview.  Mullins wrote to Goldway’s commission Sept. 13, saying
residents can relate to the Postal Service’s hardships.  “They know the effects you are facing on the financial
problem you are having,” Mullins wrote in the hand-written
 letter . “They don’t have to worry about gas going any higher.
They can’t afford a car. It’s not only senior citizens having a
hard time, we all are.”  Steady Trickle  Most offices on the closings list have less than $27,500 in
annual revenue and less than two hours of workload a day. The
Breaks office fits those criteria, though on a recent Monday
afternoon, a steady trickle of about a dozen people came in
after lunch to get their mail, buy money orders, ship packages
and chat about what’s going on in town.  The Postal Service understands the emotions of people who
may lose their only local connection to the U.S. government,
Granholm said. His job, he said, is to look out for the
service’s bottom line.  “It’s not our responsibility to be their  community
center ,” he said.  The  National League of Postmasters , whose members include
rural postmasters, helps communities fight closings by guiding
them through the appeal process, helping get congressional
involvement and providing a how-to manual, Mark Strong, the
group’s president, said in an interview.  There are so many proposed closings now that the league
can’t help in all situations, he said. The Breaks citizens have
been on their own, they said.  ‘True Rush Job’  “There’s a true rush job to get them closed by December so
that we’re not sure communities are getting the chance for
input,” Strong said.  The Postal Service does take offices off the computer-
generated closings list. By September, it pared July’s list of
3,650 proposed closings by about 120. The service has closed
about 280 post offices this year and about 300 more are in the
final determination stage, Granholm said.  About 7 percent of proposed closings are appealed, Granholm
said. Sometimes the service changes its mind during a regulatory
commission review. Of the 103 proposed closings appealed during
the 2011 fiscal year, the Postal Service withdrew two. Both had
drawn civic challenges. Eighty-three appeals are pending.  Breaks residents said in interviews they’d be willing to
pay for their post-office boxes like they did in the 1980s, even
though money is tight. They also propose creating a  “Grand
Canyon of the South” postmark in hopes of drumming up mail
business from tourists.  “Sometimes it seems like a useless battle, but you can’t
give up,” Mullins said. “We ain’t started carrying no picket
signs or throwing rocks yet. Maybe in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  