-- 
Rice Farmers in Japan Set Tougher Radiation Limits for Crops to Spur Sales

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-10-13T06:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rice-farmers-in-japan-set-tougher-radiation-limits-for-crops-to-spur-sales.html
Rice farmers near  Japan ’s crippled
Fukushima nuclear plant will impose radiation safety limits that
will only clear grains with levels so low as to be virtually
undetectable after government-set standards were viewed as too
lenient, curbing sales.  Farmers now completing the harvest in areas affected by
fallout from the nuclear station are struggling to find buyers
amid doubts about cesium limits, which are less stringent than
in livestock feed. No samples have been found exceeding the
official limits.  A self-imposed, near-zero limit on radiation in rice may
help spur sales from Fukushima, which was the fourth-largest
producer in Japan last year, representing about 5 percent of the
total harvest. The prefectural office of Zen-Noh, Japan’s
biggest farmers group, plans to only ship cesium-free rice to
address safety concerns, as does the National Confederation of
Farmers Movements, which includes about 30,000 producers
nationwide.  “We advise our members to test their rice for radiation
and sell only if results show no cesium is detected,” said
Yoshitaka Mashima, vice chairman of the confederation. The
government has tried to “hide inconvenient information, which
is deepening consumer distrust.”  The near-zero limit was set as very low levels of cesium
are hard to detect. Testing equipment in Japan is unable to
verify levels of cesium in food below 5 becquerels a kilogram,
according to Mashima.  Fukushima Rice  Japan set the maximum allowed level of cesium in food about
a week after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, based on
recommendations from the International Commission on
Radiological Protection. The health ministry set the rice
ceiling at 500 becquerels a kilogram, while the agriculture
ministry’s limit for feed is 300 becquerels.  The agriculture ministry allowed rice planting in Fukushima
and neighboring prefectures in April, excluding paddy fields
containing more than 5,000 becquerels of cesium per kilogram.  Prefectural governments began approving farmers to ship
their harvest if test results showed samples from their produce
did not show cesium exceeding the limit.  Still, rice millers are concerned about buying new crops
from areas near the plant as the current cesium standard,
applied to brown rice, doesn’t ensure the safety of its by-
products, including bran.  Rice Bran  Cesium levels in rice bran, an ingredient used in Japanese
compound feed for livestock, is about seven times as high as
brown rice, said Ryo Kimura, the chairman of Japan Rice Millers
and Distributors Cooperative. Because of this, feed makers are
reluctant to buy bran made from brown rice that may contain more
than 40 becquerels a kilogram of cesium, he said.  Brown rice is polished to produce milled rice for sale to
retailers and by-products are shipped to makers of cooking oil,
pickles and animal feed.  Demand for this year’s rice crop has also been weakened as
consumers hoarded last year’s crop amid radiation concerns,
Kimura said.  Domestic food-rice inventories, excluding the government’s
reserve, fell 16 percent to a three-year low of 1.82 million
metric tons in June as consumers boosted purchases after the
disaster. The volume is equal to 22 percent of Japanese rice
demand in the year ended June 30.  Lower Prices  “Consumers who see the current cesium standard as lenient
won’t buy rice from polluted areas,” said  Nobuyuki Chino ,
president of Continental Rice Corp. in  Tokyo . “Wholesalers are
seeking rice that tested negative for cesium as they know grain
containing radioactivity, even if the amount is smaller than the
official standard, won’t sell well.”  Stockpiles may increase by more than 100,000 tons by next
June because of a weak demand and a good harvest this year,
dragging down prices, said Chino.  Low demand for rice harvested in eastern Japan, affected by
radiation fallout from the Fukushima plant, is reflected in a
price gap between Tokyo and Osaka grain exchanges, Chino said.  Rice for November delivery on the Tokyo Grain Exchange
settled at 14,400 yen ($184) a bag on Oct. 12, 4 percent cheaper
than the price on the Kansai Commodities Exchange in the western
city of  Osaka . The Kansai exchange trades rice produced in
western Japan, while the Tokyo bourse handles rice grown in the
east, including Fukushima prefecture.  Stricter Control  The government has been slow to take measures to ease
safety concerns as tighter regulation will boost costs for
radiation testing, adding troubles to the nation struggling with
swelling fiscal deficits, said Naoki Kazama, an upper-house
lawmaker from the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan.  Stricter control may also increase a ban on shipments of
local farm products and cause shortages, sending producers out
of business and boosting compensation payments by Tokyo Electric
Power Co., operator of the Fukushima nuclear plant.  “The government should put a priority on protecting human
health, especially of our children,” Kazama said in an
interview in Tokyo. “Now they are paying consideration to the
interests of various parties evenly.”  Kazama has proposed that all foods be tested for
radioactive contamination and their radiation levels be labeled.  The health ministry, which rejected the proposal as
unfeasible, plans to revise cesium standards in food in line
with recommendations from the  Food Safety  Commission.  Health Effects  An expert panel on the commission compiled a report in July
that said more than 100 millisieverts of cumulative effective
doses of radiation over a lifetime could increase the risk of
health effects in humans. The amount doesn’t include radiation
from nature and medical exposure, it said.  The current Japanese standard is based on a proposal from
the International Commission on Radiological Protection that
humans should avoid  radiation exposure  exceeding 5 millisieverts
a year through food and drink consumption in case of emergency.  Local authorities checked a total of 3,989 rice samples in
17 prefectures in the eastern half of Japan by Oct. 11,
according to the agriculture ministry. The highest level of
cesium, or 500 becquerels a kilogram, was detected in crop from
Nihonmatsu city, about 55 kilometers (34 miles) from the
Fukushima nuclear station.  Some food retailers and producers set voluntary ceilings
for cesium on their products to alleviate consumer concerns.  Organic food supplier Radishbo-ya Co. in Tokyo set its
cesium standard at 20 becquerels a kilogram for milk and water,
and 50 becquerels for rice, meat, eggs and vegetables. These are
10 percent of the amounts allowed by the government.  “The government is very slow to take measures against
contamination,” said Hiroshi Chikaato, quality director at
Radishbo-ya. “That’s why consumer concerns about food safety
persist. People who lost confidence in the safety of food
produced in the nation’s east are only seeking food from the
western areas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  