-- 
Richard Dutrow, Trainer of Big Brown, Banned for 10 Years in New York

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/richard-dutrow-trainer-of-big-brown-banned-for-10-years-in-new-york.html
Richard Dutrow Jr., trainer of 2008
 Kentucky Derby  and Preakness Stakes winner Big Brown, has been
banned from racing in New York for 10 years, the state Racing
and Wagering Board said.  Dutrow, whose license was revoked effective Oct. 18 to
allow another trainer to take over his horses, also was fined
$50,000 for violations relating to a positive drug test on one
of his racehorses and the unlicensed possession of hypodermic
needles, the board said.  “New York’s racing industry has no place or patience for
Mr. Dutrow,” John Sabini, chairman of the agency, said in a
statement. “His repeated violations and disregard of the rules
of racing has eroded confidence in the betting public and caused
an embarrassment throughout the industry.”  Dutrow will be in  New York  State Supreme Court on Oct. 17
to seek a stay to the punishment to allow him to continue
training his 68 horses until his appeal is resolved, attorney
Michael Koenig of Greenberg Traurig LLP in  Albany , New York,
said in a telephone interview. The trainer has four months to
appeal the board’s decision.  “This decision is unconscionable,” Koenig said last
night. “The board’s structure allowed it to play prosecutor,
judge and jury. No fair decision can result in such a stacked
process.”  Fears Business Losses  The appeals process may take as long as a year in the
courts, Koenig said. A stay of the ban would allow the 52-year-
old trainer to continue his work until the legal issues are
resolved.  “He’s concerned he could lose all his business,” Koenig
said.  The ban followed the discovery of three unlabeled syringes
of xyzaline, a tranquilizer that alleviates lameness or calms a
nervous horse, in Dutrow’s barn at Aqueduct Racetrack last Nov.
3. Three weeks later, a horse trained by Dutrow tested positive
post-race for butorphanol, a drug 10 times more potent than
morphine that blocks pain.  “His self-described ‘game’ in New York horse racing is
over,” Sabini said. “We will not permit individuals who cheat
and sully New York’s world-class racing product.”  Since 2003, Dutrow has been fined and suspended for
numerous drug violations, the board noted.  Kentucky  already has
barred him from participating in the state, home of the Kentucky
Derby, the first leg of horse racing’s Triple Crown.  The board’s ruling “is a clear indicator that regulators
will not tolerate a pattern of disregard for the rules of racing
by a licensee,” Alex Waldrop, president and chief executive
officer of the National Thoroughbred Racing Association, said in
a statement.  Big Brown won the Derby and Preakness and came in last in
the Belmont Stakes when his jockey pulled him up as the colt
lost the chance to become the first Triple Crown winner since
Affirmed in 1978.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  