-- 
Trichet Says It’s Up to Leaders to Solve Crisis With Appropriate Decisions

-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-10-13T13:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/trichet-says-it-s-up-to-leaders-to-resolve-debt-crisis-at-brussels-summit.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said it’s now up to governments to solve
Europe’s debt crisis as leaders get ready for a summit in
Brussels in 10 days.  “It’s our duty to tell governments and other institutions
what we see, but up to them to take the appropriate decisions,”
Trichet, 68, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
London today. “I’m certainly not underestimating the difficulty
of their task.”  Policy makers earlier this month pushed back a debt-crisis
summit to Oct. 23, as leaders are trying to solve a crisis that
started in  Greece  two years ago and is now threatening to tip
the global economy into recession. The ECB has shouldered the
main burden of keeping  Europe ’s banking system from collapsing
throughout that period, while pushing governments to take on
more responsibility as leaders struggled to contain the turmoil.  “We see the big picture but it isn’t necessarily easy to
see the big picture from any capital,” said Trichet, who will
be replaced by Italy’s  Mario Draghi  next month when he retires.  Trichet and global leaders from the Group of 20 nations
will meet in Paris tomorrow, ahead of the Brussels summit, which
was initially scheduled for Oct. 18.  The Frankfurt-based central bank has resisted pressure to
reverse two interest-rate increases this year and is opposed to
suggestions that it should help boost the firepower of the
region’s rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility,
from 440 billion euros ($604 billion).  ‘Quieter’ Time  Trichet said that the role of the ECB is “to deliver  price
stability ” and “pass on to the decision makers, either in
Brussels or in all our democracies, what we see.”  German and French leaders pledged at a meeting Oct. 9 to
devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help Greece and strengthen
Europe’s economic governance. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
said earlier this month after meeting with French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  that Europe will do “everything necessary” to
ensure that banks have enough capital.  The ECB said last week it will reintroduce longer-term bank
loans and resume purchases of covered bonds, measures that
Trichet said “were necessary to help restore a better
transmission of our  interest rates  to the real economy.” While
the euro currency remains “credible,” he said he would have
“preferred to leave at a time which would have been quieter.”  “We have to remain very alert,” Trichet said on the
region’s ongoing crisis. “A lot of events that are
unpredictable can occur. We have to accept that it’s an ongoing
structural transformation that we have under our eyes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francine Lacqua in  London  at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in London at  jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  