-- 
RIM Suffers ‘Awful’ Timing for Snag as IPhone 4S Makes Debut

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-14T20:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rim-suffers-awful-timing-for-snag-as-iphone-debut-lures-users.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , struggling
to recover from one of its worst BlackBerry service disruptions,
may see more defections as the snag gives users another reason
to turn to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPhone, which hit stores today.  The disruptions will trigger some BlackBerry customers to
switch to Apple, particularly as the Cupertino, California-based
company begins cutting the price of older iPhone models, said
 Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC in Boston.  “The timing is absolutely awful,” he said. “RIM is doing
some of Apple’s work for them.”  The data failures come at an inopportune time for Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM. It is fending off investor demands for fresh
management while trying to move the entire BlackBerry lineup
onto a new operating system to stem market-share losses to Apple
and devices that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. RIM also
said it will study compensation for the disruption after some
wireless carriers offered refunds to BlackBerry users.  Three days after the smartphone’s data delivery first began
failing in Europe and the  Middle East , RIM co-Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Lazaridis  apologized to customers in a video posted
on the company’s website before joining co-CEO  Jim Balsillie  on
a conference call to answer reporters’ questions.  “We’re very concerned,” Balsillie said when asked about
the possible impact of the disruptions on phone sales and what
RIM is doing to minimize it. “Nobody’s gone home since
Monday.”  Credibility Lost  Apple and carriers  AT&T Inc. (T) , Verizon Wireless and Sprint
Nextel Corp. started selling the iPhone in their stores today.
Apple said this week that it received more than 1 million iPhone
pre-orders on the first day, a record.  BlackBerry subscribers across most parts of the world,
including U.S. and  Canada , lost data services after a network
failure in the U.K. halted messaging and Web browsing. Balsillie
said yesterday service has been fully restored globally.
Lazaridis apologized, saying the company has “let many people
down.”  The disruptions resulted in an outrage by customers on
online messaging boards and Twitter.  “When you hear people saying online they’re hating their
BlackBerry device right now, that’s going to be top of mind to
the consumer going into a store to buy a new phone,” said Neil
Bearse, who teaches digital marketing at Queen’s School of
Business in Kingston, Ontario.  Credibility  Patrick Spence, RIM’s head of global sales and regional
marketing, said on a conference call that he understood
customers were frustrated and that RIM needed to look at
improving how it communicated the problem.  “We know we’ll have to work to do to build back that
credibility,” he said.  RIM rose 1.5 percent to $23.97 at the close in  New York .
The stock has lost 59 percent this year.  RIM started selling new BlackBerry 7 phones in the U.S.
last month, including a touch-screen version of the BlackBerry
Bold, which costs $250 on a two-year contract. Balsillie said
the phones had an “excellent reception” with consumers.
 William Power , an analyst at Robert W Baird & Co., suggested
initial enthusiasm may have been limited to existing users
looking to upgrade their phones, not new customers.  Apple Competition  The iPhone 4S went on sale in the U.S. for $199 for a 16-
gigabyte model and $399 for a 64-gigabyte version with a two-
year contract. The price on the iPhone 4 has been cut to $99.
The new version also starts selling in Canada,  Japan ,  Australia 
and parts of  Europe .  The new iPhone has sold out for pre-order with Verizon,
AT&T, and Sprint Nextel on the eve of its debut, those carriers
said yesterday. The robust demand highlights how Apple is
thriving while RIM is struggling, and threatens to hurt sales of
RIM’s BlackBerry 7 phones, Thornton said.  “There’s going to be some defections,” said Thornton, who
rates RIM “market perform.” “Their older phones are bleeding
and they’re trying to get their new phones out there but the
marketing is just starting.”  RIM’s share of the U.S. smartphone market fell to 20
percent in the quarter ended August from 25 percent three months
earlier, according to ComScore Inc. Apple rose 0.7 percentage
points to 27.3 percent while Google’s Android platform climbed
to 44 percent from 38 percent.  Defections  There could be more defections, said Shaw Wu, an analyst at
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco .  “This network outage and how long it lasted could not have
come at a worse time,” said Wu, who rates RIM a “buy.” “It
didn’t hit as hard in the U.S. but in high-growth areas, lasted
for two or three days -- that’s unacceptable.”  The disruptions began in Europe, the Middle East, Africa
and  India , areas that RIM is counting on for sales growth as
revenue in North America declines. As RIM’s U.S. revenue dropped
50 percent last quarter to $1.11 billion, sales outside the
U.S., U.K. and Canada jumped 38 percent to $2.33 billion.  “There is outrage on the BlackBerry outage,” said Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, chairman of  Biocon Ltd. (BIOS) , India’s biggest
biotechnology company. If the BlackBerry service continues to be
problematic, she said she may be forced to give up her device.
“This is terrible timing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  