-- 
BlackBerry Holdup Threatens U.S. Customers as RIM Apologizes

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-13T06:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rim-says-we-re-letting-you-down-as-delays-in-u-s-messaging-investigated.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  said
customers in Canada and the U.S., its largest market, still face
delays after disruption to its BlackBerry network, while data
services are now more accessible in other parts of the world.  RIM last night apologized for the network failure that
halted messaging for three days in Europe and spread to the
U.S., Canada and  Latin America .  “Right now we’re letting you down,” Chief Information
Officer Robin Bienfait said in a  statement  on the company’s
website yesterday.  RIM, which has built a reputation as a maker of secure and
reliable e-mail devices, is struggling to stem declines in
market share to touch-screen phones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
that offer more consumer applications. The service disruptions
began in areas that RIM is counting on for sales growth as
revenue in North America drops.  The disruptions began in Europe and  Asia  early this week as
the Blackberry Messenger service and Web browsing failed.
BlackBerry users continue to have problems accessing data
services as RIM works to clear the backlog of data, U.K.-based
mobile-phone operator  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  said yesterday.  “We are taking this very seriously and have people around
the world working around the clock to address this situation,”
Bienfait wrote. “We believe we understand why this happened and
we are working to restore normal service levels in all markets
as quickly as we can.”  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, fell 2.2 percent to $23.88
at the close in  New York  yesterday. It has lost 59 percent this
year.  Data Backlog  RIM routes its traffic through two main centers, in
Waterloo for North America and in Slough, southern England, for
 Europe , the Middle East and Africa, said Nick Dillon, an analyst
at research firm Ovum in  London .  That network concentration “has always been a risk to the
service,” Dillon said. BlackBerry “is still the most robust e-
mail system.”  RIM said the delays were caused by a core switch failure
within its infrastructure. While the system is designed to
transfer to a backup switch, that didn’t happen, it said. The
result was a large backlog of data.  The company believes it has identified the root cause of
the problem, though it will do further tests to make sure, David Yach, RIM’s chief technology officer of software, said yesterday
on a conference call.  The problem is centered on its U.K. hub and service
disruptions in  North America  were primarily caused by the
backlog, not by technical faults there, Yach said.  Race Against Time  For RIM, facing investor demands for a shakeup in strategy
and calls for new leadership, the interruption comes at an
inopportune time. The company has to fix the problem quickly to
avoid sacrificing customer data as the backlog grows too great
and alienating clients, according to Malik Saadi, an analyst at
 Informa Telecoms & Media  in Guildford, England.  “They cannot afford to have the problem for one more day,
because the data backlog will just be massive,” Saadi said.
“It’s really a race against the clock.”  Yach said the company has no plans to erase data to cut
through the backlog.  Regions outside RIM’s traditional stronghold of North
America are accounting for an increasing share of its revenue
and new subscribers. As RIM’s U.S. revenue dropped 50 percent
last quarter to $1.11 billion, sales outside the U.S., U.K. and
 Canada  jumped 38 percent to $2.33 billion.  Users in  India , one of RIM’s growth markets, were among
those experiencing disruptions. BlackBerry users in  South Africa 
that use local carrier Vodacom Group Ltd. received a text
message yesterday telling them about a disruption in Blackberry
services.  Services were also disrupted in Brazil, Chile and Argentina
this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  