-- 
RIM May Face Claims as Operators Refund BlackBerry Customers

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-13T16:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rim-may-face-claims-as-operators-refund-blackberry-customers-on-disruption.html
Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) , after
restoring data service to its BlackBerry devices on the fourth
day of disruptions, may face compensation claims and reputation
damage as network operators refund users hurt by the failure.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s largest mobile-phone
operator, is reviewing all options, said Simon Gordon, a
spokesman.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  said its Spanish unit will compensate
subscribers according to the hours of service lost. Emirates
Telecommunications Corp., the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
operator known as Etisalat, said it will refund all BlackBerry
customers.  “We definitely understand that we have to look” at the
issue of compensation “as soon as we have the system back to
where we need it,” Patrick Spence, RIM’s head of global sales
and regional marketing, said on a conference call with reporters
today.  BlackBerry subscribers across most parts of the world lost
data services after a network failure in the U.K. this week
halted messaging and Web browsing. RIM Co-Chief Executive
Officer  Jim Balsillie  said today service has been fully restored
globally. Co-CEO Mike Lazaridis apologized, saying the company
has “let many people down.”  Spence said he understood that customers were frustrated
and that the Waterloo, Ontario-based company needed to look at
improving how it communicated the problem.  “We know we’ll have to work to do to build back that
credibility,” he said.  ‘High-Profile Outage’  The disruptions began in Europe, the  Middle East ,  Africa 
and  India  early in the week and spread later to North America,
RIM’s largest market. Spence said today that data backlogs may
still be occurring and cause potential e-mail delays.  “This has been such a high-profile outage and everyone
knows it’s not the operators’ fault but RIM’s fault,” said  Ben Wood , an analyst at CCS Insight in  London . “The big challenge
for the operators is that it’s cost them a lot in terms of
managing the problem.”  RIM fell 2.3 percent to $23.71 at 12:13 p.m. New York time.
It had lost 59 percent this year before today.  Reputation Hit  RIM, which has built a reputation as a maker of secure and
reliable e-mail devices, is struggling to stem declines in
market share to touch-screen phones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
that offer more consumer applications. The service disruptions
began in areas that RIM is counting on for sales growth as
revenue in North America drops.  Network operators including Vodafone have shifted the blame
onto RIM as they deal with a customer backlash. Vodafone said
yesterday its primary focus is to ensure RIM does all it can to
restore services to customers as quickly as possible.  “The network operators have been deluged with calls” and
they will be “most frustrated,” CCS’s Wood said today.  BCE Inc. spokesman Mark Langton declined to comment on
whether  Canada ’s largest phone company would compensate its
BlackBerry users or seek refunds from RIM. Patricia Trott, a
spokeswoman for Toronto-based wireless carrier Rogers
Communications Inc., didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  AT&T Inc., the largest U.S. phone company, had no comment
and directed questions about the disruptions to RIM, according
to spokesman Mark Siegel.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint
Nextel Corp., didn’t immediately have a comment about potential
compensation issues. Verizon Wireless representatives didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  In  Spain  and  South Africa , operators may be liable by law
to refund their customers.  Claims  Customers will be able to claim against the operator who
brings the service, said Chris Watson, a telecommunications
lawyer and partner at CMS Cameron McKenna in London.  “It will depend on what commitments the network operators
have to their subscribers,” Watson said. “In most cases RIM
dictates the terms and conditions.”  RIM routes its traffic through two main centers, in
Waterloo for North America and in Slough, southern  England , for
 Europe , the Middle East and Africa, said Nick Dillon, an analyst
at research firm Ovum in London.  RIM said the delays were caused by a core switch failure
within its infrastructure. While the system is designed to
transfer to a backup switch, that didn’t happen, it said. The
result was a large backlog of data.  Investor Demands  For RIM, facing investor demands for a shakeup in strategy
and calls for new leadership, the interruption comes at an
inopportune time. The company has to fix the problem quickly to
avoid sacrificing customer data as the backlog grows too great
and alienating clients, according to Malik Saadi, an analyst at
Informa Telecoms & Media in Guildford, England.  Regions outside RIM’s traditional stronghold of North
America account for an increasing share of its revenue and new
subscribers. As RIM’s U.S. revenue dropped 50 percent last
quarter to $1.11 billion, sales outside the U.S., U.K. and
Canada jumped 38 percent to $2.33 billion.  Users in India, one of RIM’s growth markets, were among
those experiencing disruptions. Services were also disrupted in
 Brazil , Chile and Argentina and South Africa this week.  “There is outrage on the BlackBerry outage,” said Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, chairman of  Biocon Ltd. (BIOS) , India’s biggest
biotechnology company. If the BlackBerry service continues to be
problematic, she said she may be forced to give up her device.
“This is terrible timing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  