-- 
Roche Quarterly Sales Miss Analyst Estimates as Franc Gains, Avastin Drops

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-10-13T15:44:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/roche-third-quarter-revenue-falls-to-10-1-billion-as-outlook-is-confirmed.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  reported third-
quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates, falling 15
percent as the Swiss franc gained and revenue of its top three
medicines declined.  Sales dropped to 9.82 billion francs ($11 billion), the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said in an e-mailed  statement 
today. That missed the 10.2 billion-franc average estimate of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Roche doesn’t release quarterly
earnings. Excluding currency swings, sales were little changed.  Roche shares fell the most in two months. Sales of cancer
therapies Avastin, Rituxan and Herceptin didn’t meet analysts’
expectations, taking into account currency effects, said Karl Heinz Koch, a Zurich-based analyst for Helvea SA. Roche got 99
percent of its revenue outside of  Switzerland  last year, with
about a third each from the U.S. and the European Union.  “The key drugs really underperformed,” Koch, who rates
Roche’s shares “neutral,” said by phone. “These are not very
encouraging numbers.”  The stock fell 4.5 percent to 140.90 francs in Zurich.  ‘Need for New Products’  Third-quarter sales of Avastin declined 24 percent to 1.22
billion francs while revenue from Herceptin dropped 12 percent
to 1.19 billion francs. Sales of Avastin were 3.9 percent short
of the average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Herceptin sales missed the average estimate by 5.6 percent.  Revenue from top-selling non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and
rheumatoid arthritis drug Rituxan, also known as MabThera,
missed expectations by 2.9 percent. Rituxan sales fell about 10
percent to 1.36 billion francs.  “The slow growth in sales at the moment does rather
highlight the need for new products,”  Michael Leacock , a
London-based analyst at RBS, said by phone. He has a “buy” on
the stock. “I think there will be some good clinical data over
the next six to nine months to encourage us that sales will
rise.”  Roche may introduce nine products with potential annual
sales of more than 1 billion francs each by 2016, according to a
presentation the company posted on its website today. They
include breast cancer medicine T-DM1, targeted for introduction
in 2013, which combines Herceptin and a cell-killing drug.
Dalcetrapib, a pill to raise so-called good cholesterol, is
listed for introduction in 2014.  ‘Miss Is Real’  The Swiss currency gained 25 percent against the dollar
from the end of last year’s third quarter through Sept. 5, the
day before the  Swiss National Bank  imposed a ceiling on the
 exchange rate . The franc gained about 20 percent against the
euro in the same period.  “Stripping out these large foreign exchange effects, it
still appears to us that the third-quarter miss is real,”  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.,
said in a report to investors today. He rates Roche’s shares
“market-perform.” Much of the miss may have come from weaker-
than-expected sales in  Japan , according to Scannell.  Avastin Peak  Roche said it still expects peak annual Avastin sales of 7
billion francs. A U.S. Food and Drug Administration panel ruled
in June that use of the drug in breast cancer should be stopped
because it didn’t work as well in follow-up studies and can
cause deadly bleeding.  Avastin is approved for lung, brain, kidney and colon
tumors and remains on the market for  breast cancer  in  Europe . It
will remain available for U.S. breast cancer patients, too,
until FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  makes a final ruling.  Roche repeated its forecasts for the year, saying earnings
per share excluding some items will rise about 10 percent in
local currencies, while sales increase in line with the market
at low “single-digit” rates. The company said it would at
least maintain last year’s dividend in francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  