-- 
Rolls Exits Engine Venture to Prepare for Next-Generation Jets

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-10-13T12:16:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/rolls-exits-engine-venture-to-prepare-for-next-generation-jets.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) ’s decision to
exit a venture making engines for the Airbus A320 aircraft lets
it cash in on a program that’s set to wind down in coming years
while positioning itself for the next-generation airliners.  Rolls-Royce, based in London, agreed to sell its 32.5
percent stake in International Aero Engines to  Pratt & Whitney 
for $1.5 billion, as well as payments for 15 years for each hour
flown by planes using the V2500 engine, the companies said late
yesterday. Rolls and Pratt also agreed to form a joint venture
for the next generation of single-aisle jets.  Airbus and Boeing have begun selling upgraded versions of
their single-aisle jets that use new engines, and Airbus has
picked up record orders for the so-called A320neo. Rolls-Royce
isn’t part of the new-engine push, opening a potential flank to
competitors including  General Electric Co. (GE)  on single-aisle jets,
the biggest segment of the civil aviation market.  “The absence of Rolls-Royce on the program created a
serious hole in Rolls-Royce’s civil aerospace aspirations and
opened up the prospect of three-way competition going forward,
so this seems a clever way of re-entering the narrow-body market
while also bolstering short-term cash and earnings per share,”
JPMorgan Cazenove analyst John Middleton said in a note today.  Rolls-Royce jumped as much as 58.5 pence, or 9.4 percent,
to 684.5 pence, the most in more than two years. The stock has
gained 7.6 percent so far this year, valuing the world’s second-
largest engine maker behind GE at about 12.54 billion pounds
($19.68 billion).  Growing Market  Formed in 1983, IAE makes the V2500 line of engines for the
Airbus A320 narrow-body jet family. Airbus said at the end of
last year that it was offering Pratt & Whitney’s new PurePower
geared turbofan as an option on its upgraded A320neo after
Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney reached an impasse on marketing
the engine via IAE.  Rolls-Royce is forming the partnership with Pratt &
Whitney, owned by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , to target the
rapidly growing market for mid-sized plane engines, which seat
120 to 230 people. All-new single-aisle jets by the two
manufacturers are unlikely to emerge for at least another
decade, as they focus on the upgraded variants of their best-
selling models.  ‘Some Clarity’  “This new joint venture provides some clarity on how
Rolls-Royce will address the new single aisle aircraft - when it
finally emerges,” said  Sandy Morris , an analyst at Royal Bank
of  Scotland  in London. He has a “buy” rating on the stock.  The market for single-aisle engines has so far been shared
by the IAE partners -- which also include  MTU Aero Engines
Holding AG (MTX)  of  Germany  -- and CFM International Inc., a venture
between GE and  Safran SA (SAF)  of  France . CFM makes the only engine
that powers the Boeing 737, the world’s most widely flown jet.
CFM is offering a new engine for both upgraded variants, while
Pratt is an alternative on the A320neo, but not on the 737 MAX.  The new joint venture between Rolls-Royce and Pratt will
focus on high bypass geared turbofan technology, while also
collaborating on future studies for next generation propulsion
systems, including advanced geared engines, open rotor
technology and other advanced configuration, Rolls-Royce said.  “This announcement should help ease market concern over
Rolls’ non-participation on the A320neo and clarify its long-
term intentions in this end of the market,” Rupinder Vig, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a note.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  