-- 
S&P Erred in U.S. Downgrade, Chairman of Canadian Competitor DBRS Says

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-10-13T16:53:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/s-p-erred-in-u-s-downgrade-chairman-of-canada-rival-dbrs-says.html
Standard & Poor’s  erred in stripping
the U.S. of its AAA credit rating for political reasons because
of the federal government’s ability to raise taxes, according to
the chairman and founder of Canadian rival DBRS Ltd.  “The cut to the U.S. rating was wrong,” Walter Schroeder,
who founded Toronto-based DBRS in 1976, said at a presentation
to investors in Montreal yesterday. “U.S. agencies have gotten
political. They are playing with fire. The U.S. has the best
taxation capacity of any country. Canada is heavily taxed, and
the U.S. is not.”  Instead of eroding the value of U.S. government debt, the
Aug. 5 rating cut sparked financial market turmoil that made
Treasuries and the dollar the world’s best-performing asset
classes in the third quarter. Investors turned to the dollar and
 U.S. government debt  as a refuge from slowing growth and
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  In downgrading the U.S. to AA+, S&P said the U.S.
government has become “less stable, less effective and less
predictable” as lawmakers failed to meet targets for reducing
the  budget deficit . New York-based S&P downgraded the U.S. even
after Treasury Department officials told the firm it had
overestimated future national debt by $2 trillion. The company
said the error didn’t affect its decision.  Value-Added Taxes  The U.S. can erase most of its deficit by introducing a
single value-added tax, Schroeder said. While value-added taxes
across Western Europe typically exceed 10 percent, reaching 19
percent in  Germany , U.S. consumers generally only pay about 4
percent to 5 percent in sales taxes, depending on their state of
residence, he said. In Ontario,  Canada ’s most populous province,
value-added taxes amount to 13 percent.  DBRS rates the U.S. AAA, its highest ranking, and has no
intention of following S&P’s lead, Schroeder said. DBRS assigned
the AAA rating on Sept. 8, while also citing the benefit of the
dollar’s status as the world’s largest reserve currency.  “I don’t think that in our case there is any rating cut
imminent that we intend to make,” Schroeder said. “You have to
rate through a cycle. You don’t react to headline news.”  The dollar’s 5.9 percent increase in the third quarter was
topped only by Treasuries, which rallied 6.4 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Sovereign debt in the
rest of the world returned 3.15 percent, and AAA rated U.S.
corporate bonds gained 6.4 percent. The MSCI Index of stocks
fell 18 percent and S&P’s commodity index slumped 12 percent,
the biggest quarterly decline since the three months ended in
December 2008.  Eliminating the Deficit  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
top ratings for the U.S. after lawmakers agreed in August to
lift a restriction on borrowing. Canada has the highest ratings
from all four of the credit rating companies.  Introducing a 10 percent value-added tax in the U.S. could
generate annual revenue for the federal government of about $840
billion, Schroeder said. The deficit totaled $1.23 trillion as
of Aug. 31, according to Treasury Department data.  “With that one tax, they can eliminate about 70 percent of
the deficit,” Schroeder said.  Any such value added tax probably wouldn’t be implemented
until after the 2012 election, Schroeder said.  “They can’t do anything right now in the  United States ,”
Schroeder said. “They are totally bogged down in politics. They
don’t support each other. The U.S. has tremendous taxation
capacity once they get their act together, which probably means
after the next election. That’s going to be positive.”  Cutting the U.S. also creates a “terrific problem” in
that it may force S&P to lower credit ratings on U.S. companies
that wouldn’t otherwise deserve a downgrade, Schroeder said.  “If you move your base, you knock out all of your relative
ratings and all of a sudden, every rating you have seems out of
whack,” Schroeder said. “You create immense problems when you
start fooling around with a key rating like the United States.
And it’s safe to say we’re not going to do this.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  