-- 
Sarasin Climbs in Zurich After Reporting Talks on Rabobank Reducing Stake

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-10-13T16:09:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/sarasin-climbs-in-zurich-after-reporting-talks-on-rabobank-reducing-stake.html
Bank Sarasin & Cie. AG rose the most
in 21 years in Zurich trading after a newspaper reported that
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  has made a bid for the 170-year-old Swiss
wealth manager controlled by Rabobank Groep NV.  “Several potentially interested parties” are in talks
about buying Rabobank’s stake, Basel, Switzerland-based Sarasin
said today in a statement. Rabobank, the Utrecht, Netherlands-
based lender with 68.6 percent of Sarasin’s voting rights and a
46.1 percent equity stake, declined to comment.  While Sarasin would be a “good strategic fit,” according
to Baer, the Zurich-based bank declined to comment on a report
in  Handelszeitung  that it has made an offer. Baer Chief
Executive Officer Boris Collardi said in July that a takeover in
Switzerland could lead to “cost synergies.”  Sarasin surged as much as 20 percent and closed 15 percent
higher at 32.85 francs, valuing the company at 2.04 billion
francs ($2.27 billion). That trimmed the stock’s decline to 23
percent this year.  Baer,  Switzerland ’s fifth-biggest wealth manager, is
seeking acquisitions to compete with larger rivals such as UBS
AG as a crackdown on  tax evasion  forces clients to reassess the
benefits of offshore accounts. Sarasin had 101.6 billion francs
of assets under management at the end of June compared with
Baer’s 165.6 billion francs.  “It would make sense for  Julius Baer  to buy Sarasin,”
said  Peter Thorne , an analyst at Geneva-based Helvea SA. “Swiss
private banks have lots of domestic problems including the
strong franc and they don’t have the Swiss secrecy angle to sell
as they have had in the past.”  Shared Culture  “It would be a good strategic fit as the business models
are similar,” Baer spokesman Jan Bielinski said yesterday.
Sarasin’s family-owned heritage also compliments Baer’s origins,
according to Bielinski. In 1900, Alfred Sarasin-Iselin acquired
the bank founded in 1841 by Johannes Riggenbach-Huber. Eric Sarasin is head of the private banking division today.  Bielinski declined to comment further today.  The Swiss Raiffeisen group also plans to bid for Sarasin,
Tages-Anzeiger reported today, without saying where it obtained
the information.  “Raiffeisen is examining as part of its growth strategy
possibilities for acquisitions and partnerships in the Swiss
market,” said Jens Wiesenhuetter, a spokesman for the  St.
Gallen , Switzerland-based bank. He declined to comment on
whether Raiffeisen might bid for Sarasin.  ‘Options Open’  We have “learned that discussions are apparently under way
with several potentially interested parties concerning a
reduction of Rabobank’s holding in Sarasin,” according to the
statement from Sarasin. “At present Rabobank is retaining its
majority shareholding and is keeping all its options open.”  Sarasin spokeswoman Franziska Gumpfer-Keller declined to
comment further.  Rabobank appointed  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  at the start of the
year to sell its stake, the Zurich-based  Handelszeitung 
newspaper reported, citing an unidentified Zurich-based
investment banker.  Sarasin CEO Joachim Straehle said in July that he favored a
 management buyout  after first-half profit increased 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  