-- 
Scene Last Night: Mack, Weill, Charlotte Ford, Kelli O’Hara

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-13T15:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/scene-last-night-mack-weill-charlotte-ford-and-kelli-o-hara.html
Last night the annual fundraiser for
the New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center
transformed the Park Avenue Armory into a cabaret.  From the ceiling hung custom-designed three-tiered
chandeliers. For the striped curtains, 10 people with rollers
had painted material laid out on the floor of a New Jersey
warehouse.  The amount raised was a record $3.4 million, including nine
gifts of $100,000 each, said gala co-chairman and New York-
Presbyterian Hospital trustee, Charlotte Ford.  The honorees were Dr. Herbert Pardes, who recently retired
as president and chief executive of New York-Presbyterian
Hospital and is now executive vice chairman of the hospital’s
board of trustees; and Dr. Antonio Gotto, who is soon retiring
from his post as dean of Weill Cornell Medical College. Students
at the college train at the hospital.  John Mack , chairman of Morgan Stanley and of New York-
Presbyterian, recalled how he joined the board. He’d said no a
couple of times, when a Morgan Stanley colleague put it to him
this way: “How would you feel if one of your employees really
needed health care?”  “I said, ‘You’re right.’ I joined the board in 1983,”
Mack said.  Since then Mack has forged a companywide philanthropic
relationship with the hospital. “We got our employees to raise
the money to build a new children’s hospital,” Mack said.
“I’ll give you a tour.”  Wild Mushrooms  It was time for dinner. Not surprisingly, the menu for the
1,000 guests, many digestive specialists among them, was health-
conscious: wild mushroom soup and herb-roasted chicken with
kale, catered by Danny Meyer’s  Union Square Hospitality Group .  It was the kind of meal  Sandy Weill , former chairman of
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and chairman of Weill Cornell Medical College,
could appreciate: He was wearing his smaller tuxedo and it was a
“little tight,” he said.  Teresa Teague, a partner at Goldman Sachs, wore a navy lace
dress by The Row, purchased from the website Net-a-Porter.  “It got here this afternoon,” the unabashed last-minute
shopper said before taking her seat at the Gotto table (honoree
Gotto is her father).  Kelli O’Hara, the Broadway star known for her turn in
“South Pacific,” walked on stage in a shimmering black gown,
singing  Stephen Sondheim ’s “What More Do I Need?”  “It’s about the joys of living in  New York ,” O’Hara said.  ‘Wonderful Guy’  The blonde soprano stirred the crowd’s romantic impulses
with “A Wonderful Guy” from “South Pacific” and Irving Berlin’s “Always,” a song that was sung at her grandparents’
wedding, she said.  Then came “The Sun Went Out,” from her first solo CD,
“Wonder in the World.”  “It’s by my favorite songwriter, my husband, Greg
Naughton,” she said. “He writes around the subject of being in
love.”  Banter, a staple of cabaret around town, was minimal.  “I perform at a lot of charity events and this one may
mean the most to me,” O’Hara said. “When my mother was sick, I
brought her here from  Oklahoma . She got a second chance at New
York-Presbyterian.”  O’Hara sent off guests with “I Could Have Danced All
Night” from “My Fair Lady.”  “We’ll dance all the way home,” said Anita Gotto, the
dean’s wife.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 