-- 
SEC Faults Direct Edge For Weak Controls That Caused Losses

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/sec-faults-direct-edge-for-weak-controls-that-caused-losses.html
Direct Edge Holdings LLC and two
electronic exchanges it operates were faulted by U.S. regulators
for having weak controls that led to about $2.8 million in
trading losses and a systems outage.  In November 2010, an untested change to a computer code
caused the EDGA and EDGX exchanges to execute more orders from
three members than what they wanted, totaling about $773 million
in unwanted trades, the Securities and Exchange Commission said
in an administrative order yesterday.  While Direct Edge and the exchanges returned $2.1 million
in customer losses, they were faulted for having done so in
violation of rules prohibiting exchanges from trading their own
capital. The firms, which didn’t pay any fines, agreed to
implement new risk-management policies and train employees about
securities laws.  In a second instance in April, a mistake from an
administrator who the SEC said was granted inappropriate access
to the system shut down connections to an EDGX database. That
stopped its ability to process orders and forced other trading
centers to declare they were bypassing the exchange through a
“self-help” rule. That remedy, used repeatedly during the May
6, 2010, market plunge that wiped away $862 billion in equity
value within 20 minutes, lets trading centers bypass quotations
from an exchange that isn’t immediately responding to orders.  “Direct Edge was required to police not only its members’
conduct, but its own conduct as well,” SEC Enforcement Director
 Robert Khuzami  said in a statement. “Despite those
responsibilities, it violated the principal obligations of self-
regulatory organizations and national securities exchanges to
put the public interest first by ensuring the strength and
security of their systems.”  Customer Losses  The exchange reimbursed about $668,000 in customer losses
resulting from the second instance.  In settling the matter, Direct Edge and the exchanges
didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  “Several months ago, we developed a comprehensive plan to
ensure the fulfillment of our obligations in a sustainable,
repeatable and demonstrable way,” Direct Edge said in a
statement. “We have vigorously executed this plan, with
significant investments made to enhance our technology,
personnel and processes.”  Alison Crosthwait, managing director for global market
structure research at New York-based Instinet Inc., said the
current fast-paced trading environment requires exchanges to
have stronger controls.  Hewlett-Packard  “If I were Direct Edge, I’d be concerned about the SEC
sanctioning me but I’d be more concerned I was able to execute
that many overfilled trades,” she said in a phone interview.  Direct Edge drew attention last year when it miscategorized
trades of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , causing the firm’s Aug. 6, 2010,
closing price to be misreported. The error made it appear that
the shares tumbled prior to the announced resignation of its
chief executive officer,  Mark Hurd . On some late transactions,
Direct Edge failed to assign the “Form T” code that shows they
happened after hours, automatically shifting the market-wide
closing price to $41.85 instead of its end-of-day value of
$46.30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Left unchecked, dark pools and other alternative trading
platforms could pose inherent dangers to the stability of the
markets,” U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Regulators need to
step up their policing of trading platforms like Direct Edge
that seek to cut regulatory corners at every possible turn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  