-- 
Security Will Suffer Unless Pentagon Health Care Gets Cuts: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-13T00:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/security-will-suffer-unless-pentagon-health-care-gets-cuts-view.html
An editorial on Monday identified
 specific weapons programs  that could be targeted for cuts as the
Pentagon faces growing pressure to help curb the federal
deficit. There is, however, a huge area of potential Defense
Department savings that doesn’t involve equipment and war-
fighting capabilities: bringing under control the galloping --
and unsustainable -- cost of providing well-deserved benefits to
those who serve our country.  The main issue here is Tricare, the health-insurance
program for active-duty, reserve and National Guard troops and
retirees, as well as their dependents. This year, the Pentagon
plans to spend  $52 billion  on the program, or almost 8 percent
of its $700 billion budget. That’s a 300 percent increase from
2001. If left unchecked, health costs will occupy an ever-
greater share of military spending as overall budgets are cut,
leaving less money to apportion to war-fighting and other
national-security priorities.  There are plenty of good ideas for controlling, and even
reducing, these costs. Of the 9.6 million people Tricare
currently covers, fewer than 16 percent are on active duty. The
program has never been adjusted for inflation or to reflect
rising health-care costs. As a result, retirees pay about $460 a
year for family coverage under Tricare Prime, a managed-care
plan with minimal or no annual deductibles and co-payments.
Compare that with the $3,997 average out-of-pocket cost for
employer-provided family-health insurance.  Higher Fees  This year, the Obama administration decided to raise
 Tricare fees  by $5 a month for families and $2.50 for
individuals. That would trim just $434 million from the cost of
the program from 2012 to 2016, the Pentagon estimates. But
Congress blocked a proposal to keep future premiums at a pace
with rising medical costs, as part of a plan that would net $8
billion in savings over five years.  More could be done. Lawrence J. Korb, a former assistant
secretary of defense and now a senior fellow at the Center for
American Progress, has offered a  credible plan  that could save
$15 billion a year without depriving troops, their families and
retirees of the care they have earned through their sacrifice.  His proposal calls for a gradual increase in the enrollment
fees paid by working-age military retirees, based on retirement
pay; increasing out-of-pocket expenses for those covered by the
Tricare for Life program, used by Medicare-eligible recipients,
and limiting the cost-sharing with Medicare; and reducing
Tricare coverage for those who exceed a certain income limit or
have access to insurance through a spouse or an employer.  Premium Disparity  From 2001 until last year, 22 percent of military retirees
dropped their private health insurance to switch back to
Tricare, mainly because of the increasing disparity in premiums
and out-of-pocket expenses, though some may have lost their
private coverage because of the recession. This trend added
689,000 retirees and family members under age 65 to Tricare’s
rolls.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has warned that the
trillion-dollar cuts that would kick in if the congressional
supercommittee created by President Barack Obama deadlocks would
“do serious damage to our ability to be able to make the kind
of changes in our defense structure that are responsible and
that do protect this country for the future.”  He is right. That’s why he needs to take control of the
military’s budget-cutting process, in a way that strengthens our
fiscal health while protecting the well-being of those who
served.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 