-- 
Shrinking Canada Deficit Won’t Change Need to Cut, Clement Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-10-13T19:06:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/shrinking-canada-deficit-won-t-change-need-to-cut-clement-says.html
Canada will push ahead with its plan
to cut spending by at least C$4 billion ($3.9 billion) annually
and look for ways to “transform” public services even though
the government’s deficit-reduction efforts are running ahead of
schedule, Treasury Board President  Tony Clement  said.  The Finance department reported yesterday Canada’s budget
deficit was $C33.4 billion in the year ended March 31, C$2.8
billion below the forecast in the fiscal plan released in June.
The lower-than-expected deficit won’t change the government’s
commitment to look for savings in about C$80 billion in program
spending, said Clement, who is leading the review.  “The motive behind all of this is we want an economy that
creates jobs,” he said in an interview today at Bloomberg
headquarters in  New York . Without spending restraint, “you
start to bleed away the things that will assist in job growth,
whether it’s because we have to hike taxes down the line, which
we don’t want to do, or whether it’s simply because you drain
money from markets to pay for servicing the debt.”  Canada  has urged other Group of 20 countries to honor
spending-reduction commitments. In an  editorial  published today,
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  called on  Europe  to take
“decisive action” to resolve its sovereign debt and banking
troubles, and encouraged G-20 nations to stick to pledges made
last year to reduce budget deficits.  Clement, 50, said the Canadian government is working with
the U.K. and other allies to remind the G-20 of the threat to
growth posed by rising sovereign debt.  Eliminate Deficit  Canada has promised to eliminate its deficit by the fiscal
year beginning April 2014. To reach that goal, the Conservative
government has put Clement in charge of reviewing spending, and
senior bureaucrats have been asked to come up with scenarios for
cutting five to 10 percent from their department budgets.  Canadian voters endorsed the government’s plan to restrain
spending in the May 2 election, when they gave them a  majority 
of seats in the House of Commons after five years of minority
government, he said.  “I personally believed that was one of the biggest
promises we made during the election campaign, the most
important promise, to concentrate on finding savings within the
federal budget,” said Clement, adding that the results of the
review will be revealed during next year’s budget.  Clement said last week the government will link the
performance pay of over 8,600 public-service executives to the
success of the spending review. Senior bureaucrats are being
instructed to assess whether programs are necessary and whether
they can be delivered more efficiently, he said today.  ‘Kick-Starting’ Transformation  “This isn’t just about finding savings, it’s about really
kick-starting the transformation in the public service on how we
deliver services,” the minister said.  While job cuts may be a “necessary consequence” of the
exercise, the government will try to shrink the bureaucracy
through attrition, and it will honor existing collective
agreements with public-sector unions.  “When the collective agreements expire, obviously we’ll
have some ideas on how to make things better and so forth, but
that process is not part of this process,” Clement said.  The Public Service Alliance of Canada, the nation’s biggest
public-sector union, has started a  campaign  to unseat the
Conservatives in the next election.  Clement said union leaders who are explicit supporters of
the  New Democratic Party , the biggest opposition party, are out
of touch with the views of rank-and-file public servants and the
general public.  “I draw the distinction between some of the union
leadership and some of the rank and file,” he said. “We
couldn’t win power without the support of unionized employees
across the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in New York at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 