-- 
Shuaa Plans to Expand Asset Management, Advisory Businesses

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-10-13T12:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/shuaa-plans-to-expand-asset-management-advisory-businesses-1-.html
Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , the investment
bank controlled by Dubai’s ruler, plans to expand its asset
management and advisory business across Abu Dhabi,  Saudi Arabia 
and  Kuwait , its new chief executive officer said.  “Shuaa has been a bit unfocused over the last five years,
part of it is the financial crisis and partly because they got
into a lot of different businesses that they are not necessarily
good at,” Michael Philipp said in a phone interview today. The
company will focus on high net-worth family businesses and small
to medium size companies as well as institutional clients, he
said.  The United Arab Emirates’ largest investment bank has
reshuffled staff and cut jobs over the past year, seeking to
lower costs after being hit by the global economic slowdown. The
bank’s head of brokerage and research Walid Shihabi left the
company last week. Philipp, a former board member at  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , was appointed the CEO last week, replacing
Sameer Al Ansari.  "If you are in the financial services today anywhere in the
world and you’re thinking there won’t be redundancies you’re
probably a bit naive," Philipp said. "Until the strategy review
is complete nobody should be expecting anything."  Shuaa reported a profit of 600,000 dirhams ($163,000) in
the second quarter after two consecutive quarterly losses amid
political turmoil in the  Middle East . The company said on Sept.
14 it appointed advisers to conduct due diligence on potential
acquisitions and narrowed down its targets to “a few” with a
plan to close one or more deals before the end of the year.  Shuaa will refocus its business rather than undergo a
“radical restructuring,” Philipp said. The company’s brokerage
business will be focused on high networth and institutional
clients, he said, adding that in November his team will make
recommendations to the board outlining the new strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  