-- 
Siga Bid for Ruling Re-Argument Should Be Denied, Rival Says

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-10-13T19:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/siga-bid-for-ruling-re-argument-should-be-denied-rival-claims.html
Siga Technologies Inc. (SIGA)  should be
denied its bid to force a  Delaware  judge to reconsider his award
of 50 percent of the profit from a smallpox drug to PharmAthene
Inc., the rival said in court papers.  On Sept. 22, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons
ruled that Siga should share possible proceeds of more than
$400 million. Siga lawyers last week asked Parsons to let them
re-argue their position.  Such motions aren’t mechanisms “to relitigate” issues
already decided, unless based “on a misunderstanding” by the
judge, PharmAthene lawyer  Christopher Selzer  wrote in a brief
yesterday opposing Siga’s motion.  In addition, since Siga doesn’t challenge the court’s
finding that it “acted in bad faith,” a reversal “would not
prevent an injustice, but in fact would work an injustice,
Selzer contended.  Siga has alleged in a court filing that Parsons
“misapprehended both the law and the facts” in awarding a
share of ST-246’s profit to Annapolis-based PharmAthene.  Parsons said New York-based Siga breached its obligation to
negotiate in good faith on the antiviral drug designed for use
in case of a biological attack.  Potential Profits  PharmAthene sued Siga in 2006 claiming the biotechnology
firm lost more than $1 billion in potential profits when its
rival reneged on a licensing agreement for the smallpox drug.  Siga won a $433 million contract to provide ST-246 to the
 U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services, the company said
in May.  Siga lawyers argued at trial that licensing talks were
never completed and documents outlining proposed terms were
marked as “non-binding.” A PharmAthene official said in court
that the heading was left on the documents by mistake.  Siga fell 3 cents to $3.32 at 3:05 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market Trading. PharmAthene fell 1 cent to $1.55 in
NYSE Amex trading.  The case is  PharmAthene Inc. (PIP)  v. Siga Technologies Inc.,
CA2627, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 