-- 
Slovakia Ratifies Euro Bailout Fund, Completes Regional Approval Process

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-10-13T15:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/slovakia-ratifies-euro-bailout-fund-completes-regional-approval-process.html
Slovakia approved  Europe ’s enhanced
bailout fund, completing ratification across the 17 euro
countries as the region’s leaders prepare for a summit.  Lawmakers voted 114 to 30 with three abstentions to support
the European Financial Stability Facility in the second attempt
this week after parliament failed to approve the measures on
Oct. 11.  Enhancing the powers of the EFSF, the temporary bailout
fund, is crucial for adopting the key element in the strategy to
prevent contagion from the debt crisis that has spread from
 Greece  to other countries. European Commission President Jose Barroso yesterday called for a reinforcement of crisis-hit
banks, the payout of a sixth loan to Greece and a faster start
for a permanent rescue fund to ease debt woes.  “It’s totally significant,”  Michael Ganske , head of
emerging-markets research at Commerzbank in  London  said by
phone. “This pointed out the risks to the measures. It’s not
one decision maker, it’s 17, and a small country like
Slovakia can create trouble.”  The expanded powers of the 440 billion-euro ($600 billion)
EFSF would allow the fund to buy the debt of stressed euro-area
nations, aid troubled banks in the region and offer credit lines
to governments. The EFSF’s current role is to sell bonds to
finance rescue loans.  ‘Political Uncertainties’  Opposition leader Robert Fico’s Smer party didn’t back the
measure on Oct. 11 because the vote was tied to a no-confidence
motion against Radicova’s Cabinet, which fell when the bailout’s
overhaul was rejected.  “The price was high, but I am glad that Slovakia at the
end delivered on its commitments and we don’t block this tool
for the  euro zone  to stem the crisis,” said Finance Minister
Ivan Mikos after the vote.  German and French leaders at a meeting on Oct. 9 pledged to
devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help Greece and strengthen
Europe’s economic governance. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
after meeting French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , said Europe will
do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks have enough
capital.  “The second vote in Slovakia will pave the way for the
EFSF, however, that does not constitute a solution,”  Lutz
Karpowitz , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in
an e-mailed note today. “The EFSF would still be too small to
support countries like Italy or Spain should the necessity
arise. The recent recovery of the euro seems to have gone rather
far considering the news flow.”  The Slovak vote and Barroso’s plan “might have raised
hopes that euro area politicians might step up to the plate at
their summit in 10 days’ time,” Emily Nicol, a London-based
analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets, wrote in an e-mailed note.
“But on closer inspection Barroso’s proposals were flimsy, if
not quite a case of the Emperor’s new clothes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  