-- 
Smashed Jeep, Skull Recall Wartime Horror in German Army Museum

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-10-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/smashed-jeep-skull-revive-wartime-horrors-in-libeskind-s-dresden-museum.html
One look at Daniel Libeskind’s
latest project in Dresden is enough to jolt you into realizing
that this is no ordinary museum.  Libeskind, the U.S. architect best known for the Jewish
Museum in Berlin and  New York ’s One World Trade Center, plunged
a wedge of steel, glass and concrete clean through the facade of
the German  Military History Museum . Before his intervention, the
building, which has exhibited military equipment since 1879, was
severe, even charmless in its conventionalism.  No more. The sharp tip of Libeskind’s v-shaped arrow
protrudes above the roof, a shocking attack on the symmetry of
the historic building. The bold concept is echoed in the display
inside, where exhibits include a gun made out of a waffle, a
broken skull, a doll’s house and a wrecked jeep.  The museum, owned and managed by  Germany ’s armed forces,
throws up a challenge to traditional portrayals of military
history. Battle heroes, patriotism and ideology are absent; even
gadget fetishism is restrained.  The contradictions of the design are echoed in the duality
of the displays: Parallel biographies throughout remind us that
war entails both victims and perpetrators and that suffering is
integral to conflict.  The  Bundeswehr , the collective name for the armed services,
has recognized that German history and the population’s
overwhelmingly pacifist stance force a broad, distanced
perspective on the military.  Five Regimes  The Dresden museum has, after all, served the armies of
five different regimes -- including the Nazis -- and was, until
1990, the ideological home of the National People’s Army under
East Germany’s communist dictatorship.  Given the turbulence of the past, the German people would
probably vote against a museum for military history, according
to Gorch Pieken, chief historian on the project. So it was up to
the Bundeswehr and its advisers to come up with good arguments
for spending 62 million euros ($85 million) -- and this they
have achieved with the startling new design.  The wings of the old museum take a chronological approach
to German military history from 1300 to the present day,
covering conflicts from the 1525 German Peasants’ Revolt to the
breakup of the former  Yugoslavia . A whole floor of one wing is
devoted to World War I and II.  Libeskind’s arrow forms the core of the building. With its
slanting walls and vertical shafts offering unexpected glimpses
of exhibits from surprising angles, it is used to address the
universal aspects of war. The exhibitions here take as their
starting point the violence inherent in mankind. The military is
the political, institutional expression of that brutality.  Waffle Gun  Exhibits include a gun fashioned out of a waffle by a boy
whose parents have never allowed him to have toy weapons. A
section on the suffering of war shows the blown-out skull of a
World War II soldier who committed suicide and desperate letters
pleading for news addressed to sons at the front.  A V-2 rocket, the weapon  Adolf Hitler  hoped in vain would
turn Germany’s fortunes toward the end of World War II, is
exhibited together with a dollhouse -- complete with doll-sized
gas masks -- that belonged to a little girl in  London  during the
Nazi bombing. A hail of World War II missiles, suspended as
though in mid-flight, point down through one of Libeskind’s
vertical shafts, targeting one-man bunkers below.  A viewing platform at the top of the new building offers a
stunning view of the Dresden skyline, one of the most
spectacularly scarred victims of World War II. In a display up
here, we are reminded that the bombing saved the life of Henny
Brenner who was due to be deported because of her Jewish mother
days after the devastation began.  Afghan Explosion  More recent exhibits include a German army jeep damaged in
an explosion in Kunduz,  Afghanistan . Three army personnel were
injured in the attack, raising public doubts about the need for
Germany’s engagement in Afghanistan.  An interesting comment on modern conflict comes toward the
end of the show. The curators asked Frankfurt airport security
staff to give them everything they had confiscated from
passengers in just one day.  The huge pile of pen-knives, bottle-openers, nail files,
scissors -- even a spray to repel vicious dogs -- reminds us
that some of the most lethal weapons of our time are
extraordinarily primitive.  The German Military History Museum reopens tomorrow.
Admission is free through the end of the year. For more
information, go to  http://www.mhmbw.de/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 