-- 
Sotheby’s Faces Protest as Freud, Burri Top $63 Million Auction

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-10-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/sotheby-s-faces-labor-protest-as-freud-burri-works-top-63-million-sale.html
Lucian Freud  and Alberto Burri
paintings sold for $5 million each in  London  last night at a
Sotheby’s auction overshadowed by concern about market weakness
and a protest by U.S. art handlers over a labor dispute.  Bidders had to pass a group of 20 chanting and whistling
demonstrators, including three who had flown from New York and
promised more action. While the contemporary and 20th-century
Italian sale set six artist records and raised 40 million pounds
($63 million), the top presale estimate at hammer prices was
48.3 million pounds. Some paintings went unsold, such as Peter
Doig’s “Bellevarde,” valued at as much as 2 million pounds.  “That would have sold a year ago,” the London-based dealer
 Edmondo di Robilant  said. “The mood has changed. Auction houses
entice things with high estimates and in the past they’ve been
able to sell them. That wasn’t always the case tonight. A number
of lots that sold were knocked down against lowered reserves.”  Dealers said economic worries were weighing on some buyers.
Even headline-grabbing pieces such as Marc Quinn’s 18-carat gold
sculpture of  Kate Moss  in a yoga pose attracted just one bid.
The 2008 “Microcosmos (SIREN)” was knocked down to a bidder
represented by  Patti Wong  of Sotheby’s  Asia  for 577,250 pounds.  There was also just one telephone bid for the 1952 close-up
portrait “Boy’s Head” by Freud, who died in July, aged 88. It
was valued at 3 million pounds and fetched 3.2 million pounds.  With buyers spoiled for choice by the $500 million of art
on sale in the U.K. this week, 23 percent of the contemporary
lots went unsold. The preceding Italian component was more
enthusiastically received.  Fontana, Manzoni  Names such as  Lucio Fontana , Piero Manzoni and Alighiero
Boetti have been reliable performers at auction in recent years,
attracting a growing pool of international buyers.  Sotheby’s (BID) 
high-estimate total of 21.7 million pounds from 58 lots was a
record for its 20th-century Italian department, and 79 percent
found buyers.  The sale included 36 works from a private collection in the
north of  Italy , including Burri’s 1957 scorched and holed canvas
“Cobustione legno.” The 3.2 million-pound price, a record for
the artist, came from a non-Italian bidder, said Sotheby’s.  Earlier in the day, Bonhams’s revamped contemporary art
department held its first “Frieze Week” contemporary sale,
raising 2 million pounds against a low estimate of 3.3 million
pounds. Six out of the 20 lots failed, including “Anno 1984,” a
Boetti collage of 192 drawings of magazine covers that the
auction house part-owned. No bidders were prepared to pay the
low estimate of 1.2 million pounds.  “The work was so unique,” Anthony McNerney, Bonhams’s head
of contemporary art said after the auction. “The Boetti market
is still developing. Caution is the watchword at the moment. The
financial situation is a worry.”  New York  collector Adam Lindemann, who was bidding in the
room, paid 601,250 pounds for Glenn Brown’s 2000 thickly painted
head “Little Death.” The panel had been valued at 700,000 pounds
to 900,000 pounds and the seller had been guaranteed a minimum
price, said Bonhams.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 