-- 
Congress Approves Biggest U.S. Trade Agreement Since 1994

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-10-13T20:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/south-korea-colombia-panama-trade-pacts-reached-under-bush-pass-congress.html
The  U.S. Congress  cleared free-trade
agreements with South Korea,  Colombia  and Panama, bringing an
end to years of stalemate and offering what supporters said was
the biggest opportunity for exporters in decades.  The bills go to President  Barack Obama , who spent two years
seeking to broaden Democratic support for pacts revised from
initial agreements reached by his predecessor. The South Korea
deal, the biggest for the U.S. since the  North American Free
Trade Agreement  in 1994, removes duties on almost two-thirds of
American farm exports, and phases out tariffs on more than 95
percent of industrial and consumer exports within five years.  Yesterday’s step may diminish concern that the U.S. will
turn to protectionism amid unemployment that exceeds 9 percent
and an Oct. 11 Senate vote designed to punish  China  for an
undervalued yuan. The approval may also give impetus to Obama’s
trans-Pacific trade initiative, which Japan, the world’s third-
largest economy, is considering joining.  “This is a welcome development showing policy makers can
be farsighted and come to an agreement that is positive for all
parties involved in the long run in terms of GDP growth,” said
 Robert Subbaraman , Hong Kong-based chief economist for  Asia 
excluding Japan at Nomura Holdings Inc. “There’s been a lot of
market disappointment in policymaking this year.”  Asia Stock Rise  Stocks in Asia rose for a sixth straight day, the longest
winning streak in six weeks. South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
jumped 0.8 percent, extending its gain in the past week to 9.4
percent. The nation’s won climbed to a three-week high against
the  U.S. dollar , rising 0.9 percent, the second-steepest advance
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The South Korea deal would boost American exports by as
much as $10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full
effect, according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.
The accord with Colombia would increase exports as much as $1.1
billion a year. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said the accords
will prevent the loss of 380,000 jobs.  Companies such as Ace Ltd.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Pfizer Inc.
have led the effort to get the South Korea deal passed, while
Caterpillar Inc., General Electric Co. and Whirlpool Corp. were
among the biggest backers of the accord with Colombia.  Aid Stalemate  Obama submitted the legislation after House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said he would consider worker
assistance along with the trade deals. First reached under
President  George W. Bush  more than four years ago, the measures
overcame a stalemate with Republicans on aid for workers who
lose their jobs to foreign competition.  “I’ve fought to make sure that these trade agreements”
with three nations “deliver the best possible deal for our
country,” Obama said in an e-mailed statement. “American
automakers, farmers, ranchers and manufacturers, including many
small businesses, will be able to compete and win in new
markets.”  The vote is a win for Obama after the Senate on Oct. 11
declined to proceed with his $447 billion plan to increase
employment. A government report last week showed the nation’s
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent in September.  With advanced economies facing predictions of a return to
recession, the free-trade deals show how developed nations are
turning to emerging markets as sources of growth. Colombia’s
gross domestic product rose 5.2 percent in the year through
June, and that of  South Korea , Asia’s fourth-biggest economy,
increased 3.4 percent. U.S. GDP expanded 1.3 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months at an annual rate.  ‘Sorely’ Needed  “These agreements will provide an economic boost at a time
when our country sorely needs it,” Senator  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat who leads the Finance Committee, which controls
trade bills in the chamber, said after almost eight hours of
debate.  Obama is seeking to double American exports by 2015, in
part through boosting shipments to Asian nations. Nine nations
are involved in negotiating the U.S.-led Trans-Pacific
Partnership trade accord, known as the TPP.  The administration negotiated terms for auto tariffs in the
South Korea agreement that won over the United Auto Workers
union, an exchange of tax information with  Panama  and labor-
rights assurances from Colombia.  ‘Win-Win Agreement’  Congress passed the agreements as South Korean President
 Lee Myung Bak  visited  Washington . Lee said today at a White
House news conference with Obama that the trade accord is a
“win-win agreement” for both countries that “will create more
jobs, generate more trade and stimulate our economies.”  The South Korea government expects to approve its own bill
on the agreement soon, enabling the trade pact to take effect on
Jan. 1, the nation’s foreign ministry said today in a statement
on its website.  The South Korean tariff phase-outs increase market access
for U.S. chemical, automobile, medical device and drug
companies, and the end of duties on a range of agricultural
exports benefits producers of meat, dairy, vegetables and fruits
and nuts. Banks and communications companies would also gain
opportunities through reductions in regulatory barriers.  “Japanese companies will be put in a further
disadvantageous position compared with South Korean competitors
in the U.S.,” Yoichi Kaneko, a ruling Democratic Party of  Japan 
lawmaker, said today in a telephone interview. “There is still
an opposition within the DPJ but I think it’s important for
Japan to join the TPP and free trade agreements.”  No ‘Big Impact’  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s No. 2 semiconductor
maker, said it would see little change in sales from the South
Korea deal. Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for the
company, said “it will be good for overall trade for both
nations. Still, we don’t expect a big impact on our business.”  U.S. exports of motor vehicles and parts to South Korea are
expected to jump by 54 percent, or about $194 million, as a
result of the trade accord, according to U.S. International
Trade Commission estimates. Because South Korea starts with a
bigger role in the U.S. auto market, the 11 percent gain it may
receive represents $907 million in added exports, the commission
said.  “Removal of tariffs will of course be good,” said Moon
Seung Ki, a spokesman for Hyundai Mobis Co., South Korea’s
biggest auto-parts maker. “South Korean automobile-parts makers
have started to attract heightened interest from customers in
the U.S. since the earthquake that crippled Japan in March.”  Union Opposition  The trade deals were opposed by groups including the AFL-
CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation and a frequent Democratic
ally. President  Richard Trumka  had urged lawmakers to oppose the
accords, saying in an Oct. 4 speech in Washington that they are
“lousy” deals and will destroy 159,000 jobs by encouraging
companies to send work overseas.  “These flawed trade deals are the wrong medicine at the
wrong time,” Trumka said in a statement yesterday. “Working
people know what too many politicians apparently do not: These
deals will be bad for jobs, workers’ rights and our economy.”  Senators Robert Casey of Pennsylvania and Sherrod Brown of
Ohio, both Democrats from manufacturing states facing re-
election next year, opposed the bills. They said prior trade
measures never worked as well as advertised for U.S. workers.  “They will in fact lead to job losses, especially in
manufacturing,” Casey said before the vote.  The Colombia accord faced the most opposition, passing on
votes of 66-33 in the Senate and 262-167 in the House. Brown in
the Senate and Representative Sander Levin of Michigan led
Democratic opposition, saying Colombia had done too little to
protect union leaders from assassination.  ‘Dangerous Place’  “Colombia remains the most dangerous place in the world to
be a trade unionist,” Brown said in a speech on the Senate
floor.  While the 51 Colombian union members killed last year
represent a 73 percent decline from 186 in 2002, according to
the National Union School, a labor-rights organization based in
Medellin, slayings increased from 47 in 2009. More than 1,700
union members were killed in Colombia in the past decade, the
most in the world and 63 percent of the global total, based on
union school figures.  The pacts are the first passed by Congress since a deal
with Peru in 2007.  The House also voted last night to renew aid for workers
hurt by foreign competition and tariff preferences for
developing nations. The bill extends benefits, including those
for service workers that expired in February, through 2013 while
cutting the weeks of extended unemployment insurance that
participants can receive to 130 from 156, and reducing the
health-care tax credit for people enrolled in the program.  Passing the accords “sends a signal to the rest of the
world that the United States can move forward on trade-opening
agreements that are mutually beneficial,” Senator  Rob Portman ,
the Ohio Republican who negotiated the deals as U.S. Trade
Representative under Bush, said in an interview. “Some were
beginning to wonder.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  