-- 
South African Stocks: Anglo, BHP Billiton, Harmony, Jubilee

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-10-13T15:32:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/south-african-stocks-anglo-bhp-kumba-sacoil-are-active.html
The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index
declined 295.56, or 1 percent, to 30,834.39 by the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg, reducing the week’s gains to 2 percent.  The following were among the most active stocks in the
South African market today.  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  , the mining company that makes
up more than 9 percent of the benchmark stock index, fell for a
third day, slipping 6.90 rand, or 2.3 percent, to 287.65 rand.
Copper futures fell the most in two weeks on concern that
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will hamper the economy in  China ,
the world’s top consumer of the metal. Separately, plans by
Codelco, the world’s biggest copper company, to exercise an
option to buy a 49 percent stake in  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Chile
unit will hamper Anglo’s growth outlook, Liberum Capital Ltd.
said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  , the world’s largest mining
group, dropped 5.70 rand, or 2.4 percent, to 235.30 rand.
Coking-coal miners at the company’s operations in  Australia 
rejected a second offer by the company for a new contract and
are planning more strikes, extending a four-month dispute over
benefits and job security.  Central Rand Gold Ltd. (CRD)  , a South African producer
of the metal, closed at its highest in more than two weeks,
gaining 1 cent, or 20 percent, to 6 cents. Ferreira Estate and
Investment Co., the registered holder of Central Rand Gold
Ltd.’s mining right, started urgent motion proceedings in a
South African  High Court  to set aside the mines minister’s
decision to cancel the mining right.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR SJ), the continent’s third-
largest gold company, declined for the first time in four days,
sliding 1.90 rand, or 2 percent, to 95.45 rand. Gold fell for
the second time this week in  New York  as gains in the dollar
curbed demand for the precious metal as an alternative asset.  DRDGold Ltd. (DRD)  ,  South Africa ’s fourth-biggest
producer of the metal, slid 5 cents, or 1.2 percent, to 4.30
rand. Separately, the company’s Blyvoor mine reached a wage
agreement with the National Union of Mineworkers that will see
pay increase by between 6 percent and 7 percent, the union said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Jubilee Platinum Plc (JLP)   fell 6 cents, or 3.7 percent,
to 1.58 rand. The platinum miner with operations in five
countries including South Africa raised 4.4 million pounds ($6.9
million) through the placement of new shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  