-- 
South Korean Military Raises Combat Readiness as President Lee Visits U.S.

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-10-13T07:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/south-korean-military-raises-combat-readiness-as-president-lee-visits-u-s-.html
South Korea’s military raised its
level of combat readiness as a result of President  Lee Myung Bak ’s visit to the U.S. and not because of any unusual movement
from North Korea, a Defense Ministry official said.  South Korea detected the relocation of a North Korean
ground-to-air missile and its launch pad near the disputed
western sea border, and several missiles have been fired near
there recently, Yonhap News said earlier, citing an unidentified
government official. The Joint Chiefs of Staff responded by
strengthening border security and raising the military’s level
of preparedness, Yonhap said.  The alert level is usually raised when the president
travels abroad, the official said on condition of anonymity in
line with ministry policy. Lee, who meets President Barack Obama
today, curtailed his predecessor’s policy of engaging with  North
Korea , arguing it rewarded  Kim Jong Il ’s provocative behavior.  Speco Co. led gains among South Korean defense-related
companies following the Yonhap report, jumping by the daily
limit of 15 percent to 1,865 won. Victek Co. Ltd., which makes
electronic warfare equipment, rallied 8.2 percent, while
military communications manufacturer  Huneed Technologies (005870)  rose 4
percent.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula last year rose over
attacks that killed 50 South Koreans. The U.S. and the  United
Nations  responded by increasing sanctions against North Korea
while urging Kim’s regime to return to nuclear disarmament
talks.  Lee and the Obama administration say North Korea must also
make an irrevocable commitment to cease attacks like the sinking
of the Cheonan warship in March 2010 that killed 46 sailors and
the November shelling of Yeonpyeong Island.  Lee replaced his defense minister and army head following
the shelling, vowing to strengthen the military and respond more
harshly to any further North Korean attacks.  South Korea  and
North Korea remain technically at war after their 1950-1953
conflict ended in a cease-fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  