-- 
Spain’s Credit Rating Cut by S&P Amid Concern Europe Debt Crisis Worsening

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-10-14T07:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/spain-cut-to-aa-from-aa-by-s-p-outlook-negative.html
Spain’s credit rating was cut for
the third time in three years by  Standard & Poor’s  as slowing
growth and rising defaults threaten banks and undermine efforts
to contain  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The ranking was reduced by one level to AA-, S&P’s fourth-
highest investment grade, with the outlook remaining negative,
the rating company said in a statement late yesterday.  Fitch
Ratings  downgraded Spain to the same level on Oct. 7, when the
company also cut its rating on Italy.  “Despite signs of resilience in economic performance
during 2011, we see heightened risks to Spain’s growth
prospects,” S&P said. “The financial profile of the Spanish
banking system will, in our opinion, weaken further, with the
stock of problematic assets rising further.”  Spanish, Italian and Greek bonds fell on concern that the
euro region is struggling to contain a crisis that threatens to
trigger another global slump. As Group of 20 finance ministers
prepare to meet in Paris, G-20 and International Monetary Fund
officials indicated that the IMF may seek additional funds to
shelter nations such as Spain and Italy from contagion.  Investors’ focus is on “whether European governments can
forge a political solution to the sovereign crisis,” said Guy Stear, Hong Kong-based credit strategist at Societe Generale SA.
The longer-term issue is “whether austerity plans will work,”
he said.  Spanish Stocks  Spanish stocks fell, with the main  Ibex 35 index (IBEX)  declining
0.5 percent at 9:15 a.m. in Madrid. Europe’s Stoxx 600 Index and
the euro were little changed.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose to 5.26 percent from 5.21
percent yesterday. Spain is paying more than twice what  Germany 
pays to borrow for a decade even after the  European Central Bank 
stepped in to prop up its  bond market  on Aug. 8.  In another sign of stresses on banks, UBS AG, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc had their
long-term issuer default grades cut by Fitch Ratings, which put
more than a dozen other lenders on watch negative as part of a
global review.  Greece  is teetering on the brink of default, with
Nobel economics laureate  Christopher Pissarides  saying yesterday
that investors in its bonds may face losses of 50 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service warned on Oct. 4 that “all but
the strongest euro-area sovereigns are likely to face sustained
negative pressure on their ratings,” as it cut  Italy ’s debt for
the first time in almost two decades.  U.S. Rating  The ratings move on Spain comes two months after S&P
stripped the U.S. of its AAA ranking for the first time. While
the Aug. 5 move roiled global markets, bond investors ignored
S&P’s warnings about U.S. creditworthiness and piled into
Treasuries. The yield on the benchmark U.S. government bond fell
to a record 1.6714 on Sept. 23.  The downgrade also comes as the government postponed until
after the Nov. 20 general election the sale of management
contracts for Madrid and Barcelona airports, following the
decision last month to pull an initial public offering of the
state lottery operator. Privatizations had been expected to cut
debt issuance by as much as 12 billion euros this year, Finance
Minister  Elena Salgado  said on Aug. 16.  IMF War Chest  Policy makers are discussing an expansion of the IMF’s
firepower as part of a global G-20 agreement next month in
Cannes,  France , according to three officials, who declined to be
named because the discussions are not public. Talks are in
preliminary stages as potential contributors wait to see what
measures Europeans take to end the debt turmoil at an Oct. 23
summit, they said.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  told member
countries last month that her current $390 billion war chest may
not suffice to meet all loan requests should the global economy
worsen. Additional funds could be used to help shelter Italy and
 Spain  with precautionary lending, the people said.  Spain’s Socialist government, facing an election next
month, has said the country may miss its 2011 growth forecast of
1.3 percent as the recovery slows. Unemployment rose to 21.2
percent in August and the manufacturing industry contracted the
most in more than two years in September. Regional governments,
which are responsible for health and education and hire half of
Spain’s public workers, are behind schedule to meet deficit
targets, preliminary data showed Sept. 8.  ‘Strong Signal’  The  People’s Party , which polls indicate may win an
outright majority in the vote, has pledged a stricter budget
law, spending limits for regional governments, and tax breaks to
encourage companies to hire workers and become more competitive.
PP leader  Mariano Rajoy  said on Sept. 15 he would send a
“strong signal” to markets and wouldn’t deviate from the
budget-deficit goal of 4.4 percent of gross domestic product in
2012 “under any circumstances.” He hasn’t given details on how
he would rein in the shortfall.  Still, the PP voted against Zapatero’s measures to cut
public wages and freeze pensions, and has pledged to bring
pensions “up to date” if it wins the election. Zapatero’s
austerity measures aim to slash the shortfall to 6 percent of
GDP this year from 11 percent in 2009. The government forecasts
the debt burden will grow to 67 percent of gross domestic
product this year, almost twice the 36-percent level in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  