-- 
St. Joe Co. Promotes Park Brady to Chief Executive Officer

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-10-13T22:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/st-joe-co-promotes-park-brady-to-chief-executive-officer.html
St. Joe  Co., the largest private
landowner in northern  Florida , promoted Park Brady to chief
executive officer, the company said in a regulatory filing.  Brady, 64, joined Watersound, Florida-based St. Joe in
March as chief operating officer, after a management shakeup
driven by the company’s largest shareholder,  Bruce Berkowitz ,
founder of Fairholme Capital Management LLC.  Brady won’t receive additional compensation for his new
job, the company said. In March, St. Joe said Brady would be
paid $750,000 a year plus benefits. He was previously president
and CEO of ResortQuest International LLC, a Fort Walton Beach,
Florida-based unit of hotelier Wyndham Worldwide Corp.  St. Joe’s previous CEO, Britt Greene, resigned Feb. 28
along with three board members after Berkowitz criticized their
spending and corporate governance. Berkowitz, whose fund owns
about 29 percent of St. Joe’s shares, was named chairman in
March. In September, the board agreed to allow Fairholme to buy
as much as 50 percent of the landowner’s stock.  In July, St. Joe said it was the subject of a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation for “a variety
of matters,” including internal controls and financial reports.
The probe was launched after  David Einhorn , who runs New York-
based hedge fund Greenlight Capital Inc., said the company
failed to write down the value of its developments after
Florida’s real estate crash. St. Joe has reported a loss for 12
of the last 13 quarters.  The filing was made after the close of regular U.S.
trading. St. Joe fell 0.3 percent to $15.30 at the close in  New
York . The shares have lost 30 percent this year compared with an
8.1 percent decline for the Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  