-- 
Stanford Judge Says Receiver May Need to End Search for ‘Pot of Gold’

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-13T23:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/stanford-judge-says-receiver-may-need-to-conclude-search-for-pot-of-gold-.html
R. Allen Stanford’s court-appointed
receiver may need to stop searching for a secret “pot of gold”
and pay defrauded investors from the assets he has recovered so
far, the judge overseeing the case said.  “I’m concerned the receiver is expending resources that
could otherwise be distributed to investors trying to track down
missing resources,” U.S. District Judge David Godbey said
during a hearing today in  Dallas  for dozens of Stanford-related
civil cases.  Stanford, 61, was sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in February 2009 on claims he swindled investors of
more than $7 billion through allegedly bogus certificates of
deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.  “If we knew where it was and were able to go get it, we
would have,” SEC attorney David Reece told Godbey, referring to
Stanford’s missing billions.  “When the U.S. Justice Department has already checked and
there’s no pot of gold, then the receiver can stand down,”
Godbey told lawyers for the receiver and investors. “There’s
apparently not some trail to a $5 billion secret Swiss bank
account that anyone knows about.”  Awaiting Trial  Stanford, who denies all wrongdoing, has been in custody as
a flight risk since his indictment on parallel criminal charges
in June 2009. He is being treated for a prison-acquired
addiction to anxiety drugs while he awaits trial, set for
January in Houston federal court.  Godbey told lawyers in Dallas today he’s concerned that
receiver Ralph Janvey is duplicating efforts by U.S.
prosecutors, who are also tracking Stanford’s assets overseas.
The  Justice Department  has won administrative freezes on more
than $300 million in Stanford-related bank accounts in
 Switzerland  and the  United Kingdom . These accounts are beyond
Janvey’s control and may represent the receivership’s largest
category of recoverable assets, according to court filings.  The Stanford receivership has about $100 million in
unrestricted cash on hand, Kevin Sadler, Janvey’s lead lawyer,
told Godbey today. This represents proceeds from the sale of
virtually all of Stanford’s U.S. real estate and private equity
holdings, after payment of the receivership’s fees and expenses.  Antigua, Barbuda  Stanford owned additional real estate in the Caribbean
nation of Antigua and Barbuda, which is under the control of a
separate liquidator appointed by that nation’s government.
Lawyers for Janvey and Stanford’s Antiguan liquidators told
Godbey today that they can’t agree how to share control of
Stanford’s island properties and investor records located in
Antigua.  “The U.S. receiver has liquidated 95 percent of what the
receiver has control over that’s sellable,” Sadler told Godbey.
“We’re basically out of the real estate business and the
private equity business. We’ve got some lawsuits that’ll go on
for years. And we’ve got some cash, but not enough to distribute
right now because of the cost.”  Sadler said if the U.S. receiver gained control of the
frozen U.K. and Swiss bank accounts, then there might be enough
cash to justify the cost of creating a claims process to
distribute recovered assets to investors.  “It’s not going to get cheaper the longer you wait,”
Godbey told Sadler.  ‘In Limbo’  “If we leave this just in limbo for another two or three
years waiting to see if there’s a bigger pot of money, it may be
difficult for people to put together claims,” Godbey said.
“The prospects of finding a secret Swiss bank account with $5
billion in it is not something you’re holding out much hope
for.”  The U.S. receiver and an official investors’ committee have
filed more than 100 fraudulent transfer and aiding-and-abetting
lawsuits, seeking to claw back proceeds from CD investors or
payments to vendors, consultants or financial advisers who
worked with Stanford’s companies. Court filings estimate these
actions, if successful, could return as much as $500 million to
the estate.  “We’ve sued everyone we can find,” Sadler told Godbey
today.  “I’m getting a very clear sense,” Sadler added, that the
judge wants a claims process initiated “no matter how much
money we have.”  Godbey asked the receiver for a plan detailing “what needs
to be done to bring this to a conclusion and what it will cost”
to complete the task of repaying Stanford’s investors. He didn’t
set a timetable for further action on the matter.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission vs. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 