-- 
Mortgage Probe Short of Settlement as States Remain Divided After a Year

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-10-13T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/state-foreclosure-probe-hits-one-year-mark-with-no-deal-much-infighting.html
A year after the start of a
nationwide investigation of foreclosure practices, state and
federal negotiators haven’t settled with banks and face
infighting that might leave some states outside any agreement.  A year ago today, all 50 state  attorneys general  announced
they were investigating the foreclosure procedures of banks
following reports they were using faulty documents to seize
homes and possibly violating state laws.  The effort, since broadened to force banks to provide
mortgage relief for homeowners, hasn’t resulted in a deal.
States, meanwhile, are fighting among themselves. The biggest,
California, walked away from the talks, possibly putting a
nationwide agreement out of reach.  Criticism has come from Democratic and Republican attorneys
general since the spring. Republicans portrayed a state-federal
proposal as overreaching. Democrats have insisted a settlement
shouldn’t protect banks from enforcement actions.  “We’re trying to reform the entire mortgage-servicing
industry, which has been an intractable problem for this country
the last four years,”  Iowa  Assistant Attorney General Patrick
Madigan, who is helping to lead negotiations, said in an
interview. “That’s something nobody else has been able to
achieve.”  The five largest mortgage servicers, including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have been negotiating a
settlement with states’ legal chiefs and federal officials from
agencies including the Justice and Housing and Urban Development
departments.  Shares Down  Bank shares have sunk since the 50-state investigation was
announced, with Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America 
falling 51 percent, New York-based JPMorgan declining 18 percent 
and New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  falling 31 percent.  The extended negotiations have been a drag on bank
shares, said Bernard Nash, a lawyer at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in
Washington who leads the firm’s state attorneys general
practice. The banks need a settlement, he said.  “The market hates uncertainty,” he said. “Once you cut
the deal, no matter how big, the market will go up.”  The investigation was triggered by the disclosure that
foreclosure documents had been signed without verification of
the facts, which came to be known as robosigning. In response,
banks said they were suspending foreclosure actions across the
country to review their procedures.  Homeowners, meanwhile, complained about the difficulty of
obtaining loan modifications to reduce their payments. The
federal government’s Home Affordable Modification Program hasn’t
delivered as promised, according to a government report.  Lack of Success  The program “continues to fall dramatically short of any
meaningful standard of success,” according to the  report  this
year by the Office of the Special Inspector General for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  Chief state legal officers, seeing that federal banking
regulators weren’t addressing the crisis, took on the “gigantic
task,” said Ira Rheingold, executive director of the  National
Association of Consumer Advocates  in  Washington . He said
settlement talks may still fall apart.  “This is not an easy thing to do,” he said. “But when
nobody else is stepping up and people are being wrongfully
foreclosed on and banks are violating state foreclosure laws in
many instances, they saw an opportunity and felt like, ‘We need
to protect consumers.’”  Officials are seeking an accord that would pay for loan
modifications for borrowers, including reductions of principal,
and require proper foreclosure documents, according to a 27-page
term sheet offered to the banks in March.  Proposed Terms  The settlement would prohibit banks from initiating a 
foreclosure while a loan modification is being considered. It 
would require monitoring of the banks to ensure compliance.  In addition to Bank of America, JPMorgan and Citigroup, 
the banks involved are San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  
and Detroit-based Ally Financial Inc.  A Bank of America spokesman, Lawrence Grayson, declined to 
comment on the negotiations. Citigroup’s  Mark Rodgers , Wells 
Fargo’s Vickee Adams, JPMorgan’s  Tom Kelly  and Ally’s Gina Proia 
also declined to comment on them.  “Attorneys general have worked long and hard together to
pull together an agreement and may not make it,” said James
Tierney, director of Columbia Law School’s  National State
Attorneys General Program . “But their disagreements have been
honest ones, and they have certainly come closer than any other
groups of elected officials in actually doing something to
enforce laws and help consumers.”  Schneiderman Dropped  In August, Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, the Democrat
who is leading talks for the states, removed  New York  Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman  from the executive committee
representing the 50 states, saying Schneiderman was “working to
actively undermine” negotiations.  Schneiderman and other state lawyers have questioned the
scope of the liability releases that would be granted to the
banks in exchange for any settlement. They said the banks
shouldn’t receive releases for matters that haven’t been fully
investigated, including the packaging of  mortgage loans  into
securities.  A nationwide deal may be out of reach because different
states face widely different degrees of harm from the housing
market collapse and resulting foreclosures, said Tierney and
 Allison J. Schoenthal , a lawyer at Hogan Lovells in New York who
does work for lenders and servicers. That may push states such
as Nevada,  California  and New York to seek separate accords.  “They have constituents who are particularly angry because
they’ve been hit by foreclosures,” Schoenthal said. “They
probably have a lot of pressure on them. Look at the protests
downtown. You don’t see that in Iowa,” she said, referring to
the Occupy Wall Street demonstrations in New York.  California’s Harris  California Attorney General Kamala Harris, a Democrat, said
Sept. 30 that she was rejecting a proposed deal and would
conduct her own mortgage investigation.  The state “was being asked for a broader release of claims
than we can accept and to excuse conduct that has not been
adequately investigated,” Harris said. Shum Preston, her
spokesman, declined to comment on whether the state may sign on
to any settlement.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said last
week that she was preparing to sue banks. Coakley, a Democrat,
“lost confidence” that an agreement would hold banks
“accountable for wrongful foreclosures,” she said in a
statement.  An agreement hasn’t been reached because state and federal
officials overreached by demanding a “wildly excessive”
payment from the banks, said Bob Davis, an executive vice
president at the  American Bankers Association .  Foreclosure Review  A federal regulatory review of bank foreclosure practices
didn’t find significant harm to consumers, Davis said.  “A settlement is not likely to be agreed to if one side is
asking for remuneration or fines that the other side believes is
wildly unbalanced to the proof of harm to consumers,” Davis
said.  California and New York are motivated to squeeze as much
money as they can from the banks regardless of the connection to
consumer harm, Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli, a
Republican, said in an interview. Their actions have been
“outrageous,” he said.  “Their mentality here is Spitzer on steroids,” he said,
referring to former New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer .
“The only reasonable explanation is they are so rapaciously
engaged in ripping every penny out of any company they can get
their hands on.”  No Blind Eye  Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Schneiderman, a Democrat,
said the attorney general “refuses to turn a blind eye to
potential misconduct” that led to the financial crisis.
Preston, Harris’s spokesman, said California residents ``rightly 
expect that those who caused their pain through wrongdoing will 
be held accountable.''  Cuccinelli and other Republican attorneys general,
including  Greg Abbott  in  Texas  and Pam Bondi in  Florida , have
criticized the plan to force banks to pay for principal
reductions. They argue it would reward homeowners who choose not
to pay their mortgage.  Loan modifications should be limited and address only
conduct under investigation such as improper handling of loan
modification requests, they said in a March 22 letter to Miller.  Cuccinelli said he might sign on to an agreement that
includes principal reductions. Bondi said in a statement that
she is “open to principal reduction, so long as it remedies
harm to consumers and stays consistent with the law enforcement
role of state attorneys general.”  The settlement will provide “substantial” principal
reductions for homeowners and won’t prevent individual states
from pursuing securities-fraud claims against banks, Miller said
in an interview.  Suits by Cities  Municipalities will be free to sue banks over fees that
weren’t paid because of electronic mortgage filings, he said.  Miller said he expects more than 40 states to join the
agreement and hopes California will be among them. He cautioned
that a settlement isn’t certain and declined to comment on
details of the talks.  “We’re getting closer,” Miller said. “These are
challenging and complicated and very broad issues.”  Banks should settle to resolve liabilities even if they
remain exposed to lawsuits from states over mortgage
securitization, said Nash at Dickstein Shapiro. Without an
agreement, banks would probably face lawsuits from states and
possibly federal agencies. Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan and North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper, both
Democrats, in June threatened litigation if negotiations fall
apart.  “The banks may be resigned to the fact that they’re not
going to be released from securitization” claims, Nash said.
“They ought to settle what they can. They won’t get it all done
in the near term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  and;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 