-- 
Strauss-Kahn Cleared in French Probe of Novelist’s Attempted Rape Claims

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-13T18:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/strauss-kahn-cleared-in-french-probe-of-novelist-s-attempted-rape-claims.html
Paris prosecutors dropped an
investigation of  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  over allegations of
attempted rape made by a French novelist, saying there wasn’t
enough evidence to bring a case.  While there may have been grounds for a probe of sexual
assault -- a lesser crime than rape -- the deadline for filing
such charges has passed, prosecutors said. The police
investigation of Tristane Banon’s allegation that Strauss-Kahn
tried to rape her in 2003 turned up insufficient evidence to
bring charges, prosecutors said in a statement.  Banon filed a complaint in July as another attempted-rape
case against the 62-year-old was unraveling in New York.
Strauss-Kahn resigned his post as head of the  International
Monetary Fund  in May to fight claims made in that case by a
Manhattan hotel maid. The charges were dropped in August after
prosecutors concluded the housekeeper had lied about events
surrounding the alleged attack and key details of her life.  “When there is no material proof because there was no
medical exam, no complaint filed at the time, it is absolutely
logical,” said Denis Chemla, a Paris lawyer uninvolved in the
case, said of the prosecutors’ decision. “The prosecution could
not have done otherwise.”  First Victory  Strauss-Kahn and Banon were brought together by Paris
police on Sept. 29 for simultaneous questioning to try to
reconcile their differing versions of what happened when Banon
met Strauss-Kahn for an interview in 2003.  “This decision by the prosecution, while unsatisfying, is
a first victory for Miss Banon after five months of difficult
struggle,” David Koubbi, a lawyer for Banon, said in an e-
mailed statement. “It’s established without reserve that her
case wasn’t empty.”  Henri Leclerc, a lawyer for Strauss-Kahn, said in an
interview on  France  2 television that “there is nothing,
nothing, nothing that shows what Miss Banon said was true.”  She said he assaulted her, trying to remove her clothes and
putting his hands in her mouth and underwear, according to an
interview in the July 6 issue of the magazine L’Express.  He called her account “imaginary” in a slander suit he
filed against her.  Banon, speaking at a Sept. 24 rally supporting tougher
sexual-assault laws, said she may seek a private prosecution, in
which a criminal complaint can be taken directly to an
investigating judge, or pursue a civil case against Strauss-
Kahn. Charges of attempted rape and rape can be brought for 10
years after the incident in France, while sexual assault has a
three-year limit.  Chemla said he didn’t see that Strauss-Kahn had anything to
fear from future investigations of Banon’s claims.  “There will still need to be evidence,” he said.  Strauss-Kahn returned to Paris last month after the  New
York  case was dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  