-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s Image Still ‘Stained’ by Cases

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-13T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/strauss-kahn-s-image-still-stained-by-cases.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s political
career won’t be revived after Paris prosecutors became the
second law-enforcement agency to drop an attempted rape case
against the former head of the  International Monetary Fund .  The Paris public prosecutor dropped an inquiry yesterday
relating to a 2003 incident, saying police hadn’t found proof of
attempted rape and the statute of limitations had expired on
evidence of a possible sexual assault.  Strauss-Kahn, once France’s finance minister, led President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  by 5 percentage points in an April poll posing
possible candidates for next year’s presidential election. In
May, he was arrested in New York and charged with attempted rape
and sexual assault based on the claims of a Manhattan hotel
maid. He resigned as the IMF’s managing director and later
missed the deadline to register as a Socialist candidate.  “His image is extraordinarily stained,” Gerard Grunberg,
a professor at the Political Sciences Institute in Paris, said
in a phone interview. “His political career is over.”  While the  New York  case was dropped as well, his reputation
and future as a Socialist Party leader were tarnished as details
of marital infidelities and his opulent lifestyle, living in a
6,804-square-foot townhouse in the Tribeca section of Lower
Manhattan while under house arrest, were broadcast almost daily.  The French complaint was filed in July by Tristane Banon, a
French novelist and daughter of a Socialist politician. Her
mother Anne Mansouret said she discouraged her daughter from
filing a complaint in 2003, when Strauss-Kahn was a member of
France’s National Assembly, because she feared it would come to
nothing.  ‘Nothing, Nothing’  “There is nothing, nothing, nothing that shows what Miss
Banon said was true,” Henri Leclerc, a lawyer for Strauss-Kahn,
said in an interview on  France  2 television.  Strauss-Kahn still faces a civil lawsuit filed by the
hotel maid in New York. Banon said at a Paris rally last month
for tougher treatment of violence against women that she may
file her case directly to an investigating judge as a private
prosecution or pursue a civil case.  “This decision by the prosecution, while unsatisfying, is
a first victory for Miss Banon after five months of difficult
struggle,” David Koubbi, a lawyer for Banon, said in an
e-mailed statement. “It’s established without reserve that her
case wasn’t empty.”  Such investigations may prolong Strauss-Kahn’s legal
troubles. Still, the lack of evidence uncovered so far of a
crime that wouldn’t be barred by statute-of-limitations rules
means any further probes will likely lead to similar outcomes in
France, said Denis Chemla, a Paris lawyer who isn’t involved in
the matter.  “It will last years and Mr. Strauss-Kahn will be
investigated, but I don’t see how any investigation could end in
anything other than a dismissal,” Chemla said. “There isn’t
proof.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 