-- 
Salvage Teams to Pump N.Z. Stricken Ship as Oil Blackens Coast

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-10-14T03:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/stricken-ship-off-new-zealand-faces-strong-winds-as-oil-blackens-beaches.html
New Zealand salvage teams are
preparing to pump fuel from a container ship stranded off the
nation’s northeast coast as leaked oil from the damaged vessel
spreads to 60 kilometers (37 miles) of coastline.  Officials are attaching four platforms to the port side of
the stricken vessel to assist fuel recovery, according to a
 Maritime New Zealand  statement. No fuel is likely to be pumped
from the ship today, the statement said, as thousands of
volunteers seek to clean up the region’s beaches.  Calmer seas allowed inspectors to board the vessel
yesterday, after strong winds and high waves forced them ashore
Oct. 11. Cracks have appeared in the hull of Athens-based
 Costamare Shipping Co. ’s stricken Rena, raising concern the ship
may split, nine days after it ran aground in the Bay of Plenty
near Tauranga, 100 miles southeast of Auckland.  “We have a long road ahead of us, so must ensure we
maintain our maximum capability and capacity to respond,”
National On Scene Commander Nick Quinn said in a statement
earlier today.  The vessel has probably spilled as much as 350 tons of oil,
and 88 containers are now in the water, with some contents
reaching the shoreline, according to Maritime New Zealand. There
was no evidence of fresh oil leaks today, the agency said.  The Rena was carrying 1,368 containers and about 1,700
metric tons of  fuel oil , according to maritime officials. The
ship is owned by Daina Shipping Company, a unit of Costamare.  Dead Birds  About 220 metric tons of waste has been cleared from
beaches, Maritime New Zealand said. Oil has washed up on about
60 kilometers of coastline, ranging in severity, and at least
1,000 dead birds have been found.  More than 3,000 people have registered to help clean
Tauranga beaches, according to the statement. Teams are also
being trained and positioned in areas where oil is expected to
wash up within days.  “To the people of Tauranga, we want to say that we are
deeply sorry for the situation that has arisen and the threat
you are now facing from fuel oil from the vessel washing up on
the beaches in your beautiful part of the world,” Diamantis
Manos, managing director of Costamare Shipping, said in an e-
mailed video statement yesterday.  “It is our ship that went aground and we apologize without
hesitation for what has happened,” Manos said, adding that the
company will cooperate with all investigations.  The ship’s master and the second officer in charge of the
navigational watch have both been charged under the Maritime Act
for operating a vessel in a manner causing unnecessary danger or
risk, the maritime agency said in a  statement .  Seized Equipment  New Zealand officials interviewed crew on duty during the
accident and seized recording and navigation equipment to help
determine how the vessel settled on the Astrolabe Reef,
according to a statement on the  Transport Accident Investigation
Commission’s website . The inquiry’s final analysis may not be
ready until the middle of 2012, the statement said.  The cost of the disaster may exceed the maximum under the
shipowner’s insurance, Prime Minister John Key told  Radio New
Zealand  yesterday. The government will pick up any extra costs
and will explore legal options to get more compensation, he
said.  The cargo on the 32-year-old, Liberian-flagged Rena
includes four containers of ferrosilicon, a solid substance that
can be hazardous when in contact with water and can emit
hydrogen, according to Maritime New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  