-- 
Swan, Rogers to Join to Create Mauritian Insurer

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-10-13T18:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/swan-rogers-to-combine-to-create-mauritius-largest-insurer-1-.html
(Corrects name in third paragraph.)  Swan Insurance Co. and Rogers & Co.
plan to combine parts of their businesses to create the largest
insurer in Mauritius, overtaking Mauritius Union Assurance Co.  Rogers and Swan also plan to merge their stockbroking and
property management services, the companies said on the Port
Louis-based Stock Exchange of Mauritius’s  website  today. Rogers
will amalgamate its CIM Insurance Ltd. unit with Swan Insurance
Co. while CIM Life Ltd. will combine with Swan’s  Anglo-Mauritius
Assurance Society Ltd. (ANGM) , they said.  The transaction will result “in the most significant
insurance and investment entity in Mauritius, the largest
insurer for general insurance by premium incomes and second-
biggest for  life insurance ,” CIM Financial Services Ltd.’s
Chief Executive Officer Vaughan Heberden said in a mobile-phone
interview today. “It’s the potential formation of a larger
investment entity able to compete locally, regionally and
internationally.”  Swan Insurance is the second-largest listed insurer with a
market value of 2.3 billion rupees ($79 million), according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, whilst Anglo-Mauritius Assurance has
a market value of 1.7 billion rupees.  CIM Financial Services manages assets of about 5 billion
rupees in domestic and foreign equities, foreign currencies and
bonds, according to Heberden. Anglo-Mauritius Financial Services
Ltd. has assets in excess of  16 billion rupees , according to its
website.  “The domestic  insurance industry  is going through
consolidation. You need to have significant muscle and depth”
to compete, he said. “There are significant opportunities in
 Africa , going forward.”  The transaction still needs approval from regulators,
Heberden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  