-- 
U.K. Extends Probe of HSBC Geneva Account Holders, HMRC Says

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-10-13T12:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-k-tax-authority-writes-to-hsbc-account-holders-in-geneva.html
The U.K. tax authority said it will
write to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  account holders in Geneva suspected
of failing to report all their income and gains.  Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs  said  it’s acting on
information on about more than 6,000 individuals, companies,
trusts and other bodies received last year under a  tax treaty .  “The net is closing on offshore evaders,” Dave Hartnett,
the head of the revenue department, said in a statement today.
“Come forward to us and make a full disclosure.”  About 800 customers have already been sent so-called Code
of Practice 9 letters informing them that their tax affairs over
the past 20 years will be probed, two people familiar with the
matter told Bloomberg News in September.  HSBC’s private bank in Geneva suffered an outflow of money
in 2009 after becoming aware of a  data theft  in the middle of
2008. The French government has used the data stolen by
technician Herve Falciani to search for tax dodgers and passed
information on to at least three other European governments.  The U.K. last week signed an agreement to settle a dispute
over tax evasion by wealthy Britons holding offshore accounts
with Swiss private banks. The settlement, which requires the
approval of parliaments in both countries, follows a similar
accord between Germany and  Switzerland , and introduces a new
levy on U.K. account holders wishing to remain anonymous. U.K.
clients of Swiss banks can alternatively declare their tax
liabilities through the  Liechtenstein Disclosure Facility .  “We’ve got some of the people who’ve already been issued
with a Code of Practice 9 notice,” said Dawn Register, a tax
adviser at BDO Stoy Haywood in  London . “If individuals are
already under investigation by HMRC, they’re stuck. For others,
the best option may be disclosure.”  Lisa Baitup, a London-based spokeswoman for the bank,
declined to comment on HMRC’s investigation. “HSBC doesn’t
condone  tax evasion ,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  