-- 
U.K. Trade Gap Narrows as Exports Rise

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-13T08:43:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-k-trade-gap-narrows-as-exports-rise.html
The U.K. trade deficit on goods
narrowed in August as exports rose to a record and imports
declined.  The goods-trade gap shrank to 7.77 billion pounds ($12.2
billion) from 8.15 billion pounds in July, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The previous month’s
deficit was revised from an initially reported 8.92 billion
pounds as the statistics office implemented methodology changes
to the data. Exports rose 0.6 percent to 25.5 billion pounds,
the highest since current records began in 1998.  The  Bank of England  restarted asset purchases last week
amid threats to the economy and the financial system from the
debt turmoil in  Europe , Britain’s biggest trading partner. A
British Chambers of Commerce survey this week showed measures of
export sales and orders at manufacturers and services companies
dropped to their lowest since 2009 in the third quarter.  “Following a good start to the year, the trade performance
is being pressurized by markedly slowing global growth,”  Howard Archer , chief European and U.K. economist at IHS Global Insight
in London, said before the data were released. “This is
countering the support to exports coming from a competitive
pound. U.K. exports are particularly vulnerable to weaker euro-
zone economic activity.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
data were published. It traded at $1.5697 as of 9:33 a.m. in
London from $1.5752 yesterday.  Exports Increase  The increase in goods exports in August was led by fuels,
intermediate goods such as mechanical engineering products and
foreign sales of food and drink. Manufacturers have benefited
from the pound’s decline of about 24 percent on a trade-weighted
basis since the start of 2007. Goods imports fell 0.7 percent to
33.3 billion pounds on the month, the statistics office said.  The deficit on goods and services narrowed to 1.88 billion
pounds in August from 2.27 billion pounds in July as exports in
that category rose to the highest since 1998. In services alone,
there was a surplus of 5.9 billion pounds.  The statistics office changed the methodology for the trade
data in line with its new Blue Book and revisions to quarterly
national accounts, it said today. This affected the seasonal
adjustment and resulted in the categorization of some products
being changed.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said the
central bank “could well decide” to expand asset purchases
further, the  Guardian newspaper  reported today, citing an
interview. Bean said there has been “a noticeable deceleration
in activity indicators not just in this country, but across the
globe.”  “The hope was that we would be expanding our net trade,
exports would be growing,” former Bank of England policy maker
 Charles Goodhart  said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday. “The problems in Europe and the U.S. have been
worsening so much that the net trade is not likely to be as
buoyant to lift us as we would have hoped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  