-- 
Gilts Rise, Pound Falls on Speculation More Asset Purchases Will Be Needed

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-10-13T16:08:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-k-gilt-yields-approach-two-month-high-on-euro-area-optimism.html
Gilts rose for the first time in
seven days on speculation the central bank will need to boost
asset purchases again as the U.K.’s economy worsens.  Sterling declined the most in a week versus the yen after
the  Guardian newspaper  quoted  Bank of England  deputy governor
 Charles Bean  as saying the monetary policy committee “could
well decide” to expand quantitative easing again. The BOE said
last week it will resume buying assets amid threats to the
economy and the financial system from the debt turmoil in
 Europe , Britain’s biggest trading partner.  “We’re expecting that another round of QE may be necessary
once the current asset purchases are done,” said  Sarah Hewin , a
senior economist at Standard Chartered Bank in London. “The
injection of more money into the economy ought to see gilt
yields being held low.”  The 10-year gilt yield declined eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 2.56 percent at 5 p.m.  London  time. The
3.75 percent security due September 2021 rose 0.755, or 7.55
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 110.355. Thirty-year
yields dropped nine basis points to 3.48 percent.  Britain’s economic outlook is worsening as the government
implements its deepest public-spending cuts since World War II
to reduce the nation’s fiscal deficit amid investor concern that
governments around the world may be unable to repay debt.  More Stimulus  The worsening growth outlook prompted the central bank to
announce an increase in the size of its bond purchases last
week, expanding the program to 275 billion pounds from 200
billion pounds, the biggest increase since the first round of
quantitative easing in March 2009.  Additional stimulus measures by the central bank may be
announced by the spring of 2012, said Hewin.  The pound weakened 0.6 percent to 120.98 yen, after falling
as much as 1.1 percent, the biggest intraday decline since Oct.
6. Sterling dropped 0.1 percent to $1.5736, and strengthened 0.3
percent to 87.30 pence per euro.  The decline came even after a report today showed the U.K.
trade deficit on goods narrowed in August as exports rose to a
record high.  U.K. unemployment rose to a 15-year high of 8.1 percent in
the three months through August, from 7.9 percent in the quarter
ended July, the  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday.
Economic growth also slowed to 0.1 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, the statistics office said last
week, lower than the 0.2 percent previously published.  “Investors are increasingly turning bearish on sterling’s
negative fundamentals,” said  Valentin Marinov , a foreign-
exchange strategist at Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. in London.
“With further QE in the pipeline, this could be the beginning
of a weakening trend in the pound.”  Gilts have returned 10 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  