-- 
U.K. Auditor Says New Evidence May Trigger WSJ Europe Probe

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-10-13T16:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-k-auditor-says-new-evidence-may-trigger-wsj-europe-probe-1-.html
News Corp.’s Wall Street Journal
 Europe  publication may be subject to further investigation by
U.K. newspaper auditor ABC.  The  Guardian newspaper  reported this week that the European
Journal’s relationship with a sponsor,  Executive Learning
Partnership , or ELP, was part of a broader effort to inflate
circulation figures. News Corp. denied the allegations.  The partnership was reviewed after it was set up in 2009
and was deemed to comply with ABC’s rules, the auditor said in a
statement today. The arrangement involved the Journal selling
newspapers to partners, including ELP, at a drastically
discounted rate and ELP would then distribute them to clients,
the Guardian reported, saying ELP was responsible for 16 percent
of the Journal’s European circulation.  “More recently we have re-examined the scheme based on
some new evidence available,” ABC said in an e-mailed
statement. “There now appears to be additional new information
which may give grounds for further investigation.”  Investigations of formal complaints are kept confidential
until a decision has been reached, the ABC said. The ABC
publishes data, such as circulation figures for newspapers,
which may be used by advertisers and researchers to measure the
popularity of publications.  ELP said it’s partnership with the publication was
legitimate. “Any suggestion that ELP was involved in a scheme
to artificially boost the circulation of Wall Street Journal
Europe is not based on facts,” ELP said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Kate Dobbin, a Dow Jones spokeswoman, had no immediate
comment.  News Corp. (NWSA)  had said that the Guardian’s reporting was
misleading. The Guardian responded that it stood by the story.  Promotional Program  Andrew Langhoff resigned this week as publisher of the
Journal’s European edition because of a perceived breach of
editorial integrity surrounding the partnership with ELP, Dobbin
said. His departure wasn’t linked to allegations about inflated
circulation reported in  London ’s Guardian newspaper, she said.  News Corp. ran a promotional program through which sponsors
including ELP paid a discounted rate for newspapers and
distributed them to students. In return the sponsors’ names were
published in the Journal, the Guardian said. The Audit Bureau of
Circulation in the U.K. ruled that the program, which accounted
for 41 percent of the European Journal’s daily sales, was
legitimate, the Guardian reported.  Langhoff arranged to funnel money to third parties to
reimburse Netherlands-based ELP for buying copies of the Wall
Street Journal Europe, the Guardian said, citing internal e-
mails. ELP was responsible for about 12,000 copies a day, and
was paying 1 euro cent per copy, the Guardian said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp. fell 0.9 percent to $16.94 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading at 12:51 p.m.  New York  time. The stock had gained
17 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  