-- 
House Prices in U.K. Decline as European Debt Crisis Undermines Confidence

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-k-home-prices-post-first-drop-since-june-acadametrics-says.html
U.K. house prices fell for the first
time in three months in September as turmoil in financial
markets spurred by  Europe ’s debt crisis undermined confidence,
Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in  England  and  Wales  fell 0.3
percent from August to 218,650 pounds ($343,000), the lowest
since June, the groups estimated in an e-mailed report in  London 
today. Prices dropped 2.3 percent from a year earlier.  The housing market is struggling to gain momentum as banks
restrict lending and inflation outpaces wage growth. While  Bank
of England  policy makers expanded stimulus last month to aid the
economic recovery, the escalation of the debt crisis threatens
demand, Acadametrics Chairman Peter Williams said.  “The most recent economic news is far from positive and we
are seeing a rapid tightening in the supply of credit and the
emergence of renewed tensions around the banking sector,”
Williams said in the report. “This might drive the housing
market down, taking  house prices  with it. Much turns on the
success of the interventions now put in place.”  Of the 10 regions in England and Wales tracked by
Acadametrics, all apart from London posted price declines in the
past three months compared with a year earlier. Prices in
northern England led the drop, with a fall of 6.7 percent, while
London posted a 1.1 percent gain.  Housing Transactions  While Acadametrics and LSL estimate that transactions in
September were unchanged at 66,500 compared with August, they
are “much higher” than expected, they said. Still, September’s
total is 73 percent of the average in that month in the 16 years
through 2010.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee raised the
ceiling for its asset-purchase program to 275 billion pounds
from 200 billion pounds on Oct. 6. It also held its benchmark
 interest rate  at 0.5 percent.  “Mortgage lenders’ willingness to lend at record low rates
is based on expectations that the MPC will keep rates low for
the foreseeable future and that the euro-zone crisis won’t
become a disaster,” David Newnes, director of LSL, said in the
report. “While it’s probable these conditions will continue,
it’s far from certain.”  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures for
an estimate for the most recent month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  