-- 
U.S. Economy: Four-Month Low Trade Gap May Help Growth

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-13T20:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-s-trade-deficit-was-little-changed-at-45-6-billion-in-august.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  was little
changed at a four-month low of $45.6 billion in August as near-
record exports helped keep the economy expanding.  The shortfall compared with a median projection of $45.8
billion in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Shipments
abroad valued at $177.6 billion were the second-highest ever,
the Commerce Department said in Washington. Two other reports
today signaled Americans remain pessimistic as the labor market
shows few signs of improving.  Growing sales overseas, particularly to economies in Asia
and  Latin America , are underpinning manufacturers like  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)  Those gains may assist in sustaining the expansion by
counterbalancing the slowdown in U.S. demand that was reflected
in a third consecutive drop in imports.  “Emerging markets are slowing, but they are still posting
robust growth numbers, so as a result we are expecting moderate
growth in exports will continue,” said Greg Daco, a senior
economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
“Imports will fall a bit as domestic demand slows. Trade will
have a minor, but still positive, contribution to growth, which
is something that is very much needed.”  The  trade gap  was projected to widen from an initially
reported $44.8 billion in July, according to the median forecast
of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Estimates ranged from
deficits of $48.4 billion to $42 billion.  First-time claims for jobless benefits decreased by 1,000
to 404,000 last week, the Labor Department said today. The
number of people on unemployment benefit rolls fell to the
lowest level in six months.  Consumer Sentiment  Consumer confidence  hovered last week near a record low as
Americans turned more pessimistic about the state of the  U.S.
economy . The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 50.8
in the week ended Oct. 9 from 50.2 the prior period.  It was the fourth consecutive reading lower than minus 50,
something that has happened just three previous times in its 26-
year history.  Stocks fell amid lower earnings from JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and concern equities rose too much on optimism about Europe’s
debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3
percent to 1,203.66 at the close in  New York .  After eliminating the influence of prices to render the
figures used in calculating gross domestic product, the trade
deficit averaged $46.5 billion in the first two months of the
third quarter. The number was less than the $47.3 billion
deficit average in the second quarter.  Crude Oil Imports  The Commerce Department’s figures today showed American
refiners imported more crude oil and shipped more refined
petroleum product abroad in August.  The increase in demand for crude oil came as the price per
barrel dropped. The average price of a barrel of imported oil
was $102.62 compared with $104.27 in July, today’s report
showed. U.S. companies imported 302,481 barrels in August, the
most in a year.  Exports were also boosted by other industrial supplies such
as coal and steelmaking materials. American companies also
exported more  consumer goods , including pharmaceuticals.  In addition to crude oil, the U.S. imported more chemicals,
foods and metals.  A stagnant labor market is weighing on the ability of U.S.
households to spend on imported merchandise. The  unemployment
rate  held at 9.1 percent in September for a third straight
month, Labor Department figures showed Oct. 7. Consumer goods
imports declined in August, today’s figures showed.  European Orders  Sustained gains in exports may prove difficult amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
this week posted profit that trailed analysts’ estimates, saying
European customers cut orders on economic uncertainty.  “Fearful of a slowing economy, our European customers
reduced their orders dramatically, even into September,” Chief
Financial Officer Charles McLane said on a conference call.  Still, Alcoa forecast that  China , the world’s largest user
of aluminum, will see demand rise 17 percent this year compared
with a previous projection of 15 percent.  Overseas sales also remain a source of strength for General
Electric Co.  “We still see robust demand for our infrastructure
products,” in the face of “the global volatility,”  Jeffrey
Immelt , chairman and chief executive officer of GE, said Sept.
26 in  India . “We still feel quite good about our prospects on a
global basis.”  U.S. Dollar  A strengthening in the U.S. dollar over the last couple
months may make American-made goods more expensive for overseas
customers. Since late July through yesterday, the dollar has
gained about 6.2 percent against a basket of currencies of major
trading partners after falling 9.1 percent in the prior 12
months.  Today’s figures showed the trade deficit with China rose to
a record $29 billion as imports from the nation were the highest
ever.  The  U.S. Senate  passed a bill this week that would allow
companies to seek duties to compensate for “misaligned”
exchange rates. Some U.S. lawmakers and business executives say
the Chinese yuan is undervalued and unfairly boosts that
country’s exports. House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday
that he has “grave concerns” with the bill, casting doubt on
whether it will become law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  