-- 
U.S. Trade Gap Probably Widened in August as Exports Slowed

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-13T08:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-s-trade-gap-probably-widened-in-august-as-exports-slowed.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  probably
increased in August as a cooling in the global economy prompted
American companies to ship fewer goods abroad, economists said
before a report today.  The gap widened 2.2 percent to $45.8 billion, according to
the median of 81 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The
deficit shrank in July by the most since February 2009, when the
economy was in a recession, as exports of cars and capital goods
rebounded. Jobless claims rose last week, other data may show.  Companies such as  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  may temper production as the
global slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis restrain demand and
limit trade flows. With fewer sales overseas and American
consumers and companies reluctant to increase spending, the
economy may get less of a boost from manufacturing.  “We’ve seen trade flows globally slowing as this recovery
has shown signs of rolling over,” said  Eric Green , chief market
economist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York . “Exports have been
strong for the last two years, but that momentum is being
exhausted.”  The Commerce Department will release the trade figures at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates ranged from deficits of $48.4
billion to $42 billion.  Hours before the U.S. data,  China  reported that its own
exports moderated in September, with growth in shipments to
Europe slumping to a year-on-year pace of 9.8 percent, from 22
percent in August, amid the euro-region’s woes. Total exports
rose 17 percent, the least in seven months, and the  trade
surplus  was $14.5 billion, the smallest since May.  Jobless Claims  The number of U.S. applications for unemployment insurance
payments rose to 405,000 last week from 401,000 in the prior
period, according to the median forecast of economists ahead of
Labor Department data at the same time as the trade figures.
Claims have averaged 415,000 so far this year.  Falling fuel prices may have limited the increase in the
 trade gap  in August. The cost of imported petroleum dropped 2.1
percent during the month, according to figures from the Labor
Department.  At the same time, Japanese-made goods keep flowing into U.S.
ports as the Asian nation recovers from an earthquake and
tsunami in March that delayed deliveries of parts and components
as well as finished products.  Auto Industry  Nissan Motor Co. boosted September sales more than
projected and industry-wide purchases were the best since April
even as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co., still struggling
to deliver enough vehicles to dealers, lost share of the U.S.
market.  “The worst is behind us, and we expect to exceed year-ago
sales levels beginning in October, with continued growth
throughout the fourth quarter,”  Bob Carter , group vice
president of U.S. sales for Toyota, said last week.  Exports are showing signs of waning amid concerns of a
European default and slower growth in emerging markets such as
China, India and  Brazil .  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, this week posted
profit that trailed analysts’ estimates, saying European
customers “dramatically” cut orders on economic uncertainty.
Klaus Kleinfeld, the company’s chief executive officer, said Oct.
11 that European aluminum demand will drop 13 percent in the
second half of the year from the first six months.  Europe  Cutbacks  “Fearful of a slowing economy, our European customers
reduced their orders dramatically, even into September,” Chief
Financial Officer Charles McLane said on a conference call.  The  International Monetary Fund  last month cut its forecast
for global growth and predicted “severe” repercussions if
Europe fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S. policy makers
deadlock over a fiscal plan.  The IMF lowered its forecast for growth in the euro area to
1.6 percent this year from a prior 2 percent forecast. Its U.S.
growth projection was revised to 1.5 percent this year from a
previous 2.5 percent. Economic growth in  Mexico , the third-
largest U.S. trading partner, will be 3.8 percent, down from a
prior 4.7 percent estimate.  A strengthening in the  U.S. dollar  over the last couple
months threatens to make American-made goods less competitive in
the global marketplace. Since late July, the dollar has
strengthened about 6.2 percent against a basket of currencies of
major trading partners after falling 9.1 percent in the prior 12
months.  The  U.S. Senate  passed a bill this week that would allow
companies to seek duties to compensate for “misaligned”
exchange rates. Some U.S. lawmakers and business executives say
the Chinese yuan is undervalued and unfairly boosts that
country’s exports. House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday
that he has “grave concerns” with the bill, casting doubt on
whether it will become law.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  