-- 
U.S. Consumer Bureau Outlines Mortgage Servicer Supervision

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-10-13T17:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-s-consumer-bureau-plans-to-supervise-mortgage-servicers.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau said it will focus on mortgage servicing as it
begins supervision of the nation’s largest banks.  “Mortgage servicing has a huge impact on consumers and is
a priority for the CFPB,” Raj Date, special adviser to the
Treasury Secretary for the consumer bureau, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “We are going to take a close and measured look at whether
servicers are following the law,” he said.  The supervisory program will focus initially on loans that
are in default and homeowners who are struggling to make
payments, the bureau said in the statement.  For example, the bureau will examine loan modification
procedures to ensure that servicers are “providing information
about alternatives to foreclosure that is accurate, prominent
and clear,” the statement said. The agency will scrutinize the
foreclosure process to make sure that “the borrower is actually
in default and all of the necessary records have been carefully
reviewed.”  It will also look at the fees charged to borrowers who are
in default “to make sure they are not duplicative or otherwise
illegal,” according to the statement.  The consumer agency, which was created by the Dodd-Frank
regulatory law of 2010, made the announcement as it also
released the  first edition of its examination manual , the
document that tells bureau employees and the banks how it will
conduct its oversight.  Agency Authority  Exam procedures will “evolve over time,” Date said in a
telephone conference with reporters.  On July 21, the new agency officially took over banking
supervision for consumer issues. Its authority is limited to
those U.S. banks, currently 105, who have more than $10 billion
in assets.  State attorneys general are negotiating with major mortgage
servicers, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , on a settlement to resolve claims of abusive practices.
An agreement is “essentially done” on the standards for how
banks will service mortgages, Iowa Assistant Attorney General
Patrick Madigan said in an interview.  Editors: Lawrence Roberts, Maura Reynolds  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  