-- 
U.S. Moves to Isolate Iran, Push Stronger International Action

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-s-takes-iran-case-to-un-after-assassination-plot-against-saudi-diplomat.html
The U.S. launched a full-court press
portraying  Iran  as an outlaw state that threatens global
security.  In doing so, the Obama administration laid the groundwork
yesterday for efforts to ratchet up multilateral sanctions,
isolate the regime diplomatically and perhaps take other
actions.  Vice President Joe Biden and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  led the offense, with Biden denouncing the alleged
Iranian plot to assassinate the Saudi ambassador to Washington -
- foiled by U.S. authorities -- as “outrageous.” Clinton
demanded Iran be held accountable for “a flagrant violation of
international and U.S. law.”  Deputy Secretary of State William Burns invited some 100
foreign diplomats in Washington to the State Department for a
meeting revealing details of the alleged plot, while U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice  -- flanked by
officials from the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , the Central
Intelligence Agency and the Justice and State Departments --
briefed UN Security Council members in New York.  Iran’s ambassador to the UN, Mohammad Khazaee, told
reporters the U.S. accusation is “a really big lie” and
“doesn’t make sense.” He also accused the U.S. of setting a
“dangerous precedent” in drumming up international
condemnation for something he said Iran hasn’t done.  The Treasury Department, meanwhile, imposed sanctions on
Mahan Air, an Iranian commercial airline it accused of
“secretly ferrying operatives, weapons and funds” for Iran’s
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and its Quds Force unit.  The Plot  In Tehran, the Foreign Ministry summoned a Swiss diplomat
who represents U.S. interests in Iran to answer questions about
the U.S. federal indictment, according to the semi-official Mehr
news agency.  Manssor Arbabsiar, a 56-year-old Iranian native and
naturalized U.S. citizen who was working as a used car salesman
in  Texas , and Gholam Shakuri, an Iranian member of the Quds
Force, were charged in Manhattan federal court with conspiracy
to use plastic explosives to murder Saudi Ambassador Adel al- Jubeir. Arbabsiar is in U.S. custody; Shakuri remains at large,
U.S. officials said.  U.S. administration officials briefed key lawmakers on the
plot, and a number of senators and former officials publicly
called for stronger action against Iran beyond existing
sanctions that critics say have failed to stop Iran from
supporting terror groups or ceasing a suspected nuclear weapons
program.  Time to Act  Senator Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, called
for swift passage of legislation he co-sponsored in May to
toughen sanctions against Iran, North Korea and Syria.  “It is time for the  United States  and our allies to make
clear to Iran’s leaders that if they continue on their current
outlaw course, they will face more than just further incremental
ratcheting up of economic sanctions and diplomatic pressure,”
Lieberman said in a statement.  The brazenness of the plan suggests Iran’s leaders “did
not believe there would be serious repercussions if their role
was discovered,”  Elliott Abrams , a former deputy national
security adviser to President  George W. Bush , said.  Abrams, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations
in  Washington , said the challenge facing the Obama
administration “is to determine how to punish Iran in ways”
that persuade Iran’s leaders to cease “any future plans for
terrorism against Americans or in the United States.”  Terrorism Sponsor  The U.S. designated Iran as a state sponsor of terrorism in
1984 and says Iran provides weapons, training and money to Hamas
and Hezbollah, among other Middle East militant groups that the
U.S. classifies as terrorist organizations.  The Obama administration also reached out to leaders of the
 Arab League  and the Gulf Cooperation Council, seeking to rally
support for tightening sanctions on Iran.  Clinton telephoned numerous counterparts, the State
Department said, including the foreign ministers of  Saudi
Arabia ,  Russia  and  Mexico , which the U.S. credited with helping
foil the alleged plot by members of Iran’s Quds force to hire
Mexican drug traffickers to carry out a bombing targeting the
Saudi ambassador in Washington.  The gravity of the allegations has raised the possibility
the U.S. will pursue punitive measures at the world body against
Iran, which is already under four rounds of UN sanctions because
of what the U.S. and other nations allege is a clandestine
nuclear weapons program.  ‘Crippling Sanctions’  U.S. financial institutions are barred from dealing with
Iranian government institutions, and in August a bipartisan
group of 92 U.S. senators called on President Barack Obama to
impose “crippling sanctions” on Iran’s central bank, Bank
Markazi, under last year’s Iran Sanctions Act. The move was led
by Senators Mark Kirk, a Republican of  Illinois , and Chuck Schumer, a Democrat of  New York .  U.S. and European sanctions on more than 20 Iranian banks
have hampered the country’s international commerce, and Iranian
officials have talked to Chinese counterparts about creating a
barter system to use Iranian oil to pay for Chinese construction
projects in Iran, according to several U.S. officials who spoke
on condition of anonymity.  On the Senate floor yesterday, Kirk called on the U.S.
Federal Reserve and the  European Central Bank  to ban any
transactions with the Iran’s central bank.  “Their currency would become like North Korea’s
currency,” Kirk said.  Saudi Reaction  The Treasury Department hasn’t sanctioned Iran’s Central
Bank, though it is already cut off from the U.S. financial
system since financial dealings with Iranian government entities
are prohibited.  “In coming days, the exchange of rhetoric will be
aggressive, and Saudi Arabia will likely downgrade, or even
break, relations with Iran,”  Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at New
York-based research firm Eurasia Group, said in an e-mail.  Although the alleged plot seemed amateurish considering
that the suspects dealt with a Drug Enforcement Agency informant
whom they hadn’t vetted, made a $100,000 wire transfer to pay
for the alleged scheme and discussed it on the telephone, U.S.
officials said they concluded that it wasn’t a rogue operation.
Officials told reporters they believe the plan was likely
discussed and approved at high levels of the Iranian government.  Who Knew?  The Quds Force, with several thousand officers, is the arm
of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps responsible for
covert and special operations outside Iran, including arming and
training Shiite Muslim militias in  Iraq  to attack U.S. troops.
It reports to Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.  U.S. officials asserted it is possible that Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad didn’t know of the risky plan to
murder an ambassador in a restaurant in the American capital.  The officials said that some political hardliners who have
recently reached high positions in the Iranian government have
little or no experience in the West and may have failed to
understand how the U.S. and other countries would respond to the
plot to kill a diplomat on foreign soil.  Perhaps the most effective retaliation against Iran, one
U.S. official suggested, would be for Saudi Arabia to boost its
crude production in an effort to depress  oil prices . Such a move
would hurt Iran, which is the second-largest producer in OPEC
and holder of the  world’s fourth-biggest proven oil reserves.”  Oil Politics  Saudi Arabia is OPEC’s biggest producer. Saudi Arabia
produced 9.76 million barrels a day in September, up 9.4 percent
from 8.93 million barrels a day in May, according to Bloomberg
data.  Tensions between predominately Sunni Saudi Arabia and
Shiite Iran date back to Iran’s Islamic Revolution in 1979.
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini accused Saudi rulers of corruption
and argued that the holy sites of Mecca and Medina in Saudi
Arabia shouldn’t be under a single country’s guardianship. Saudi
authorities have blamed unrest among Shiites in the Eastern
Province, where the oil is, and in nearby Bahrain on
instigations by Iran.  “For investors,” Kupchan said, “the main concern will be
the prospect of tension and proxy hostilities between these two
top oil producers.”  -- With assistance from Flavia Krause-Jackson and Bill Varner at
the  United Nations . Editors: Terry Atlas, Jim Rubin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  