-- 
U.S. Money Funds Reduced Lending to French Banks by 44% in September

-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h
-- 
2011-10-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/u-s-money-funds-cut-loans-to-french-banks-by-44-last-month.html
The eight largest U.S.  money-market
funds  reduced their lending to French banks by 44 percent last
month as the European sovereign debt crisis worsened.  Holdings in BNP Paribas SA,  Societe Generale  SA, Natixis SA
and  Credit Agricole  SA dropped to $23.2 billion at the end of
September from $41.5 billion the previous month, according to
filings compiled by Bloomberg and published in today’s Bloomberg
Risk newsletter. The biggest falls were for Natixis, at 74
percent, and Credit Agricole, at 64 percent, the data showed.  The funds, which control $592.4 billion in assets between
them, disclose their holdings every month. They are reducing
loans to European banks on concern the sovereign-debt crisis has
undermined lenders’ ability to access wholesale markets. EU
banks are increasingly tapping the  European Central Bank  for
emergency cash as short-term funding evaporates. The ECB last
week reintroduced yearlong loans, giving banks unlimited access
to cash through January 2013.  “There has been a substantial decrease in access to the
wholesale funding markets whether for money market funds, debt
security issuance or securitization,” Huw van Steenis, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London , wrote in an Oct. 10 report.
“Banks expect that funding markets will continue to deteriorate
albeit at a slower pace.”  The reduction in U.S. money-market lending forced the ECB
last month to reintroduce dollar funding through longer-term
three-month  repurchase agreements . The central bank said Oct. 12
that six lenders asked for a total of $1.35 billion of three-
month dollar loans in the first of three operations. The banks
will pay a fixed rate of 1.09 percent for the funds. Separately,
one bank received a $500 million week-long dollar loan.  Global Recession  The ECB last introduced a three-month dollar loan in May
2010 to calm markets roiled by the threat of a Greek default. It
has been lending banks as much euro cash as they need at its
benchmark rate since October 2008, when the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered a global recession.  The funds’ holdings in Societe Generale declined by 51
percent to $3 billion, and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  by 20 percent to $14.8
billion, the filings show. Over the last 12 months, there has
been an 83 percent decline in Societe Generale funding from U.S.
money market funds and a 40 percent fall in funding for BNP
Paribas. Spokesmen for Paris-based Societe Generale, BNP Paribas
and Credit Agricole declined to comment on the reduction.
Officials at Natixis didn’t return calls for comment.  “Even if it were to go to zero, there would be no
problem,”  Frederic Oudea , Societe Generale’s chief executive
officer, said in a Sept. 13 interview. The bank could withstand
an indefinite withdrawal of U.S. money market funding, he said.  Dollar Liabilities  European banks, including BNP Paribas and Societe Generale,
have said they have reduced their reliance on U.S. money market
funding. They are also increasingly using other sources of
dollar funding to finance their U.S. operations.  The premium European banks pay to swap euro funding for
dollar liabilities rose to within 4 basis points of the highest
level since December 2008 earlier this month.  The funds also reduced their holdings in  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,
 Belgium ’s biggest lender, by 80 percent to $587 million. KBC
spokesman Stephane Leunens declined to respond to a request for
comment.  The money market data are based on the most recent
portfolio disclosures from Fidelity Cash Reserves Fund, JPMorgan
Prime Money Market Fund, Vanguard Prime Money Market Find,
Fidelity Institutional Money Market Portfolio, Fidelity
Institutional Prime Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock TempFund,
Wells Fargo Advantage Heritage Money Markets Fund and Federated
Prime Obligations Fund. The figures include repo loans that are
backed by government collateral.  ‘Carefully Selected’  Federated Investors Inc. said that its funds would continue
to invest in European banks. The use of “carefully selected”
securities from major global European banks poses a “minimal
credit risk,” said Meghan McAndrew, spokeswoman at Pittsburgh-
based Federated Investors.  JPMorgan declined to comment.  Fidelity Investments ,
Vanguard, BlackRock and Wells Fargo didn’t return requests for
comment.  The funds’ assets dropped 1.7 percent in the month. U.S.
money funds held $2.61 trillion in assets as of Oct. 11,
including $1.45 trillion in funds eligible to invest in non-
government debt, according to research firm iMoneyNet in
Westborough,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in Londont .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Ted Merz in New York at   tmerz@bloomberg.net  