-- 
UAW Says Majority of Early Voters Reject Proposed Ford Contract

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/uaw-says-proposed-ford-pact-trailing-in-votes-tallied-so-far.html
The  United Auto Workers  said
55 percent of its  Ford Motor Co. (F)  members rejected a tentative
four-year labor agreement with the automaker in early voting.  In voting that began this week, 3,915 of Ford’s UAW-
represented workers had cast ballots against the proposed
contract, while 3,256 endorsed it, the union said yesterday in a
post on its  UAW Ford Department page on Facebook . That
represents about 18 percent of Ford’s 40,600 U.S. hourly workers.
A local in suburban  Cleveland  has since voted in favor of the
agreement, which wasn’t reflected in the UAW’s tally.  UAW President  Bob King  told reporters Oct. 12 that he
expected the contract to be ratified in voting that concludes
Oct. 18. Ford pledged 12,000 new jobs, $6.2 billion in factory
upgrades, and bonus and profit-sharing payments this year that
total as much as $10,000 per worker. It does not include raises
for senior workers or restore cost-of-living pay increases
workers gave up to help Ford survive.  “Workers just don’t think this is a good deal after all
they’ve given up,” said Gary Walkowicz, a union official at UAW
Local 600 in Dearborn, Michigan, who is leading a campaign
against the tentative agreement. “Times are obviously better
for the company and the executives are getting raises, but they
don’t want to give anything back to the workers.”  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two calendar years
after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s 2010 compensation rose 48
percent to $26.5 million. Ford also awarded him more than $56
million in stock in March for leading the company’s turnaround.  Cleveland Vote  Workers at Ford’s engine plant in Brook Park,  Ohio ,
yesterday approved the proposed contract with 57 percent of the
votes, said Mike Gammella, president of UAW Local 1250. The
factory, which employs 943 people, is gaining a third shift of
workers as part of the new contract.  “This is a very good contract in a very poor economy,”
Gammella. “People understand that.”  Ford borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all
major assets including its blue oval logo as collateral. That
helped Ford avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell the
predecessors of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC. As
part of those government-backed reorganizations, the UAW agreed
not to strike either automaker in this year’s negotiations.  “If workers go on strike despite Ford’s promise to create
thousands of jobs, it will only add to the anti-union fervor
that’s growing in the country,” said  Gary Chaison , a professor
of industrial relations at  Clark University  in Worcester,
 Massachusetts . “This is a rejection of the UAW leadership and a
rejection of moderation.”  Facebook Posts  The UAW Ford Department said on its Facebook page Oct. 12
that union Vice President Jimmy Settles, who led negotiations
with Ford, would call for a strike if the contract is rejected
and give the automaker 72 hours notice of a walkout. The UAW has
not had a national strike at Ford since 1976. The Facebook
message also warned that strike breakers would be hired, which
the union recanted.  “A post on the UAW Ford Department Facebook page yesterday
related to a possible strike at Ford was not authorized by me,”
Settles said yesterday in an e-mail. “I remain optimistic that
the tentative agreement will pass and I am not focused on a
strike at this point. Some local unions are making routine
strike preparations which are always done during the negotiation
process.”  Recent Votes  Workers at Ford’s Chicago assembly plant, which makes the
Taurus sedan and Explorer sport-utility vehicle, voted 77
percent against the proposed contract Oct. 12, according to
Walkowicz. Workers at the Wayne,  Michigan , plant, which makes
the Focus small car, rejected the accord with a 51.1 percent
“no” vote this week.  Production workers at a Ford axle plant in  Sterling Heights ,
Michigan, approved the agreement Oct. 12 with 66 percent of the
votes, said Brian Pannebecker, a worker at the factory. Skilled-
trades workers at the plant endorsed the deal with 64.5 percent,
he said.  Karen Hampton, a Ford spokeswoman, said the company is
confident the contract will be approved.  “The agreement is fair to our employees and improves
Ford’s competitiveness in the U.S.,” she said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We remain optimistic that the tentative agreement
will be approved.”  The second-largest U.S. automaker earned $4.95 billion in
the first half of the year, as fuel-efficient models like the
Fiesta subcompact attracted buyers. Ford’s U.S. light-vehicle
sales are up 11 percent this year through September, ahead of
the industrywide gain of 10 percent.  Ford’s comeback may receive a setback from the contract
ratification vote, even if it narrowly passes, Chaison said.  “To have even a close vote would be bad,” Chaison said.
“Ford has made a very strong case it has turned the corner. If
the contract is turned down, people will question how secure
that comeback is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  