-- 
UAW Recants on Ford Hiring Strike Breakers If Pact Fails

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-10-13T20:06:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/uaw-recants-comment-on-ford-hiring-strike-breakers-if-pact-fails.html
The  United Auto Workers  recanted a
Facebook Post it made yesterday saying  Ford Motor Co. (F)  will hire
replacement workers if union members reject a proposed four-year
contract.  The UAW didn’t take back comments attributed to Vice
President Jimmy Settles, the union’s lead Ford negotiator, that
a strike would be called if workers reject the tentative
agreement reached Oct. 4 with Ford. Workers at Ford factories in
Chicago and Wayne, Michigan, have voted against the deal this
week. The ratification vote concludes Oct. 18.  “To clarify an earlier post: Vice President Settles has
never said that Ford will hire scab laborers,” the  UAW Ford
Department  said in a post late yesterday. “There was a post
that erroneously said that earlier.”  In response to questions about its clarification, the UAW
Ford Department said: “We absolutely can go on strike.” The
union’s earlier post said Settles would call for a strike if the
contract is rejected and give Ford 72 hours notice of a walkout.
The UAW has not had a national strike at Ford since 1976.  “A post on the UAW Ford Department Facebook page yesterday
related to a possible strike at Ford was not authorized by me,”
Settles said today in an e-mail. “I remain optimistic that the
tentative agreement will pass and I am not focused on a strike
at this point. Some local unions are making routine strike
preparations which are always done during the negotiation
process.”  Chicago,  Michigan  Votes  Workers at Ford’s Chicago assembly plant, which makes the
Taurus and Explorer, yesterday voted 77 percent against the
proposed contract, according to Gary Walkowicz, a union official
at UAW Local 600 in Dearborn, Michigan. Workers at the Wayne,
Michigan, plant, which makes the Focus small car, rejected the
accord with a 51.1 percent “no” vote this week.  Production workers at a Ford axle plant in  Sterling
Heights , Michigan, approved the agreement yesterday with 66
percent of the votes, said Brian Pannebecker, a worker at the
factory. Skilled trades workers at the plant endorsed the deal
with 64.5 percent, he said.  Ford Optimistic  Karen Hampton, a Ford spokeswoman, said the company remains
confident the contract will be approved by its 41,000 UAW-
represented workers.  “The agreement is fair to our employees and improves
Ford’s competitiveness in the U.S.,” she said in an e-mail
today. “We remain optimistic that the tentative agreement will
be approved.”  Ford fell 0.4 percent to $11.34 at the close in  New York .  In 2009, Ford workers rejected a deal endorsed by the UAW
leadership that would have banned strikes until 2015 and frozen
the pay of new workers for six years.  The union’s Facebook posts reinforce the leadership’s
message that the tentative agreement is the best they could get,
said  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley.  “This is a way to make the membership understand that this
is the best that can be negotiated at the bargaining table,”
Shaiken said. “And if it’s not ratified, they’ll have to walk
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Souhfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  