-- 
Wireless Gear Maker Ubiquiti Cuts Price on Initial Offer

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-10-13T11:31:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ubiquiti-may-cut-ipo-to-complete-first-deal.html
Ubiquiti Networks Inc. cut the per-
share price on its initial public offering by as much as 32
percent as the wireless network gear maker strives to complete
the first U.S. IPO in more than a month.  The new price range is $15 to $17 a share, according to a
regulatory filing today from the  San Jose , California-based
company. Its earlier range was $20 to $22. Also today, Xunlei
Ltd., a digital-media streaming and download services provider
in Shenzhen,  China , withdrew plans for a U.S. IPO.  Ubiquiti would mark the first U.S. IPO since Sept. 1, after
equity markets fell to the lowest level in more than a year and
stock volatility surged in August to the highest since 2009. At
least 67 companies have withdrawn or postponed U.S. IPOs this
year, the most since the comparable period in 2008, Bloomberg
data show.  Ubiquiti “may take a discount in order to get the cash,”
Michael Shinnick, who helps oversee $9.5 billion at  South Bend ,
Indiana-based Wasatch Advisors Inc., said before the new price
range was released. “There are other types of companies that
can wait, be more opportunistic and look for maximizing their
valuation.”  The IPO is being led by  UBS AG (UBS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  The company, whose shares will list
on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol UBNT, will use
proceeds from the offering to bolster working capital and repay
$34 million of promissory notes, according to the filing.  Tudou Offering  Before the recent lull in IPOs, Tudou Holdings Ltd., the
Shanghai-based video website operator, raised $174 million in a
U.S. listing on Aug. 16. American Realty Capital Properties
Inc., a real estate investment trust based in  New York , sold
$69.8 million of shares in its IPO on Sept. 1.  Even discounted deals haven’t attracted investors.
WhiteGlove Health Inc., the Austin, Texas-based provider of
medical services, announced IPO plans in May, then slashed the
size of its offering by 31 percent and finally withdrew its
registration last month.  Meanwhile, the backlog of companies that have filed to
raise money through initial share sales has grown. There were
more than 200 deals in the U.S. IPO backlog seeking a total of
$53 billion at the end of last month, the most since 2000,
according to  Renaissance Capital LLC , the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based IPO research and investment firm.  Separately, equity markets have rebounded as European
leaders provide a road map to tame the debt crisis and U.S.
economic data has improved. U.S. stocks rose yesterday, briefly
erasing the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s 2011 loss. The Dow
has gained 8.1 percent since reaching this year’s closing low on
Oct. 3, while the  S&P 500  had the biggest rally over seven days
since March 2009, climbing 9.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  