-- 
UBS, RBS Ratings Lowered as Fitch Says More Than a Dozen Banks May Follow

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-14T03:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/ubs-rbs-ratings-cut-as-fitch-says-more-than-a-dozen-lenders-may-follow.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  had long-term issuer default
grades cut by Fitch Ratings, which put more than a dozen other
lenders on watch negative as part of a global review.  UBS’s long-term issuer default rating and its “support
rating floor” were cut to A from A+ on a “view that the one-
notch uplift for close affiliation with the Swiss state is no
longer warranted,” the ratings firm said yesterday in a
statement. Lloyds and RBS were lowered two steps to A from AA-
as Fitch said the U.K. is less likely to provide future support.  Fitch also placed viability ratings, and in some cases
credit grades, on negative watch for seven global banks
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley because of
new regulations and economic developments. It put European banks
such as  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  on watch, based on sovereign debt
concerns and said it would review  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
mortgage-litigation risks.  “Fitch systematically, like many of the rating agencies,
seems to be working its way through the European banking
community from the standpoint of raising awareness of potential
capital inadequacies,”  Adrian Miller , a New York-based fixed
income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC, said
in a telephone interview. “This is more or less a macro call on
the sector. It’s a continuation of a developing theme that’s
been going on since July that, since that point, has
intermittently sent shockwaves throughout the market.”  Spain Downgraded  The euro weakened against the dollar and yen after Standard
& Poor’s cut Spain’s credit rating, highlighting concern that
rising defaults will threaten efforts to stem Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis. Spain’s long-term sovereign debt was
downgraded to AA- from AA, making it the third cut in three
years by S&P.  The seven global banks placed on watch by Fitch include
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Credit Suisse AG,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   The move “reflects Fitch’s view that these institutions’
business models are particularly sensitive to the increased
challenges the financial markets are facing,” Fitch analysts
wrote in a statement. “These challenges result from both
economic developments, particularly in the euro area, as well as
a myriad of regulatory changes.”  Backstopping Banks  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy pledged on Oct. 9 to deliver a plan to
recapitalize Europe’s banks and address Greece’s debt crisis.
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said two days ago the
region needs a coordinated approach to backstop the region’s
banks and “get ahead of the curve.”  UBS’s viability rating, which measures creditworthiness and
is meant to be internationally comparable, was placed on
negative watch last month and was unaffected by yesterday’s
action, Fitch said. UBS’s short-term rating was downgraded to F1
from F1+.  “UBS’s capital, liquidity and funding positions are sound
and continue to be a source of competitive advantage,” Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman for the Zurich-based bank, said in an e-
mail. “Fitch’s decision is not based on a change in its
assessment of UBS’s intrinsic creditworthiness. It comes as part
of a broader review of sovereign support assumptions for banks
in several countries.”  Broad View  The announcements reflect a broad view of the sector,
“versus a specific statement about Bank of America,” said
 Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based lender. “As we have said before, we have significant
reserves to cover potential mortgage repurchase claims.”  Spokesmen for  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Credit Suisse, Barclays,
Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas declined to comment. Spokesmen for
Societe Generale and Credit Agricole didn’t immediately respond
to phone calls or e-mails after hours.  Fitch reduced its support rating floors -- which measure
the likelihood of government support -- for systemically
important British banks to A from AA- and A+. The ratings firm
follows Moody’s Investors Service, which downgraded 12 British
lenders, including RBS and Lloyds on Oct. 7, and also cited a
lessening of government support.  Making Progress  “We are pleased that Fitch has commented on the steady
improvement in our stand-alone risk profile,”  Michael Geller ,
an RBS spokesman, said in an e-mail. “RBS has already completed
its wholesale funding requirements for 2011 and continues to
make progress in strengthening key balance sheet measures in the
second half.”  Sarah Swailes, a Lloyds spokeswoman, said the ratings firm
left the lender’s stand-alone rating unchanged and assigned a
stable outlook.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said last
week the government is trying to move away from guaranteeing the
country’s biggest banks. Lenders are under pressure from
regulators to raise capital that’s been depleted by writedowns
of Greek and other European peripheral sovereign debt.  At least 66 of  Europe ’s biggest banks would fail a revised
European Union stress test and need to raise about 220 billion
euros ($302 billion) of additional capital, Credit Suisse
analysts said yesterday. RBS would need the most at about 19
billion euros, analysts led by Carla Antunes-Silva wrote in a
note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  