-- 
Munich Re Sees ‘Window of Opportunity’ in Spanish Solar Plants

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-10-13T09:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/munich-re-sees-window-of-opportunity-in-spanish-solar-plants.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, said investments in Spanish solar plants are being
offered at attractive prices by developers and banks, providing
a “window of opportunity” for investors.  “Supply of photovoltaic plants in Spain clearly exceeds
demand at the moment,” said Robert Pottmann, head of renewable
energy and new technologies at MEAG, the Munich-based
reinsurer’s asset manager. “This is a window of opportunity
offering pretty attractive returns to investors.”  Munich Re plans to invest 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion)
in the next five years in renewable-energy assets such as wind
parks and solar plants to help boost investment returns,
management board member Thomas Blunck, who is responsible for
special and financial risks, said in an interview in June.  “In  Spain , there is currently a lot of deal flow from
banks as well as from developers who want to sell finished
plants to free up capital to build new ones,” Pottmann said.  MEAG purchased four photovoltaic plants in southern  Italy 
from Fotowatio SL, Spain’s second-largest solar-park operator,
in July for Munich Re. Fotowatio Renewable Ventures, as the
Madrid-based solar company is known, sold the Italian units to
allow investments in markets such as  Australia , it said. Munich
Re’s asset manager in July also bought a 37 percent stake in the
Spanish and Italian assets of T-Solar Global SA, Spain’s largest
operator of solar parks.  Fast-Track Projects  Bridge financing and project financing by banks aren’t
affected by the current debt crisis and “these sources of
financing are still available in many cases,” Pottmann said.
MEAG hasn’t taken a closer look at investments in solar plants
in  Greece  as “the bureaucratic approval process is still
considered extremely tedious by some of the developers we are in
contact with,” he added.  Greece, which pays  Europe ’s highest premium for solar
power,  said last month  it will fast-track three solar
photovoltaic projects with a total investment of 1 billion euros
to help revive its shrinking economy and convince lenders it’s
moving ahead with plans to reduce its debt burden.  “Currently, for photovoltaic, Spain, Italy and  Germany  are
in the focus,” Pottmann said. “But with German 10-year
 government bonds  offering yields close to 2 percent, a ready-to-
use German solar plant offering internal rates of return of
about 6 percent over 20 years also could be an attractive
investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  