-- 
Uniqlo Challenges H&M in New York as It Revs Up U.S., Global Expansion

-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 
2011-10-13T16:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/uniqlo-challenges-h-m-in-new-york-as-it-revs-up-u-s-expansion.html
Fast Retailing Co., which plans to
become the world’s biggest apparel retailer, will open a Uniqlo
flagship store in  New York  tomorrow.  Fast Retailing’s Uniqlo brand is accelerating its U.S.
expansion, with plans to open 20 locations a year for the next
few years. The new store on boutique-lined Fifth Avenue is
across the street from Salvatore Ferragamo and Cartier.  Uniqlo plans to boost global revenue fivefold to $50
billion by 2020 and “to do that we need to gain market share in
the U.S.,” Shin Odake, chief executive officer of Uniqlo’s U.S.
operations, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Uniqlo’s U.S. expansion comes as  consumer spending  remains
restrained amid market volatility and a 9.1 percent unemployment
rate. Consumer spending slowed in August as incomes dropped for
the first time in almost two years. Purchases rose 0.2 percent
after a 0.7 percent increase the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed Sept. 30.  Uniqlo aims to steal customers from the likes of Zara,
owned by  Spain ’s  Inditex SA (ITX) , and Stockholm-based  Hennes &
Mauritz AB (HMB) , said Robin Lewis, chief executive officer of the New
York-based Robin Report retail newsletter.  “Zara and H&M are pretty well advanced in New York, and I
think it’s going to be very tough for Uniqlo to cut into their
business,” Lewis said in a phone interview. “And it’s going to
be very tough to gain new business because those markets are so
over-saturated.”  To win over New York shoppers, Uniqlo, which has another
location in SoHo and is opening one more on 34th Street,
plastered much of the city with ads. Some feature portraits of
New York celebrities -- including actresses  Laura Linney  and
Susan Sarandon -- dressed in Uniqlo clothes.  Unisex Casual  Uniqlo was founded in 1984 in Hiroshima as a unisex casual
wear store under the name “Unique Clothing Warehouse.” In
1997, the chain began making its own clothing and selling it
exclusively. After Uniqlo’s affordable, everyday wear caught on
in  Japan , the company began expanding overseas.  The chain opened stores in New Jersey malls in 2005 and a
flagship the next year in SoHo. Sales were weak at the mall
locations and by early 2007 the New Jersey stores were gone.  “Our brand was not recognized, and it’s very difficult to
differentiate oneself in a shopping mall,” said CEO Odake.
“That was our lesson, and we opened a flagship in Soho. It was
quite a risk at the time and the Soho store was quite an
investment. People started coming in and business was good.”  Fast Retailing, which also owns the Theory and Comptoir des
Cotonniers brands, announced this week that it expects double-
digit profit and revenue gains this fiscal year, as it continues
its global expansion.  Fast Retailing, which has a market valuation of 1.39
trillion yen ($18.1 billion), operated 843 Uniqlo stores in
Japan and 181 abroad as of Aug. 31. The shares fell 1.4 percent
to 13,080 yen in  Tokyo  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  