-- 
Turkcell Falls After 2010 Dividend Not Approved, Spat Over Board Changes

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-13T13:47:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/turkcell-falls-in-istanbul-trading-after-dividend-not-approved.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS,
 Turkey ’s biggest mobile phone company, dropped after
shareholders didn’t vote on a dividend from 2010 profit and an
attempt by TeliaSonera SA to replace one or more board members
was blocked on government objections.  Turkcell declined as much as 2.3 percent to 8.40 liras. It
fell 0.5 percent to 8.56 liras at 4:30 p.m. The share rose 4.6
percent yesterday, partly on expectation the dividend would be
approved.  “The dispute is likely to continue,” said Erdem Hafizoglu, an analyst at BGC Partners in Istanbul. “The stock
trades at a premium to peers, which we don’t find very
reasonable even if there was no problem regarding the dividend
payments.”  Cukurova Holding AS of Turkey, owned by Mehmet Emin Karamehmet, Turkey’s richest man, is battling with TeliaSonera
and Alfa to keep control of Turkcell in wrangling that’s
escalated to court cases stretching from Geneva to the British
Virgin Islands. Yesterday’s extraordinary shareholders meeting
had already been scheduled twice previously.  Government Objection  Proposed changes to the company’s board, backed by
TeliaSonera and  Alfa Group  of  Russia  at yesterday’s meeting,
couldn’t be made after chairman  Colin Williams  blocked a vote.
Government officials at the meeting told Williams the vote would
break laws and regulations published on Oct. 11, Turkcell said
in a filing.  TeliaSonera and Alfa want Williams replaced, saying his
independent status as chairman is compromised by his closeness
to Karamehmet. Williams denies the charges.  Turkcell Holding, which owns 51 percent of Turkcell, is 53
percent owned by Cukurova Telecom Holding and 47 percent by
TeliaSonera. Alfa owns 49 percent of Cukurova Telecom Holding
and Cukurova Holding controls 51 percent.  TeliaSonera is looking forward to working with Turkish
authorities to improve corporate governance at Turkcell,
spokeswoman  Cecilia Edstroem  said by telephone yesterday. She
said the laws and regulations published by the capital
markets regulator on Oct. 11 that require Turkey’s largest
companies to appoint more independent board members were
“positive,” but Williams had ignored them.  The outlook for Turkcell shares is positive because the new
legislation means the deadlock is closer to a conclusion, Vera Sutedja, an analyst at Erste Group Bank AG in Vienna, said by
telephone today. In terms of 2012 projected earnings per share
Turkcell’s share price is “already attractive,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  