-- 
Turkey Says Current-Account Gap to Exceed 7 Percent of GDP

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-10-13T09:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/turkey-cuts-2012-growth-forecast-to-4-percent-babacan-says.html
Turkey ’s current-account deficit
will exceed 7 percent of gross domestic product in the next
three years even as economic growth slows, according to
government forecasts.  The gap will peak at 9.4 percent of GDP this year and
decline to 8 percent next year, falling to 7.5 percent in 2013
and 7 percent by 2014, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan told
reporters in Ankara today as he announced an updated medium-term
economic plan. He said the  budget deficit  will narrow to 1.5
percent of GDP in 2012 from 1.7 percent this year, even as
growth slows to 4 percent from 7.5 percent.  The central aim of government policy is to push Turkey into
more “balanced” consumption habits and reduce its reliance on
external financing of growth, Babacan said. The current-account
deficit makes Turkey vulnerable to swings in external investment
sentiment and is the biggest obstacle to the country achieving
an investment-grade  credit rating , according to companies such
as  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service.  “We have nothing to fear in Turkey, as long as our
consumption avoids waste and focuses on return,” Babacan said,
pledging to announce more “specific and concrete” steps to
tackle the current-account gap in the months ahead.  The plan aims for a tighter budget than the program
published last year, with debt to GDP declining from 39.8
percent at the end of this year to 35 percent in 2013 and 32
percent in 2014. The previous plan forecast debt of 36.8 percent
in 2013.  Gas, Oil Imports  Babacan said the current account deficit won’t fall rapidly
because the economy will continue to grow and depends on
imported gas and oil for energy. Domestic savings are also low,
which means Turkey is obliged to seek external financing, he
said.  The government’s forecast for growth this year is
“aggressive” and the adjustment in the current-account gap
will be “sharper” than the program predicts,  Yarkin Cebeci , an
Istanbul-based economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in an e-
mailed report. “We see the deficit falling below the 7 percent
mark before the end of the year.”  The predictions are based on the assumption that
authorities in  Europe  will resolve their sovereign debt and
banking problems quickly, Babacan said.  Tax Increases  Tax increases on cars, alcohol, tobacco and mobile phones
announced today will draw an additional 5.5 billion liras ($3
billion) in revenue, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said at the
joint news conference. The increases are designed to discourage
imports of  luxury goods , he said.  The plan reflects a 12 percent increase in central-
 government spending , to 351 billion liras, while revenue grows
13 percent, to 330 billion liras.  The government’s budget and debt goals are “reasonable and
positive in general,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist for BGC
Partners in Istanbul, said in a report.  The government will pull in 12.5 billion liras from sales
of its assets in 2012, compared with 4.3 billion liras this
year, according to the plan, which was also  posted on the
website  of the State Planning Organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net 
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 