-- 
Turkey Bonds Rally on Rating Upgrade Expectation After Tax Steps

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-13T11:41:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/turkey-bonds-rally-on-rating-upgrade-expectation-after-tax-steps.html
Turkish bonds gained for a second
day, driving yields to the lowest in three weeks, on bets the
country’s credit rating will be upgraded after the government
raised tax rates for cars and other goods.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.31 percent at 1:48 p.m. in
Istanbul, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index,
poised to close at the lowest level since Sept. 21. The lira
weakened 0.7 percent to 1.8331 per dollar.  The government raised special consumption taxes on cars and
other goods amid efforts to narrow the current-account deficit.
The tax increase would raise 5.5 billion liras ($3 billion) in
revenue, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said at a news
conference in Ankara today. Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan
said the  budget deficit  will narrow to 1.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 from 1.7 percent this year, even as
growth slows to 4 percent from 7.5 percent.  Yields are falling because of “expectations of a rating
upgrade after the announcement of the medium-term economic plan
and concrete policy measures,” Fatih Keresteci, a strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “I don’t expect an upgrade because there is no
noticeable improvement in the current account deficit.”  The current-account deficit makes  Turkey  dependent on
external financing and is the main obstacle to the assignment of
an investment-grade rating to the country’s debt,  Standard &
Poor’s  said Sept. 20.  The deficit will peak at 9.4 percent of GDP this year and
decline to 8 percent next year, falling to 7.5 percent in 2013
and 7 percent by 2014, Babacan told reporters in Ankara today as
he announced an updated medium-term economic plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  