-- 
Vertex Shares Rise on Optimism for Higher Incivek Sales

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-13T20:08:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/vertex-shares-rise-on-optimism-of-incivek-sales.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , seller
of the hepatitis C drug Incivek, rose the most in two months in
New York trading after IMS Health Inc., a prescription-data
company, said its report on sales of the medicine last month was
incomplete.  Vertex, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , jumped 9.1
percent to $43.88 at 4 p.m., for its biggest jump since Aug. 9.
IMS may have underestimated prescriptions for Incivek in its
reports, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst at ISI Group in New
York.  IMS data on the drug, approved by U.S. regulators in May,
suggested sales had stopped growing last month, Schoenebaum
said. IMS said in an e-mail yesterday that the figures it
released for the last two weeks of September were adjusted based
on estimates to account for missing data. The Norwalk,
Connecticut-based company will reassess with actual sales.  “People are now thinking that maybe the trends weren’t
quite as flat as everybody was thinking,” Schoenebaum said in a
telephone interview.  Vertex shares had fallen 24 percent from Sept. 21 through
yesterday. Incivek competes with Victrelis, a medicine made by
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck & Co. that was also
approved for sale earlier this year.  Vertex had fallen “largely on the basis of fears about
these script trends, so it makes sense that they will retrace a
lot of that loss now,” said  Geoffrey Porges , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York, in a telephone interview.  ‘Significant Portion’  IMS said in an e-mail to clients that “a significant
portion“ of Incivek mail-order data was not reported to the
company for the weeks ending Sept. 23 and Sept. 30, leading it
to adjust reports for those weeks by using previous mail-order
results.  The company is receiving actual mail figures now, and
expects to adjust last month’s numbers with real sales by Oct.
14, the e-mail said. Calls to IMS’s media office were not
immediately returned today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ; 