-- 
Volcker Rule May Mostly ‘Go Up in Smoke,’ Goldman’s Levitt Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   J o h n   T u c k e r
-- 
2011-10-13T16:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/volcker-rule-may-mostly-go-up-in-smoke-goldman-s-levitt-says.html
The Volcker rule, which would bar
banks from trading for their own accounts, is likely to be
postponed and weakened amid lobbyists’ resistance, said former
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt, who
advises  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Wall Street  “will be doing all it can to delay this until
they hope there’s a Republican president and a Republican
Senate,” Levitt said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “This is going
to be a long slog, and much of that rule that you see today is
going to go up in smoke.”  A version of the rule, released by regulators this week,
“is much sterner, much more rigorous than most people
expected,” Levitt said. It will likely prompt firms to consider
giving up their status as bank holding companies to avoid its
costs, he said, without naming specific lenders.  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were the biggest U.S.
securities firms before they converted to bank holding companies
after the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. Both became subject to regulation by the  Federal Reserve 
and won access to central bank programs such as the discount
window, which are designed to protect deposit-taking banks.  The rule, named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , was
included in last year’s Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul to rein
in risky trading that helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The
central bank, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency worked with the SEC on a draft
issued this week.  In its current form, the regulation would impose costs on
lenders and drive capital to non-bank market makers, said  David Hilder , an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group LLP, in a note
to clients earlier this week, in which he also predicted that
firms may consider giving up their bank status.  Levitt, a Democrat appointed to the SEC by former President
 Bill Clinton , is also on the board of Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
John Tucker in New York at 
 jtucker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  