-- 
Volksbanken Plans Revamp as Writedowns Cause $1 Billion Loss

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-10-14T08:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/volksbanken-plans-restructuring-forecasts-750-million-euro-loss.html
Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , the
Austrian lender that failed a European  stress test  in July, is
seeking a restructuring as writedowns will result in an annual
loss of as much as 750 million euros ($1 billion).  Volksbanken, majority-owned by a group of 62 regional
cooperative banks, is planning a cross-guarantee accord with
those lenders to strengthen its capital buffers, it said in a
statement yesterday. It scrapped a plan to repay 300 million
euros in government capital due to losses and writedowns caused
by its corporate-client unit Investkredit and its Romanian bank.  The liability guarantee, modeled on that of Dutch
cooperative group Rabobank Groep NV, “will simplify the process
of complying with regulatory requirements,” supervisory board
Chairman Hans Hofinger said in the statement. “This model is
based on a clear commitment to Volksbanken” by its
shareholders, he said.  Volksbanken follows  Austria ’s biggest lender,  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS) , in writing down assets and postponing state capital
refunds as European policy makers push banks to bolster their
capital and clean up balance sheets. On Oct. 10, Erste scrapped
its plan to refund 1.2 billion euros of state aid this year and
announced that writedowns and provisions would result in a loss.   Failures  The regional cooperative banks own 61 percent of
Volksbanken.  Germany ’s  DZ Bank  owns 23 percent, a unit of  Munich
Re  owns 9 percent and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG owns
6 percent.  Austria’s finance ministry said yesterday that while it
still has about 6 billion euros available for capital injections
into banks and could support Volksbanken further, the company’s
management and owners must present a “credible plan” to
strengthen the firm. It welcomed Volksbanken’s liability
guarantee with its owners.  There is “no immediate reason” to discuss further state
aid now, Chief Executive Officer Gerald Wenzel told Austrian
state radio ORF today. Asked if Volksbanken was turning into a
“bottomless pit” for the government, Wenzel said: “I don’t
have this concern at the moment.”  After failing the European Union’s bank exam in July,
Volksbanken said Aug. 25 that it wouldn’t be able to meet its
2011 target of posting 100 million euros in profit after
writedowns on Greek  government bonds . It also said it can’t sell
a stake in RZB this year.  It also agreed to sell its eastern European business,
Volksbanken International, to  Russia ’s OAO Sberbank at a loss on
Sept. 8. Sberbank excluded the money-losing Romanian unit from
that deal.  Nationalization Right  Volksbanken’s failures to pay dividends on the 1 billion
euros in state capital it received and refund a first tranche of
capital this year mean that Austria has the right to nationalize
the bank.  Finance Minister Maria Fekter has said in the past that her
desire to exercise this right is “very limited.”  Volksbanken said its Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, will be 10.4 percent at the end of 2011, up
from 9.4 percent at the end of 2010. That’s because the VBI sale
to Sberbank reduces its risk-weighted assets, and because the
loss on Investkredit and  Romania  affects goodwill, which is not
counted as regulatory capital for banks.  Volksbanken’s municipal-lending unit, Kommunalkredit, at
the time co-owned with  Dexia SA (DEXB) , was the first Austrian bank to
be nationalized shortly after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008. Dexia is now being broken up by
the French and Belgian governments after losing access to
funding amid losses linked to the sovereign-debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  