-- 
Wall Street Firms Seek to Pool $1.5 Billion of CMBS as Credit Suisse Cuts

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-10-13T18:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/wall-street-firms-seek-to-pool-1-5-billion-of-cmbs-as-credit-suisse-cuts.html
Wall Street  firms are in discussions
to pool as much as $1.5 billion of property loans they’ve
amassed this year after a slowdown left them unable to stockpile
enough mortgages to sell as securities.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Guggenheim Securities
LLC, and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are among lenders in talks to bundle commercial
mortgages to be sold as bonds during the fourth quarter, said
people familiar with the talks. The firms want to clear their
books before year-end and avoid risking drops in value by
holding the debt, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the plans are preliminary.  Europe ’s fiscal crisis has roiled credit markets since
July, causing gyrations in the value of securities tied to
shopping malls, skyscrapers and hotels and causing a pullback in
originations.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is shutting its unit
responsible for making loans, while the retreat has left other
firms short on mortgages to pool for sale, forcing them to cast
a wider net across Wall Street for a single deal.  “CMBS issuers take credit and market risk before they try
selling their bonds and volatility can create significant losses
for an issuer,” said Darrell Wheeler, a bond strategist for
Austin, Texas-based Amherst Securities Group LP. “Doing a joint
deal allows them to have the loans on their books for a shorter
period, which reduces the risk that the market could sell off
before they create and sell the bonds.”  Amanda Williams, a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, Torie Von Alt of UBS and Danielle Romero-Apsilos of
Citigroup in  New York , declined to comment. Jeff Kelley, a
spokesman for Guggenheim, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  New York Mall  One of the largest potential loans in the pooled deal would
be $176 million in debt on the Poughkeepsie Galleria, a 1.2
million square-foot shopping center in New York, made by UBS
last week, the people said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries reached the
highest in 20 months last week. Spreads soared to 323 basis
points, or 3.23 percentage points, on Oct. 4, the most since
February 2010, before declining to 317 yesterday, according to
Barclays Capital index data. Spreads on the Barclays Capital
CMBS AAA Super Duper Index were as low as 178 basis points on
April 26, the index data show.  Wall Street has arranged about $25.6 billion in commercial
mortgage-backed securities this year, compared with about $11.5
billion in all of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales plummeted to $3.4 billion in 2009 compared with a record
$234 billion in 2007, the data show.  Credit Suisse, which hasn’t offered a deal since sales
revived in 2009, informed about 50 employees yesterday that
their jobs were likely to be eliminated, said two people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the matter isn’t public. The bank is keeping the division that
trades the debt, the people said. Jack Grone, a spokesman in New
York, for  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, declined to
comment. The Wall Street Journal reported the planned cuts
earlier today on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  