-- 
IAG’s Walsh Will Carve Up Iberia to Boost British Airways, Union Head Says

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-10-13T23:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/walsh-will-carve-up-iberia-to-boost-british-airways-union-says.html
Willie Walsh , chief executive
officer of the merged British Airways-Iberia, favors growth at
the U.K. carrier and will carve up its partner to cut costs, the
head of the Spanish unit’s pilot union said.  Plans announced Oct. 6 to switch 13 planes from Iberia’s
mainline operation to a low-cost unit by Dec. 31 are aimed at
bypassing merger terms designed to guarantee the Spanish
carrier’s status within International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, Sepla union official Justo Peral said in an interview.  “We think it’s a way to cut the company to pieces,” said
Peral, who is president of Sepla’s Iberia branch, adding that
the strategy was probably imposed by Walsh on the Spanish
carrier’s CEO, Rafael Sanchez-Lozano, “to make pieces of Iberia
and have a new hub in  Madrid  without any restrictions.”  Sepla, which represents about 1,600 Iberia pilots, is
consulting with other unions on strikes and legal action over
the creation of Iberia Express, which IAG says aims to boost
margins on short-haul flights that might otherwise be unviable.
Workers are also concerned that BA is growing faster than Iberia
and will operate a newer aircraft fleet, Peral said.  IAG closed up 0.5 percent yesterday in  London , where it’s
based. The stock has declined 41 percent since the company’s
formation in a Jan. 24 merger, giving a market value of 3.1
billion pounds ($4.9 billion).  ‘Simulated Negotiations’  Before IAG announced the creation of Iberia Express, Sepla
and other unions offered to cut pay and boost productivity to
save 150 million euros annually and better compete with discount
specialists  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , a proposal
that was ignored, Peral said Oct. 12 by phone from Madrid.  “They never gave us a reason,” he said. “They simulated
to negotiate with us, but they never did really. We have
managers from the company who told us the CEO’s aim was to
outsource and that he was never ready to negotiate something
different. We were ready to work like Ryanair and EasyJet within
Iberia.”  The union plan would have taken “many years” to deliver
the promised savings, Iberia spokeswoman Consuela Arias said.  “If the pilot’s proposal was really that good it would
have been accepted,” she said by phone. “We need a solution
now.”  Peral says that prior to the merger with British Airways
Sepla secured a deal with Iberia precluding the subcontracting
of work to other units, such as franchise partner Air Nostrum
and  Vueling Airlines SA (VLG) , in which it has a 46 percent stake.  No Credibility  “We’re very disappointed that IAG in their first decision
after the merger has managed to violate our agreement,” he
said.  IAG is also circumventing an accord struck by pilots in
2009 guaranteeing that any expansion at the Madrid hub would be
shared equally between Iberia and British Airways, Peral said.  “The only growth we’ve had since the merger was flights to
Brazil and  Argentina , and now they’ve cut these,” he said. “So
we’re not growing at Iberia, and BA is going to grow at five to
six percent a year and has ordered new, efficient planes.”  Michael O’Leary , CEO at Ryanair,  Europe ’s biggest low-cost
airline, said yesterday in an interview that IAG’s unveiling of
Iberia Express may have “more to do with its negotiations with
pilots” than the genuine foundation of a discount unit.  “No flag-carrier airline in Europe has had any credibility
or success in setting up a low-fare subsidiary,” O’Leary said
in  Frankfurt . “They’ve all tried, and Iberia already claimed to
have a low-cost subsidiary in Vueling, and now they’re back
talking about another. It has no chance of success whatsoever.” 