-- 
Walter Jumps on Report of Takeover by Anglo American, BHP

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-10-13T21:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/walter-jumps-on-speculation-of-takeover-by-anglo-american-bhp.html
Walter Energy Inc. (WLT) , a U.S. producer
of steelmaking coal, jumped 13 percent in  New York  after the
U.K.’s Independent reported that  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  may bid for the company.  The potential bidder may be advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the London-based newspaper said,
without citing anyone. Brazil’s  Vale SA (VALE3)  and Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA may also may bid, the newspaper said. The shares
rose to $75.22, the biggest gain in five weeks.  Walter investor Audley Capital Advisors LLP said in July
that the Birmingham, Alabama-based company should explore a sale
because it lacked the leadership to take advantage of an
“unprecedented market opportunity” after coal prices jumped.
Walter appointed Walter J. Scheller III as Chief Executive
Officer on Sept. 12. He replaced interim CEO Joseph B. Leonard
and followed Keith Calder, who resigned as CEO in June after
telling the board he had differing opinions concerning
“management philosophy.”  Demand from steelmakers in  China  and flood-related supply
disruptions in Australia have driven prices for coal to record
highs. Low-volatility coking coal traded at $270 a ton,
Knoxville, Tennessee-based Energy Publishing said in a report
last week.  Emily Blyth, a spokeswoman for London-based Anglo, declined
to comment, as did  Ruban Yogarajah , a spokesman for Melbourne-
based BHP, and Paul Blalock, a spokesman for Walter.  Coal M&A  Vale doesn’t respond to market rumors, an official at the
company’s press office who asked not to be named citing Vale
policy, said in a telephone interview. No one at CSN returned
calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Buying Walter could allow Anglo to replace assets it might
lose in  Chile , Dominic O’Kane, an analyst at Liberum Capital
Ltd. in London, said today in a note. Chilean copper producer
Codelco said yesterday it plans to exercise an option to buy as
much as 49 percent of Anglo’s unit in the South American
country.  There were $20.5 billion of takeover offers for coal miners
valued at $100 million or more announced in the first nine
months of 2011, compared with $10.4 billion in the year-earlier
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. bought rival U.S. coal
producer Massey Energy Co. in June for $7.1 billion. Peabody
Energy Corp. and ArcelorMittal agreed in August to pay A$4.8
billion ($4.9 billion) for  Australia ’s Macarthur Coal Ltd.,
which like Walter produces metallurgical coal.  Walter acquired Vancouver-based Western Coal Corp. in April
for C$5.3 billion ($5.2 billion). Calder was the former CEO of
Western Coal.  Walter operates mines in Alabama, West Virginia, British
Columbia and Wales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  