-- 
Waste Management Acquires InEnTec Stake, Exits S4 Joint Venture

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-10-13T17:44:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/waste-management-acquires-inentec-stake-exits-s4-joint-venture.html
Waste Management Inc. (WM) ,  North
America ’s largest recycler, acquired a stake in closely held
InEnTec Inc. after exchanging its holding in a joint venture
with the company.  Waste Management, which is based in Houston, completed the
deal through a “share-for-share exchange,” Karl Schoene,
InEnTec’s chief executive officer, said today in a telephone
interview. InEnTec disclosed the $22 million investment in a
filing today.  Waste Management acquired the stake after selling its
ownership in  S4 Energy Solutions LLC , a venture with Bend,
Oregon-based InEnTec. S4 owns and operates plants that process
landfill waste into electricity and liquid fuel.  “S4 is now a wholly owned subsidiary of InEnTec, and Waste
Management as a result joins InEnTec as a significant
shareholder,” Schoene said.  The deal makes Waste Management’s investment portfolio
“more consistent,” Joe Vaillancourt, managing director for the
company’s Organic Growth Group, said in a statement yesterday.
It has equity stakes in other closely held companies developing
waste-to-fuel conversion technologies, including Enerkem Inc.,
Terrabon Inc., and Agilyx Corp.  InEnTec’s  plasma gasification technology  converts household
garbage into gases that can be reformulated into fuels such as
ethanol and hydrogen or burned in gas turbines to generate
electricity. The process is based on research done at
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and the U.S. Energy
Department’s Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.  InEnTec has a contract with Fulcrum BioEnergy Inc., a
closely held waste-to-ethanol plant developer, to provide its
gasification systems for the company’s projects, Schoene said.
Fulcrum, which plans to build its first plant in  California ,
registered Sept. 22 for a $115 million initial share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  