-- 
Water-Starved Texas Rice Eroding U.S. Harvest as Prices Gain

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-10-13T20:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/water-starved-texas-rice-crops-erode-u-s-harvest-prospects-as-prices-gain.html
Ronald Gertson’s family has grown
rice for five generations in east  Texas , where the Colorado
River makes the soil ideal for the grain and little else. Now,
the state’s worst drought ever may keep Gertson from planting
next year, eroding U.S. output that is the lowest in 13 years.  Unusually hot weather from Texas to Arkansas led the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  to cut its crop forecast yesterday for
the first time in three months to 18.7 billion pounds (8.48
million metric tons), down 23 percent from last year and the
lowest since 1998. Rice futures rose to a two-week high in
Chicago on concern supplies will shrink from the U.S., the
world’s largest exporter last year after Thailand and Vietnam.  The Texas drought has caused $5.2 billion in agricultural
losses,  Texas A&M University  estimated in August, and the state
climatologist predicted the dry spell will last into 2012. The
local agency that manages water supplies to the biggest rice-
growing region in Texas, the fourth-largest U.S. producer, is
seeking permission to stop the irrigation flow for growers
including Gertson.  “Our farm’s been going on for a long time, and this is the
first time we’ve had to deal with this water shortage,” said
Gertson, who estimates 60 percent of his 3,000-acre (1,215-
hectare) farm may go unplanted next year. “I’m not holding out
a lot of hope for recovery at this point, although certainly I’m
praying for it,” he said by telephone from Eagle Lake, Texas.  Planting Decline  Record-low water supplies in Texas, saltwater encroachment
in Louisiana, and the promise of more profit from other crops
including corn or cotton probably mean U.S. planting will remain
low next year, said Dennis DeLaughter, the owner of Progressive
Farm Marketing in Edna, Texas. This year, farmers sowed 2.69
million acres, the fewest since 1987, USDA data show.  Among the top six producing states, including  Arkansas  and
Louisiana, only  California  will have a bigger crop this year,
government data show. Texas will collect 1.26 billion pounds
from the harvest that ends later this month, down 6.4 percent
from a year earlier and below last month’s forecast of 1.35
billion, the USDA said yesterday. Arkansas, where  floods  hurt
plantings in April and May and drought reduced crops in recent
months, will see production plunge 32 percent to 7.85 billion
pounds.  “We’ve got to get some more acres,” said DeLaughter, who
correctly forecast the drop in production this year. “Long
term, the  weather forecasts  really are not good. We haven’t
gotten near enough rain.”  Little Rain  Texas, which is forecast to produce about 7 percent of the
U.S. crop this year, had less than 12 inches (30 centimeters) of
rain on average since the drought began last October, making it
the driest 12-month period since records began in 1895, State
Climatologist John Nielsen-Gammon said. Part of  central Texas 
got 5 inches from storms in the past week, the biggest rains in
months. That was “not enough to make a difference” for
farmers, Gertson said.  Drought may persist in the southern Great Plains for at
least another year, because of the strengthening La Nina weather
pattern, a period of cooling equatorial water in the  Pacific
Ocean , Nielsen-Gammon said in an interview from  College Station ,
Texas.  Lake Travis and Lake Buchanan, two reservoirs supplying
water to east Texas farmers and 1.1 million people including the
city of Austin, were at about 39 percent of  capacity  as of
yesterday, according to the Lower Colorado River Authority. The
agency is asking the state for permission to stop releasing
water for downstream irrigation March 1 to conserve supply. The
move would affect farms in Wharton, Colorado and Matagorda
counties, the state’s biggest rice-growing region.  The Colorado River of Texas runs from state’s northern
panhandle to the  Gulf of Mexico , and is different from the river
of the same name that cuts through  Arizona ’s Grand Canyon.  Floods, Typhoons  Adverse weather outside the U.S. also may limit supplies.
Thailand said yesterday that flooding may destroy the equivalent
of 5 million tons of milled rice. Floods also have inundated
almost 27,800 hectares (68,800 acres) of rice in  Vietnam ,
according to the National Steering Committee for Flood and Storm
Prevention and Control.  Typhoons in the  Philippines , the second-biggest importer,
spurred the country to cut its production forecast yesterday.  While the USDA projects a 3.7 percent increase in global
stockpiles by next year’s Northern Hemisphere harvest, the
agency probably will need to cut that forecast in coming months,
said  Shawn Hackett , the president of Hackett Financial Advisors,
who correctly predicted a rally in the grain this year.
Stockpiles probably will drop to a four-year low of 90 million
metric tons of milled rice, compared with the government’s
forecast of 101.41 million tons, he said.  Prices Rally  Rice futures for November delivery climbed 2.3 percent
yesterday to $16.355 per 100 pounds on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade, after earlier jumping by the exchange’s 50-cent limit.
Today, the contract advanced 0.3 percent to close at $16.405.
The price has rallied 15 percent this year, compared with a 1.5
percent increase in corn, a 22 percent drop in wheat and a 30
percent plunge in cotton.  Reduced output in the U.S. and  Asia  may send rice prices to
$19 by February, the highest since futures reached a record
$25.07 in April 2008, Hackett said yesterday by telephone from
 Boynton Beach ,  Florida .  Flooding in Asia “has to be factored in, because it means
less production and much lower quality for the global supply,”
Hackett said. The USDA’s world supply estimates “have no
bearing in reality,” he said. “They have to drop way, way down
in the next report, so that will provide additional bullishness
to come in on top of lower yields in the U.S.”  Record Production  The USDA estimates that global production of milled rice
this year may reach 461.4 million tons, the most ever. The Los
Banos, Philippines-based International Rice Research Institute
yesterday projected a world crop of 455 million tons, 1.4
percent below the USDA’s forecast, while still a record.  Higher prices have driven global producers to boost output,
which may undercut a gain in U.S. futures, said Bobby Coats, an
agricultural economics professor at the  University of Arkansas 
in  Little Rock .  “There’s a lot of competition in the world,” Coats said.
“The other thing to keep in mind is that it’s going to take a
number of years to work through the global financial crisis,”
which may limit demand, he said.  Rice acreage plunged this year because prices weren’t
profitable in January and February, when many farmers were
making decisions about what to plant starting in April, Hackett
said. Wheat touched a two-year high in February and cotton
surged to a record in March.  Rising Costs  High input costs may still keep some farmers from boosting
acres this year, even after gains in rice outpaced other grains,
said Johnny Saichuk, an extension rice specialist with  Louisiana 
State University. Rice is a water-intensive crop that requires
fields to be submerged in 2 to 3 inches of water for months at a
time. Farmers using groundwater have to pay for fuel to pump it
to the surface.  “In spite of recent increases in prices, rice is still not
very profitable,” Saichuk said by telephone from Crowley,
Louisiana. “This year, it was very hot and very dry, which
meant farmers incurred a lot of costs in pumping irrigation
water.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  