-- 
Weber Says Investors Should Take Losses in Swap of Greek Debt

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-10-13T18:18:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/weber-says-investors-should-take-losses-in-swap-of-greek-debt.html
Axel Weber , the former president of
Germany’s central bank, urged a restructuring of Greek sovereign
debt that results in losses for investors and banks, which would
then require additional capital.  Weber, speaking today in Philadelphia, proposed a swap in
which bondholders would exchange claims on low-rated Greek debt
for a wider claim on the euro area. Banks would forgo some
principal for better debt, Weber said. Such a program shouldn’t
be referred to as a “default,” he said.  European leaders this week pushed back a debt-crisis summit
amid opposition to Germany’s drive for deeper-than-planned Greek
bond writedowns that Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said may
exceed 60 percent. The Oct. 18 meeting was postponed to Oct. 23
as Europe gropes toward a master plan for dealing with  Greece ’s
oversized debt, insulating the Spanish and Italian markets, and
shielding banks from the fallout.  “We have to get to a system where with a restructuring of
Greek debt, losses are borne by those that made the decisions to
buy the debt, and these are investors and bondholders,” Weber
said in a speech at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.  As a result of losses from the Greek debt swap, some banks
will need to be recapitalized, especially weaker ones, Weber
said. Stronger companies can probably make it through without
being recapitalized, he said.  Bank Capital  “Only more bank capital can assure further loss absorption
and re-establish confidence in the solidity and solvency of
banks as counterparties,” Weber said in a slide presentation
accompanying his talk.  Resolving the European debt crisis should be part of global
efforts toward “rebalancing” the world economy, said Weber,
54, who in February unexpectedly announced he would resign from
the Bundesbank and as a European Central Bank policy maker.  China , singled out among countries with current-account
surpluses, needs to do its part to make its currency more
flexible and improve its “social security” systems of health
care, pensions and  unemployment insurance , Weber said.  In addition, nations with large current-account deficits
“should consolidate their public finances as quickly as
possible,” Weber said in one slide.  A decline in investor confidence in some European nations’
ability to pay their debt has rattled world financial markets
throughout 2010 and 2011. The ECB said Oct. 6 it will
reintroduce yearlong loans, giving banks access to unlimited
cash through January 2013, and resume purchases of covered bonds
to encourage lending. The central bank left its benchmark
 interest rate  at 1.5 percent.  Slovakia Fund  Today, Slovakia approved  Europe ’s enhanced bailout fund,
completing ratification across the 17 euro countries. Lawmakers
voted to support the European Financial Stability Facility in
the second attempt this week after parliament failed to approve
the measures on Oct. 11.  Enhancing the powers of the EFSF, the temporary bailout
fund, is crucial for adopting the key element in the strategy to
prevent contagion from the debt crisis that has spread from
Greece to other countries in the region. European Commission
President Jose Barroso yesterday called for a reinforcement of
crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth loan to Greece and a
faster start for a permanent rescue fund to ease debt woes.  Weber dismissed options involving expanding the EFSF and
said  Germany  can’t shoulder the burden of bailing out country
after country in Europe beyond Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . He
also said that the ECB shouldn’t be a backstop for European
governments and should stick to its role as lender of last
resort for banks.  Fiscal Union  Over time, European governments should move toward a closer
fiscal union, Weber said today.  Yesterday, Weber said heavily indebted countries outside
Europe that run deficits are in danger of facing surging
borrowing costs. “No high-debt deficit country should feel
safe,” Weber said at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey .
Countries with high debt levels and annual budget shortfalls
including the U.S. should not have a “wrong sense of security”
about being able to roll over bonds as they come due, he said.  Weber said in February that a lack of “acceptance” among
euro-area leaders for his views on monetary policy caused him to
give up on becoming the next chief of the ECB.  Mario Draghi ,
head of  Italy ’s central bank, will succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet 
as ECB president on Nov. 1.  Weber will become chairman of  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest
bank, in 2013. He is currently a visiting professor of economics
at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Philadelphia at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  