-- 
What I Learned by Being a Migrant Sex Worker (Part 1): Parrenas

-- B y   R h a c e l   S a l a z a r   P a r r e n a s
-- 
2011-10-13T00:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/what-i-learned-about-migrant-sex-workers-by-being-one-part-1-parrenas.html
A decade ago, the U.S. government
determined that apart from terrorism, the gravest threat to
democracy in the world was human trafficking. It vowed to wage
war on this scourge as well as on terrorism.  A series of congressional hearings focused attention on
what was said to be the forced labor, debt bondage and coerced
migration of 800,000 individuals, 80 percent of whom supposedly
were women and children, throughout the world. Emphasis was
placed on trafficking in the sex industry. The hearings
culminated in passage of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence
Protection  Act  of 2000.  The act requires the U.S. Department of State to submit to
Congress an annual report -- the Trafficking in Persons (TIP)
 Report  -- describing the efforts of foreign governments to
eliminate human trafficking. A country that fails to take
significant actions receives a “Tier 3” assessment, which can
trigger the withholding of non-humanitarian, non-trade-related
assistance from the U.S.  According to the 2004 report, Filipinas who work as
hostesses in clubs in Japan constituted the world’s largest
group of sex-trafficked persons, making up more than 10 percent
of those 800,000 victims. They were identified as trafficked
under the assumption of their “sexual exploitation.” These
women and male-to-female transgendered individuals generally
enter  Japan  on visas that allow them to work as artists or
entertainers, a vehicle the U.S. claimed traffickers exploited
to bring them into the country.  Visa Changes  After being placed on the Tier 2 Watch List, a deeply
embarrassed Japan imposed new visa requirements and a more
rigorous screening process for migrant entertainers from the
 Philippines . No longer can the Philippine government evaluate
the artistic ability of entertainers seeking visas for Japan.
Instead, to qualify for a visa, an individual must have had two
years of training or an internship as a performing artist, and
work experience in Japan does not count.  Afterward, the number of Filipina hostesses employed as
contract workers in Japan fell 90 percent, from 82,741 in 2004
to 8,607 in 2006.  This might seem to suggest a victory in the global anti-
trafficking campaign, but I argue it poses a setback to the
emancipation of women. It has stripped thousands of migrant
women of their livelihood, forcing them to stay at home, often
in impoverished conditions. I challenge the identification of
migrant Filipina hostesses as sex-trafficked persons. In fact,
prostitutes are a small minority of all Filipinas in Japan, just
2.8 percent.  How do I know?  In a nine-month study in  Tokyo  in 2005 and 2006, I
interviewed 56 Filipina hostesses and worked as a hostess
myself. None of the hostesses I encountered wanted to be rescued
from their employment. Most found that migration had made them
breadwinners in their families, a position that granted them
decision-making power and earned them the respect of their kin.
In some instances, participating in commercial flirtation
allowed them to challenge conservative norms that limited the
acceptable sexual activities of women.  Here’s something else I found, an observation supported by
other studies: Filipina hostesses in Japan sell drinks, not sex,
in hostess clubs. While they perform sex work in that they
titillate customers via commercial flirtation, “sex work” is
not “prostitution.” It encompasses a wide array of services
including flirtation and stripping -- in addition to
prostitution. For hostesses, acts of commercial flirtation
include playful bantering, seductive dance and song
performances, and, in rare instances, sex acts such as groping
and discreet masturbation of customers beneath the table.  No Coercion Seen  For the most part, no one coerced my fellow hostesses to
work in Japan. They were not drugged, taken on planes and
trapped in clubs. No one lied to them or explicitly told them
they would only be singing and dancing onstage.  This is not to say that migrant Filipina hostesses do not
face serious problems. First, middleman brokers who arrange for
visas, transit and job placement charge high rates upfront,
subjecting hostesses to what amounts to indentured servitude.
Once in Japan, hostesses cannot legally change clubs. Because
being undocumented is a crime, those who are fired and remain in
Japan become dependent on their next employer and on other
Filipinos who may exploit their vulnerability by withholding
wages or overcharging them for housing.  Still, migrant Filipina entertainers see servitude abroad
as a much better option than their other choice of immobility in
the Philippines. The current solution to their problems ignores
their preference to be left with the option to work in Japan,
ideally under improved conditions. What those conditions were
like, at least as I experienced them, will be the subject of the
next installment.  (Rhacel Salazar Parrenas is a sociology professor at the
University of  Southern California . This is the first in a two-
part excerpt from her new book “Illicit Flirtations: Labor,
Migration, and Sex Trafficking in Tokyo,” to be published Oct.
15 by Stanford University Press.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Rhacel Salazar Parrenas at  parrenas@usc.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 