-- 
Won to Rebound With Taiwan Dollar at Start of 2012, Best Forecasters Say

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-14T03:23:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/won-to-rebound-with-taiwan-dollar-in-2012-best-forecaster-says.html
Asian currencies will extend their
biggest slide in three years through December before rebounding
in early 2012 as export demand picks up, said  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN) , the most-accurate forecaster for the region.  South Korea’s won, the worst performer last quarter, will
drop 1.8 percent per dollar during the current period and climb
7.1 percent in the first three months of next year, according to
the London-based bank.  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd. (OCBC) , the
second-best foreign-exchange forecaster as measured by Bloomberg
News in the six quarters through September, predicts the won
will slip 1 percent by year-end and rise 2.6 percent in the
first quarter.  Europe ’s failure to resolve its debt crisis and a faltering
U.S. recovery have slowed export growth and trimmed economic
expansions from  China  to  Singapore . The global economy isn’t
likely to see another recession as it did in 2008 as Europe will
“muddle through” and U.S. policy makers will stave off a
downturn, said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian currency strategy at
 Standard Chartered  in Singapore.  “ Asia  will weaken more in the next one to two months
because we do think we will get more bad news in terms of
economic data globally,” he said. “The important thing is we
don’t expect a global recession. Next year, money will come back
to Asia. Fundamentals are strong here.”  Standard Chartered ranked as the top forecaster with an
average margin of error of 2.66 percent for its Asian currency
forecasts.  Global Funds  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index slid 3.5 percent
last quarter, the biggest drop since the same period in 2008.
The won lost 9.4 percent last quarter and the  Taiwan  dollar 5.6
percent, while the rupiah weakened 5.3 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s currency since has
gained 1.5 percent to 1,161.13, Taiwan’s 0.6 percent to
NT$30.339 and Indonesia’s 1.9 percent to 8,892 as of 10:15 a.m.
in Singapore.  Taiwan and South Korea had the biggest net outflows last
month among stock markets in Asia excluding  Japan  as foreigners
withdrew $2.6 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, according
to exchange data. Overseas funds cut their Indonesian bond
holdings by an unprecedented 29 trillion rupiah ($3.3 billion)
last month, figures from the finance ministry’s website show.  China’s overseas sales climbed 17.1 percent last month, the
least since February, while Taiwan’s export growth held below 10
percent for a second month in September, official data show.
South Korea’s shipments increased 19.6 percent following a 25.9
percent gain in August.  “The three ones that will really do quite well from the
beginning of next year will be the Korean won, Taiwan dollar and
the Indonesian rupiah,” Harr said.  ‘Very Cheap’  The won is “very cheap” and exports should benefit when
global demand picks up, he said. The JPMorgan Nominal Effective
Exchange Rate, a trade-weighted index for the currency, reached
its lowest level since July 2009 on Oct. 4. The won dropped 14
percent against the Japanese yen in the last quarter and 11
percent versus the Chinese yuan, helping South Korea’s Samsung
Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  compete against Japan’s
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  as well as China’s Haier Group
Corp.  Singapore will reduce the pace of currency gains it is
seeking rather than halting appreciation, the central bank said
today in its semi-annual exchange-rate review, signaling
confidence in its economy despite the deteriorating global
outlook. The island-state’s currency advanced 0.3 percent to
S$1.2740 versus the greenback.  The Taiwan dollar will weaken 1.6 percent this quarter,
according to Standard Chartered. The currency will then rally
5.8 percent in the first three months of 2012 as global funds
return to its equities market and China, the island’s biggest
export market, lets its currency appreciate, Harr said.  Faster Growth  Asia’s developing economies will expand 8.2 percent in 2011
and 8 percent in 2012, according to estimates released last
month by the  International Monetary Fund . That compares with
projections for advanced economies of 1.6 percent this year and
1.9 percent next.  “At the onset of the year, you’ll basically see investment
funds searching for destinations,” said Emmanuel Ng, a currency
strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking in Singapore.
“Inevitably, they will be going into emerging markets,
including Asia.”  The rupiah, which lost 5.8 percent last month based on data
compiled by Bloomberg that includes prices from offshore banks,
will be the second-biggest gainer in the region during the six
months through March with a 2.2 percent advance, OCBC forecasts.
The yuan probably will strengthen 2.7 percent, the bank said.  “Indonesia’s story is backed by a positive sovereign
outlook,” Ng said. Southeast Asia’s largest economy is ranked
one step below investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s .  Interest Rates  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , the third-best forecaster, predicts
Asian currencies will weaken even through the first quarter of
2012 as regional central banks cut borrowing costs to support
growth, reducing their yield advantage over U.S. assets. Bank
Indonesia unexpectedly reduced its benchmark  interest rate  on
Oct. 11, while Taiwan, Malaysia, South Korea and the Philippines
have refrained from raising rates at their latest reviews.  “Asian currencies excluding China will struggle to gain
ground in the current environment with global growth slowing,
rate hikes off the agenda and rate cuts looking increasingly
likely,” said  Huw McKay , a senior international economist at
Westpac in Sydney.  The won, Malaysian ringgit and the Indian rupee will drop
0.5 percent in the six months ending March 31 to 1,184 per
dollar, 3.21 and 49.21, respectively, according to estimates
from Australia’s second-biggest lender.  ‘Place to Be’  Aviva Investors, which oversees the equivalent of $423
billion globally, is looking to buy Asian currencies when market
conditions stabilize.  “Asian currencies is the place to be over the longer
term,” said Kevin Talbot, chief investment officer for Asian
fixed income at Aviva in Singapore. “The bigger economies,
China, Indonesia and South Korea, would do quite well because
there’s lots of domestically generated demand and growth.”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the fourth-best forecaster, expects
Asian currencies will appreciate in the next one to two months
after manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly gained in
September.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
climbed to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said on Oct. 3. A level of 50 is the
dividing line between growth and contraction. European leaders
are working on plans to make the continent’s banks raise as much
as 200 billion euros ($276 billion) of additional capital.  Manufacturing Link  “Our analysis shows Asian currencies tend to start
appreciating after the U.S. ISM has stopped deteriorating,”
said Goh Puay Yeong, a foreign exchange strategist in Singapore
at Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-largest bank. “It looks
like Europe will come up with a plan to stabilize credit
markets.”  The rupiah will climb 6 percent to 8,550 per dollar in the
six months through March, while the won will advance 5.4 percent
to 1,118, according to the bank’s forecasts.  Strategists were ranked according to the accuracy of their
estimates in each of six quarters beginning with the three
months ended June 2010. To test long-term accuracy, Bloomberg
News added one annual forecast, which was made on Sept. 30,
2010, for Sept. 30, 2011.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
currency pair were ranked, and only those that qualified in at
least six of 10 pairs were included in the ranking of best
overall predictors. Thirty-one firms qualified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  