-- 
Yields Less Than Italy as Tusk Budget Cuts Elude Berlusconi: Poland Credit

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-10-14T15:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/yields-less-than-italy-as-tusk-budget-cuts-elude-berlusconi-poland-credit.html
Poland ’s borrowing costs fell below
Italy’s for the first time in two months after Prime Minister
Donald Tusk won re-election on budget cuts and Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  lost parliamentary support.  Polish 10-year domestic yields declined 19 basis points
this month to 5.73 percent as of 4:47 p.m. in Warsaw, while the
equivalent rates in Italy jumped 28 basis points to 5.82
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Poland’s yields were
184 basis points above Italy’s on average for the past 10 years.  While ranked as a bigger credit risk than Italy by Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, Poland has debt equal to 55 percent
of gross domestic product, less than half Italy’s 119 percent.
Tusk extended his coalition’s parliamentary majority with
promises to reduce his government’s budget deficit to below the
European Union ceiling of 3 percent next year from a record 7.9
percent last year. Berlusconi won a parliamentary confidence
vote today to avert the collapse of his government.  “It’s a change in mindset that’s happening” in the  bond
market , said Simon Quijano-Evans, the London-based head of
research for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  at ING Groep NV,
the biggest Dutch financial services company. “You have this
rating convergence and this has woken up a lot of people to the
fact that emerging Europe is doing pretty well.”  The difference between credit ratings assigned to the EU’s
western and eastern nations is the narrowest on record, based on
averages of S&P and Moody’s rankings compiled by Bloomberg.  Italy Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service cut Italy’s rating for the first
time in almost two decades on Oct. 4, reducing it by three steps
to A2, the same level it has kept Poland at since 2002. S&P
downgraded Italy to A from A+ and kept a negative outlook since
Sept. 19, citing the “fragile” government. Fitch reduced its
assessment to A+ on Oct. 7. Both companies have kept Poland two
steps lower at A- since 2007.  Under Tusk, the EU’s largest eastern economy tightened
expenses this year by reducing state contributions to private
pension funds, freezing wages of government workers and pledging
to cap spending growth at 1 percentage point above inflation.
His government also raised the value-added  tax rate  by 1
percentage point to 23 percent. The measures will help make up
for an 8.8 percent decline in budget revenues in 2010 and cut
the deficit to 5.6 percent of GDP this year, according to
Finance Ministry plans.  ‘Twice as Fast’  Tusk, 54, said in a televised address following his
election victory on Oct. 9 that the next government will have to
“act twice as fast,” compared with the previous four years
because the country faces “even bigger challenges.” The
coalition of his  Civic Platform  and the Polish Peasants Party
will control 235 seats in the 460-member parliament.  Berlusconi, 75, is facing four criminal trials and calls
from the opposition to resign while struggling to cut  Europe ’s
second-largest debt after  Greece  and reverse surging borrowing
costs that risk making Italy the biggest victim of the euro-area
debt crisis. Berlusconi said he’s innocent of all charges and
that Italian judges are out to destroy him.  “Italy has literally twice as much debt as Poland does, so
changes in the interest rate environment for Italy are literally
twice as important,”  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $3.5
billion in emerging-market assets at Aviva Investors Ltd., said
by phone from  London . While Tusk’s re-election had spurred
market optimism of fiscal tightening in Poland, Italy’s yields
are being pushed higher by its “political situation,” he said.  Deficit Cuts  Italy’s government won approval last month for deficit-
cutting measures that persuaded the  European Central Bank  to buy
Italian bonds. The purchases have helped stem borrowing costs
that surged to euro-era records.  Italy  sold 6.18 billion euros
($8.5 billion) of bonds yesterday, amid ECB support, according
to three people familiar with the transactions.  President Giorgio Napolitano had urged Berlusconi on Oct.
12 to address Parliament to clear up “questions and concerns”
about the government’s support after the lower house failed to
rubber stamp the 2010 budget report in a vote the previous day.  “The problem is nobody wants to buy Italian bonds apart
from the ECB as there are still a lot of risks there,” said
Viktor Szabo, a Budapest-based portfolio manager at Aberdeen
Asset Management, who helps manage about $7 billion in emerging
market debt. “The idea is really appealing to see some flows
from problematic core European countries to countries that have
the better growth outlook that Poland definitely has.”  Domestic Debt  Poland’s domestic bonds with maturities of more than one
year returned 0.7 percent so far this month while Italian debt
lost 1 percent, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  Poland, which gets 55 percent of its export revenue from
the euro region, is the only EU economy to avoid a recession
since the start of the global crisis in 2007. Western Europe has
helped by making Poland the biggest recipient of EU funding in
the 2007 to 2013 budget, providing 67 billion euros in aid to
help reduce the difference between richer and poorer regions in
the bloc.  Italian growth has lagged behind the euro-region average
for the last decade, making it harder to cut debt. Last year
Italy’s GDP grew 0.8 percent, compared with 4.3 percent for
Poland. Italy’s budget deficit widened to 5.4 percent of GDP in
2009 from 1.5 percent in 2007 and was 4.6 percent of the economy
last year.  ‘Out of Reach’  While Tusk has vowed to cut Poland’s budget gap to 2.9
percent of GDP next year, the goal is “practically impossible”
because of near-zero economic growth in the euro zone,  Dariusz Filar , a member of his  Council of Economic Advisers , said in an
interview this week. The deficit goal “might be out of reach,”
putting Poland’s rating outlook at risk without a contingency
plan, Jaime Reusche, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service,
said this week.  Poland’s credit-default swaps fell to 248.5 basis points
today from 252.5, according to London prices from data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts are
up from 151 basis points on July 1. Italian swaps increased 4.2
basis points today to 451.2.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “I don’t think there are big flows from developed markets
to emerging markets,” said Martin Blum, co-head of asset
management at Ithuba Capital in Vienna. “My bias is actually
for Italy versus Poland spreads to narrow from here and
eventually move back into negative territory.”  German Spread  The additional yield on Poland’s 10-year bonds in zloty
compared with their German equivalent in euros fell 10 basis
points to 354 percentage points today. The gap reached the
widest level since 2002 at 443 basis points on Sept. 22.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Poland’s dollar
bonds rather than  U.S. Treasuries  fell eight basis points to 254
today.  “We could see some more yield compression but we are at
the stage where markets are really looking for fiscal action,”
said ING’s Quijano-Evans. “People will now turn their focus to
what the government will do to secure a viable debt-to-GDP
level.”  International investors increased holdings of Polish bonds
by 103 percent during Tusk’s four years in power to 154.3
billion zloty as of August, data on the  Finance Ministry ’s
website show. Foreign investors own 30 percent of all domestic
bonds, according to the data. Their holdings increased by 1.5
billion zloty in September and foreign capital inflows continued
in early October, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill 
wrote in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  