-- 
Yuan Traders Diverge From Senate After Exchange Rate Threats: China Credit

-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-13T10:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/yuan-traders-diverge-from-senate-after-exchange-rate-threats-china-credit.html
At a time when U.S. lawmakers are
closer than ever to punishing  China  for having an undervalued
currency, trading in Hong Kong suggests the yuan is too strong.  The currency sank as much as 1.1 percent to 6.5463 per
dollar in the city yesterday, a record 2.4 percent discount to
the prevailing Shanghai rate, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The yuan has traded at a discount for almost four weeks,
undercutting the onshore rate by 1 percent on average, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis spurs demand for dollars. The premium
investors demand to hold China’s dollar-denominated debt instead
of  U.S. Treasuries  widened 43 basis points in the past month to
268 basis points, based on a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.  The Senate passed a bill on Oct. 11 that would allow
sanctions on countries with misaligned exchange rates. China’s
Foreign Ministry, the biggest holder of Treasuries, said the
proposed legislation is “protectionism” that would put the
global economy at risk. The yuan gained 18 percent in the past
four years, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies.  “Global investors are seeing problems in  China’s economy 
and it’s not sensible to accelerate appreciation now,” said
Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities Co., a unit of the nation’s sixth-biggest
bank by market value. “Advocating a stronger yuan to create
jobs and help the economy might have an audience in the U.S. but
it’s not convincing investors. The bill is a political
gesture.”  ‘Gaming’ the System  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said on Oct. 11
in  Washington  that China must move more quickly to allow its
currency to appreciate and that he’s “very supportive” of the
objectives of the Senate’s bill. The Asian nation has been
aggressive in “gaming the trading system,” including
intervening to keep the value of its currency artificially low,
President  Barack Obama  said last week, when Chinese financial
markets were shut for a holiday.  European Union Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said today
in  Seoul  that China should revalue the yuan further as the
currency doesn’t accurately reflect the nation’s economy.  The currency fell 0.4 percent to 6.3820 per dollar as of
the close in Shanghai, after a 0.1 percent decline in September
that was the first monthly loss since January, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. Gains were halted for
almost two years during the global financial crisis to support
the local economy, and data due next week is forecast to show
slower growth gross domestic product.  Managed Currency  The world’s biggest exporting nation is facing the risk of
its two largest markets, the European Union and the U.S.,
falling back into recession. China’s overseas sales increased
17.1 percent in September, the least since February, according
to trade data released today. GDP growth cooled to a two-year
low of 9.3 percent in the third quarter, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists before data
due next week.  China is allowing greater use of its currency in global
trade and investment to reduce reliance on the dollar. Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang  outlined a range of measures to boost  Hong
Kong ’s status as an offshore yuan trading center in August,
including rules allowing holdings of the currency in the city to
be used for foreign direct investment in China.  The central bank limits conversion of the yuan onshore for
investment purposes and restricts daily movements to 0.5 percent
from its daily fixing. Intervention by buying and selling the
currency has contributed to the buildup of $3.2 trillion of
foreign-exchange reserves. Chinese investors hold $1.2 trillion
of Treasuries.  Smaller Gains  “Softer growth would mean less official appetite for fast
yuan appreciation,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “The offshore
yuan is showing that it is not a one-way bet.”  Westpac predicts that the yuan will appreciate 2.3 percent
to 6.24 per dollar by the end of 2012 in  Shanghai , the most
bearish of 18 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. The median
projection is for a move to 6.06.  The currency dropped 0.6 percent to 6.460 per dollar today
in Hong Kong, a 1.2 percent discount to the onshore rate. It
reached 6.3495 on Sept. 1, the strongest level since offshore
trading commenced in July last year. A level of 6.56 on Sept. 23
was the weakest since March.  “We’ve seen very big gyrations in risk appetite quite
recently,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy
at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “We might see a little bit
of moderation in the pace of appreciation if uncertainties
persist. I don’t think we’ll go back to a re-pegging.”  Rising Yields  The yuan advanced 1.2 percent against the dollar in the
third quarter, while  Brazil ’s real slumped 17 percent,  Russia ’s
ruble dropped 13 percent and  India ’s rupee weakened 8.7 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The U.S. currency strengthened
versus 15 of 16 major currencies during the period.  Bleaker prospects for yuan gains are sapping demand for Dim
Sum bonds, debt denominated in the currency that trades in Hong
Kong. The average yield on the securities jumped 81 basis
points, or 0.81 percentage point, in the past month to 3.60
percent, an HSBC index shows.  Yields on Chinese 10-year  government bonds  were unchanged
at 3.80 percent today, Chinabond data show. The average yield on
similar-maturity top-rated corporate debt was also little
changed at 6.13 percent.  Bond Risk  Five-year credit-default swap insuring against a default on
China’s bonds fell 13 basis points to 146 basis points
yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Under the bill approved by the  U.S. Senate , governments
that undervalue their currencies would face penalties, including
increased dumping duties. House Speaker John Boehner has said
the measure risks starting a trade war and urged President Obama
to oppose the legislation.  “Raising the currency bill at this point is inappropriate
as the U.S. is undergoing a weak recovery and the market isn’t
betting on strong appreciation anymore,” said Shen Jianguang, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., who
has worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and the  European
Central Bank . “In the near term, the yuan  exchange rate  also
needs to take into account whether exporters can bear a stronger
currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  