-- 
Yudhoyono ’Finalizing’ Cabinet Decision, Changes ‘On Time’

-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 
2011-10-13T10:54:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/yudhoyono-finalizing-cabinet-decision-changes-on-time-1-.html
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, is “finalizing” changes he will make to his cabinet,
and the reshuffle is “on time,” he said at a press briefing
today at his residence in Bogor, West Java.  The president has been in “intensive” talks with Vice
President Boediono about the changes, Daniel Sparringa, a
presidential spokesman, told reporters in Jakarta on Oct. 7.  Yudhoyono is struggling to recover from a drop in public
approval amid corruption scandals affecting members of the
ruling party. Corruption, government inefficiency and poor
infrastructure were among reasons cited in the  World Economic
Forum ’s 2011-2012 Global Competitiveness Report for  Indonesia 
falling two places to 46th out of 142 economies. Public support
for the president fell to a record low of 47.2 percent in a June
poll conducted by Indonesian Survey Circle.  Yudhoyono, who helped secure a second five-year term in
2009 by promising to clean up graft, said last month he would
carry out the reshuffle by Oct. 20.  “I will announce the result in the next few days and
inaugurate, so they can work immediately to resolve the problems
and improve performance to achieve the targets,” he said.  Indonesia is one step away from its first investment-grade
 credit rating  in more than a decade, as Yudhoyono targets growth
of as much as 6.6 percent on average through the remainder of
his term ending in 2014.  He plans to double spending on roads, ports and airports to
$140 billion by then. Toyota Motor Co. and Unilever NV are among
companies investing in the $707 billion economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  