-- 
Zenith Infotech Defaults on $33 Million of Dollar Convertibles

-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-10-13T18:31:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-13/zenith-infotech-defaults-on-33-million-of-dollar-convertibles.html
Zenith Infotech Ltd. (ZNI) , an Indian
company that maintains computer systems for clients, said it
defaulted on $33 million of convertible dollar bonds that
matured last month.  “The company has defaulted on its $33 million foreign-
currency convertible bonds, which were due on Sept. 21,” Zenith
said in a statement to  stock exchanges  yesterday. It continues
to be in negotiations with bondholders to extend the period for
repayment, the statement said  Akash Saraf, Zenith’s managing director, didn’t answer at
least 10 calls made to his mobile phone in the past two days, or
respond to questions faxed to his office yesterday.  Zenith slumped for the seventh day, its longest losing
streak in 11 months. The stock slid 10 percent to 90.90 rupees
at close in  Mumbai  yesterday, its lowest level since Dec. 26,
2005. The shares have lost 52 percent this year, compared with
an 18 percent decline in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The company’s par value debt was due for redemption at
$131.72 per note, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zenith’s owners and management have not bought or sold any
of the company’s shares in the last one year, the statement
said.  Zenith spun off its managed services business unit into a
separate company Zenith RMM LLC last month, according to a
company statement on Sept. 28. Summit Partners LP, a Boston-
based private equity firm, invested in the unit last month.  The software company will utilize funds received from
Zenith RMM for to repay bondholders in part, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  