-- 
Alstom Executives Lose Bid to Challenge U.K. Search Warrants

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-07-13T16:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/alstom-executives-lose-a-judicial-bid-to-challenge-u-k-search-warrants.html
Executives at  Alstom SA (ALO) ’s U.K. unit
lost their bid to challenge fraud prosecutors over their arrest
and searches of their homes as part of a probe into claims the
company paid 81 million pounds ($129 million) in bribes.  Stephen Burgin, president of the French company’s U.K.
unit, and Robert Purcell, its finance director, can’t argue that
the Serious Fraud Office didn’t have enough reason to suspect
them of a crime, a  London  court ruled. The judgment means
prosecutors can use evidence seized at the executives’ homes
last year.  “The challenge to the validity of the arrest warrants is
not reasonably arguable,” the court said.  Prosecutors suspect that from 2004 to 2010 Alstom, through
its Alstom Network U.K. Ltd. unit, gave money to companies that
acted as “bogus consultants” to bribe overseas officials for
contracts, according to court papers. A lawyer for the SFO,
 James Eadie , said at a hearing in April that Alstom Network
acted as “a conduit” to pass money through, and paid “nine
times as much commission in the  Middle East  and Africa compared
to  Europe , and eight times for  Asia .”  Alstom said in a statement that the allegations being
investigated are seven years old and haven’t resulted in any
decision against the company by any court. It said neither the
judge who issued the search warrants, or the court ruling today,
reviewed the SFO’s underlying claims.  “The company continues to stand by its managers,’’ Alstom
said in the statement. “It has never wavered in its support and
has no reason to believe that they will not be fully vindicated
during the course of the on-going investigation.’’  Burgin and Purcell’s lawyer, Shaul Brazil, declined to
comment.  The cases are: Burgin v. Commissioner of Police of the
Metropolis, case no. 10/6227; and Burgin v. Director of the
 Serious Fraud Office , case no. 10/5723, High Court of Justice,
Administrative Court (London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 