-- 
Hard Slog -- the Real Future of the U.S. Economy: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-07-13T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/hard-slog-the-real-future-of-the-u-s-economy-peter-orszag.html
The continuing weakness in the labor
market and the saga of the debt limit highlight the dual problems
we face: low economic growth right now and an unsustainable amount
of debt for the future. Unfortunately, both are probably more
significant than policy discussions and official predictions
about the  U.S. economy  suggest.  The history of economies recovering from severe financial
distress implies the unemployment rate will remain stuck at
elevated levels for years, not quarters. And sluggish growth, in
turn, will mean larger budget deficits.  Under a plausible hard-slog scenario, the fiscal gap would
exceed $13 trillion over the next decade, without a change in
government policies. That’s at least $2.5 trillion more than the
deficit with official economic assumptions -- a difference that
itself will probably be larger than any deficit reduction that
comes from the debt-limit deal. So it’s worth exploring the
implications of slower growth in more detail.  One important way in which the official projections may
turn out to be too optimistic involves unemployment. The
fundamental impediment to getting jobless Americans back to work
is weak growth. Yet that is the norm rather than the exception
after the type of experience we have lived through. Recoveries
following financial collapses tend to be frailer than those
associated with other sorts of economic declines.  As a result, unemployment is likely to remain stubbornly
high for a significant period. Consider the other advanced
economies that have experienced financial implosions similar to
the one we had:  Spain  in 1977,  Norway  in 1987,  Finland  in 1991,
 Sweden  in 1991 and  Japan  in 1992.  The economists  Carmen and Vincent Reinhart  found that in
all five of these countries the unemployment rate has still not
fallen back to pre-crisis levels, even today. The peak was
reached from three to 10 years after the meltdown. And the
median increase in the jobless rate across these countries in
the decade following the implosion was, astonishingly, more than
five percentage points.  Unemployment Predictions  What do our official projections suggest? The  Congressional
Budget Office , which I have had the privilege of leading and
which provides an objective set of economic and fiscal
projections, offers an example. For the decade ahead, the CBO
expects an average  unemployment rate  of 6 percent -- up only one
percentage point from the average of about 5 percent before the
2008 crisis. Sure, our labor markets are more flexible than
those in most other countries, and that should help reduce the
jobless rate relatively rapidly here. But given the experience
of other countries that have endured similar financial
collapses, that performance would still be extraordinary.  The declines in unemployment predicted by CBO, as well as
the  Federal Reserve  and other government institutions, arise
because these agencies continue to anticipate growth rapid
enough to drive down the jobless rate significantly from its
current 9.2 percent level. As time goes by and the expected fast
expansion in gross domestic product doesn’t materialize,
projections simply delay the robust growth for another year.  The risk in using this methodology is that it misses the
deeper structural hurdles our economy faces that can depress
growth over a prolonged period -- including the still-depressed
housing market and the adverse effects of deleveraging.  If we are in for sluggish growth over the next few years,
the labor market won’t be the only aspect of the economy that
does worse than official projections; the budget deficit will be
significantly bigger as well.  Misleading Picture  The CBO paints a surprisingly auspicious picture of the
fiscal shortfall, averaging 3.4 percent of gross domestic
product over the next decade and dipping to about 3 percent by
2020. But this is misleading for two reasons. First, the CBO
projections are based on the letter of the laws that Congress
enacts rather than on what is likely to occur. For instance, if
the law says a  tax cut  will expire, the CBO assumes it will
actually do so, even if it has always been extended in the past.
Second, the CBO assumes a recovery more robust than what other
nations have experienced following financial crises. (To its
credit, the CBO does provide alternative analyses showing slower
growth.)  The Washington-based  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities , a well-respected progressive research institute that
studies budget issues, adjusts these CBO figures based on
various assumptions about policy. For example, almost no one
expects Congress to allow the Alternative Minimum Tax to hit
tens of millions of Americans over the coming decade, yet that
is what the official projections assume. The CBPP does not.  It predicts a more realistic deficit for the next 10 years
of 5.7 percent of GDP under current policies, and hovering
around 6 percent toward the end of the decade. The dollar amount
of the cumulative deficit over the next decade is projected to
exceed $11 trillion.  Economic Assumptions  The CBPP adjustments, however, change only the policy
assumptions embedded in the CBO figures, not the economic ones.
And yet the deficit is very sensitive to economic growth. So I
asked Richard Kogan, a senior fellow at the CBPP and one of the
nation’s leading budget experts, to alter the economic
assumptions to reflect a hard-slog scenario.  The CBO assumes economic growth will exceed 3 percent per
year from 2012 to 2016 before gradually declining to a bit more
than 2 percent in 2021. What if, instead, growth remains at 2
percent to 2.5 percent for the next decade? I asked Kogan to
recalculate the budget numbers assuming a constant growth rate
of 2.25 percent per year, which seems a plausible hard-slog
scenario.  He found that the deficit then averages more than 7 percent
of GDP. By 2021, it is more than 8.5 percent of GDP and
increasing.  Under these modified growth assumptions, the cumulative
deficit for the next decade is $13.7 trillion. In other words,
the impact from sluggish growth on the budget shortfall over the
same period exceeds $2.5 trillion -- which is more than the
roughly $2 trillion in  deficit reduction  that may wind up being
agreed to as part of a deal to lift the debt ceiling.  (Failing to reach such a deal over the debt limit by early
August, by the way, would lead to economic catastrophe and
further cloud the unemployment outlook.)  If an extended period of slow growth is more likely than
the official projections suggest, we’re in for a much nastier
mix of high unemployment in the near term and large budget gaps
over the medium term. This is only more evidence that the right
policy response is a combination of more aggressive action to
bolster the job market now and much more deficit reduction
enacted now to take effect in a few years. On both strategies,
we should be as bold as we can.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  