-- 
Armor Holdings to Pay $16 Million to Settle Bribery Claims

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-07-13T22:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/armor-holdings-to-pay-16-million-to-settle-bribery-claims-1-.html
Armor Holdings Inc., the military-
truck maker now a subsidiary of  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , agreed to pay
$16 million to resolve U.S. claims it bribed a United Nations
official to win contracts connected to peacekeeping missions.  The company will pay $10.3 million to resolve criminal
allegations and $5.7 million to settle related civil claims, the
Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission said
in separate statements today. The violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, which began as early as 2001, took place
before BAE bought the company in 2007, prosecutors said.  In 2001 and 2003, Armor employees set up sham consulting
contracts to funnel bribes to a UN procurement official in
exchange for information about competitors’ bids to provide body
armor for peacekeeping troops, according to the complaint. Armor
won about $6 million in contracts through the corrupt payments
for a profit of about $1 million, the  Justice Department  said.  “Armor and BAE Systems have cooperated extensively with
the government since this conduct was first reported in April
2007,” BAE spokesman Brian Roehrkasse said in a statement. As a
result of Armor’s “disclosure, cooperation, and extensive
remediation, the DOJ and SEC have entered into settlements that
close the matter without any FCPA prosecution or litigation.”  Criminal Allegations  The criminal probe by the Justice Department was settled
with a non-prosecution agreement that cited the company’s
cooperation and internal investigation in the case. In settling
the SEC claims, Armor didn’t admit or deny the allegations.  The Justice Department said Richard Bistrong, who worked in
Armor’s international sales unit, and another unidentified
executive arranged for the UN agent to receive more than
$200,000 in commissions for the 2001 and 2003 contracts.
Bistrong pleaded guilty last year to bribing UN and Dutch
officials to win body armor and pepper-spray contracts.  Bistrong played a central role in a separate U.S. sting
operation in which he recorded telephone and in-person meetings
with 22 security company executives alleged to be seeking
corrupt deals with an agent posing as a representative of Gabon.
The first of four cases stemming from that investigation ended
in a mistrial earlier this month.  Brady Toensing, Bistrong’s lawyer, declined to comment.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Armor
Holdings Inc., 1:11-cv-01271, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net 
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  