-- 
Marriott Second-Quarter Earnings Increase as International Properties Grow

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-07-13T22:27:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/marriott-second-quarter-earnings-increase-as-international-properties-grow.html
Marriott International Inc., the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, said second-quarter
profit climbed 13 percent, helped by growth at its international
locations.  Net income rose to $135 million, or 37 cents a share, from
$119 million, or 31 cents, a year earlier, the Bethesda,
Maryland-based hotelier said today in a statement. Analysts
forecast earnings of 38 cents a share, the average of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Revenue rose to $2.97 billion
from $2.77 billion a year earlier.  The lodging industry’s recovery is accelerating fastest in
regions outside the U.S. as economic expansion spurs demand for
hotel rooms. Revenue per available room, or revpar, is up more
than 10 percent from a year ago in  Asia  and more than 20 percent
across  Europe , compared with an increase of about 7 percent in
the U.S., said  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets. Marriott has said it plans to add at least 21 hotels in
 China  and double its rooms in Europe to 80,000 by 2015.  “Emerging markets provide especially attractive
opportunities,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J.W. Marriott Jr. said in the statement. “In the past five years, we
have increased our hotel distribution in  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India 
and China at a 12 percent compound annual growth rate while
tripling our development pipeline in those markets.”  ‘Wild Card’ Revpar  The hotelier, whose Marriott and Renaissance brands fall
into the upper-upscale category, a notch below luxury, said
worldwide revpar rose 6.8 percent before adjustments for
currency exchange. The company’s other brands include Ritz-
Carlton, Courtyard and Residence Inn.  “Their revpar results are the wild card this quarter,”
Scholes said in an interview from New York before the report.
“Just looking at their hotel portfolio, they should have about
8 percent revpar growth.”  Revpar, an industry measure of occupancy and rate, rose 6.6
percent for company-operated properties in  North America .
Outside North America, it increased 7.3 percent.  Across the hotel industry, revpar in the top 25 U.S.
markets climbed 9.8 percent this year through May, according to
 Smith Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,  Tennessee . For all
of the U.S., it climbed 8.7 percent, the research company said.  Forecast for 2011  Marriott reiterated its April forecast for 2011 revpar
growth of 6 percent to 8 percent in North America, and 5 percent
to 7 percent outside North America, before currency adjustments.  For the third quarter, Marriott said it expects North
American revpar to rise between 5 percent to 7 percent
“reflecting strong demand in most markets, but continued weak
demand in  Washington .” International revpar, before adjustments
for currency fluctuations, will likely climb 4 percent to 6
percent.  “ New York  was soft in the first quarter but came back in
the second and beginning of the third,” Scholes said.
“Washington, on the other hand, has been soft, and since
Marriott has some good presence there, D.C. isn’t going to help
them out right now.”  Marriott expects earnings per share of $1.35 to $1.43 for
2011. Second-quarter results were in line with the company’s own
forecast of 34 cents to 38 cents a share.  Timeshare Sales Fall  Marriott said contract sales in its timeshare segment fell
to $163 million from $167 million a year earlier, excluding a $6
million allowance for fractional and residential contract
cancellations.  Marriott is planning to spin off its timeshare business,
which accounts for about 13 percent of the company’s total
revenue. The hotelier will receive franchise fees from the
timeshare company’s use of the Marriott and Ritz-Carlton brands.
Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corp., as the new company will be
known, is scheduled to be spun off by the end of the year,
Marriott International said last month.  Marriott bought 10.6 million of its shares in the second
quarter for $375 million, bringing purchases this year through
June 17 to 18.5 million shares for $675 million.  The company announced earnings after the close of regular
U.S. trading. The stock rose 32 cents to $37.14 as of 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Marriott is the first of the major U.S. hotel chains to
report quarterly earnings.  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN)  is scheduled
to release its results on July 27, and Starwood Hotels & Resorts
will announce earnings July 28.  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  is scheduled
to report on Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  