-- 
Art Prices Return to Near Peak Levels, Collector Rachofsky Says

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-07-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/art-market-prices-returning-to-near-peak-levels-collector-rachofsky-says.html
The market for contemporary art is
more resilient than it was three years ago, according to Dallas-
based collector Howard Rachofsky.  The former hedge fund manager, who with his wife Cindy is
one of the art world’s best-known buyers, spoke after auctions
showed some contemporary prices returning to their peak levels,
defying nervousness in the wider economy.  “There’s so much wealth in the world looking for
alternative assets,” said Rachofsky. “The market is broader
than it was. It’s grown with new buyers from  Asia , Eastern
Europe and the  Middle East . A number of players have come in
from the financial industry and they look for value.”  Wealthy individuals are investing in contemporary works as
a hedge against economic uncertainty, dealers said. Sotheby’s
and Christie’s International’s June series of contemporary art
auctions in London raised 220.6 million pounds ($352 million),
the second-highest total ever for the U.K. capital.  Still, the market isn’t fully back to the boom levels of
2007 and mid-2008, Rachofsky, 67, said in a telephone interview.  “Some prices are high and comparable to former values,”
he said. “It’s not universal. There isn’t a mania out there. If
the financial markets go into crisis, there will be deflation in
art as well. There will be a pause.”  Dealers at last month’s  Art Basel  fair in  Switzerland 
reported plentiful sales in the $200,000 to $2 million range.
Buyers spent a record 108.8 million pounds at Sotheby’s on June
29, when the little-known Duerckheim collection of 1960s and
‘70s German art fetched 60.4 million pounds, double the
estimate. Works by  Sigmar Polke  and  Georg Baselitz  set auction
records for the artists at 5.8 million pounds and 3.2 million
pounds apiece.  Koons Market  “Those prices showed that the Polke and Baselitz markets
had been quiet and underpriced,” Rachofsky said. “The Jeff Koons market is still off right now, though. Prices aren’t at
the level of 2008.”  A 1980s sculpture of 18 basketballs in a vitrine by Koons
failed to find a buyer at  Sotheby’s (BID)  against a low estimate of
600,000 pounds. In June 2008, during the final months of the
boom, Rachofsky sold the artist’s 1995-2000 sculpture “Balloon
Flower (Magenta)” at Christie’s for a record 12.9 million
pounds to finance other purchases. Auction prices for heavily
traded names such as Koons slumped by as much as 50 percent
during the crisis.  Dallas Museum  Rachofsky’s purchases are displayed in a house designed by
Richard Meier, completed in 1996. The collection focuses on a
number of American and European postwar movements, including
1960s Minimalism and Arte Povera, as well as more contemporary
work by artists such as Robert Gober,  Gerhard Richter  and Mark
Grotjahn. The couple has bequeathed the works to the Dallas
Museum of Art.  Selling rates at Sotheby’s and Christie’s contemporary-art
auctions last month never fell below 75 percent. At Christie’s
July 6 day sale of less fashionable Old Masters the success rate
dropped to 47 percent.  “The one risk is expanding art fairs,” said Rachofsky.
“If you’re looking for froth in the market, that’s where it
is.”  The Frieze  Art Fair  said in May that it will be holding a
new event in  New York  on May 3-6, 2012. Art Basel’s owner, MCH
Group AG (MCHN), has acquired a majority stake in the Hong Kong
International Art Fair. Next year’s Asian edition is scheduled
for May 17-20, two weeks after Frieze New York and six months
after Art Basel’s sister Miami Beach fair.  “With no time off, there’s going to come a point where
people become exhausted. The marginal players will get bored,
and then prices could get stretched out,” Rachofsky said.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 