-- 
Hartford Profit Falls to $24 Million on Natural Disasters, Asbestos Costs

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-13T21:25:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/hartford-profit-falls-to-24-million-on-natural-disasters-asbestos-costs.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the seller of life insurance and property-casualty
coverage, said second-quarter net income plunged on catastrophe
claims and the cost of asbestos liabilities. The company
declined in extended trading.  Second-quarter net income was about $24 million, according
to a statement today from Hartford, based in the Connecticut
city of the same name. The insurer, which said the results it
announced today were preliminary, had net income of $76 million
in last year’s second quarter.  U.S. property-casualty insurers including  Allstate Corp. (ALL) 
and State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. took losses on a
U.S. tornado season that killed more than 150 people in Joplin,
 Missouri , and leveled parts of Tuscaloosa,  Alabama . Hartford had
$447 million in disaster costs from 12 events in the quarter.  “Results were affected by severe U.S. catastrophe
activity,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee said
in the statement.  Hartford fell 70 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $24.90 in
extended trading at 5:03 p.m. in  New York  and had dropped 3.4
percent at today’s close on the New York Stock Exchange since
Dec. 31. The company plans to report complete results Aug. 3.  Reserves, Charges  Hartford added $290 million to reserves to cover asbestos
liabilities on policies it wrote in prior years after getting an
increase in claims tied to the  deadly cancer  mesothelioma.
Hartford took a $73 million after-tax charge related to a
discontinued software project. It recorded a $74 million after-
tax charge on the sale of lender Federal Trust Corp.  Hartford reported zero core earnings per share, calculated
by excluding some investment results and discontinued
operations. It had a $52 million gain on the resolution of a tax
matter related to dividend deductions in 1998, 2000, 2001.  Hartford’s investment portfolio had a net unrealized gain
of about $800 million at the end of June. The net unrealized
loss was $161 million at the end of March, according to the
first-quarter earnings statement.  Hartford had “strong top-line growth” selling property
and casualty coverage to companies, McGee said in the statement.
It didn’t provide sales results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  