-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Rises to Record on Dollar’s Slump

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-07-13T22:06:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-rises-to-record-on-dollar-s-slump.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Rises to Record, Silver Jumps on Dollar’s Slump, Debt Woes  Gold futures surged to a record $1,588.90 an ounce as the
dollar’s slump and the European debt crisis spurred demand for
precious metals as alternative assets. Silver surged the most
since March 2009.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Vale’s Metorex Bid Withdrawal Spurs Bond Rally: Brazil Credit  Vale SA’s borrowing costs are falling to an eight-month low
after the Brazilian iron-ore producer scrapped a $1.1 billion
bid for Metorex Ltd., fueling speculation the company is trying
to avoid increasing its debt.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises for Second Day as  China ’s Economy Beats Estimates  Copper rose for the second straight day after economic
growth exceeded estimates in China, the world’s largest consumer
of the metal.  U.S. Default May Trigger Commodity Gain, UBS Securities Says (1)  A failure by U.S. lawmakers to raise the government debt
ceiling would prompt investors to “rush away from financial
assets” and buy more raw materials, according to John Kowalik
at UBS Securities LLC.  Commodities Rise to Four-Week High as Fed Signals More Stimulus  Commodities rose to a four-week high as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated he may provide more U.S.
economic stimulus, driving down the dollar and boosting demand
for raw materials as a hedge against inflation.  MINING:  Joy Global Said to Be in Talks to Buy International Mining (1)  Joy Global Inc. is in talks to buy International Mining
Machinery Holdings Ltd., the Chinese maker of coal-mining
equipment, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Northgate to Buy Primero for C$370 Million to Gain Mexican Mine  Northgate Minerals Corp., a Canadian gold and copper
producer, agreed to acquire Primero Mining Corp. for about C$370
million ($384 million) in an all-stock deal to gain control of
the San Dimas gold-silver mine in  Mexico .  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Prices May Rise to $8.75 on U.S. Drought, Scoville Says (2)  Corn may rise to a record $8.75 a bushel before this year’s
harvest if drought in the southern U.S. expands to the Midwest,
said  Jack Scoville , a vice president for Price Futures Group
Inc. in  Chicago .  Warm Weather Speeds Crop Development, Canadian Wheat Board Says  Warm weather is allowing crop development to accelerate,
while plant maturity remains behind normal in southern growing
areas, the Canadian Wheat Board said.  Wheat Caps Biggest Two-Day Rally Since August on Stimulus Bets  Wheat futures rose, capping the biggest two-day gain in 11
months, on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will extend
stimulus measures to bolster the economy, spurring demand for
commodities.  Corn, Soybeans Surge as Hot, Dry Weather Threatens U.S. Output  Corn rose, capping the biggest two- day advance in eight
weeks, and soybeans gained the most in eight weeks on concern
that hot, dry weather will reduce yields in the U.S., the
world’s leading exporter of the crops.  Cotton Rises on Concern U.S. Output to Drop; Orange Juice Gains  Cotton climbed the most in six weeks on concern that
production will drop more than forecast in the U.S., the world’s
leading exporter. Orange-juice futures jumped.  Coffee Advances on Smaller Global Crop; Sugar Falls, Cocoa Jumps  Coffee rose the most in two weeks on concern that supplies
will fail to meet demand as trees in  Brazil , the world’s largest
producer, enter their low-yielding cycle. Sugar dropped from a
five-month high. Cocoa gained.  Hog Prices Jump on Signs of Climbing Pork Demand; Cattle Steady  Hog futures rose, extending this month’s gains, on signs of
rising demand for U.S. pork. Cattle were little changed after
nearing a record high.  SHIPPING:  Ore-Shipping Costs Fall 14% in a Week as Miners Seek Lower Rates  Hire costs for capesize ships that carry iron ore and coal
fell for a fourth day, leaving them down 14 percent from a week
ago, as mining companies sought lower rates.  ECONOMIES:  Credit Suisse Says Buy Stocks as Global Risks ‘Fade Out’ (1)  Credit Suisse Group AG is buying stocks after  Greece ’s debt
crisis made equities a bargain, said Stefan Keitel, who is
responsible for about $200 billion as chief investment officer
at the Zurich-based company.  Fed’s Fisher Says  Monetary Policy  Has Reached Its Limit (2)  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
said central bank efforts to boost the economy have reached
their limits and the U.S. faces a “fiscal reckoning” that only
lawmakers can resolve.  Budget Deficit in U.S. Narrowed to $43.1 Billion in June (1)  The U.S. posted a monthly budget deficit of $43.1 billion
in June, smaller than a year earlier and reflecting a decline in
spending.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Pare Advance on Concern Debt-Ceiling Deal Will Fail  U.S. stocks pared gains, almost erasing a 164-point gain in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , after the  Associated Press 
reported that House Speaker  John Boehner  said it’s a
“crapshoot” whether the federal debt limit will be boosted if
an agreement isn’t reached by Aug. 2.  Dollar Falls as Bernanke Says Fed to Respond If Stimulus Needed  The dollar weakened against all its most-traded
counterparts as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
policy makers will provide economic stimulus if needed and
investor demand for higher-yielding assets increased.  Never-More-Similar Estimates Backfire for U.S. Equity Analysts  Wall Street analysts are more united on earnings forecasts
than ever before, and using their predictions to buy stocks
flopped during the first half of 2011, according to Bank of
America Corp.  Crude Oil  Rises After U.S. Supplies Decline More Than Expected  Crude oil climbed after a U.S. Energy Department report
showed inventories fell more than expected last week and as
equities rallied.  SPORTS:  Japan Beats Sweden, Will Meet U.S. in Women’s World Cup Final  Japan beat Sweden 3-1 to advance to the final of soccer’s
Women’s World Cup for the first time, where it will meet the
U.S.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 