-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen on Economic Growth Outlook, Rising Rates

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-07-13T08:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/asian-currencies-strengthen-on-economic-growth-outlook-rising-rates.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by  South Korea ’s won, on optimism the world’s fastest economic
growth and rising  interest rates  will attract overseas funds.  The Bank of Thailand raised borrowing costs today, while
Malaysia’s central bank indicated last week that it was
considering lifting interest rates further. Data today showed
Chinese gross domestic product and factory output increased by
more than economists forecast, and South Korean unemployment
held at the lowest level since November.  “Growth among  Asia ’s economies still looks very solid,”
said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “The risk of inflation also suggests
more possible monetary tightening. The bias is for regional
currencies to strengthen.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.2
percent, approaching a 14-year high reached on July 8. The won
strengthened 0.6 percent to 1,060.49 per dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Singapore dollar  advanced 0.5
percent to S$1.2229, Thailand’s baht gained 0.4 percent to 30.25
and the Philippine peso climbed 0.4 percent to 43.055.  Emerging-market economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent
this year, compared with 2.4 percent growth in the world’s
developed economies, according to forecasts made by the
 International Monetary Fund  in April.  Chinese Growth  Chinese industrial production advanced 15.1 percent in June
from a year earlier, compared with the 13.1 percent median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Gross domestic
product increased 9.5 percent in the second quarter, compared
with 9.7 percent in the previous three months and the 9.3
percent analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had been expecting. The
yuan strengthened 0.07 percent to 6.4676 per dollar.  “ China ’s GDP is a good number and it’s still pretty much
on track for a soft landing,” said Chua Hak Bin, Singapore-
based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “The growth
in Asia will hold up a lot better than what’s happening
globally.”  South Korea’s June jobless rate was 3.3 percent, lower than
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 3.4 percent.
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said the data are “unexpectedly
strong.”  “Economic fundamentals have been relatively strong and
that gives room for the currency to rise in the middle to longer
term,” said Seo Jeong Hun, an analyst at Korea Exchange Bank in
 Seoul . “Currency gains have been limited by external factors
such as ongoing concerns about the euro-zone debt crisis.”  Thailand  Lifts Rates  The baht snapped a two-day loss as the Bank of Thailand
lifted the one-day bond repurchase rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 3.25 percent. The move was predicted by 23
of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with one expecting no
change.  “The rate hike is one of the factors that drives the baht
stronger,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a foreign-exchange trader
at Bangkok Bank Pcl.  Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.4 percent to 3.0210 per dollar,
following a 1.3 percent decline over the previous two days. Bank
Negara Malaysia said in a July 7 statement it would consider
further normalizing interest rates to safeguard price stability
if domestic economic growth momentum is sustained.  “The currency fell too much in the past two days,” said
Akira Banno, a treasury adviser in  Kuala Lumpur  at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. Expectations that Bank Negara may
raise rates “sooner or later will ensure the Malaysian currency
doesn’t fall too much,” he said.  The Southeast Asian nation kept its policy rate unchanged
at 3 percent on July 7.  Malaysia  will raise its benchmark rate
to 3.5 percent by year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened 0.4 percent to
8,548 per dollar and Taiwan’s dollar appreciated 0.3 percent to
NT$28.90.  India ’s rupee gained 0.3 percent to 44.5650.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
Ronnie Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  