-- 
Asian Stocks Rise After China’s Economy Maintains Momentum

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-13T10:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/asian-stocks-rise-before-china-releases-economic-growth-report.html
Asian stocks rose for the first time
in three days as reports showed  China’s economy  expanded more
than estimated in the second quarter, easing concern tightening
measures are curbing growth, and as investors weigh efforts to
contain Europe’s debt crisis.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second-biggest
lender, climbed 2.2 percent in  Hong Kong  on speculation the
central bank may soon halt interest rate increases as economic
growth slows. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s largest producer of
the metal, jumped 5.1 percent after saying its first-half net
income likely increased. Mitsubishi Corp., a Japanese trading
house, climbed 1.8 percent in  Tokyo  after Credit Suisse
initiated coverage of the sector with an “overweight” rating.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1 percent to 135.77 as
of 7:39 p.m. in Tokyo, with two stocks rising for each that
fell. The gauge last week extended its rally for a third week as
European Union leaders hammered out proposals to roll over debt
to prevent Greece from defaulting and after reports showed
retail sales in the U.S. increased in June and  China ’s latest
interest rate increase sparked speculation the tightening cycle
may end soon.  “Any evidence of a soft landing in China will be welcomed
by the market because that’s what Beijing has been trying to
engineer since the tightening began late last year,” said
Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1.7 billion at Platypus
Asset Management in Sydney. “There is a solid commitment around
the world to see that the European situation doesn’t send us
back to days of the 2008 global financial crisis.”  ‘Cooling Growth’  China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.5 percent from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said in Beijing today, after
a 9.7 percent gain in the first quarter. That compared with the
median 9.3 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 18
economists. Industrial production rose a more-than-estimated
15.1 percent in June, the agency said. Analysts had forecast an
increase of 13.1 percent.  “The numbers show that China is managing to cool growth,
and that should go a long way towards easing the ‘hard-landing’
fears,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist for AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under
management globally. “The fact that growth is softening should
also allow the authorities to take their foot off the monetary
brake.”  Lenders rallied on speculation China’s tightening efforts,
which include raising  interest rates  and bank reserves, may end
soon. China Construction Bank climbed 2.2 percent to HK$6.08 in
Hong Kong.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the
nation’s biggest lender, gained 2.2 percent to HK$5.63. Smaller
rival  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  increased 2.3 percent to HK$3.59.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.4 percent, having
swung between gains and losses at least seven times.  South
Korea ’s Kospi Index gained 0.9 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index both climbed 1.2 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
increased 1.5 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.4
percent.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent
today. The index dropped 0.4 percent to 1,313.64 in New York
yesterday after the downgrading of Ireland’s  credit rating  to
junk added to concerns Europe is losing control of the credit
crisis and overshadowed evidence that the U.S. Federal Reserve
hasn’t ruled out more stimulus.  The MSCI All-Country World Index declined 0.7 percent
yesterday after Ireland joined Portugal and  Greece  as the third
euro-area nation to have its credit rating reduced to below
investment grade as European Union finance ministers struggle to
contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis. Moody’s Investors
Service yesterday cut Ireland to Ba1 from Baa3, citing the
probability that the country will need additional official
financing before it can return to the private market to borrow.  In the U.S., policymakers continued to debate whether
additional stimulus will be needed if the outlook for economic
growth remains weak, minutes from the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s June meeting showed yesterday. Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke will testify before congress later today.  Commodity Stocks  Gauges of energy companies and raw material producers led
the advance among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. All but one of the sub-indexes gained.  Jiangxi Copper climbed 5.1 percent to HK$26.70 after saying
its first-half net income likely increased more than 50 percent
from a year earlier on higher output and price of the commodity.  Japanese commodity suppliers climbed after Credit Suisse
Group AG rated the sector an “overweight,” citing the stocks’
low valuations. Inpex Corp., Japan’s biggest energy explorer,
increased 2.1 percent to 596,000 yen.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , which
gets about 43 percent of revenue from commodity, gained 1.8
percent to 2,069 yen.  Portek Bidding War?  Rival Mitsui & Co. also climbed 2.1 percent to 1,432 yen
after making a takeover offer of S$1.40 per share for Portek
International Ltd., which operates port facilities in  Indonesia ,
Algeria, Malta and Gabon. The Mitsui offer exceeded a S$1.20 per
share bid by Philippine-based International Container Terminal
Services Inc. Singapore-based Portek surged 6.1 percent to
S$1.40.  International Container Terminal is studying its options
“to determine what’s best for our shareholders,” Rafael Consing, treasurer at the Manila-based company, said in a phone
interview. A unit of the company unit owns 16.7 percent of
Portek, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 2.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 4.5 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 2.8 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.5 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.2 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  Gold producers advanced after the precious metal’s price
rose to a record as Europe’s escalating debt crisis boosted
demand for safe-haven investments. Newcrest Mining gained 0.7
percent to A$38.96. Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s biggest
producer of bullion, jumped 5.1 percent to HK$4.16 in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 