-- 
ASML Stock Falls on Third-Quarter Outlook of Drop in Orders

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-07-13T10:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/asml-drops-after-forecast-third-quarter-orders-won-t-exceed-700-million.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML) ,  Europe ’s biggest
semiconductor-equipment maker, fell the most in 2 1/2 years in
Amsterdam trading after saying orders will drop in the third
quarter because of concerns that economic growth will slow.  Sales contracts in the period probably won’t exceed 500
million euros ($704 million), the Veldhoven, Netherlands-based
company said in a statement today. That compares with 1.3
billion euros a year earlier. Second-quarter new orders,
excluding advance sales of technology being introduced, amounted
to 840 million euros, lower than the company’s forecast range of
900 million euros and 1 billion euros.  “The outlook for third-quarter orders is worse than
expected,” Jos Versteeg, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Theodoor
Gilissen Bankiers, said. “It indicates sales in 2012 will
definitely be lower.”  European services and manufacturing growth slowed in June
as leaders in the region struggled to contain a worsening debt
crisis.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s second-largest maker of mobile
phones by revenue, abandoned 2011 earnings targets on May 31,
while Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest television
manufacturer and an ASML customer, posted a 26 percent drop in
second-quarter profit following a slump in flat screen sales.  Outlooks ‘Toned Down’  Expectations of high mobile-phone and personal-computer
sales “actually had to be toned down,” ASML Chief Financial
Officer Peter Wennink said on the company’s website. Doubt about
economic development “creates uncertainty, which currently
reflects the hesitance of our customers.”  ASML dropped as much as 2.15 euros, or 8.4 percent, to
23.55 euros, the biggest intraday decline since Dec. 18, 2008,
and was 4.5 percent lower as of 12:27 p.m., valuing the
manufacturer at 10.9 billion euros.  Second-quarter net income surged 81 percent to 432 million
euros as sales jumped 43 percent to 1.53 billion euros. Profit
had been foreseen at 411.6 million euros on sales of 1.5 billion
euros, according to the average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  ASML said it’s sticking to a forecast for 2011 of revenue
“clearly above” 5 billion euros. Third-quarter net sales will
total about 1.4 billion euros, including delivery of two second-
generation EUV, or extreme ultraviolet, lithography systems for
about 80 million euros with a zero profit margin.  ‘Clear’ Slowdown  “It is clear the industry is heading for a slowdown,”
said  Victor Bareno , an analyst at SNS Securities, adding the
drop in orders is more pronounced than he had expected. At the
same time, ASML’s remarks about the EUV revenue are positive, he
said. Bareno reiterated his buy recommendation on ASML’s stock.  In the second quarter, ASML booked six orders for an EUV
pre-production tool, which has an average selling price of 42
million euros, and 10 orders for an EUV volume-production
machine priced at 65 million euros. The volume equipment will be
delivered starting in mid-2012, Chief Executive Officer Eric Meurice said in the statement.  ASML is the world’s largest maker of machines to project
lines on the silicon slices from which chips are made. Its main
competitor is  Japan ’s  Nikon Corp. (7731)   Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , based
in  Santa Clara ,  California , is the world’s largest maker of
semiconductor equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  