-- 
Asthma Test Patients Report Sham Drug Benefits Where Doctors See None

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-07-13T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/asthma-test-patients-report-sham-drug-benefits-where-doctors-see-none.html
Asthma  patients reported the same
relief from sham treatments as with a real medicine, even though
a clinical test found that only the drug worked, in a surprise
twist from a Harvard study analyzing the placebo effect.  Study patients said their symptoms of wheezing and coughing
were improved just as much with a placebo inhaler or pretend
acupuncture as with an  albuterol  inhaler, a standard treatment,
according to a paper today in the  New England Journal of
Medicine.  Still, when using a test to measure lung function,
doctors only saw improvement in those given the albuterol
inhaler, the study found.  The findings show that a placebo effect can be strong
enough to rival the effects of an active medication in patients
with asthma, the researchers said. Future studies will look at
this mind-body interaction and may help researchers better
understand how this placebo effect occurs, said  Michael Wechsler ,
the paper’s lead author.  “Our goal is to really try and understand how the mind
works, how the body deals with drugs and how the body responds
to different stimuli whether it’s real drugs or whether it’s a
placebo,” said Wechsler, associate director of the Brigham and
Women’s Hospital Asthma Research Center and an assistant
professor at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston , in a July 12
telephone interview. “The mind is very powerful. It’s important
for doctors to practice the art of healing. Just laying your
hands on a patient, just giving them some intervention will
result in their feeling better in many circumstances.”  Objective and Subjective Testing  The researchers chose to study asthma patients because
there are both standard objective tests and subjective tests
that can be given, and an attack can be easily reversible with
treatment, Wechsler said. Asthma, a chronic inflammatory
disorder of the airways that causes wheezing, shortness of
breath and coughing, affects about 34 million Americans,
according to the  American Academy  of  Allergy, Asthma and
Immunology .  The study included 39 patients with chronic asthma. Each
patient had 12 medical visits in which they were randomly
assigned to receive treatment with the active albuterol inhaler,
the placebo inhaler, sham acupuncture or no intervention at all.  Though patients in all groups reported statistically
significant improvement compared with no treatment, a separate
test to measure lung capacity found that only patients who were
given the active drug inhaler showed significant improvement.
Those patients had a 20 percent increase in lung capacity
compared with about a 7 percent increase for the placebo inhaler,
sham acupuncture and no intervention.  ‘Powerful’ Placebo Effect  Placebos “may not necessarily have a significant effect on
the underlying disease process but just the ritual of treatment
can be very, very powerful,” Wechsler said. “It is important
for asthma patients to recognize that even though they may feel
OK, there may still be underlying inflammation/disease that
needs to be addressed by real medicine.”  Daniel Moerman , who wrote an accompanying editorial in the
journal, questioned the researchers’ conclusions that “the
patients’ reports were ‘unreliable,’ since they reported
improvement when there was none.” Future studies should look at
whether these findings hold true in other diseases such as
depression and post traumatic stress disorder, he said.  “It’s quite possible to give people inert tablets and they
end up feeling much better,” said Moerman, a professor emeritus
of anthropology at the University of Michigan-Dearborn in a July
12 telephone interview. “The one thing we can be sure of it’s
not the placebo that did that because the placebo was inert.
Even though the placebo is inert, that doesn’t mean it doesn’t
carry meaning.”  Doctors “have to take seriously what their patients tell
them about how treatments affected them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  