-- 
Mauritius Rupee Falls Most in Week; Europe Sparks Risk Aversion

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-07-13T14:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/mauritius-rupee-falls-most-in-week-europe-sparks-risk-aversion.html
Mauritius’s rupee depreciated the
most in a week against the dollar and stocks fell the most in
four months as concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis prompted
investors to shun riskier emerging- and frontier-market assets.  The rupee weakened 1.2 percent to 28.5 per dollar, its
biggest intraday decline since July 5, by 5:31 p.m. in Port
Louis, the capital. A close at this level will be the lowest
since June 29. Against the euro, it slumped 1.9 percent to
40.22, snapping two days of gains. The 38-member SEMDEX stocks
gauge fell 0.8 percent to close at 2,063.82, led by a 1.6
percent drop in  Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB) , the country’s largest
lender by market value.  “The European crisis is the dominant factor in  currency
markets  at the moment,” Nitish Benimadhu, a foreign-exchange
and fund manager at Anglo Mauritius Financial Services Ltd.,
said by phone from  Port Louis . “Combined with fears of a broad
global slowdown, eurozone fears have pushed investors away from
riskier investments such as stocks and the euro into safe-haven
assets such as the dollar and Treasuries.”  Ireland yesterday became the third euro-area nation after
Portugal and Greece to have its credit rating cut to below
investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service lowered Ireland’s
rating to Ba1 from Baa3, saying the nation will likely need more
rescue financing. The downgrade came two days after the  European
Central Bank  said a European bailout fund may have to be doubled
to cover a crisis in Italy, and euro-region finance ministers
failed to agree on a solution to  Greece ’s debt problems.  Mauritius is rated Baa2 at Moody’s, its second-lowest
investment-grade rating, with a “stable” outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  