-- 
Australian Consumer Confidence Falls to Two-Year Low on EU, Rate Concerns

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-07-13T02:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/australian-consumer-confidence-falls-to-two-year-low-on-eu-rate-concerns.html
Australian  consumer confidence  fell
by the most since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
2008 as concern intensified about the European debt crisis.  The sentiment index plunged 8.3 percent to 92.8 from a
month earlier, the biggest decline since October 2008 and the
lowest level since May 2009, according to a  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken
July 4-9 and released today in Sydney.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  earlier
this month held the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent
for the seventh straight meeting, citing a weaker domestic
growth outlook and  Europe ’s crisis. Prime Minister Julia
Gillard’s carbon-tax proposal, which has dented her job-approval
rating, has also restrained consumer optimism.  “A combination of concerns over the European financial
crisis, the ongoing impact of the seven interest rate hikes
between October 2009 and November 2010, and uncertainty about
the introduction of a price on carbon are now really undermining
the confidence of consumers,”  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief
economist, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Australian dollar pared gains after the report. It
bought $1.0621 at 12:02 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0637 immediately
before the release. The so-called Aussie is up about 20 percent
in the past year against the U.S. currency, the second-biggest
gainer after the Swiss franc among G-10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Family Finance  Every component of the index fell this month, today’s
report showed. The sub-index tracking views on the outlook for
the economy over the next 12 months dropped 13.5 percent and the
gauge of views on family finances over the next year declined 4
percent, Westpac said.  Australia ’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, the biggest contraction in two decades, as floods and a
cyclone disrupted farming and mineral shipments from Queensland,
the nation’s biggest coking coal-producing state. Recent reports
support the central bank’s view that the recovery from the
natural disasters has been slower than predicted.  A net loss of 5,400 jobs from April to June was the weakest
quarter for Australia’s labor market since the first three
months of 2001, when a U.S. recession began. Retail sales
unexpectedly fell 0.6 percent in May, the steepest drop since
October.  Rate Pause  Falling business and consumer confidence have prompted
economists to forecast Stevens will delay raising  interest rates 
that are the highest in the developed world. Australia’s jobless
rate, at 4.9 percent last month, compares with 9.2 percent in
the U.S. and nearly 10 percent joblessness in the euro area.  Weaker retail sales and the stronger Australian dollar have
weighed on business confidence, which fell to six-month low in
June, according to a National Australia Bank Ltd. survey of 400
companies published yesterday. NAB forecast the central bank
will keep borrowing costs unchanged until December. Previously
it expected a rate rise in August.  The RBA board’s next scheduled interest-rate policy meeting
is on Aug. 2.  The euro has declined this month as European finance
ministers failed to present a solution to the financial
contagion that’s threatening to spread to  Italy  from  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal .  “These conditions will hardly be conducive to the  Reserve
Bank  raising rates,” Evans said in the statement. “We do not
expect to see a change in rates for the remainder of this year,
with an easing bias the most appropriate policy response to the
current economic circumstances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  