-- 
May & Baker Plans to Start Pharmaceutical Exports to West, Central Africa

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 
2011-07-13T12:04:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/may-baker-of-nigeria-targets-drug-exports-to-african-countries-ceo-says.html
May & Baker of  Nigeria  Plc, the
nation’s second-biggest pharmaceuticals maker by market value,
plans to start exports to western and central  Africa  before the
end of this year, Chief Executive Officer Nnamdi Okafor said.  “Our current production capacity is beyond the Nigerian
market, so we have to make our first major exports to any of the
countries of target this year,” Okafor said in an interview in
Lagos yesterday. “The products planned for exports are
antiretroviral, malaria and tuberculosis drugs.”  May & Baker completed a 4 billion-naira ($26 million) plant
expansion in June, boosting its capacity for solid drug
production fourfold and more than doubling that for liquid
drugs, Okafor said.  The company expects annual revenue to exceed 9 billion
naira by the end of 2012 as the new plant attains full
production, he said.  “We made a turnover of 4.6 billion naira in 2010 through
December and expect a modest rise this year until 2012 when a
significant jump in revenue is projected,” Okafor said.  The company has applied to regulatory authorities in target
countries and the  World Health Organization  to pre-qualify its
products.  “WHO officials will arrive at May & Baker on Aug. 1 to
inspect our facilities and later offer technical assistance in
manpower, equipment and processes necessary to get our products
pre-qualified globally,” Okafor said.  May & Baker is the oldest pharmaceutical company in
Nigeria, according to its website. It started trading on the
 Nigerian Stock Exchange  in November 1994, and investors in 2002
bought out international partners represented by French company
Aventis SA.  GlaxoSmithKline Nigeria (GLAXOSMI)  is the country’s biggest
drug company by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  