-- 
Bachmann Gains in Republican Presidential Race, Survey Shows

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-07-13T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/bachmann-gains-in-republican-presidential-race-survey-shows.html
U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann 
of Minnesota is picking up support in the race for the
Republican presidential nomination, according to a poll released
today.  Bachmann is backed by 14 percent of registered Republicans
and independents who lean toward the party in the survey by
Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University . That is more
than double the 6 percent who favored her in a June 8 poll --
before she had officially declared her candidacy -- and put her
in second place.  “The question about Representative Bachmann is whether she
is the flavor of the month, like  Donald Trump  was for a while,
or does she have staying power?” Peter A. Brown, assistant
director of the  Quinnipiac University Polling Institute , said in
a statement.  Trump, the New York-based real estate developer who also
has his own reality television show, flirted with entering the
Republican race before deciding not to in May.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney leads the party’s
field in the new poll, holding steady with the 25 percent
support he had in Quinnipiac’s June survey.  Placing third and fourth in the current survey are two
Republicans who are weighing whether to run: former Alaska
governor Sarah Palin with 12 percent and Texas Governor  Rick Perry  with 10 percent.  Other Candidates  None of seven other announced candidates broke double
digits. These included businessman Herman Cain with 6 percent,
Representative Ron Paul of Texas with 5 percent and former
Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty with 3 percent.  “Bachmann’s fortunes may depend on whether Governors Palin
or Perry get into the race,” said Brown. “All three of them
are likely to appeal to the GOP’s Tea Party constituency.”  Among all registered voters surveyed, President  Barack Obama  topped the four leading Republican White House hopefuls,
hitting the 50-percent mark against all except Romney. In that
matchup, Obama had 47 percent, Romney 41 percent.  The president led Bachmann, 50 percent to 38 percent.  The July 5-11 poll of 2,311 registered voters has an margin
of error of plus or minus 2.0 percentage points for its entire
survey. The portion focused on the Republican presidential race
interviewed 913 voters and had a margin of error of 3.2
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington 
at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 