-- 
Thailand Raises Interest Rate as Spending Pledges Signal Price Pressures

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-07-13T09:11:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/bank-of-thailand-raises-benchmark-one-day-repurchase-rate-to-3-25-from-3-.html
Thailand  raised  interest rates  for
the sixth straight meeting and signaled further increases as
spending pledges by incoming leader Yingluck Shinawatra threaten
to stoke inflation. The baht rose.  The Bank of Thailand increased its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.25
percent, it said in Bangkok today. The move was predicted by 23
of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with one expecting
no change. The nation has boosted borrowing costs eight times in
the past year.  Yingluck’s promises of higher wages, lower taxes and free
computers propelled her to a clear victory in the July 3 poll,
almost five years after the ouster of her brother,  Thaksin Shinawatra . Pay rises and increased spending may fuel price
pressures, the central bank said today, with Assistant Governor
Paiboon Kittisrikangwan calling for “harmony” between fiscal and
monetary policy as inflation holds close to a 32-month high.  “With the raft of populist policies that are likely to be
adopted by the incoming government, the central bank also faces
an additional need to tighten further,” said Wellian Wiranto, a
Singapore-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.  Thailand’s stocks and currency rose after the poll passed
without significant protests in a nation that has had nine coups
and more than 20 prime ministers since  King Bhumibol Adulyadej 
ascended the throne in 1946. The mandate won by Yingluck’s Pheu
Thai party eased concern that the military may intervene again.  Stock Rally  The benchmark SET index has climbed 3.6 percent this month,
while the baht is the best-performer against the dollar during
the period in a basket of 10 Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, rising 1.5 percent. The SET index was up 1.5 percent
at 3:45 p.m. local time, while the baht advanced 0.4 percent.  “The prospective increases in the minimum wage and fiscal
spending amid continued economic growth will likely add to
inflation pressure and may result in heightened inflation
expectations,” Paiboon told a news conference in Bangkok today.  While it remains too early to make further assessments as
the government is still being formed, projects should be
prioritized as they can’t all be implemented and the
administration should take into account fiscal discipline, he
said. Borrowing costs remain on an uptrend, he said.  Thailand’s consumer prices climbed 4.06 percent in June
from a year earlier, close to the 4.19 percent pace in May that
was the fastest since September 2008.  Core inflation , which
excludes fresh food and fuel prices, accelerated to 2.55 percent.  The central bank uses the core measure to guide policy and
aims to keep the gauge below 3 percent. It could breach that
ceiling in the second half of the year, Paiboon said.  Policy Friction  Yingluck, set to become Thailand’s first female prime
minister, last week asked for more time to formulate detailed
policies. Pheu Thai also pledged rice-price guarantees, high-
speed trains, dams and a new city before the election.  Such spending may spur inflation and cause friction with
the Bank of Thailand, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “The fact that the central bank’s independence has been
legally enshrined in Thailand should allow it to continue acting
most prudently to safeguard hard-won macroeconomic stability,”
said HSBC’s Wiranto.  Thai law states the central bank governor “must be able to
work independently,” according to the bank’s website. Prasarn
was handed a five-year term in 2010 after being recommended by
the previous government. Under current legislation, he can only
be removed by the Cabinet for misconduct, dishonesty,
incompetence or incapability.  Export Slowdown  Companies such as  Hana Microelectronics Pcl (HANA)  have raised
concern that higher wages may combine with costlier borrowing
and a stronger currency to erode export competitiveness in
Southeast  Asia ’s second-largest economy.  Thai shipments rose at the slowest pace in seven months in
May after supplies were disrupted by the earthquake in  Japan .
While the central bank has said the interruptions will ease from
this quarter, Asia also faces threats from slower global growth,
elevated U.S. unemployment and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  China  today reported 9.5 percent second-quarter economic
expansion from a year earlier, slowing from 9.7 percent in the
previous period.  Singapore ’s growth probably stalled last
quarter, the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey shows.  The Bank of Thailand forecasts a 4.1 percent rise in gross
domestic product in 2011. The Thai economy expanded 7.8 percent
last year, which was the fastest pace in 15 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  