-- 
Bank of America, Consumer Bureau, Taxes, Audits: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-07-13T11:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/bank-of-america-consumer-bureau-taxes-audits-compliance.html
New York  Attorney General  Eric
Schneiderman  is investigating the proposed $8.5 billion Bank of
America Corp. settlement with  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  over
residential mortgage-securitization trusts.  The New York attorney general’s office sent letters to more
than 20 companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  regarding their participation in the proposed
deal. The investment managers were asked to identify clients
affiliated with New York state government entities, public
authorities or not-for-profit organizations that invested in the
530 residential mortgage-securitization trusts established from
2004 to 2008, according to copies of the letters obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Dated July 7, the letters also request the total par amount
and current market value of all securities issued by the trusts
covered in the settlement agreement for each client that meets
the criteria. The information was requested in connection with
an ongoing investigation by the office “into certain matters
related to securitization of residential mortgages,” according
to the letters.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman,
declined to comment on the probe. BlackRock spokeswoman Bobbie
Collins declined to comment. Goldman Sachs spokesman  Michael
DuVally  declined to immediately comment.  Compliance Action  Ex- Morgan Stanley (MS)  Trader Settles SEC Claims Over Hiding Risk  A former Morgan Stanley trader agreed to pay $25,000 to
settle U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claims that she
concealed proprietary trades that exceeded the firm’s risk
limits.  Jennifer Kim and her supervisor, Larry Feinblum, used
“fake” swap orders at least 32 times from October to December
2009 to hide their risk of losses, the SEC said in an  order 
yesterday. New York-based Morgan Stanley ultimately lost about
$24.5 million from the unauthorized trades, according to the
agency.  Feinblum, who is no longer employed by Morgan Stanley,
agreed to pay $150,000 to settle related claims May 31,
according to a separate  order . In resolving the matters, Kim and
Feinblum didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  Kim and Feinblum entered into swap orders that they
intended to cancel almost immediately, which had the effect of
“tricking” the firms’ monitoring systems into recording
reduced net risk positions, the SEC said. After being told by
his supervisor not to increase his exposure to India-based Wipro
Limited, Feinblum instead distorted his position with the fake
swaps and continued to accumulate more risk, the SEC said.  The misconduct came to light in December 2009 after
Feinblum told his supervisor he had lost $7 million in one day
and that he and Kim had repeatedly exceeded risk limits and
hidden the positions, according to the order.  SEC Commissioner Luis Aguilar said the terms of Kim’s
settlement were “inadequate,” according to a written  dissent 
posted on the agency’s website. The settlement “fails to
address what is in my view the intentional nature of her
conduct,” Aguilar said.  Phone calls to Daniel Chaudoin, Feinblum’s attorney at
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, and Christopher
Caparelli, Kim’s lawyer at Torys LLP, weren’t immediately
returned. Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment.  U.S. Consumer Bureau Outlines Bank Exams Starting July 21  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will begin
supervision of the 111 largest U.S. banks for consumer
protection problems on July 21, according to a statement issued
by the Treasury Department.  “Starting on July 21, we will be a cop on the beat --
examining banks and protecting consumers,” Elizabeth Warren,
the Obama administration adviser who is setting up the new
agency, said in the statement yesterday.  Under the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul,
supervision of banks on consumer issues transfers from other
federal regulators to the bureau on July 21, a date set by
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.  The consumer bureau’s supervisory process will work to
detect and remedy practices that violate federal law and could
harm consumers, Treasury said.  “Examiners will look at the products and services the
institution offers, with a focus on risk to consumers,”
Treasury said. “The institution’s compliance with requirements
during the entire life cycle of the product or service will be
reviewed, including how a product is developed, marketed, sold
and managed.”  The banking supervision program at the consumer bureau is
headed by Steven Antonakes, a former commissioner of banking in
Massachusetts. It will cover institutions that together hold
more than 80 percent of the nation’s banking assets, Treasury
said in the statement.  For more, click here.  Mexico Antitrust Agency Starts Second Probe of Telecom Market  Mexico’s antitrust agency is opening an  investigation  into
“relative monopolistic practices” in the markets for cable
television, fixed-line phone and internet service.  The  Federal Competition Commission , known as the CFC, will
review actions or agreements by companies that have the
“objective or effect of inappropriately displacing other market
participants.” Competitors may also have attempted to increase
costs for rivals or reduce demand for their services, according
to a statement published in Mexico’s official gazette yesterday.  The probe follows another CFC investigation into possible
collusion in the same markets, announced June 1. Telefonos de
Mexico SAB, the Mexico City-based company that controls 80
percent of the nation’s fixed-line market and is the largest
Internet provider, filed a complaint with the CFC in March,
saying commercial agreements between  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  and
Megacable Holdings Inc. hurt competition.  Televisa, also based in Mexico City and the world’s largest
Spanish-language broadcaster, controls three cable operators
that offer packages of TV, phone and Web service, and it shares
a brand, Yoo, with Megacable, the nation’s largest cable
carrier.  The companies, which have been taking customers from Telmex
with their package of services, have denied their collaboration
hurts competition. Telmex, controlled by billionaire Carlos
Slim’s America Movil SAB, is banned from offering a video
product by Mexico’s government, which says the company must
first comply with rules governing phone-network connections.  Belvedere, CEO, Units Fined by French Market Regulator  France’s financial-markets regulator fined  Belvedere SA (BVD) 
Chief Executive Officer Jacques Rouvroy 100,000 euros ($140,000)
by for manipulating the company’s share price.  Belvedere, its Sobieski and Polmos Lancut units, and
Rouvroy’s Financiere du Vignoble were fined another 75,000 euros
in total. The Autorite des Marches Financiers issued the
 decision  on its website yesterday.  Rouvroy and Belvedere were found to have reported
misleading information to the markets on a share buy-back plan
as well as on how many of the company’s shares they controlled.
Sobieski, a Polish vodka company, Rouvroy and Financiere du
Vignoble were faulted for not declaring purchases of Belvedere
shares. Polmos Lancut didn’t notify the markets that it had
crossed stake thresholds in buying up Belvedere shares.  “These elements come together to show that while using the
companies’ accounts” Rouvroy “ensured that Belvedere shares
were fixed at an abnormal level compared to that which would
have happened naturally in the market,” the AMF said.  Alain Ribeyre, a lawyer for Rouvroy and the companies,
didn’t immediately respond to calls for comment on the decision.
Rouvroy didn’t return a message left on his mobile phone.  Compliance Policy  Watchdog Proposes Dodd-Frank Standards for Broker-Dealer Audits  Accounting firms would have to consider how much risk their
clients take when auditing brokerage firms under rules proposed
by the industry’s new watchdog.  The proposal from the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board comes a month after the nonprofit corporation established
an inspection program for auditors of broker-dealers under terms
of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform act.  “It would require auditors to use judgment to identify and
focus on matters that are most important to the customer-
protection objectives,” said PCAOB Chairman James R. Doty, in a
statement.  The proposed standards are open for a two-month public
comment period. A final version would be adopted only if the
Securities and Exchange Commission, which oversees the PCAOB,
approves its own rule proposed last month to beef up disclosure
requirements for broker-dealers who hold clients’ funds.  “The broker-dealer community is very diverse, and the
business models and risk profiles of the roughly 5,000
registered broker-dealer firms vary,” said Daniel Goelzer, a
member of the audit board. “The proposals recognize that
reality. They are explicitly risk-based and are intended to be
scalable to firms of different types and sizes.”  The PCAOB yesterday also proposed standards for auditors
reviewing supplemental information a company files with its
financial statements.  Levin Says Better Offshore Tax Compliance Would Reduce Deficit  U.S. Senator Carl Levin said the congressional focus on
reducing the federal budget deficit should enhance the chances
for passage of legislation to crack down on offshore tax havens.  Improving offshore tax enforcement would allow the  U.S.
Treasury  to recoup a significant chunk of an estimated $100
billion in revenue that Levin said is lost annually to
“offshore trickery and tax shelter abuses.” He made the
remarks yesterday at a press briefing unveiling the legislation.  Levin, a Michigan Democrat, heads the Senate  Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations , which has examined offshore
transactions for the past decade. He has introduced similar
legislation in four previous congressional sessions.  The  bill’s 18 provisions  include several that would require
improved reporting of offshore transactions by banks and
corporations, and allow for more tax information-sharing among
U.S. regulatory agencies.  The legislation would require that corporations registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission annually disclose
country-by-country figures for employees, sales, financing, tax
obligations and tax payments.  The bill would treat non-U.S. corporations that are
publicly traded or have $50 million or more in assets and are
managed and controlled primarily from the U.S. as U.S.
corporations for income tax purposes.  For more, click here.  FCC Consider Rules to Guard Landline Users From Surprise Charges  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission is proposing new
rules to protect landline telephone users from surprise charges
on their monthly bills.  The rules proposed yesterday would require telephone
companies, such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , to
separate third-party charges more clearly on their bills and to
provide more disclosure about those charges.  The FCC said in an e-mail that the rules would help
subscribers block unauthorized charges. The agency will take
public comment on the rules, which require a vote by the full
commission to take effect.  Last month, the FCC  proposed  a total of $11.7 million in
fines against four telephone companies it said had charged
thousands of consumers for services that they never wanted,
ordered or used.  GAO’s Revolving-Door Study of SEC Cites Ethics-Advice Record  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission employees who leave
the regulator for work with private companies often find
positions with firms most heavily involved with the agency, the
Government Accountability Office said.  More than a third of 224 recently departed SEC employees
who returned before the SEC with business from 2005 to 2010,
represented 16 financial, legal or consulting firms often in
contact with the SEC, the GAO said in a  report  released
yesterday. Of 2,127 employees who left from 2006 to 2010, 37
percent took jobs as attorneys, economists, examiners or
accountants, occupations that are “relevant” to SEC
examination and investigative work, the GAO said.  SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz has issued four reports
since 2009 on revolving-door problems at the agency. The GAO
report didn’t highlight systemic issues with former SEC
employees joining regulated firms. The report’s primary
criticism was that the SEC hasn’t kept track of ethics advice
the agency gives employees.  “SEC has not consistently documented ethics-related
advice,” the GAO reported. Recording such advice could show
“that its officials are providing appropriate advice to current
and former employees, and that the agency is taking steps to
minimize the potential for post-employment violations or
conflicts of interest,” the report said.  In response, the SEC “has begun drafting standards
concerning the documentation of ethics advice,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  told the government research office in a letter.  In a revolving-door proposal filed with the SEC July 11,
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said it will ban
former officers from making client appearances or testifying as
experts in Finra cases within one year of leaving the regulator.  Courts  Madoff Judge Approves Trustee’s First Payments to Customers  A bankruptcy judge approved the first payments to customers
of Bernard Madoff out of funds collected by the trustee, more
than 2 1/2 years after the Ponzi scheme collapsed, according to
a court filing yesterday.  Trustee Irving Picard said in May he would initially pay
$272 million to customers with approved claims, out of a $2.6
billion fund set up for Madoff investors.  Safeway, Ralph’s Profit Sharing Found to Need More Scrutiny  Safeway Inc. (SWY) ,  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) ’s Albertson’s and  Kroger Co. (KR) ’s
Ralph’s supermarket chains may have violated antitrust law with
their 2003 accord to share profits during a strike, a federal
appeals court ruled.  An eleven-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in  San
Francisco  yesterday said the agreement “is not exempt” from
antitrust scrutiny. A three-judge panel last year overturned a
lower-court ruling that the agreement, reached during a conflict
with the companies’ unions, didn’t violate antitrust law.  “More than a ‘quick look’ is required to ascertain its
impact on competition,” according to yesterday’s ruling.  The supermarket companies had argued that the agreement,
which called for sharing profits if any of the three were
singled out for a strike, wasn’t anticompetitive because it
lowered prices for consumers by reducing labor costs.  California sued the three grocers in 2004, saying the so-
called mutual strike assistance agreement violated federal
antitrust laws and led to higher prices. A 141-day strike and
lockout at the companies’ Southern California stores was the
longest in the industry’s history and was mainly over proposals
requiring workers to share health-care costs and establish a
two-tier pay system.  Teena Massingill, a spokeswoman for Pleasanton, California-
based Safeway, owner of the Vons brand, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  Meghan Glynn, a spokeswoman for Cincinnati-based Kroger,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Jeff Swanson, a spokesman for Eden Prairie, Minnesota-based
Supervalu, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  The case is State of California v. Safeway, 08-55708, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  Toyota Wins Dismissal of Most Investor Recall-Suit Claims  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM)  won dismissal of some claims in a
stockholder lawsuit related to alleged sudden, unintended-
acceleration problems that caused a 20 percent drop in the
carmaker’s shares in January and February of last year.  The suit raised claims under Japanese securities law, over
which the U.S. court didn’t have original jurisdiction, U.S.
District Judge Dale Fischer in  Los Angeles  ruled in an 11-page
memorandum dated July 7. Those claims involve investors who
purchased their stock on foreign exchanges, Fischer said.  Respect for foreign law “would be completely subverted if
foreign claims were allowed to be piggybacked into virtually
every American securities fraud case,” the judge wrote.  The investors, led by the Maryland State Retirement and
Pension System, said in their complaint that internal documents
show the Toyota City, Japan-based company, Asia’s largest
carmaker, deliberately hid the acceleration problems and knew
about the alleged defects as early as 2000.  “We are pleased that the court has granted Toyota’s motion
to dismiss most of the claims in the federal securities case,”
 Celeste Migliore , a Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The
company believes it’s important that the judge rejected the
shareholders “attempted end-run around” a Supreme Court
decision to pursue claims under Japanese law, she said.  The judge allowed the case to proceed on seven of the 33
misrepresentations Toyota is alleged to have made to investors
about the sudden-acceleration problems.  “We respect the judge’s decision, but we plan to move
forward and collect significant damages,” David Paulson, a
spokesman for Maryland Attorney General Douglas F. Gansler, who
represents the retirement system, said in a telephone interview.  The case is In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Securities Litigation,
10-00922, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles)  MBIA Gains on Speculation of BofA Accord on Debt Protection  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  shares surged after the bond insurer agreed with
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to dismiss a lawsuit over protection sold
against mortgage-debt defaults. The agreement prompted
speculation that the two firms are near a wider settlement of
claims tied to soured subprime home loans.  The suit is one of several involving Bank of America, the
firm that bought Countrywide Financial Corp. in 2008 and Merrill
Lynch & Co. in 2009, and MBIA, which guaranteed Wall Street’s
toxic mortgage debt. The companies agreed voluntarily to dismiss
the case and pay their own legal fees, according to a filing
July 11 in New York state court.  “This is likely a precursor to a wider, comprehensive
settlement which resolves all outstanding litigation against
Bank of America and MBIA,” said Manal Mehta, a partner at
Branch Hill Capital, a San Francisco-based hedge fund that
invests in Armonk, New York-based MBIA. “Any meaningful
settlement would have dramatic positive implications for the
credit quality of MBIA.”  MBIA sued the bank to unwind or recover payouts on $5.7
billion of credit-default swaps and related insurance sold
against collateralized debt obligations. The firm, the largest
bond insurer during the 2008 financial crisis, claimed that
efforts by Merrill Lynch to market the swaps contracts were part
of a scheme to offload deteriorating loans from 2006 and 2007.  Kevin Brown, an MBIA spokesman, and  Bill Halldin  of Bank of
America declined to comment.  Bank of America had  $6.2 billion  set aside as of the first
quarter for claims from insurers and bond buyers that soured
mortgages were created with false or missing information. There
were $13.6 billion in outstanding claims at the time, $5.3
billion of which came from bond insurers, the bank said.  MBIA has booked $2.7 billion in estimated recoveries on its
balance sheet for mortgage-bond repurchase claims as of the
first quarter, the firm said in a May filing. The insurer said
it believes it is entitled to collect the full $4.6 billion of
losses it has incurred on the debt. Through September, MBIA had
paid out $2.5 billion on mortgage securities sponsored by
Countrywide, Chief Executive Officer Jay Brown said in February.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith, 09601324, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Tetragon Financial Shareholder Sues Directors Over Fees  A  Tetragon Financial Group Ltd. (TFG)  shareholder sued a group of
company officers and directors, the firm’s investment manager
and Polygon Investment Partners LLP, an investment firm,
claiming “an ongoing abusive scheme” by the directors to
profit at Tetragon’s expense.  “Instead of faithfully serving the company’s investors,
defendants have engaged and continue to engage in the looting of
TFG,” investor Daniel Silverstein said in his complaint, filed
July 11 in Manhattan federal court. “The investment manager,
with the active complicity of the TFG board, has expropriated
almost $205 million in unjust fees.”  Silverstein’s case is a shareholder derivative suit, which
is a claim filed on behalf of the company to enforce legal
rights the company’s officers and directors have allegedly
failed to assert.  In the suit, Silverstein claims Tetragon’s directors
allowed the company to manipulate its net asset values to
maximize performance fees paid to its investment adviser, which
is owned by Polygon, a London-based hedge-fund firm run by Reade
Griffith and Paddy Dear, both of whom are among the defendants
in the Silverstein case.  Carissa Ramirez, an outside spokeswoman for Tetragon
Financial Group, had no immediate comment. Tetragon is based in
Guernsey in the Channel Islands.  The case is Silverstein v. Knief, 11-CV-4776, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Labaton Sucharow Hires Former SEC Attorney Jordan Thomas  Labaton Sucharow LLP hired former U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission attorney Jordan A. Thomas to start the New
York-based law firm’s whistle-blower representation practice.  Thomas was assistant director and assistant chief
litigation counsel in the SEC’s Division of Enforcement for the
past eight years and helped to develop the agency’s whistle-
blower program, Labaton said yesterday in a statement. Thomas
will head Labaton’s practice focused exclusively on representing
individuals who report fraud to the SEC.  The SEC’s whistle-blower program, part of the agency’s
rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, will let corporate tipsters
collect as much as 30 percent of penalties when they report
financial wrongdoing. The program expands a bounty system that
was previously limited to insider-trading cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 