-- 
Bendix, Meritor Look for Boost From NHTSA’s Truck-Rollover Rule

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-07-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/bendix-meritor-look-for-boost-from-nhtsa-s-truck-rollover-rule.html
Two of the biggest truck-parts
makers, Bendix Corp. and Meritor WABCO, are maneuvering over who
will benefit more when the U.S. Transportation Department acts
to reduce heavy-duty truck rollovers.  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  has made
rollovers its highest short-term priority for heavy-duty trucks.
Agency officials have said they expect to propose a crash-
prevention standard by the end of the year. The agency’s
research indicates electronic stability control will be as
effective in large trucks as passenger cars.  How NHTSA structures the mandate will determine the
direction of a marketplace divided into differing technologies
offered by Bendix, the Elyria, Ohio-based unit of Munich,
Germany-based Knorr-Bremse AG, and Meritor WABCO, a joint
venture between Troy, Michigan-based Meritor Inc. and  WABCO
Holdings Inc. (WBC)  of Piscataway,  New Jersey .  “A lot of times technology is driven by regulation,” said
Tim Kraus, president and chief operating officer of the  Heavy
Duty Manufacturers Association  in Research Triangle Park,  North
Carolina . “It would be great financially for the companies
providing the technology, and it would be great for the
companies using the technology.”  The consequences of a big rig rolling over can be dramatic,
such as when a tanker-truck crashed in 2009 in Indianapolis,
sparking a fireball fueled by liquid propane. The crash closed
14 miles of Interstate 65 for eight hours.  The National
Transportation Safety Board  is issuing a final report on that
crash July 26.  700 Deaths  Being in a rollover increases a truck driver’s fatality
risk by 30 times, said Daniel Blower, director of the  University
of Michigan ’s  Transportation Research Institute , which conducted
research NHTSA is using to back its rulemaking.  The systems would prevent 5,510 rollover crashes and 4,803
loss-of-control crashes, according to a January agency report.
The dangers of rollovers led NHTSA to mandate the technology in
passenger cars by 2012, said NHTSA spokeswoman Lynda Tran.  About 700 truck drivers die in the crashes each year,
according to agency data. An ESC mandate could save 126 lives,
while RSC could save 106, the agency says.  “Rollover crashes are the deadliest among all crash
types,” Tran said. “Building on past ESC research, we expect
to initiate a rulemaking later this year to require these
systems in large trucks and motorcoaches.”  Option to Standard  About 20 percent to 25 percent of new trucks today are sold
with some type of stability control, almost always sold as
optional equipment. NHTSA’s rulemaking would make that almost
100 percent.  Equipment manufacturers also expect the truck market to
grow rapidly, from 250,000 to 260,000 heavy-duty models sold
this year to around 300,000 next year, said Kraus of the Heavy
Duty Manufacturers Association.  Trucking companies will face higher upfront costs, but
ultimately will benefit, Kraus said. A single fatality costs
operators millions of dollars, through legal costs and lost
productivity, he said.  The initial technology for preventing rollovers was known
as roll stability control, or RSC. It’s designed to slow down
wheels as a truck heads into a turn too fast. Electronic
stability control, or ESC, builds on the roll-stability system,
adding sensors that correct steering in emergency situations.  Bendix, ESC  Bendix and Meritor WABCO have been developing stability-
control systems for years, and both offer the two principal
types of systems NHTSA evaluated. Stockholm, Sweden-based  Haldex
AB (HLDX)  is also in the mix.  Bendix was the first to bring electronic stability control
to the market in 2005, said Fred Andersky, the brake supplier’s
director of government affairs. The company has sold 130,000
systems since then, and it won’t take five years to sell another
100,000, he said. The systems sell for $1,800 to $2,400 per
truck, he said.  “We see ESC as the better technology,” Andersky said in
an interview. “It helps drivers in a lot more situations.”  The company has sold fewer than 10,000 rollover stability
systems, Andersky said. It’s making a big bet that the NHTSA
mandate will spur demand for ESC, which it markets as “full
stability.”  Meritor, RSC  RSC has been more popular with fleet customers as it’s more
cost-effective, Meritor WABCO President Jon Morrison said in an
interview. The company has sold about 100,000 RSC systems and
“far fewer” ESC systems, he said. Costs are likely to come
down with a mandate from NHTSA, he said.  “All of this will be available well before there’s a
mandate, and there are more and more customers who understand
the value,” Morrison said. “Mandates generally lower the
costs.”  Rather than push ESC, Meritor WABCO is marketing a safety
system that includes radar to detect impending collisions,
Morrison said. The company has sold 11,000 “OnGuard” systems
in the past three years at between $2,500 and $3,500 per truck,
he said.  The American Trucking Associations, representing large
carriers such as  Con-way Inc. (CNW)  and Swift Transportation Co.,
supports the broader use of technology  “Financial or regulatory incentives can lead to more rapid
deployment of these technologies than a federal mandate,” Sean
McNally, the Arlington, Virginia-based trade group’s spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “However, we will reserve
judgment on NHTSA’s proposal until after it is released.”  The government and large trucking companies are teaming up
to push technology over simpler, cheaper solutions like better
driver training, said Joe Rajkovacz, director of regulatory
affairs at the Grain Valley, Missouri-based Owner-Operator
Independent Drivers Association.  “It forces people who probably never have had a crash to
buy the technology,” Rajkovacz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 