-- 
Bernanke’s Statement to House Financial Services Committee: Text

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-13T14:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/bernanke-s-statement-to-house-financial-services-committee-text.html
The following is a text of  Federal
Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s statement to the House
Committee on Financial Services:  Chairman Bachus, Ranking Member Frank, and other members of
the Committee, I am pleased to present the Federal Reserve’s
semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress. I will begin
with a discussion of current economic conditions and the outlook
and then turn to monetary policy.  The Economic Outlook  The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but the pace of
the expansion so far this year has been modest. After increasing
at an annual rate of 2-3/4 percent in the second half of 2010,
real gross domestic product (GDP) rose at about a 2 percent rate
in the first quarter of this year, and incoming data suggest
that the pace of recovery remained soft in the spring. At the
same time, the  unemployment rate , which had appeared to be on a
downward trajectory at the turn of the year, has moved back
above 9 percent.  In part, the recent weaker-than-expected economic
performance appears to have been the result of several factors
that are likely to be temporary. Notably, the run-up in prices
of energy, especially gasoline, and food has reduced consumer
purchasing power. In addition, the supply chain disruptions that
occurred following the earthquake in Japan caused U.S. motor
vehicle producers to sharply curtail assemblies and limited the
availability of some models. Looking forward, however, the
apparent stabilization in the prices of oil and other
commodities should ease the pressure on household budgets, and
vehicle manufacturers report that they are making significant
progress in overcoming the parts shortages and expect to
increase production substantially this summer.  In light of these developments, the most recent projections
by members of the Federal Reserve Board and presidents of the
Federal Reserve Banks, prepared in conjunction with the  Federal
Open Market Committee  (FOMC) meeting in late June, reflected
their assessment that the pace of the economic recovery will
pick up in coming quarters. Specifically, participants’
projections for the increase in real GDP have a central tendency
of 2.7 to 2.9 percent for 2011, inclusive of the weak first half,
and 3.3 to 3.7 percent in 2012--projections that, if realized,
would constitute a notably better performance than we have seen
so far this year.(1)  FOMC participants continued to see the economic recovery
strengthening over the medium term, with the central tendency of
their projections for the increase in real GDP picking up to 3.5
to 4.2 percent in 2013. At the same time, the central tendencies
of the projections of real GDP growth in 2011 and 2012 were
marked down nearly 1/2 percentage point compared with those
reported in April, suggesting that FOMC participants saw at
least some part of the first-half slowdown as persisting for a
while. Among the headwinds facing the economy are the slow
growth in  consumer spending , even after accounting for the
effects of higher food and energy prices; the continuing
depressed condition of the housing sector; still-limited access
to credit for some households and small businesses; and fiscal
tightening at all levels of government. Consistent with
projected growth in real output modestly above its trend rate,
FOMC participants expected that, over time, the jobless rate
will decline--albeit only slowly--toward its longer-term normal
level. The central tendencies of participants’ forecasts for the
unemployment rate were 8.6 to 8.9 percent for the fourth quarter
of this year, 7.8 to 8.2 percent at the end of 2012, and 7.0 to
7.5 percent at the end of 2013.  The most recent data attest to the continuing weakness of
the labor market: The unemployment rate increased to 9.2 percent
in June, and gains in nonfarm payroll employment were below
expectations for a second month. To date, of the more than 8-1/2
million jobs lost in the recession, 1-3/4 million have been
regained. Of those employed, about 6 percent--8.6 million
workers--report that they would like to be working full time but
can only obtain part-time work. Importantly, nearly half of
those currently unemployed have been out of work for more than
six months, by far the highest ratio in the post-World War II
period. Long-term unemployment imposes severe economic hardships
on the unemployed and their families, and, by leading to an
erosion of skills of those without work, it both impairs their
lifetime employment prospects and reduces the productive
potential of our economy as a whole.  Much of the slowdown in aggregate demand this year has been
centered in the household sector, and the ability and
willingness of consumers to spend will be an important
determinant of the pace of the recovery in coming quarters. Real
disposable personal income over the first five months of 2011
was boosted by the reduction in payroll taxes, but those gains
were largely offset by higher prices for gasoline and other
commodities. Households report that they have little confidence
in the durability of the recovery and about their own income
prospects. Moreover, the ongoing weakness in home values is
holding down household wealth and weighing on consumer sentiment.
On the positive side, household debt burdens are declining,
delinquency rates on  credit card  and auto loans are down
significantly, and the number of homeowners missing a mortgage
payment for the first time is decreasing. The anticipated
pickups in economic activity and  job creation , together with the
expected easing of price pressures, should bolster real
 household income , confidence, and spending in the medium run.  Residential construction activity remains at an extremely
low level. The demand for homes has been depressed by many of
the same factors that have held down consumer spending more
generally, including the slowness of the recovery in jobs and
income as well as poor consumer sentiment. Mortgage  interest
rates  are near record lows, but access to mortgage credit
continues to be constrained. Also, many potential homebuyers
remain concerned about buying into a falling market, as weak
demand for homes, the substantial backlog of vacant properties
for sale, and the high proportion of distressed sales are
keeping downward pressure on  house prices .  Two bright spots in the recovery have been exports and
business investment in equipment and software. Demand for U.S.-
made capital goods from both domestic and foreign firms has
supported manufacturing production throughout the recovery thus
far. Both equipment and software outlays and exports increased
solidly in the first quarter, and the data on new orders
received by U.S. producers suggest that the trend continued in
recent months. Corporate profits have been strong, and larger
nonfinancial corporations with access to capital markets have
been able to refinance existing debt and lock in funding at
lower yields. Borrowing conditions for businesses generally have
continued to ease, although, as mentioned, the availability of
credit appears to remain relatively limited for some small firms.  Inflation has picked up so far this year. The  price index 
for personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose at an annual
rate of more than 4 percent over the first five months of 2011,
and 2-1/2 percent on a 12-month basis. Much of the acceleration
was the result of higher prices for oil and other commodities
and for imported goods. In addition, prices of motor vehicles
increased sharply when supplies of new models were curtailed by
parts shortages associated with the earthquake in  Japan . Most of
the recent rise in inflation appears likely to be transitory,
and FOMC participants expected inflation to subside in coming
quarters to rates at or below the level of 2 percent or a bit
less that participants view as consistent with our dual mandate
of maximum employment and price stability. The central tendency
of participants’ forecasts for the rate of increase in the PCE
price index was 2.3 to 2.5 percent for 2011 as a whole, which
implies a significant slowing of inflation in the second half of
the year. In 2012 and 2013, the central tendency of the
inflation forecasts was 1.5 to 2.0 percent. Reasons to expect
inflation to moderate include the apparent stabilization in the
prices of oil and other commodities, which is already showing
through to retail gasoline and food prices; the still-
substantial slack in U.S. labor and product markets, which has
made it difficult for workers to obtain wage gains and for firms
to pass through their higher costs; and the stability of longer-
term inflation expectations, as measured by surveys of
households, the forecasts of professional private-sector
economists, and financial market indicators.  Monetary Policy   FOMC members’ judgments that the pace of the economic
recovery over coming quarters will likely remain moderate, that
the unemployment rate will consequently decline only gradually,
and that inflation will subside are the basis for the
Committee’s decision to maintain a highly accommodative monetary
policy. As you know, that policy currently consists of two parts.
First, the target range for the federal funds rate remains at 0
to 1/4 percent and, as indicated in the statement released after
the June meeting, the Committee expects that economic conditions
are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal
funds rate for an extended period.  The second component of monetary policy has been to
increase the Federal Reserve’s holdings of longer-term
securities, an approach undertaken because the target for the
federal funds rate could not be lowered meaningfully further.
The Federal Reserve’s acquisition of longer-term  Treasury
securities  boosted the prices of such securities and caused
longer-term Treasury yields to be lower than they would have
been otherwise. In addition, by removing substantial quantities
of longer-term Treasury securities from the market, the Fed’s
purchases induced private investors to acquire other assets that
serve as substitutes for Treasury securities in the financial
marketplace, such as corporate bonds and mortgage-backed
securities. By this means, the Fed’s asset purchase program--
like more conventional monetary policy--has served to reduce the
yields and increase the prices of those other assets as well.
The net result of these actions is lower borrowing costs and
easier financial conditions throughout the economy.(2)  We know from many decades of experience with monetary
policy that, when the economy is operating below its potential,
easier financial conditions tend to promote more rapid economic
growth. Estimates based on a number of recent studies as well as
Federal Reserve analyses suggest that, all else being equal, the
second round of asset purchases probably lowered longer-term
interest rates approximately 10 to 30 basis points.(3) Our
analysis further indicates that a reduction in longer-term
interest rates of this magnitude would be roughly equivalent in
terms of its effect on the economy to a 40 to 120 basis point
reduction in the federal funds rate.  In June, we completed the planned purchases of $600 billion
in longer-term Treasury securities that the Committee initiated
in November, while continuing to reinvest the proceeds of
maturing or redeemed longer-term securities in Treasuries.
Although we are no longer expanding our securities holdings, the
evidence suggests that the degree of accommodation delivered by
the Federal Reserve’s securities purchase program is determined
primarily by the quantity and mix of securities that the Federal
Reserve holds rather than by the current pace of new purchases.
Thus, even with the end of net new purchases, maintaining our
holdings of these securities should continue to put downward
pressure on market interest rates and foster more accommodative
financial conditions than would otherwise be the case. It is
worth emphasizing that our program involved purchases of
securities, not  government spending , and, as I will discuss
later, when the macroeconomic circumstances call for it, we will
unwind those purchases. In the meantime, interest on those
securities is remitted to the  U.S. Treasury .  When we began this program, we certainly did not expect it
to be a panacea for the country’s economic problems. However, as
the expansion weakened last summer, developments with respect to
both components of our dual mandate implied that additional
monetary accommodation was needed. In that context, we believed
that the program would both help reduce the risk of deflation
that had emerged and provide a needed boost to faltering
economic activity and job creation. The experience to date with
the round of securities purchases that just ended suggests that
the program had the intended effects of reducing the risk of
deflation and shoring up economic activity. In the months
following the August announcement of our policy of reinvesting
maturing and redeemed securities and our signal that we were
considering more purchases, inflation compensation as measured
in the market for inflation-indexed securities rose from low to
more normal levels, suggesting that the perceived risks of
deflation had receded markedly. This was a significant
achievement, as we know from the Japanese experience that
protracted deflation can be quite costly in terms of weaker
economic growth.  With respect to employment, our expectations were
relatively modest; estimates made in the autumn suggested that
the additional purchases could boost employment by about 700,000
jobs over two years, or about 30,000 extra jobs per month.(4)
Even including the disappointing readings for May and June,
which reflected in part the temporary factors discussed earlier,
private payroll gains have averaged 160,000 per month in the
first half of 2011, compared with average increases of only
about 80,000 private jobs per month from May to August 2010. Not
all of the step-up in hiring was necessarily the result of the
asset purchase program, but the comparison is consistent with
our expectations for employment gains. Of course, we will be
monitoring developments in the labor market closely.  Once the temporary shocks that have been holding down
economic activity pass, we expect to again see the effects of
policy accommodation reflected in stronger economic activity and
job creation. However, given the range of uncertainties about
the strength of the recovery and prospects for inflation over
the medium term, the Federal Reserve remains prepared to respond
should economic developments indicate that an adjustment in the
stance of monetary policy would be appropriate.  On the one hand, the possibility remains that the recent
economic weakness may prove more persistent than expected and
that deflationary risks might reemerge, implying a need for
additional policy support. Even with the federal funds rate
close to zero, we have a number of ways in which we could act to
ease financial conditions further. One option would be to
provide more explicit guidance about the period over which the
federal funds rate and the balance sheet would remain at their
current levels. Another approach would be to initiate more
securities purchases or to increase the average maturity of our
holdings. The Federal Reserve could also reduce the 25 basis
point rate of interest it pays to banks on their reserves,
thereby putting downward pressure on short-term rates more
generally. Of course, our experience with these policies remains
relatively limited, and employing them would entail potential
risks and costs. However, prudent planning requires that we
evaluate the efficacy of these and other potential alternatives
for deploying additional stimulus if conditions warrant.  On the other hand, the economy could evolve in a way that
would warrant a move toward less-accommodative policy.
Accordingly, the Committee has been giving careful consideration
to the elements of its exit strategy, and, as reported in the
minutes of the June FOMC meeting, it has reached a broad
consensus about the sequence of steps that it expects to follow
when the normalization of policy becomes appropriate. In brief,
when economic conditions warrant, the Committee would begin the
normalization process by ceasing the reinvestment of principal
payments on its securities, thereby allowing the Federal
Reserve’s balance sheet to begin shrinking. At the same time or
sometime thereafter, the Committee would modify the forward
guidance in its statement. Subsequent steps would include the
initiation of temporary reserve-draining operations and, when
conditions warrant, increases in the federal funds rate target.
From that point on, changing the level or range of the federal
funds rate target would be our primary means of adjusting the
stance of monetary policy in response to economic developments.  Sometime after the first increase in the federal funds rate
target, the Committee expects to initiate sales of agency
securities from its portfolio, with the timing and pace of sales
clearly communicated to the public in advance. Once sales begin,
the pace of sales is anticipated to be relatively gradual and
steady, but it could be adjusted up or down in response to
material changes in the economic outlook or financial conditions.
Over time, the securities portfolio and the associated quantity
of bank reserves are expected to be reduced to the minimum
levels consistent with the efficient implementation of monetary
policy. Of course, conditions can change, and in choosing the
time to begin policy normalization as well as the pace of that
process, should that be the next direction for policy, we would
carefully consider both parts of our dual mandate.  Thank you. I would be pleased to take your questions.  1) Note that these projections do not incorporate the most
recent economic news, including last Friday’s labor market
report.  2) The Federal Reserve’s recently completed securities purchase
program has changed the average maturity of Treasury securities
held by the public only modestly, suggesting that such an effect
likely did not contribute substantially to the reduction in
Treasury yields. Rather, the more important channel of effect
was the removal of Treasury securities from the market, which
reduced Treasury yields generally while inducing private
investors to hold alternative assets (the portfolio reallocation
effect). The substitution into alternative assets raised their
prices and lowered their yields, easing overall financial
conditions.  3) Studies that have provided estimates of the effects of large-
scale asset purchases, holding constant other factors, include
James D. Hamilton and Jing (Cynthia) Wu (2011), “The
Effectiveness of Alternative Monetary Policy Tools in a Zero
Lower Bound Environment,” NBER Working Paper Series No. 16956
(Cambridge, Mass: National Bureau of Economic Research, April),
and Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (forthcoming); Arvind
Krishnamurthy and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen (2011), “The Effects
of Quantitative Easing on Interest Rates,” working paper
(Evanston, Ill.: Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern
University, June); Stefania D’Amico and Thomas B. King (2010),
“Flow and Stock Effects of Large-Scale Treasury Purchases,”
Finance and Economics Discussion Series 2010-52 (Washington:
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, September);
Joseph Gagnon, Matthew Raskin, Julie Remache, and Brian Sack
(2011), “Large-Scale Asset Purchases by the Federal Reserve: Did
They Work?” Federal Reserve Bank of  New York , Economic Policy
Review, vol 17 (May), pp. 41-59; and Eric T. Swanson (2011),
“Let’s Twist Again: A High-Frequency Event-Study Analysis of
Operation Twist and Its Implications for QE2,” Working Paper
Series 2011-08 ( San Francisco : Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco, February), and Brookings Papers on Economic Activity
(forthcoming).  4) See Hess Chung, Jean-Philippe Laforte, David Reifschneider,
and John C. Williams (2011), “Have We Underestimated the
Likelihood and Severity of Zero Lower Bound Events?” Working
Paper Series 2011-01 (San Francisco: Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco, January).
 