-- 
Bernanke May Tell Congress Deficits Imperil Drop in U.S. Borrowing Costs

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-07-13T10:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/bernanke-may-tell-congress-deficits-imperil-decline-in-u-s-borrowing-cost.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  takes his push for long-term deficit cuts to Congress
today as a fiscal-policy deadlock threatens to reverse the
decline in borrowing costs he gained through record stimulus.  Should Congress fail to avert a U.S. debt default by Aug.
2, the 10-year Treasury note’s yield, now 2.93 percent, would
rise 0.5 percentage point within a month, said  Priya Misra , head
of U.S. rates strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Stocks
and the dollar may tumble and the 10-year yield would rise to
nearly 9 percent during the next decade, former Fed Governor
 Laurence Meyer  said.  “We’re flirting with catastrophe,” said Meyer, senior
managing director and co-founder of Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.
“Bernanke is going to emphasize that. Irresponsible fiscal
policy is a threat to the economy and makes Bernanke’s job more
difficult.”  A rise in unemployment last month to 9.2 percent has
increased pressure on Bernanke to consider spurring growth with
a third round of bond buying, said  Allen Sinai , chief global
economist for Decision Economics Inc. Yet with the Fed’s balance
sheet already at a record $2.87 trillion, Bernanke’s immediate
goal will probably be to safeguard the economy’s gains by
warning lawmakers about the damage from a default, Sinai said.  Bernanke is scheduled at 10 a.m. to begin two days of
testimony in  Washington  on monetary policy and the outlook for
the economy with a visit to the House Financial Services
Committee. He appears before the Senate Banking Committee
tomorrow at the same time.  Interest Payments  In a debt default “interest rates would likely rise,
slowing the recovery, and, perversely, worsening the deficit
problems by increasing required interest payments on the debt
for what might well be a protracted period,” Bernanke said in a
June 14 speech.  Fed officials echoed those concerns, according to minutes
of their June meeting released yesterday. “Even a short delay
in the payment of principal or interest on the Treasury
Department’s debt obligations would likely cause severe market
disruptions and could also have a lasting effect on U.S.
borrowing costs,” the minutes stated.  Some Fed officials at the June meeting also said additional
monetary stimulus would be appropriate “if economic growth
remained too slow to make satisfactory progress toward reducing
the unemployment rate and if inflation returned to relatively
low levels after the effects of recent transitory shocks
dissipated,” according to the minutes.  Spending Cuts  Negotiations between lawmakers and President  Barack Obama 
have failed to break a logjam over the size of a deficit-
reduction package and the right mix of spending cuts or tax
increases to achieve it.  Obama and Republicans in Congress have sought roughly $4
trillion in cuts over 10 years. Yet House Speaker John Boehner,
a Republican from  Ohio , said July 9 Republicans wouldn’t accept
a plan of that size proposed by Obama because it includes tax
increases. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell yesterday
proposed a “last choice option” to avoid a default that
effectively would grant Obama power to unilaterally raise the
debt limit in installments.  The U.S. faces an Aug. 2 deadline for boosting the federal
government’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  has said the government will exhaust options
for paying its bills on that date.  ‘Unsustainable Course’  “The main problem now is that the political system is
paralyzed and the fiscal situation is on an unsustainable
course,” said  Marvin Goodfriend , economics professor at
 Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh. “That makes it more
difficult for the Fed to manage the economy. The government
risks shooting itself in the foot,” he said.  The Fed chief’s challenge is to press Congress to fix the
nation’s finances without sounding partisan and harming the
central bank’s independence and credibility, said Kenneth
Thomas, lecturer in finance at the University of Pennsylvania’s
Wharton School.  “This is where the world of politics and economics
collide,” Thomas said. “We can’t get to the point where fiscal
mismanagement threatens the economy. Bernanke will do all he can
to avoid that,” he said.  So far, the concern about the deficit hasn’t driven U.S.
borrowing costs to above-average levels. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note jumped 6 basis points to 2.93
percent at 11:45 a.m. in  London . That’s below the average of 7
percent since 1980 and the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998
through 2001 period, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader.  ‘Protracted Period’  Last August, when Bernanke signaled in a speech in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , that the Fed would embark on a second round of
Treasury bond purchases, employers were cutting jobs, pushing up
the  unemployment rate  to 9.6 percent. The weakness in the
economy prompted Bernanke to focus on the possibility of
deflation, or a broad-based drop in prices and asset values
including homes and stocks.  The economy is in better shape now than in August, though
hiring remains “frustratingly slow,” Bernanke said at a June
22 news conference. Employers added 18,000 jobs to their
payrolls last month, the fewest in nine months, the government
reported last week.  The Fed’s $600 billion Treasury bond-buying program,
completed in June, was designed to spur economic growth,
employment and  consumer spending  by lifting stock prices and
reducing borrowing costs.  Since Bernanke’s Aug. 27 speech at Jackson Hole, the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen 23 percent to 1,313.64.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has fallen to 2.88
percent from 3.7 percent on Feb. 8.  Growth Slows  The economy, which expanded at a 3.1 percent annual rate in
the final quarter of 2010, slowed to a 1.9 percent pace in the
first three months of this year. The recovery advanced during
the second quarter at a 2 percent pace, according to the median
forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg from June 28 to
July 7.  Bernanke has said some impediments to growth in the first
three months of the year, including energy prices and a shortage
of parts to U.S. factories because of the earthquake in  Japan ,
will probably prove temporary and that growth will rebound in
the second half of this year.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the economy will
grow at 3.2 percent in the third and fourth quarters. Even so,
declining  home prices , high unemployment and weaknesses in the
financial system may restrain the recovery in the longer term,
Bernanke said on June 22.  Deficit Commitment  A commitment to cut the deficit over the next 10 years
could help the economy, Bernanke said at his June 22 news
conference. “By taking a long-run perspective, we can help the
economy by reducing the risk that  interest rates  might rise
suddenly. We may help increase confidence” among households and
businesses, he said.  The  budget deficit  is expected to rise to $1.4 trillion
this year, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . That
would mark the third consecutive year the deficit topped $1
trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net  