-- 
Blaming Fannie for Crash Gives Banks Free Pass: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-07-13T04:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/blaming-fannie-for-crash-gives-banks-free-pass-william-d-cohan.html
As should be abundantly clear by now
to anyone who has taken the time to study things carefully,
there were many factors that contributed to the calamitous
financial crisis of the last three years.  In this disastrous bouillabaisse, one could find the
following ingredients:  -- Financial innovation, which took the idea of
securitizing cash-flow streams to excess.  -- Wrong-headed incentives, which rewarded Wall Street
bankers and traders for taking risks with other people’s money
while somehow absolving them of accountability.  -- The misguided monetary policy of  Alan Greenspan ’s
 Federal Reserve , which lowered  interest rates  dramatically after
the Sept. 11 attacks, leaving investors with little choice but
to take bigger and bigger risks in order to find meaningful
yields. (This is happening again, by the way.)  -- Regulators who failed to regulate or caved into the
desires of those it regulated. (See particularly the Securities
and Exchange Commission under  Christopher Cox )  -- The ratings services, which were paid by Wall Street to
slap AAA credit ratings on securities that were anything but.  -- And politicians who did everything they could to
encourage homeownership -- thinking it was an important part of
the American Dream -- which led thousands of people who would
otherwise be renters to take out mortgages they could not
afford.  These squirrelly mortgages, of course, were packaged into
securities by  Wall Street , stamped AAA by the conflicted rating
services and sold all over the world to investors hungry for
yield. When homeowners could no longer make payments on their
mortgages, and when those mortgages could no longer be
refinanced because  home prices  were no longer increasing, the
whole stew became a toxic mess.  Alan Schwartz , the chief executive officer of Bear Stearns
for the three months leading up to its sudden collapse in March
2008, had a front-row seat for the crisis and understands well
the multiple strands of its DNA. “These things do occur with
some regularity,” he explained in a quote I put on the final
page of my book about the collapse of Bear Stearns. “And we
haven’t ever figured out how to stop the next one from
happening. I’m sure we’ll figure out how to prevent something
like this from happening again. Wall Street is always good at
fighting the last war. But these things happen and they’re big,
and when they happen everybody tries to look at what happened in
the previous six months to find someone or something to blame it
on. But, in truth, it was a team effort. … Government. Rating
agencies. Wall Street. Commercial banks. Regulators. Investors.
Everybody.”  A Strong Report  After its creation in May 2009, the  Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission  studied thoroughly the causes of the crisis,
interviewed more than 700 witnesses and held 19 public hearings.
Its nearly 600-page  report , released in January, analyzed many
of the same threads that Schwartz described as being among the
chief culprits of the problem and came to the accurate
conclusion that the crisis was man-made and entirely
preventable.  “The crisis was the result of human action and inaction,
not of Mother Nature or computer models gone haywire,” the
report stated. “The captains of finance and the public stewards
of our financial system ignored warnings and failed to question,
understand, and manage evolving risks within a system essential
to the well-being of the American public. Theirs was a big miss,
not a stumble. While the business cycle cannot be repealed, a
crisis of this magnitude need not have occurred. To paraphrase
Shakespeare, the fault lies not in the stars, but in us.”  Placing the Blame  The FCIC’s report put the majority of the blame squarely
where it belonged: On the shoulders of the Wall Street
executives who led their companies straight into the financial
abyss. Rather than finding themselves in jail or in  bankruptcy
court , you can find them in  Sun Valley ,  Martha’s Vineyard  and
the Hamptons, living very well indeed off the hundreds of
millions of dollars in compensation they Hoovered up during
their years of mismanagement at the top.  The report’s gutsy and accurate conclusion was not the
unanimous view of the commission. Rather, it was endorsed by
only six of the 10 commissioners, all Democrats. The four
dissenters, who were Republicans, made their views known in two
separate reports, which had some good points but went too easy
on Wall Street’s behavior.  Now the author of one of those dissenting reports --  Peter Wallison , a senior fellow at the conservative  American
Enterprise Institute  -- appears to be on some kind of crazy
crusade to rewrite history. He is intent on deflecting any blame
away from Wall Street and its unhealthy incentive system and
toward the much-maligned government-sponsored entities,  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  “Far from being a marginal player, Fannie Mae was the
source of the decline in mortgage underwriting standards that
eventually brought down the financial system,” Wallison wrote in
a Wall Street Journal column published yesterday. “It led rather
than followed Wall Street into risky lending.”  Sure, Fannie and Freddie -- and their political cronies in
Congress and the White House -- had a meaningful role in the
origins and the exacerbation of the crisis, as is well
documented in “Reckless Endangerment,” a new book by Gretchen Morgenson of the New York Times and  Joshua Rosner , a Wall Street
analyst. But to pretend that Fannie and Freddie are the sole
culprits is a terrible distortion of the truth of what actually
occurred.  A Myopic View  What’s worse, Wallison bolsters his myopic view by
insisting that “Reckless Endangerment” supports his argument,
when by the authors’ own account their book was meant not to be
a comprehensive accounting of the origins of the crisis, but an
investigation into a somewhat overlooked one.  Wallison now accuses the FCIC of having a partisan agenda.
“The commission majority’s false narrative,” he wrote,
“buttresses the notion that more regulation of banks and other
private-sector financial institutions could have prevented the
financial crisis -- and might be necessary to prevent another
one.” And the Dodd-Frank reforms, he insists, “would place the
blame for the financial crisis solely on the private sector and
do nothing to reform a government-backed housing finance
system.”  Such arguments ignore that there is overwhelming bipartisan
support for restructuring or phasing out Fannie and Freddie;
yesterday alone a House subcommittee debated seven separate
reform bills.  Wallison is correct that placing all the blame on one
factor in the economic meltdown is unfair and will do little to
avoid another one. But those who claim that federally backed
home loans were the sole cause of our troubles, Wallison among
them, are the ones pushing the false narrative.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule
the World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 