-- 
Blessing Says Lenders Could Manage Greek Debt Restructuring

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-07-13T08:09:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/blessing-says-lenders-could-manage-greek-debt-restructuring.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Blessing  said an “orderly” restructuring of
Greece’s debt would not unduly burden euro-zone lenders.  “Uncertainty and mistrust among investors have intensified
in recent days, therefore we need another solution for Greece
than providing more and more loan packages,” Blessing said in
an interview with German newspaper  Bild-Zeitung . “An orderly
debt restructuring of Greece would be no massive quake for
private banks in the euro-zone.”  European finance ministers met earlier this week to discuss
ways to cut Greece’s debt burden, floating ideas from bond
buybacks to a temporary default. Buybacks would trim Greece’s
debt of 142.8 percent of gross domestic product by enabling it
to retire bonds at a discount. Improving “debt sustainability”
in  Greece  is the solution to the crisis, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  has said.  “If we don’t solve Greece’s problems now, the situation on
the financial markets for all euro countries is becoming
increasingly difficult,” Blessing told Bild-Zeitung. “Private
creditors would have to write down about 50 billion euros ($70
billion) over time,” he said, adding that losses at the
 European Central Bank  will “burden taxpayers.”  Blessing wrote earlier this week in a commentary in German
newspaper  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  that private investors
could provide more than 50 billion euros in Greek aid by
forfeiting repayments and interest as the country needs to lower
its sovereign debt “significantly,” ensure liquidity and cut
its interest payments to get out of the crisis.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  CEO Josef Ackermann and Schaeuble last
month announced an agreement by the country’s banks and insurers
to roll over Greek debt holdings to avoid a default of Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  