-- 
BOE’s Posen Says Indecision in U.S., EU Fueling Debt Crises

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-13T13:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/boe-s-posen-says-indecision-in-u-s-eu-fueling-debt-crises.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  said a lack of effective decisions in the U.S. and the
European Union is hampering governments’ ability to find
solutions to high debt levels.  “You need somebody to be able to take a decision and in
both in the U.S. and the EU right now you don’t have systems
where anybody can take a decision,” Posen said in an interview
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene
in  New York  today. He also said it’s probably right for private
investors to share in bailouts of euro-area nations.  European leaders are struggling to contain a debt crisis
that has sent bond yields soaring and is threatening to spread
to  Italy . In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  is in talks with
Republicans to raise the debt ceiling before Aug. 2, the date
when the government is projected to exhaust its borrowing
authority.  Posen said the failure so far of U.S. lawmakers to reach an
agreement on budget-deficit reduction measures is “stunning”
and makes the country “seem like Italy.” On a European
proposal to have private bondholders share in future potential
bailouts, he indicated his support for such a plan.  “Investors were getting higher  interest rates  because
there was a  default risk ,” he said. “So no one can say, ‘the
private sector should take no losses’ -- that doesn’t make any
sense.”  “The question is when do we get rid of the uncertainty
about how and when ex-post the losses will be imposed and part
of it is nobody is able to make a decision,” Posen said.  The policy maker also said the U.K. is doing more to reform
and strengthen its banking system than the U.S., though Britain
is “not there yet” in solving all banking issues.  “To give credit where it’s due, my colleagues at the Bank
of England and their counterparts at a lot other central banks
have been leaning on the banks quite heavily to make sure this
is not another Lehman moment,” Posen said, referring to the
euro-area crisis. “To make sure we know where the exposures
are. To make sure we have provisions. I think, and I hope, we’ve
done a lot to insulate the system from whatever happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  