-- 
Borders Creditors Favor Liquidators’ Terms

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-14T04:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/borders-creditors-say-liquidators-bid-better-than-lead-offer-by-najafi.html
Borders Group Inc. creditors told a
judge that a liquidation of the bankrupt bookstore chain would
deliver more value than a proposed sale to a Najafi Cos. unit.  A committee of creditors in Borders’ bankruptcy yesterday
objected to a sale process that would have made Najafi, a
Phoenix-based private-equity firm, the beginning bidder at an
auction. The structure of that sale agreement, which was set to
be considered today by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in
 Manhattan , was based on the premise that Najafi’s offer was the
highest and best so far.  The creditors committee doesn’t believe the agreement “as
currently structured, represents the highest and best bid,”
lawyers for the committee wrote in yesterday’s court filing.  The Wall Street Journal, citing a letter to Borders
employees, reported late yesterday that Najafi was withdrawing
its bid.  Mary Davis , a Borders spokeswoman, said in an e-mail,
“We have no comment at this time.”  Najafi owns Direct Brands LLC, a direct marketer that owns
Book-of-the-Month Club. Najafi bid $215.1 million for Borders
stores and said it would assume $220 million of liabilities.  The liquidators’ bid would bring at least $252 million and
as much as $284 million into the estate, creditors said. They
estimate the value of Borders’ inventory will be more than $417
million on July 30, the expected closing date of a sale.
Unsecured claims are expected to total more than $700 million,
and Borders is expected to owe $211 million to its highest-
priority creditors under a revolving loan and a  term loan ,
creditors said.  July 19 Auction  After an auction, scheduled for July 19, Glenn is scheduled
on July 21 to consider approving a winning bid.  Creditors said in court papers that they would support
Najafi’s offer if the deal required it to continue operating the
bookstore chain.  The Najafi agreement would allow it to buy the assets and
then reject leases with landlords and liquidate the company,
while keeping valuable intellectual property, creditors said.
The offer by the liquidators’ group would provide a better
recovery and allow Borders to separately handle intellectual
property, the creditors said.  The Najafi agreement called for it to be paid $6.45 million
if another bidder won the auction.  Separately,  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Borders asked Glenn
to overrule landlords’ objections to the proposed sale of its
assets and promised to provide more information about leases by
next week. Borders said in a July 12 court filing that it’s
trying to resolve objections from landlords for several
locations.  ‘Compressed Timeframe’  Borders stores “truly value their relationships with
landlords, who have worked constructively with the debtors
throughout these cases in their continuing efforts to
rationalize their store footprint and their occupancy costs,”
the company said.  The “compressed timeframe” of the sale has prevented
Borders from giving landlords more disclosure, the company said.  Landlords said Borders hasn’t told them which leases it
intends to keep or reject, giving them too little time to decide
whether to support the proposed sale. Current timelines “do not
provide the objecting landlords with sufficient notice,”
Glimcher Properties Ltd., which manages five locations leased to
Borders, said in a court filing.  The liquidators’ backup bid was submitted by a group that
includes Hilco Merchant Resources and Gordon Brothers Retail
Partners LLC. Borders pursued a “dual-track process” so it
could proceed with a sale to liquidators if it wasn’t acquired
as a going concern, according to court filings.  Borders, the second-largest U.S. book chain after  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS) , filed for bankruptcy in February. The company,
founded 40 years ago as a single used-book store, had 642 stores
in February when it sought court protection. It closed 237
stores, leaving 405 operating.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 