-- 
Borders Asks Judge to Overrule Landlords’ Objections to Proposed Sale

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-13T14:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/borders-asks-judge-to-overrule-landlords-objections-to-proposed-sale.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP)  asked a
bankruptcy judge to overrule landlords’ objections to the
proposed sale of the bookstore chain’s assets and promised to
provide more information about leases by next week.  Borders is trying to resolve objections from landlords at
several locations, the company said in papers filed yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . The structure of the
$215.1 million sale to Najafi Cos., which still requires an
auction to test for higher bids, is set to go before U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn tomorrow.  Borders stores “truly value their relationships with
landlords, who have worked constructively with the debtors
throughout these cases in their continuing efforts to
rationalize their store footprint and their occupancy costs,”
the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based chain said.  The “compressed timeframe” of the sale has prevented
Borders from giving landlords more disclosure, the company said.
The objections should be overruled because they aren’t central
to Borders’ request for court approval of the deal’s structure
and a proposed breakup fee for Najafi, Borders said.  Najafi, a Phoenix-based private-equity firm, owns Direct
Brands LLC, a direct marketer that owns Book-of-the-Month Club.
The firm bid $215.1 million for Borders stores and would assume
$220 million of liabilities. A final deal is scheduled to be
approved by the  bankruptcy court  at a hearing on July 21, after
a July 19 auction.  Landlords Object  Landlords said the company hadn’t told them which leases it
intends to keep or reject, giving them little time to decide
whether they agree with the proposed sale. Current timelines
“do not provide the Objecting Landlords with sufficient
notice,” said Glimcher Properties Ltd., manager of five
locations where Borders leases space.  Borders has a backup bid to liquidate all of its assets
from liquidators including Hilco Merchant Resources and Gordon
Brothers Retail Partners LLC. Borders pursued a “dual-track
process” so it could proceed with a sale to liquidators if it
isn’t acquired as a going concern, according to court filings.  Borders, the second-largest U.S. book chain after  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS) , filed for bankruptcy in February. The company,
founded 40 years ago as a single used-book store, had 642 stores
in February when it sought court protection. It closed 237,
leaving 405 operating.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 