-- 
Brasil Foods Trading Suspended as Regulators Prepare Ruling on Sadia Deal

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-07-13T14:56:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/brasil-foods-shares-suspended-until-brazil-regulator-rules-on-sadia-deal.html
BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3)  shares were
suspended in Sao Paulo and New York trading until  Brazil ’s
antitrust regulator rules on the company’s $3.8 billion
acquisition of Sadia SA. The company proposed selling some
assets and suspending its top brand in a bid to win approval.  The regulator, known as Cade, is set to vote today on the
deal that created Brazil’s biggest maker of TV dinners and
frozen meat products. Commissioner Carlos Ragazzo voted against
the deal on June 8, saying the combined company held too much
market power and may hurt consumers. The vote caused the shares
to tumble 6.3 percent that day.  “The shares are being priced in light of restrictions to
be imposed by Cade, such as the sale of minor brands and some
plants,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst with SLW Corretora, said in
a telephone interview today. “Anything more severe than that,
like the sale of the Perdigao brand, would probably weigh on the
shares.”  Under the proposal being considered by Cade today,  Brasil
Foods  would suspend the use of its top brand Perdigao on some
products for three to five years as well as the Batavo brand on
all meat products for four years. The proposal also includes
selling 10 food-processing plants, eight distribution centers
and the Doriana, Delicata, Rezende and Wilson brands, Cade
Commissioner Ricardo Ruiz said today at the meeting in Brasilia.  The company, formerly known as Perdigao, bought Sadia SA in
2009 after the bigger rival booked more than 3 billion reais in
wrong-way currency bets. Brasil Foods rose 2.2 percent to close
at 26.01 reais yesterday in Sao Paulo trading. The stock has
fallen 4.9 percent this year, less than the 14 percent drop for
the Bovespa index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  