-- 
Brasil Foods Surges Most in Two Years on Antitrust Approval For $3.8 Deal

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-07-13T20:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/brasil-foods-wins-approval-of-3-8-billion-sadia-takeover-with-conditions.html
BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) ,  Brazil ’s
biggest maker of TV dinners and frozen meat products, surged the
most in more than two years in  Sao Paulo  trading after it won
conditional approval for its $3.8 billion takeover of Sadia SA.  The stock rose 10 percent to close at 28.55 reais in Sao
Paulo, the biggest gain since May 12, 2009. Trading was halted
for most of the day in Sao Paulo and New York for the ruling.  The acquisition was approved in a 4-1 vote by Brazil’s
antitrust regulator, known as Cade, in a meeting in Brasilia
today. Cade ordered it to stop using its Perdigao brand, valued
at $1.96 billion by BrandAnalytics and WPP Plc, and sell some
assets to ensure domestic competition.  “The decision was good for the company, and shares are
reacting to that,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at SLW Corretora
in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “There will be
synergies, even with the restrictions Cade imposed.”  Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio Fay and other
executives have been working to negotiate a deal with regulators
in recent weeks after a commissioner said June 8 Cade should
block and undo the 1 1/2-year-old takeover. The combined company
will have too much market share and may hurt consumers, Carlos Ragazzo, a member of the antitrust regulator, said at the time,
causing the stock to tumble 6.8 percent. Ragazzo was the only
commissioner to vote against the deal in today’s session.  Cade Accord  As part of the accord,  Brasil Foods  will suspend the use of
Perdigao, one of its top brands, for some products for three to
five years as well as the Batavo brand on all meat products for
four years. The deal also includes selling 10 food-processing
plants, 12 other brands, eight distribution centers, and four
pork and chicken slaughterhouses, Cade Commissioner Ricardo Ruiz
said today at the meeting in Brasilia.  The suspension and divestitures will impact 13 percent of
the company’s operating revenue and 12 percent of its sales
volumes, Brasil Foods said in a regulatory filing after the
ruling.  Yields on Brasil Foods bonds due 2020 tumbled 37 basis
points, or 0.37 percentage point, to 5.65 percent at 2:25 p.m.
 New York  time, the most since May 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Notes due 2017 fell 13 basis points to
5.61 percent.  ‘Lesser Evil’  “Despite having them sell assets, they are keeping the
top” Sadia brand, Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage about 250
million reais ($160 million) at Legan Asset Management and
doesn’t own the company’s shares, said today in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “It is the lesser evil.”  Perdigao is Brazil’s ninth most-valuable brand held by a
publicly traded company, ahead of iron-ore miner Vale SA,
according to a joint study made by Sao Paulo-based research firm
BrandAnalytics and Dublin-based WPP Plc, the world’s largest
advertising company. Perdigao is valued at $1.96 billion and the
bigger Sadia brand is valued at $1.97 billion, the report found.  “Sadia is Perdigao’s only competitor and vice versa,”
Ragazzo said while casting the sole vote against the
transaction. “The suspension of the Perdigao brand may or may
not give the intended results.”  Brasil Foods, formerly known as Perdigao, currently
controls 69 percent of the market for processed frozen meat in
Brazil, which includes TV dinners, hamburgers and meatballs,
according to its 2010 annual report. The meatpacker was created
after Perdigao SA purchased Sadia in a $3.8 billion deal
supported by state-company pension funds and Brazil’s
development bank, after the bigger rival booked more than 3
billion reais in wrong-way currency bets.  The company has 41 distribution centers and 60 plants in
Brazil, one in  Argentina  and two in  Europe . The maker of Batavo
yogurts and  Miss Daisy  frozen desserts reported sales of 22.7
billion reais last year.  Brasil Foods is controlled by Previ and Petros, the pension
funds for employees of Banco do Brasil SA and state-run oil
producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA. Brazil’s development bank,
known as BNDES, also has a stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  