-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Rise First Time in Four Days on China Economic Growth

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-07-13T14:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/brazil-rate-futures-rise-first-time-in-four-days-on-china-economic-growth.html
Yields on  Brazil ’s interest-rate
futures rose for the first time in four days on speculation
stronger-than-expected economic growth in China will stimulate
the Latin American country’s economy and lift commodity prices.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2013 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.72
percent at 9:44 a.m. New York time. The real was little changed
at 1.5799 per dollar, from 1.5791 yesterday.  The economy in China, Brazil’s largest trading partner,
grew 9.5 percent in the second quarter, after expanding 9.7
percent in the previous three months, the statistics bureau in
Beijing said today. The median estimate was 9.3 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of 18 economists. Commodity prices, as measured
by a UBS Bloomberg index, rose 0.3 percent.  Brazil’s interest-rate “tightening cycle may be longer”
than investors expected, said David Rocha, a fixed-income trader
at Renascenca DTVM Ltda, in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo .  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
rose one basis point to 12.49 percent, suggesting traders are
betting the central bank will boost the benchmark interest rate
to 12.75 percent by year-end, from 12.25 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s real has gained 25 percent in the past two years
and touched 1.5524 per dollar on July 4, the strongest level
since 1999.  Brazil’s government is considering raising a tax on
currency futures contracts to contain the appreciation of the
real against the  U.S. dollar , Valor Economico reported, without
saying where it got the information.  “Today’s data reinforces our view that concerns about an
imminent ‘hard landing’ in  China  are overdone,” analysts led by
 Nick Chamie  at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto wrote in a note
today. Potential government measures to weaken the currency
won’t change “the overall solid fundamentals of Brazil’s
real,” they wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  