-- 
Brazil Said to Consider Applying Tax on Foreign Buying of Currency Futures

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-13T18:45:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/brazil-said-to-consider-applying-tax-on-foreign-buying-of-currency-futures.html
Brazil  is considering introducing a
tax on foreigners’ purchases of local currency futures contracts
in a bid to contain a rally by the real, a government official
with knowledge of the plans said. The currency strengthened, as
traders reduced bets on more severe measures.  The government would introduce the so-called IOF tax on
foreigners’ purchases in the local  derivatives market  only after
studying the impact of the central bank’s decision July 8 to
raise reserve requirements on short dollar positions, said the
official, who cannot be named because he is not authorized to
speak publicly on the matter.  The official said President  Dilma Rousseff  remains more
concerned about fighting inflation than about the strength of
the real. Rousseff will proceed with caution before adopting any
new measures because there’s no consensus within the government
about how to reduce pressure on the currency, the person said.  The real strengthened on the news, as traders reduced bets
that the government would take even stronger measures, said
Hideaki Iha, a currency trader at Fair Corretora de Cambio e
Valores in  Sao Paulo .  “The market doesn’t believe the government is going to act
forcefully,” Iha said in a telephone interview. “The
government’s priority is inflation.”  Rising Real  Brazil’s currency last week rose to its strongest level
since 1999 as investors increased demand for higher-yielding
assets amid easing concern over  Greece ’s debt crisis. The real
has gained 47 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since the end of
2008, the most among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The real rose 0.3 percent today, reversing earlier
declines, to 1.5751 per U.S. dollar at 2:44 p.m. New York time.  The measure will fail to weaken the real if it is
implemented, just as several other measures over the last year
have failed, said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank.  “They are trying to avoid something that is unavoidable,”
Santos said, speaking by phone from Sao Paulo. “It’s not an
appreciation of the Brazilian real, it’s a weakening of the
dollar. It’s just like trying to mop up ice, as we say in
Brazil.”  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has repeatedly accused rich
nations of provoking a “global currency war” by keeping
 interest rates  close to zero, causing a flood of liquidity into
emerging markets. Mantega told reporters in Paris last week that
the currency war is still in progress.  Reserve Requirements  The central bank last week changed currency rules to reduce
banks’ exposure to bets against the dollar. Banks have until
July 15 to meet new requirements that they deposit 60 percent of
short dollar positions over $1 billion at the central bank. The
new rule amends a regulation announced in January that required
banks to pay deposits on short positions above $3 billion.  On March 29,Rousseff’s administration increased to 6
percent a tax on new corporate loans and debt sales abroad by
banks. A few days later, she applied the higher tax to renewed,
renegotiated, or transferred loans of up to two years in length.
Companies previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90
days and zero tax when the operation exceeded three months. In
October, Mantega tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases.  Since April, inflation has exceeded the 6.5 percent upper
limit of the central bank’s target range. Consumer prices rose
6.71 percent in June from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
2005. The government targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  