-- 
Tour de France Champion Contador Faces Challenges in Pyrenees Mountains

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-13T22:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/britain-s-mark-cavendish-wins-stage-11-of-tour-de-france-in-sprint-finish.html
Alberto Contador  faces a test of his
form today as Tour de  France  riders enter the Pyrenees
mountains.  The three-time champion hurt his right knee in two falls
during the first week and trails leader Thomas Voeckler by  4
minutes, 7 seconds  after 11 of 21 stages.  Mark Cavendish  won
yesterday’s leg to lead the points competition that sprinters
compete for.  Contador looks “a little fatigued” after winning the Giro
d’Italia in May and faces a challenge from two-time runner-up
 Andy Schleck , according to Team Sky manager David Brailsford.
Schleck is 2 minutes, 37 seconds behind Voeckler.  “Andy Schleck will never get a better chance to win” the
Tour de France than this year, Brailsford said in an interview
two days ago.  Today’s 131-mile stage has an ascent of the Col du
Tourmalet and a mountain top finish at Luz-Ardiden, a ski
resort. Both climbs are rated  out-of-category , the most
difficult.  Cavendish beat Andre Greipel by a bike length in a sprint
finish after a 104-mile ride from Blaye-les-Mines to Lavaur
yesterday to avenge his loss against the German a day earlier.  Mickael Delage of Francaise des Jeux was part of a six-man
breakaway and passed Johnny Hoogerland’s mark of 280 miles --the
most distance covered attacking by a rider in this edition,
according to the  Tour de France  website. Hoogerland was
catapulted into a barbed wire fence on July 10 when a car veered
into a breakaway group.  After a thwarted solo breakaway by Lars Boom with three
miles left, Cavendish sprinted to his third stage win of this
edition and 18th overall, taking the green jersey from  Belgium ’s
Philippe Gilbert. The leader’s yellow jersey will today be worn
by Frenchman Voeckler on the Bastille Day national holiday.  Drug Case  Contador was acquitted by the Spanish cycling federation
after testing positive for the banned stimulant clenbuterol in
winning last year’s Tour. The federation accepted his argument
that the reading was caused by contaminated meat.  Cycling’s ruling body,  Union Cycliste Internationale ,
appealed the decision and the Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court
of Arbitration for Sport will make a final decision after the
race, which ends July 24 in Paris.  The Spaniard is the most talented climber in decades with
more ability than record seven-time champion Lance Armstrong and
five-time winner Miguel Indurain, said Phil Liggett, a
commentator for Versus television channel covering his 39th Tour
de France.  “They couldn’t sit up and dance” like Contador, Liggett
said in an interview. “This guy is a mountain goat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  