-- 
Brokers Face More Disclosure to Clients Under Dodd-Frank: One Year Later

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/brokers-face-more-disclosure-to-clients-under-dodd-frank-one-year-later.html
Does your broker work for you?  In the past, the answer to that question wasn’t quite
clear. Under U.S. rules, brokers were required only to steer
clients toward “suitable” trades or investments, not
necessarily those in their “best interests.”  Among the changes already in motion from passage of last
year’s Dodd-Frank Act are new rules to be written by the
Securities and Exchange Commission to clarify the relationship
between broker-dealers and their clients.  Under the rules, brokerages will probably have to draw up new
disclosures to make clear that they are putting their client’s
best interests first, a level of responsibility known as a
fiduciary standard.  “There’s no question that one of the public policy
objectives will be to raise the bar for brokerage firms that
provide personalized investment advice,” said John Taft, chief
executive officer of RBC Wealth Management and chairman of the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, the
lobbying group for the brokerage industry. “The firms that
don’t put their clients’ interests first are going to change how
they do business.”  As part of the Dodd-Frank financial-services overhaul law
enacted last July, Congress asked the SEC to study existing
standards. In a staff  report  issued in January, the commission
found that many retail investors are confused by the different
roles played by investment advisers and broker-dealers.  Brokers or Advisers  Registered investment advisers follow principles outlined
in the  Investment Advisers Act of 1940  and must put their
clients’ best interests first. Broker-dealers adhere to the
 Securities Exchange Act of 1934  and currently have only to
recommend products that meet their clients’ needs when sold.  To ease customer confusion, the commission recommended that
broker-dealers adopt a fiduciary standard “no less stringent
than currently applied to investment advisers.”  Republican commissioners Troy Paredes and  Kathleen Casey 
issued a  joint statement  taking issue with the report. “The
study unduly discounts the risk that, as a result of the
regulatory burdens imposed by the recommendations on financial
professionals, investors may have fewer broker-dealers and
investment advisers to choose from, may have access to fewer
products and services, and may have to pay more for the services
and advice they do receive,” the statement said.  Suitability  Under the previous suitability standard, brokers only had
to recommend a product consistent with the investor’s goals,
strategies and risk tolerance. When offering investment options
to customers under a fiduciary standard, brokers will now have
to document that it is the best choice for the investor, said
 Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the
Washington-based  Consumer Federation of America .  The new standard won’t necessarily require that brokers
include low-cost options in their menu of offerings, Roper said.  The SEC and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority oversee
about 5,100 broker-dealers, about 4,500 of them Finra members,
according to the agency report and the group’s website. In 2009,
firms registered with Finra held more than 109 million retail
and institutional accounts, with about 18 percent of those
brokers also registered as investment advisers with a state or
the SEC, the SEC report said.  Total retail assets managed by Finra broker members and
registered investment advisers were $13.4 trillion at the end of
2010, according to data from Boston-based research firm Aite
Group.  Common Standard  The agency is scheduled to propose rules for a common
standard by the end of this year, according to its  website .
Brokers are expected to both disclose more information before
working with customers, and provide more transparency when
recommending products that may involve conflicts, Roper said.  “No matter how it’s written, if it’s written right, it
will raise the bar across the industry,” Taft said.  The Dodd-Frank Act specifies that the uniform standard
can’t weaken the existing obligations for advisers, according to
Ira Hammerman, general counsel for Sifma. That means the SEC
should create parallel rules, which still permit transaction-
based advice paid through commissions instead of fee-only
advice, he said.  A new standard will likely mandate that brokers provide
additional disclosures about services, compensation, and
conflicts of interest, said K. Susan Grafton, a former SEC
attorney who works in the  Washington  office of Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP. The disclosures may be similar to those required
as part of so-called  ADV forms  that advisers currently provide
to investors.  ‘Create Clarity’  “We already act in a fiduciary capacity, so we think this
rule will just augment and create clarity for the consumer,”
said Mark Casady, chairman and chief executive officer of
Boston-based brokerage and advisory firm LPL Investment Holdings
Inc.  Since most of LPL’s 12,500 advisers are registered both as
brokers and investment advisers, they already uphold a fiduciary
responsibility, Casady said. Since the firm also doesn’t sell
proprietary products, he expects the new standard won’t really
change their practices.  “It makes it clearer to the consumer that there’s a
fiduciary standard being applied in both cases -- it’s more a
legal matter than a practice matter,” he said.  Under a common standard, the SEC may allow principal
trading, which is when firms use their own stock inventories to
fulfill trades, without requiring client permission each time a
trade is made, said Mercer Bullard, founder of Fund Democracy
LLC, an advocacy group in Oxford,  Mississippi .  “It would violate Dodd-Frank to say that no broker is ever
required under the best interest standard to disclose that,”
Bullard said.  More Transparency  Other transactions that may require more guidance from the
SEC include initial public offerings underwritten by the
brokerage firm, said Sifma’s Hammerman.  Robert T. Mooney, chief compliance officer of Wells
Fargo Advisors, said his firm supports the “harmonized standard
of care.”  “It appears the standard of care will be a workable one
that will continue to provide clients choice when determining
the type of relationship they would like to have with their
financial advisor,” Mooney said in an e-mail.  Richard Ketchum , Finra’s chairman and CEO, said at the
regulator’s annual conference in Washington in May that brokers
must  “truly understand”  complex products, such as structured
notes, that they sell.  Representatives of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  Edward Jones  declined to comment, saying they didn’t want to
speculate on changes before the fiduciary rules are written.  “The SEC is trying to find the sweet spot to adopt
something that has important protections for investors, but
doesn’t trigger pushback that ends up getting the regulation
killed,” Roper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 