-- 
Brown Calls on Regulator to Probe News Corp.’s Existing BSkyB Shareholding

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/brown-urges-regulator-to-probe-news-corp-s-existing-bskyb-shareholding.html
Gordon Brown  urged U.K. media
regulator Ofcom to investigate whether News Corp. is a “fit and
proper” company to hold its 39 percent stake in  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   The former prime minister broke a seven-month Parliamentary
silence yesterday to mount an outspoken attack on  Rupert Murdoch ’s U.K. publishing unit, accusing it of lawbreaking “on
an industrial scale” and using criminals to obtain stories.  “News International descended from the gutter to the
sewers,” Brown said during a 32-minute speech in the House of
Commons. “The trouble is that they let the rats out of the
sewers.”  His intervention in a debate on News Corp. was among
several from lawmakers on all sides that suggest the company’s
decision to drop its bid for the rest of BSkyB hasn’t assuaged
anger among politicians. The decision was made amid pressure
over allegations that the News of the World tabloid hacked into
hundreds of mobile-phone voice mails and bribed police for
information.  “We have barely started yet getting to grips with this
cancer of wrongdoing and we will get to grips with it,” said
Liberal Democrat David Heath, deputy leader of the Commons.  Opening the debate, opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  declared  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s decision to drop its bid “a
victory” for the British people. “The will of Parliament was
clear,” he said. “The will of the public was clear, and now
Britain’s most powerful media owner has had to bend to that
will.”  ‘Criminal Media Nexus’  The phone-hacking scandal has within 10 days prompted
Murdoch to close the 168-year-old News of the World newspaper on
which his U.K. media business was founded, wiped $3.9 billion
off News Corp.’s market value and derailed the BSkyB takeover
that the government indicated last month it would approve.  During his three years in office from June 2007, Brown
entertained Murdoch in his Downing Street residence and invited
News International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks to his
Chequers country residence. In 2009 he attended her wedding.
Today he accused News International of running “a criminal
media nexus” and standing “side-by-side with criminals against
our citizens.”  Brown listed hostile front pages the Sun newspaper had
written about him and said they had been prompted by a refusal
to agree to the company’s demands on media controls. He said
recent reports had revealed “lawbreaking often on an industrial
scale” and “the systematic use of base and unlawful methods,
new crimes with new names on them.”  ‘Public Property’  The “private lives, private losses and private sorrows”
of innocent men, women and children had been “treated as public
property” by News International, he said. “Their private and
inner-most feelings and their private tears bought and sold by
News International for commercial gain.”  Brown, who alleges News International reporters accessed
his family’s legal, financial and medical records using
“blagging” techniques, said he had wanted to order a judicial
inquiry into the News of the World’s activities in 2009. Gus O’Donnell, the Cabinet secretary and head of the civil service,
told him it would appear too political so close to the election.  Ofcom, the media regulator, said it has a continuing duty
to consider whether News Corp., through its existing holding, is
“fit and proper” to hold a broadcasting license.  News International didn’t immediately respond to a message
left after hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 