-- 
BYD Shares Fall in Shenzhen After First-Half Profit Drops

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-13T09:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/byd-shares-fall-after-carmaker-predicts-first-half-profit-may-decline-95-.html
BYD Co. fell in Shenzhen trading
after the Chinese automaker part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said first-half profit may have tumbled
as much as 95 percent.  BYD dropped 1 percent to 31.19 yuan at the 3 p.m. trading
close in Shenzhen. Its shares listed in  Hong Kong  closed 3
percent higher at HK$23.70 after falling as much as 6.7 percent.
The Hong Kong-traded stock has lost 42 percent this year, the
biggest decliner on the Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index.  Net income for the six months ended June 30 may range from
121.1 million yuan ($19 million) to 363.2 million yuan, dropping
from 2.42 billion yuan a year earlier, BYD said in a preliminary
earnings statement yesterday. The Shenzhen, southern China-based
carmaker, whose vehicle sales fell for 11 straight months
through June, said the end of tax incentives for small cars
crimped demand.  “BYD car sales dipped as they couldn’t find a car model
that sold as well as their best-selling F3,” said  Harry Chen ,
an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shenzhen, referring
to China’s top passenger sedan by sales for the past two years.
“The new products they introduced were more of a facelift
without any technological improvement.”  BYD’s deliveries dropped 8 percent last month to 32,515
vehicles as demand slowed and rivals including General Motors
Co. and Nissan Motor Co. introduced new models. The decline in
June compared with a 6.2 percent industrywide increase in car
deliveries to dealerships, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said last week.  Preferential Policy  Chinese auto sales have climbed at a slower rate this year
after surging 32 percent to a record in 2010, as the government
phased out incentives and imposed purchase restrictions to curb
traffic congestion.  BYD posted an 84 percent decrease in first-quarter profit.
The company didn’t say when it will report final first-half
earnings.  “There was a decline in automobile sales volume and
revenue as a result of cancellation of preferential  tax policy 
on passenger vehicles with emission below 1.6 liters and
intensifying market competition,” BYD said in the statement.  The company’s handset component and assembly business also
declined because one of its major customers deferred some sales
orders, according to the filing.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  