-- 
California College Board Raises Campus Chief’s Pay While Boosting Tuition

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/california-college-board-raises-pay-rate-while-boosting-tuition.html
California State University trustees
went ahead with paying their San Diego campus president $400,000
a year, shrugging off Governor  Jerry Brown ’s call for reining in
spiraling compensation, and boosted tuition 12 percent.  The governor, 73, asked Herbert Carter, the trustees
chairman, to “rethink” management salaries, in an open letter
dated yesterday. Brown cited “my concern about the ever-
escalating pay packages awarded to your top administrators.”  The board voted yesterday to approve the compensation for
Elliot Hirshman, 50, who was named president of  San Diego State
University  on May 9, according to Mike Uhlenkamp, a university
system spokesman. Hirshman’s pay tops his predecessor’s by
$100,000, an increase Brown questioned. The board boosted
tuition 12 percent in a system that serves 412,000 students.  “At a time when the state is closing its courts, laying
off public school teachers and shutting senior centers, it is
not right to be raising the salaries of leaders who -- of
necessity -- must demand sacrifice from everyone else,” Brown
said in the letter to Carter. The system has 23 campuses and
about 43,000 faculty and other employees.  The state’s budget for fiscal 2012, which started July 1,
included a $1.36 billion, or 11.7 percent, reduction in general-
fund spending for higher education, to about $10.2 billion.  Rising Student Costs  The board voted 13-2 to raise tuition to about $5,500 a
year for undergraduates, Uhlenkamp said. Trustees boosted the
cost in November as well, with a 10 percent increase set to take
effect in September.  University of California  regents, who are set to consider
raising tuition by 10.5 percent in a meeting tomorrow, were
urged not to take that step by the system’s student association.  Hirshman, a former University of  Maryland , Baltimore
County, provost and psychology professor, has already begun his
job at San Diego State. His pay was approved 12-3 by the board.  “He’s mindful of the governor’s letter and appreciates the
interest and concern,” Uhlenkamp said of Carter. He said the
chairman felt the best course was to “move forward” with
Hirshman’s pay package “at the recommended level.”  Citing “the salary decision you are about to make,” Brown
said he rejects the assumption “that you cannot find a
qualified man or woman to lead the university unless paid twice
that of the Chief Justice of the  United States .”  During the discussion of Hirshman’s pay package, one
trustee noted that the state pays some prison guards more than
$200,000 a year.  Paying for Quality  “We’re looking at a president who runs a multimillion
dollar organization,” said Peter Mehas, the trustee. “We
cannot pay enough for quality leadership,” he said.  The state Republican Party Chairman Tom Del Beccaro issued
a statement critical of Brown, pointing to an arrangement
approved by the governor that pays the state’s Social Services
director more than $343,000 a year.  “Governor Brown has reached the height of hypocrisy in his
scolding” of the trustees, Del Beccaro said in a statement.
“If anyone has set an unaffordable pattern for public service
compensation, it’s Jerry Brown.”  Carter recommended and the trustees approved the formation
of a panel to review selection and pay for future campus
presidents, Uhlenkamp said. A  study  of the system by Mercer LLC,
a consulting arm of Marsh & McLennan Cos., said the system’s
presidents were paid an average of about $292,800 compared with
$425,900 at 20 rival schools, five of them private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  New York  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  