-- 
California May Seek Bridge Loan Before Deadline for Debt-Limit Agreement

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-07-13T22:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/california-may-seek-bridge-loan-before-deadline-for-debt-limit-decision.html
California may move up plans to
borrow cash before an Aug. 2 deadline for raising the federal
debt ceiling, in case talks fail and send the  bond market  into
turmoil, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said.  Lockyer, who plans to sell an estimated $5 billion of so-
called revenue-anticipation notes, or RANs, in August, is
considering a bridge loan from investment banks, according to
 Tom Dresslar , his spokesman.  The bridge loan would be repaid by the RANs, which the
state would pay off when the bulk of taxes is collected later in
the year. Without the loan or notes, the state could run out of
cash as it did in 2009, when it issued $2.6 billion of IOUs.  “We are hoping to get our borrowing done before Aug. 2,”
Lockyer told reporters following a speech today in Sacramento.  Congress must pass a bill to raise the federal debt ceiling
before the Treasury’s stated Aug. 2 deadline to avert a U.S.
default. Lockyer said a breakdown in talks to raise the limit
could wreak havoc on credit markets at the time  California  plans
to borrow the money.  Moody’s Investors Service today put the U.S. under review
for a credit rating downgrade, adding to concern that political
gridlock will lead to a default. A failure to raise the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt limit would lead to a “major crisis” and
throw “shock waves” through the financial system, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today at a House Financial
Services Committee hearing.  Prioritized Federal Payments  Lockyer said a default could prompt the federal government
to prioritize payments such as subsidies to states that would
affect  cash flow .  “The ripple effect on state and local finances is very
substantial,” he said.  Lockyer said he’s concerned about the possibility of
federal delays in Medicare subsidies and other payments to
California and about long-term reductions in U.S. aid to states.  “Depending on how long the delay was, you might have a
cash-flow hit,” the treasurer said in an interview after the
speech. “Of course, the budget negotiations might result in
reduced payments to the states. There’s two kinds of worry.”  California has used bridge loans before. It borrowed $6.7
billion from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and five other banks in
October when a record 100-day budget impasse prevented Lockyer
from issuing RANs.  Bridge Loans  The state paid 1.4 percent on the loan, which was repaid
when Lockyer sold $10 billion of RANs at the end of November.
The state took out a similar $1.5 billion bridge loan in August
2009 after an impasse then forced the state to issue IOUs to pay
bills.  Yields on RANs have plunged along with Treasuries. One-
year, tax-exempt note yields fell to 0.31 percent last week,
according to a Bond Buyer index, down from 0.64 percent a year
earlier and 3.71 percent in 2007, before the recession.  Lockyer sold $10 billion of RANs in November, including
$2.25 billion of notes that came due in May with a yield of 1.5
percent and $7.75 billion that matured in June at 1.75 percent.  Those May notes yielded 98 basis points, or 0.98 percentage
point, more than top-rated one-year debt at the time and the
June notes yielded 123 basis points more, Municipal Market
Advisors data show.  California sold $8.8 billion of such notes in September
2009 and $5 billion the year before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  