-- 
Moody’s Will Cut 7,000 Top-Rated Munis If U.S. Downgraded, Reviewing More

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/california-may-sell-notes-before-federal-debt-limit-deadline-lockyer-says.html
At least 7,000 top-rated municipal
credits would have their ratings cut if the U.S. government
loses its Aaa grade, Moody’s Investors Service said.  An “automatic” downgrade affecting $130 billion in
municipal debt directly linked to the U.S. would occur if the
federal level is reduced, Moody’s said yesterday in a report.
Additionally, top-rated securities with no direct links to the
national government will be reviewed for similar action.  Municipal debt including mortgage-backed bonds secured by
the U.S. or agencies such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , would
be trimmed with the federal government, Moody’s said. It didn’t
provide a total value for other state and local credits that may
be affected, including housing authorities and nonprofits.  “Between now and the end of July, we’re going to evaluate
all of those issuers using the same quantitative metrics that we
have developed,” Naomi Richman, Moody’s managing director of
public finance, said yesterday by telephone from  New York  about
the indirectly linked securities.  “In the event that the U.S. government is downgraded, we
won’t automatically downgrade those,” she said. “We’ll do a
full review that we would normally do on a state rating.”  Moody’s put the U.S. rating under review as talks stalled
in  Washington  on raising the government’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit. Democrats including President  Barack Obama  want to raise
taxes to curb the national deficit while congressional
Republicans have sought deeper spending cuts.  Top Ratings  The company rates 15 states at Aaa. It also gives top marks
to 440 local governments, 100 state housing bond programs, 43
higher-education and nonprofit institutions, a like number of
state revolving-fund bond programs, and the  Tennessee Valley
Authority  and the Bonneville Power Administration.  Issuers that are partially dependent on the federal
government, such as states receiving Medicaid matching funds,
also will be reviewed for vulnerability. Medicaid is a health-
care program for the poor that is jointly funded by the states
and the U.S. Moody’s said Aaa-rated states on average rely on
the federal government for a quarter of total spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  