-- 
Cameron Paves Way for Murdoch to Be Quizzed in Parliament on Hacking Case

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-13T13:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/cameron-paves-way-for-murdoch-to-be-quizzed-in-parliament-on-hacking-case.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
laid the ground for  Rupert Murdoch  to be summoned to give
evidence to a public inquiry into phone hacking as he sought to
deal with what he called the “firestorm” over the scandal.  Cameron specifically included “proprietors” in the list
of people that the inquiry, to be led by Lord Justice Brian Leveson, will have the power to summon. He said the inquiry will
be in two parts: a review of press regulation to report within
12 months and an investigation into wrongdoing by press and
police. The second part may be delayed by criminal proceedings.  Murdoch arrived in  London  on July 10 to deal with a flurry
of allegations that reporters at the now-defunct News of the
World tabloid hacked into hundreds of mobile-phone voice mails,
including those of murder and terror victims, and bribed police
for information. News Corp. said today it is dropping its bid to
gain full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   “The people involved whether they were directly
responsible for the wrongdoing, sanctioned it, or covered it up,
however high or low they go, must not only be brought to
justice, they must also have no future role in the running of a
media company in our country,” Cameron told lawmakers in 
Parliament in London.  Cameron said police investigating the News of the World
have so far made eight arrests. The team, he said, “is looking
through 11,000 pages containing 3,870 names, including around
4,000 mobile and 5,000 landline phone numbers. They have
contacted 170 people so far -- and they will contact every
single person named in those documents.”  Labour Questions  The prime minister earlier faced questions from Labour
Party leader  Ed Miliband  about his 2007 decision to hire as his
head of communications  Andy Coulson , a former editor of the News
of the World. Coulson left the newspaper after one of his
reporters was jailed for phone-hacking. He has always insisted
he didn’t know about it. He quit Cameron’s office in 2010 and on
July 8 he was arrested.  “I sought assurances from Andy Coulson, I received
assurances, those were assurances that were given not just to me
but to a select committee and in a criminal case,” Cameron
said. “If it turns out he lied, it won’t just be that he
shouldn’t have been in government, it will be that he should be
prosecuted.”  Cameron conceded he has struggled to respond to the public
outcry since the  Guardian newspaper  reported on July 4 that the
News of the World had in 2002 hacked into the voicemails of
murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler and deleted messages, leading
her parents to believe she might still be alive.  He initially refused to call either for the resignation of
Rebekah Brooks, chief executive officer of News International,
the publisher of News Corp. newspapers in the U.K, or link the
scandal to the BSkyB bid.  ‘Firestorm’  He has since joined Miliband in calling for Brooks to go
and had pledged to back a Labour Party motion due to take place
in Parliament today calling for Murdoch to drop the BSkyB bid.  “There is a firestorm that is engulfing parts of the
media, parts of the police and indeed the political system’s
ability to respond,” Cameron said.  BSkyB shares were down 0.4 percent at 683.5 pence as of
2:50 p.m. after  News Corp. (NWSA)  announced it was withdrawing its 7.8
billion-pound ($12.5 billion) offer for the 61 percent of
Britain’s largest pay-TV broadcaster that it doesn’t already
own.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 