-- 
Canadian Pipeline Valuations Reach Four-Year High as Investors Seek Yield

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/canadian-pipeline-valuations-reach-four-year-high-as-investors-seek-yield.html
Canadian investors are so starved
for income that they’re buying pipeline owners trading at the
highest valuations in four years.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ,  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and the four other
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index companies that store and
transport oil and gas are offering average dividend yields of
4.05 percent. That’s 1.48 percentage points above the full
index’s rate and 1.16 points more than the payout on Canadian
10-year government bonds. The industry’s valuation has jumped to
21 times earnings and reached 22 in May, the highest since 2006.  Toronto-Dominion Bank, Goodman & Co. and Sentry Select
Capital Corp. recommend pipeline operators because of their
payouts and reliable profit growth. BlackRock Inc., Franklin
Resources Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG bought shares of both
TransCanada and Enbridge this year.  “That’s a very powerful combination,” said Jason Gibbs,
manager of Goodman’s C$190.7 million ($197.5 million) Dynamic
Global Infrastructure Fund, which has returned 6.3 percent this
year to beat 94 percent of its peers, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. “You have earnings visibility, cash flow
visibility, dividend yields above the TSX, dividends that are
growing.”  Investors are buying as the European debt crisis spurs
demand for the safety of North American  government bonds ,
driving down yields. New money exceeded redemptions at income
funds by C$1.52 billion during the first five months of the
year, the most for a comparable period since 2007, according to
data compiled by the  Investment Funds Institute of Canada .
Assets rose 16 percent to a record C$51 billion.  Beating the Market  Storage and transportation stocks in the S&P/TSX have risen
9 percent this year, compared with the index’s 1.6 percent
decline, as concern that a Greek default will slow growth drove
investors to industries least-tied to the economy.  During the two years ended in November 2009, a period that
included the first global contraction since the 1930s, the
industry grew earnings by 15 percent. Companies in the  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index of shares in 24 developed nations saw a 48 percent
decrease. Profits among pipeline operators rise and fall
independently of other companies’, with the so-called
correlation coefficient over the last 30 months at 0.08,
according to Bloomberg data. Readings of zero mean there’s no
connection, while 1 means they’re moving in lockstep.  Long-Term Contracts  About 80 percent of Enbridge’s income comes from contracts
lasting about 20 years on average, in businesses where rates are
set by governments, said  Jennifer Varey , a company spokeswoman.
TransCanada forecasts that 90 percent of its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will be
“contracted and predictable” this year, Greg Lohnes, president
of its gas pipelines unit, said at a May conference in  Orlando ,
 Florida .  The typical pipeline operator is “not a manufacturing
company that can have a good year this year and a bad year next
year,” Gibbs said. “It’s a company with hard assets in the
ground, with contracts with good customers.”  The industry’s valuation is 9.7 percent more than the
S&P/TSX’s multiple. When the premium was 15 percent on June 17,
it was the biggest gap since March 2009, three weeks after
global equities entered a  bull market .  The surge in pipeline valuations makes the stocks more
susceptible to a temporary pullback following bad news, said
Dennis Mitchell, a  money manager  at Sentry Select in Toronto,
which oversees about C$7 billion, including pipeline companies’
shares. The industry index fell 2.4 percent in June, the first
monthly drop since November. The S&P/TSX Composite dropped 3.6
percent, the fourth straight retreat.  Water Contamination  TransCanada has decreased 5.5 percent this month after a
University of  Nebraska  study said the company’s proposed
Keystone XL pipeline could contaminate the water supply for
hundreds of thousands of people if there were a rupture.  The decline in pipeline shares will be short-lived because
industry prospects remain positive, said Robert Catellier, an
analyst at Clarus Securities Inc. in Toronto. The stocks will
continue to advance as interest rates remain low and
developments in extraction technology, such as horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing of rock formations to release
gas and oil, increase fuel volumes.  “The short-term risk has definitely increased, but the
long-term factors still remain strong,” said Catellier, whose
recommendations produced gains of 48 percent in the past year.
“As long as you believe in the fundamentals, you take advantage
of short-term gyrations in support of your long-term view.”  Not Much Riskier  Pipeline companies may retain an advantage given that bond
yields are forecast to remain at current levels. Most economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast the yield on Canadian 10-year
government bonds will remain under 3.90 percent until at least
the fourth quarter of 2012.  TransCanada, based in Calgary, yields 4.20 percent after
rallying 5.4 percent since Dec. 31. Enbridge, also of Calgary,
pays out 3.13 percent of its stock price in dividends after its
11 percent advance in 2011. Canadian 10-year government bonds
yield 2.89 percent.  “The yield on the pipeline stocks is very attractive
relative to Canadian bond yields, so they’re not really looking
expensive,” said Michael Lough, co-manager of the C$4.1 billion
TD Dividend Growth Fund. “As an income play, they’re looking
quite reasonable.”  Forecasts Reduced  As economists’ forecasts for North American economic growth
in the next two years have declined, the stability of pipeline
companies’ earnings are more important, since a growth slowdown
may limit profits in other industries, Gibbs said. Economists’
median forecast for the U.S. gross domestic product increase in
2011 has dropped to 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent in May, and the
median forecast for 2012 has declined to 2.9 percent from 3.1
percent, according to Bloomberg surveys.  The gains in Canadian pipeline stocks are part of a global
trend toward equities less sensitive to an economic slowdown.
Two so-called defensive industries, health care and consumer
staples, advanced the most among 10 groups in the MSCI World
Index of developed-market stocks last quarter.  “People are trending toward defensive stocks that have
less risk of imploding,” Mitchell said. Pipeline owners’
dividends will attract more investment as  interest rates  and
bond yields remain at historical lows, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  