-- 
Canada’s Dollar Advances as Chinese Growth Reduces Investor Risk Aversion

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-13T21:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/canada-s-dollar-gains-as-china-growth-reduces-risk-aversion-for-investors.html
Canada ’s dollar advanced as
stronger-than-forecast Chinese growth renewed demand for higher-
yielding assets and oil advanced.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is also known for the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, extended its gain against the U.S.
dollar after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S.
policy makers will provide stimulus if needed. Canada’s dollar
climbed along with other commodity-linked currencies such as the
Australian and  New Zealand  dollars on speculation  China ’s demand
for natural resources will spur growth.  “One of the themes we have seen has been a rebound in risk
appetite and the Chinese data went a long way to create that
backdrop,” said  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed
income and currency strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada.
“The GDP number certainly had a positive impact on the
currency.”  The loonie advanced 0.9 percent to 95.82 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It closed at 96.66 cents yesterday.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0436.  Canada’s dollar slipped 0.5 percent against the euro. The
17-nation currency rose against a majority of its most-traded
counterparts as Italian bonds rallied for a second day, easing
concern that the region’s debt crisis may spread beyond Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to larger economies.  The New Zealand and Australian dollars were among the top
performers. Raw materials, including crude oil and copper,
account for half of Canada’s export revenue.  Chinese Growth  “There’s no denying there are many structural problems
within the euro zone, but there’s a grudging acknowledgment that
some sort of soft restructuring or even harder restructuring is
going to be applied to  Greece  in the coming weeks, and they’re
just inching toward a structural solution,”  Geoffrey Yu , a
currency strategist at UBS AG, said by telephone from  London .
“That’s positive at least.”  Copper rose for a second day in London after economic
growth topped estimates in China, the world’s largest consumer
of the metal. Gross domestic product climbed 9.5 percent from a
year earlier in the second quarter, the statistics bureau said
today, exceeding the 9.3 percent median estimate of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Bernanke, in a testimony before the House Financial
Services Committee, said the central bank is prepared to take
additional action, including buying more government bonds, if
the  U.S. economy  appears to be in danger of stalling. The U.S.
is Canada’s largest trading partner.  Government Bonds  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate at a record
low of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. During that
time, the  Bank of Canada  has raised interest rate three times,
to 1 percent. The disparity in the rates spurs investors seeking
higher yields to buy Canadian assets instead of those
denominated in dollars.  Canada’s government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year yield
higher by four basis points to 2.93 percent, as the price of the
3.25 percent security due in June 2021 dropped 31 cents to
C$102.73. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The nation’s sovereign securities have returned 1.2 percent
this month and are up 3 percent in 2011, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Governments index.  Canada’s dollar has weakened 1.3 percent this year versus
the currencies of nine other developed nations, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  