-- 
Carrefour Sales Trail Estimates as Superstores Disappoint

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-07-13T06:37:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/carrefour-sales-trail-estimates-as-superstores-disappoint.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, reported second-quarter sales that trailed
analysts’ estimates and said first-half operating profit fell
about 23 percent as its lost market share in France.  Revenue climbed 1.6 percent to 22.4 billion euros ($31.4
billion) in the quarter, the company said today in a statement.
The average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for sales of 22.5 billion euros. First-half revenue at the
retailer, based near Paris, advanced 2.7 percent.  Carrefour is revamping its biggest stores and introducing
lower prices and more own-label products in a bid to turn around
its ailing domestic business, while scrambling for opportunities
to grow in new markets like  Brazil . The grocer is seeking to
merge its Brazilian unit with Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar, sparking a power struggle with French rival
 Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , which has a deal to take control
of Pao de Acucar in 2012.  Carrefour, which last week spun off the Dia discount chain
on the Madrid stock exchange, said operating income fell to
about 760 million euros in the first half, mainly because of
France, where superstore sales in the period were
“disappointing.” Profit on the same basis in emerging markets
is expected to show solid growth, the company said.  Action Plan  “Carrefour is devising and implementing an action plan
with the objective of attaining the group’s 2011 target of a
progression in sales and operating income,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Lars Olofsson said in the statement. “All of
our teams are now being mobilized to support this goal.”  Like-for-like sales, excluding petrol and adjusted for
calendar impact, fell 1 percent last quarter in  France ,
Carrefour’s largest market, as revenue growth in smaller stores
failed to offset a decline in superstore sales, the retailer
said. French superstore sales fell 3.3 percent on the same
basis, though revamped stores continue to post double-digit
growth, Carrefour said. Supermarket sales grew 1.3 percent on
the same basis and revenue at  convenience stores  gained 5.5
percent, the retailer said.  First-half operating income in France fell about 35
percent, the company said last month, marking its third profit
revision since November.  Belgium  Rebounds  In western  Europe , excluding France, second-quarter sales
declined 2.1 percent on a like-for-like basis, excluding petrol
and adjusted for calendar impact. The business climate is
“persistently difficult” in Spain and  Italy , while a
turnaround in Belgium is confirmed, Carrefour said. Spanish
superstore revenue declined 4.9 percent on the same basis,
though food sales were resilient, and a price repositioning is
underway in Italy, Carrefour said. Belgian superstore sales
climbed 10 percent.  Latin American same-store sales, excluding petrol and
adjusted for calendar impact jumped 11 percent, while Asian
revenue climbed 5.3 percent on the same basis, Carrefour said.  Carrefour is scheduled to publish first-half earnings on
Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 Aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net . 