-- 
Carrefour Slides as Brazil Merger Plan Collapses, Growth Slumps in France

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-07-13T11:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/carrefour-shares-slide-on-collapse-of-brazil-plan-slump-in-french-growth.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, said a planned Brazilian merger fell through
after the deal’s main backer pulled out, and conceded it may
struggle to grow profit in 2011 amid lackluster sales in France.  A decision by Brazil’s national development bank, or BNDES,
to withdraw funding for a combination of Carrefour’s local
assets with Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar
means that “the conditions necessary to complete the proposal
have not been met,” the company, based near Paris, said today.  BNDES rejected the plan late yesterday after protests by
 Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , which said the transaction would
violate an agreement allowing it to become Pao de Acucar’s sole
controlling shareholder in 2012. Carrefour, which has cut profit
estimates three times since November, is seeking opportunities
to expand in markets such as  Brazil  as store revamps and price
cuts in France fail to revive domestic growth.  The failure of the merger “is another blow to the
credibility of Carrefour’s management,” said  Christopher Hogbin , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .  Carrefour Chief Financial Officer Pierre Bouchut said on a
conference call today that a decline of about 23 percent in
first-half profit is a “handicap” to increasing so-called
current operating income for the full year.  Second-quarter revenue climbed 1.6 percent to 22.4 billion
euros ($31.4 billion), Carrefour said. The average estimate of
five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 22.5 billion euros.  Emerging Markets  Carrefour traded up 17 cents, or 0.8 percent, to 22.16
euros as of 12:33 p.m. in Paris, after earlier falling to a two-
year low. The stock has slumped 17 percent this year.  Bouchut told analysts that the company will continue to
seek opportunities to grow, notably in emerging markets.
Carrefour’s board would study another plan if Gama, the
investment fund of Banco BTG Pactual that proposed the Brazilian
transaction last month, came up with one, the CFO said. The
French retailer doesn’t know of any such plan, he said.  Carrefour, which last week spun off its Dia discount chain
on the Madrid stock exchange, said operating income fell to
about 760 million euros in the first half, mainly because of
weakness in  France , where superstore sales in the period were
“disappointing.” Profit on the same basis fell in  Europe  and
showed “solid” growth in emerging markets, Bouchut said.  “We do have a handicap to meet our initial objective of a
progression of our current operating income from one year to
another,” Bouchut said. Carrefour will present a plan to turn
around operations in France, which will focus on near-term
priorities, and full-year guidance on Aug. 31, he said.  Action Plan  “Carrefour is devising and implementing an action plan
with the objective of attaining the group’s 2011 target of a
progression in sales and operating income,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Lars Olofsson said in a statement.  The language Olofsson used points to “a weakening of the
previous June target reiteration, suggesting that this is now
more an ambition,”  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies
International, and his colleagues wrote in a note to clients.  Like-for-like sales, excluding petrol and adjusted for
calendar impact, fell 1 percent last quarter in France,
Carrefour’s largest market, as revenue growth in smaller stores
failed to offset a decline in superstore sales, the retailer
said. French superstore sales dropped 3.3 percent on the same
basis. First-half operating profit fell 35 percent in France,
Bouchut said, repeating an estimate disclosed last month.  By contrast, sales grew 10 percent in Brazil during the
quarter. Carrefour is improving purchasing decisions, cutting
overheads and “stopping the bleeding” in 28 underperforming
Brazilian superstores, converting some of them to the Atacadao
brand, Bouchut said. The retailer should post a “significant
increase” in operating income in Brazil in 2011, the CFO said.  Though Carrefour has been reorganizing its legal structure
and operations in  China  to allow for a possible listing of it
there, “we are still far from having achieved it. Therefore
there is nothing in the near future in this respect,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 Aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net . 