-- 
Carrefour-Pao de Acucar Deal Loses Brazil Government Backing

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-07-13T16:17:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/carrefour-pao-de-acucar-deal-fails-as-brazil-withdraws-government-backing.html
A proposal backed by  Carrefour SA (CA)  to
merge its Brazilian assets with Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar fell through as the country’s government
withdrew financial support for the deal, which was opposed by
Pao de Acucar’s largest shareholder.  Brazil ’s national development bank, known as BNDES,
rejected a plan to help fund the transaction with a 2 billion-
euro ($2.8 billion) stake purchase in the proposed new company,
saying agreement from all parties was a condition for its
participation, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , the Saint Etienne, France-
based company that shares control of Pao de Acucar with Brazil’s
Diniz family and competes with Carrefour, released a statement
after a board meeting in Paris yesterday saying the proposed
merger “grossly” overestimated savings, had high execution
risks and would reduce Pao de Acucar’s earnings per share.  “Reason prevailed,” Carlos Lessa, who served as BNDES
president from 2003 to 2004, said in a phone interview from  Rio
de Janeiro  yesterday. “It doesn’t seem smart to create a
company with a French partner like Carrefour, which is having
thousands of problems.”  Pao de Acucar rose 0.9 percent to 65.58 reais at 11:24 a.m.
New York time. Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index gained 1.8
percent. Carrefour rose 1.5 percent to 22.33 euros in Paris
trading, while Casino jumped 2.7 percent to 65.17 euros.  Carrefour vs. Casino  The merger plan was proposed to Carrefour last month by
Gama, an investment fund unit of Banco BTG Pactual, a Brazilian
investment bank, setting up a power struggle with Casino.  Casino said the proposal was illegal because it violated a
2005 shareholders’ agreement that gives it the option to buy
control of Pao de Acucar next year. Casino responded by raising
its stake in Pao de Acucar to 43.1 percent last week.  Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz and Casino control
Brazil’s largest retailer through Wilkes, a joint venture.
Casino, which has filed two requests for arbitration at the
 International Chamber of Commerce , said yesterday that Chairman
Jean-Charles Naouri would defend the French company’s position
“by all appropriate measures.”  Casino’s rejection led BTG Pactual to “temporarily suspend
the proposal,” it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Peninsula Participacoes, the Diniz family holding company,
reaffirmed its support for the proposed merger and said Casino’s
board didn’t carefully analyze all aspects of the proposal.  ‘Lamentable’ Decision  “Casino’s unilateral decision is lamentable,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  It wouldn’t be feasible to continue to pursue the merger
under current circumstances, Peninsula said in the statement.  Carrefour said in a statement that conditions weren’t right
for a merger after BNDES backed out of the deal.  BTG Pactual plans to negotiate directly with Casino to
persuade it to reconsider the merger, Valor Economico reported,
without saying where it got the information. The bank’s Chief
Executive Officer  Andre Esteves  is convinced the possible deal
could benefit all parties, including Casino, the newspaper said.  Separately,  Folha de S. Paulo  reported that Casino wants to
buy the stake Diniz owns in Pao de Acucar. The newspaper didn’t
say how it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  