-- 
Cate Blanchett, Prince William Visit Shabby, Imperiled Wilton’s Music Hall

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/cate-blanchett-prince-william-visit-shabby-imperiled-wilton-s-music-hall.html
Cate Blanchett , the new Duke of Cambridge and Robert Downey Jr. have all trodden the atmospheric
boards at  Wilton’s Music Hall  in east London. They’ve also
confronted its ripe 1720s drains and leaky roof.  Wilton’s was born in 1858 when John Wilton built an
auditorium at the back of his pub. He presented a typically mid-
Victorian mix of opera singers, comedians and acrobats on the
stage. Now it’s one of the world’s oldest surviving grand music
halls, and a wonderfully dilapidated shabby-chic venue.  In May, it was refused a 2.3 million pound ($3.7 million)
 Heritage Lottery Fund  grant for urgent repairs. If it can’t
raise the money elsewhere soon, then the final curtain will fall
on a unique part of  London ’s theater history.  Curiously, that history is bound up with a now-faint thread
of my own career. A little more than a decade ago I was, among
other things, a jobbing double-bass player. I got a call to be
in a chamber production of “The Beggar’s Opera” directed by
 Jonathan Miller  at Wilton’s.  I found the theater tucked away in a dark alley a few
minutes from the Tower of London. That was when I first
discovered Wilton’s faded grandeur, its wooden auditorium with
creaky board floor, crumbling gold plasterwork and barley-sugar
balcony columns, and its seductive atmosphere of ghostly
nostalgia.  Princes’ Feast  It’s no surprise that  Annie Leibovitz  chose Wilton’s as a
photo location for her pictures of Blanchett for American Vogue.
Or that Princes Harry and William recently hired it for a
charity fundraising dinner. Or that part of the forthcoming
movie “ Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows,” starring Downey
and Jude Law, was filmed there.  The surprise is that so few people know about it.  The team of “The Beggar’s Opera” was great, with a
talented assistant called Frances Mayhew. I remember her “can-
do” attitude and energy. She’s now artistic director.  “I was a complete slave on that show,” she recalls as we
greet each other again. “It was a lot of fun.”  With the latest funding setback, and a venue to run that
receives no public subsidy, the cheerful 33-year-old is going to
need all the reserves of can-do she can muster.  Her track record at the helm is already impressive. When
Mayhew took over in 2005, she discovered that Wilton’s had debts
of 250,000 pounds. By the end of 2011, the venue will be debt-
free. How did she do that without subsidy? “Photo rentals,
film-location hire, and weddings,” she says.  Magic Shows  A musician herself, it’s heartening to hear she has ensured
that Wilton’s continues as a performance space. It presents one
chamber opera a year and two spoken plays, as well as classical
concerts, magic shows and cabaret evenings.  Mayhew, an English rose with a low voice, explains how she
made the leap from dogsbody to doyenne.  “Wilton’s used to be run by a small company called
Broomhill Opera,” she says. “I was a student volunteer for
them at first, and then became a lowly assistant on 25 pounds a
week. I loved it. Things didn’t work out, so I left to become a
freelance producer.”  Three years after her departure, she found that Broomhill
Opera was off the scene, and had left Wilton’s with a mountain
of debt.  “I called up the trustees of the building, and offered to
help,” says Mayhew. “During my previous time as an assistant
here, I’d built up a good roster of location work and hire-outs.
I told them I could get  cash flow  going, and put on some small
shows. They were desperate, and said yes.”  Now Wilton’s annually generates about a million pounds from
its rentals and productions. “Every year we’ve expanded, and
paid off more debt. I’ve proved that the model works.”  Antique Plumbing  The fly in the ointment is the state of the building. The
fabric still needs work. “I can’t responsibly keep it open much
longer,” Mayhew says. “I’ve drains from 1720, leaky roofs,
derelict attics, and one part is slowly collapsing.”  It must have been a slap in the face to have the lottery
grant refused? “In one way, I’m glad, because lottery money
would have come with lots of red tape,” she says. “Now, we’ll
raise it ourselves, and do the work our own way. We can be more
independent.”  There was a silver lining. “When the refusal became
public, our audiences were outraged. I received 20,000 pounds of
donations in one week. It was heartwarming.”  It’s typical of the kind of affection generated by this
oddity of a space. “Performers who emigrated to America took
the concept of  music hall  with them, and it became vaudeville,”
Mayhew says. “I wonder if any of your American readers have
historical links with us. I’d love to find out.”  If anyone can build on that affection to secure its future,
I’d bet that it’s Mayhew and her team.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 