-- 
Cetes Auction Demand Rebounds on U.S. Expansion Speculation: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-13T11:50:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/cetes-demand-rebounds-on-u-s-growth-speculation-mexico-credit.html
Investor demand for Mexican
government bills is jumping from a 16-month low on speculation a
rebound in the  U.S. economy , the Latin American country’s
biggest trading partner, will fuel gains in the peso.  Cetes, as the 91-day securities are known,  drew  bids of
24.6 billion pesos ($2.1 billion), or 3.8 times the 6.5 billion
pesos offered in yesterday’s auction, the central bank said on
its website. The bid-to-cover ratio, a gauge of demand that
measures the number of bids divided by bids accepted, was 3.1
times last week, the lowest since January 2010. The zero-coupon
bills yield 4.3 percent, up from 4.29 percent a week ago and 428
basis points, or 4.28 percentage points, more than similar-
maturity U.S. government debt.  Investors are betting a pickup in U.S. growth in the second
half of the year will fuel demand for  Mexico ’s exports, pushing
up the peso from an almost three-month low and bolstering
dollar-based returns on local assets. The U.S. buys about 80
percent of Mexico’s exports. Industrial production in  Latin
America ’s second-biggest economy after  Brazil  rose 4.6 percent
in May from a year earlier, more than the median estimate for a
gain of 3.7 percent from 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Mexican fundamentals are good,” Javier Belaunzaran, who
helps manage about 40 billion pesos at Interacciones Casa de
Bolsa SA in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. “Sooner
or later, the  exchange rate  will strengthen.”  The peso will gain 1.6 percent to 11.60 per dollar by the
end of the year, according to the median estimate of 23 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. The currency is down 2.1 percent since
July 8, when a report showed the U.S. unemployment rate
unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent. The peso touched 11.9579
yesterday, near the lowest level since March 28. The slump is
curbing a 5 percent rally this year.  Growth Forecasts  The world’s biggest economy will expand more than 3 percent
in the second half of the year after growing about 2 percent in
the first half, according to the median forecast of 80
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Mexico’s economy will grow as much as 5 percent this year
after expanding 5.4 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in a
decade, according to the central bank. The spread on Mexican
zero-coupon bills over similar-maturity U.S. notes has shrunk to
428 basis points, or 4.28 percentage points, from 443 basis
points on May 23.  Hedge funds  and other investors boosted their bullish bets
on the peso by the most in nine months on July 5, according to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Wagers on the peso
strengthening against the dollar outnumbered bets on a decline
in the futures market by 82,944 contracts last week.  ‘Good Time’  Foreign investors’ holdings of Cetes  rose  to 31 percent of
the outstanding bills on July 1, the highest since June 14,
according to the central bank.  “This is a better entry point for investors than last
week,” Alejandro Urbina, who helps manage about $800 million in
investments at Silva Capital Management Llc in  Chicago , said in
a telephone interview. “It’s a good time to get in on the trade
from the point of view of a foreign investor.”  A deepening slump in the peso may curb demand for Cetes,
said  Benito Berber , a strategist at Nomura Securities Inc. in
New York. Concern the debt crisis is spreading in  Europe  has
reduced demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets,
helping push the peso lower.  “If the  Mexican peso  goes to 12, then we could see some
foreigners start leaving their positions, but we’re kind of far
away from that scenario,” Berber said in a telephone interview.
“If the expectation is that this bout of  risk aversion  is going
to continue, then people might want to stay away from anything
that’s considered risky.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed eight basis
points to 139 basis points at 7:47 a.m.  New York  time, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 114 basis points yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
if a government or company fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in February rose 1 basis point to 5.02 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate
that month. Policy makers held the lending rate at a record low
4.5 percent on July 8, the only major Latin American country to
keep borrowing costs unchanged in the past year.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.28 percent in June and reached
a five-year low of 3.04 percent in March.  “The Cetes are pretty interesting because you aren’t
seeing the pressure to raise rates and you have a very good
return,” Silva Capital’s Urbina said. “Cetes are a great
instrument to be in if you are waiting for the global
uncertainty to pass.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  