-- 
Chairman, Inflatable Rat Absent As Artists Protest Opera Plans

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-07-13T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/chairman-inflatable-rat-absent-as-artists-protest-opera-plans.html
The only prop absent yesterday from
the protests against the  New York  City Opera’s announcement of
its 2011-2012 season was an inflatable gray rat.  In front of the  Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum  on Fifth
Avenue, City Opera musicians, choristers and other artists
staged a protest-cum-pep rally panning the company’s plan to
vacate its Lincoln Center home and present four operas at three
venues around the city.  Not incidentally, the opera also proposes eliminating
employment guarantees for musicians, singers, stage managers and
assistant stage managers.  “If they had a shred of shame amongst them, the board
would resign en masse,” said James Odom, president of the
 American Guild of Musical Artists , which represents the singers
and stage managers.  Minutes later inside the museum,  George Steel , the
embattled artistic director and general manager, said the
company will perform at the  Brooklyn Academy of Music ,  John Jay
College  and  El Museo del Barrio  next season, while beginning a
joint initiative with the  Public Theater  to present operas based
on Shakespeare’s plays for free at the Delacorte Theatre in
Central Park, beginning in the fall of 2012.  The plans are based on a $13 million budget, down 57
percent from its $30 million 2009-2010 season.  “We’re leaving the David Koch Center simply put because we
can’t afford it any longer,” Steel said of the departure from
the Lincoln Center campus, declining to provide specifics.  Chairman Gone  Steel was introduced by board president Mark Newhouse. He
declined to answer a reporter’s questions about possible
fundraising difficulties that the company might confront.  Charles Wall, chairman of the board and a former vice
chairman of  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , didn’t attend.
Steel said he was out of town.  Oskar Eustis , artistic director of the Public, sat in the
back of the auditorium but was gone following Steel’s 30-minute
presentation.  When someone from an opera magazine asked about relocating
the company’s administrative offices, Steel in turn asked
whether she was inquiring in order to register his
subscription’s change-of-address. He finally said that three
spaces are under consideration.  Next season’s “new and exciting” line-up includes a
borrowed staging of “La traviata” and Rufus Wainwright’s opera
“Prima Donna” in February at BAM, Steel said. In March, there
will be Mozart’s “Cosi fan tutte” at John Jay College’s Gerald
W. Lynch Theater, and Telemann’s “Orpheus” in El Museo del
Barrio in May. Details of the  Public Theater  collaboration are
to be announced.  ‘Unthinkable’  Last week, more than 100 prominent figures in opera and
musical theater, including Placido Domingo and Hal Prince, lent
their names to a letter to City Opera’s board. They protested
the “dismembering of City Opera, piece by piece, person by
person, and if it continues, it can never be undone.”  The letter was organized by Catherine Malfitano, a soprano
whose distinguished career began with the company.  “To perform without the chorus is unthinkable,” she said
yesterday. “But to perform with a pick-up chorus is non-
sensible.”  Disappearing Endowment  BAM President Karen Brooks Hopkins said that Steel’s plans
are appropriate for the opera, which has seen its endowment
plunge to $4.8 million in March from $64.5 million in 2001.  “When you have deficits, it takes everything over and
pushes everything else to the side,” she said outside the
Guggenheim after the press conference. “The model that they had
is no longer financially viable.”  Alan Gordon, executive director of AGMA, countered that the
company needs a new leader.  “There has to be a savior, otherwise it will die,” he
said. “It might die anyway.”  Unions often use a giant rat to call attention to nonunion
labor. AGMA’s contract with the company expired April 29. Gordon
said he will seek the rat if City Opera and AGMA haven’t agreed
on a new contract by its next performance.  “I don’t know how one goes about getting the rat,” he
said. “But we will get it.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 