-- 
Chavez May Require Chemotherapy, Says Cancer Is No Longer a Death Sentence

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-07-13T20:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/chavez-may-require-chemotherapy-says-cancer-is-no-longer-a-death-sentence.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he may need to receive chemotherapy or radiation treatment
after undergoing surgery  in Cuba last month to remove a
cancerous tumor he described as “almost like a baseball.”  “A third stage may be needed, probably radiation or
chemotherapy that could be difficult, but it’s precisely to try
to armor my body from the malignant cells,” Chavez, 56, said
today in a phone call to  state television . “My colon and
stomach aren’t destroyed like the opposition is saying. Today
cancer isn’t death.”  Chavez, who has led  South America ’s largest oil producer
since 1999, was operated on June 20 for an undisclosed form of
malignant cancer after an initial operation to remove a pelvic
abscess on June 11. The self-declared socialist and ally of
former Cuban leader  Fidel Castro  has cut his marathon-length
speeches to just 15 minutes since returning to Venezuela on July
4 as he follows a medically imposed recovery schedule.  “I had a large tumor,” Chavez said. “When I saw the
image, I said: ‘My God.’ It looked almost like a baseball.”  Chavez said yesterday that he’s not preparing a political
transition in the event that he isn’t able to run for re-
election next year and that he expects to deepen his drive to
convert Venezuela into a socialist state.  Fatigue, No Appetite  Both chemotherapy and radiation therapy can be used after
surgery and the treatments are associated with longer survival
for a range of tumor types, according to the website of the
 National Cancer Institute  in  Washington . Side effects include
fatigue and lack of appetite.  “I’m gaining weight again after losing about 14 kilos, I’m
getting closer to my weight of 85 kilos after weighing 100 kilos
before, like a war tank, eating anything I could find, drinking
40 cups of coffee a day,” Chavez said. “It was and is my
fault, I was trying to do everything, from filling a pothole to
developing the Orinoco oil belt. I had to learn to delegate.”  The yield on the government’s 9.25 percent benchmark bonds
due in 2027 rose 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage points, to
13.06 percent at 3:16 p.m. in  New York  today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.19 cents on the dollar
to 74.56 cents.  Investors have increased holdings of Venezuelan debt on
speculation that Chavez may not be able to participate in next
year’s presidential campaign, boosting prospects for an
opposition that may reverse his socialist policies.  State Role  An opposition victory could improve  Venezuela ’s “weakened
credit fundamentals” by curbing the state’s role in the economy
and reversing capital flight that has averaged $18 billion over
the last four years, Moody’s Investors Service’s Patrick Esteruelas wrote today in a note to clients. Still, with Chavez
supporters remaining in control of many of the country’s
institutions, the transition could lead to short-term
volatility.  “A new opposition government would have to contend with a
Chavista movement that will still be in control of the  Supreme
Court  and the National Assembly until the next legislative
elections in 2015, that has laid deep roots in state oil company
PDVSA and the armed forces, and that will look to exploit the
new government’s weaknesses when making difficult and
potentially unpopular decisions in a highly polarized country,”
the report said.  A Chavez victory would provide initial stability while
leading to a further deterioration of inflation and investment
in the long term. It wouldn’t necessarily affect the country’s
ability or willingness to pay, Esteruelas said.  Economic Challenges  Chavez’s health problems have overshadowed the economic
challenges he faces to secure re-election, which include the
highest inflation rate in the hemisphere, food shortages,
violent crime and a housing shortage of more than 2 million
units.  Before his health crisis, the president hosted his own
 television show  most Sundays that lasted up to seven hours
without commercial breaks and sometimes featured spontaneous
expropriations of businesses after followers complained of
exploitation. His improvised speeches have ranged over
philosophy, baseball and diatribes against the U.S. “empire.”  Professional Baseball  Now the former paratrooper who once aspired to play
professional baseball in the U.S. is waking up at 5 a.m. to
undergo rehabilitation with his team of doctors, take medical
exams and return to bed early.  “I’m assuming responsibility for my fundamental errors --
of drinking gallons of coffee a day, sometimes cold coffee
reheated in a thermos on the road, eating anything in any place
I went, not sleeping and not letting my ministers sleep,”
Chavez said today. “That’s a lifestyle of death.”  While Chavez’s public appearances have become less
frequent, he continues to govern via his Twitter account. Today
he announced the “forced acquisition” of a rice plant in
Guarico state and approved salary increases for workers at the
government’s Foreign Exchange Board, known as Cadivi.  Chavez yesterday attended a mass at the Military Academy
where he joined members of his cabinet to pray for his health.  Patients are treated with chemotherapy or radiation even
after a tumor is successfully removed to prevent the cancer from
recurring, said Jeffrey Meyerhardt, a gastrointestinal
oncologist at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in  Boston .  Fatigue and Nausea  While radiation is sometimes easier to tolerate than
chemotherapy when targeted to specific areas of the body, both
cause fatigue and nausea. Even so, many patients in high profile
jobs are able to work full time through treatment sessions that
can last several weeks, Meyerhardt said.  Other South American leaders have shown battling cancer
need not interfere with carrying out their responsibilities.
Paraguayan President Fernando Lugo in 2010 received chemotherapy
in  Brazil  for a non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a type of blood cancer,
while continuing his duties. Brazil’s Dilma Rousseff announced
in 2009 when she was a pre-candidate for the presidency that she
was receiving  treatment for a lymphoma.  “Chavez could still possibly work and lead a country, but
everyone is different, so it depends on how his individual body
tolerates it,” Meyerhardt said in a phone interview.  While the government hasn’t given details on Chavez’s
condition, he said his Cuban doctors have been giving him only
necessary information.  ‘Tell Me Everything’  “I told the chief medic, tell me everything, keep me
informed, don’t hide anything from me,” Chavez said. “The
doctor said to me, ‘It’s not necessary in first instances that
you know about everything. We can decide ethically to what
extent we inform you.’”  For now, Chavez says this is the biggest challenge of his
life and that he’ll beat the sickness, comparing it to a long
uphill hike from a dark abyss. He has also dropped a military
slogan that said “fatherland, socialism or death,” and
substituted, “we will live.”  “I don’t understand how in some places they tell a
patient, ‘You have so many months of life left,’” Chavez said.
“We don’t understand that because sometimes they are wrong.
Those are statistics. That seems very inhumane.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  