-- 
Chile Stocks: AFP Provida, Parque Arauco, Paz Corp and Ripley

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T23:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/chile-stocks-banco-de-chile-paz-corp-sa-and-ripley-corp-sa.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Chilean trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 4:11 p.m. New York time.  The Ipsa index closed little changed at 4,724.47.  AFP Provida SA (PROVIDA CC) slumped 7.7 percent, the most
in more than a year, to 2,168.4 pesos.  Chile ’s largest pension
fund manager and unit of  Spain ’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA fell after website Panorama News reported that a BBVA unit
used funds managed by Provida to cover a loan it made to
department-store operator Empresas La Polar SA. The accusations
are unfounded, Provida wrote in an e-mailed response. La Polar
fell 11 percent to 556.63 pesos, its third day of losses.  Parque Arauco SA (PARAUCO)   rose 2.4 percent to 1,064.2
pesos, the biggest gain in seven weeks. The shopping center
developer was added to a list of top five Chilean stocks at the
brokerage unit of Banco de Credito & Inversiones.  Paz Corp SA (PAZ)   increased 2 percent to 392.8 pesos,
its second day of gains. The real-estate developer ended a
partnership with Chile’s Grupo Froimovich for the development
and management of real-estate projects in the country, the
company said in a statement posted on the website of Chile’s
securities regulator. The termination is “positive” as it ends
a legal battle and will give Paz freedom of action, Santiago-
based brokerage Tanner Corredores de Bolsa SA wrote in an e-
mailed note today.  Ripley Corp SA (RIPLEY)   fell 1.9 percent to 545.84
pesos, its sixth consecutive day of losses. The department-store
operator was dropped from a list of Chilean stocks picks at the
brokerage unit of Banco de Credito & Inversiones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  