-- 
China Banks Seen Extending Slump on Investor Stake Sales

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-07-14T03:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/china-bank-stocks-seen-extending-slump-on-investor-stake-sales.html
Chinese banks, the cheapest among
major emerging markets’ lenders, may drop lower as overseas
banks and funds trim stakes to meet capital rules and curb risks
amid concerns that the nation’s record credit boom will unravel.  The country’s five biggest banks trade at an average 7.7
times forecast earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 8.09 for  Brazil ’s largest banks,
8.11 for  Russia  and 14.8 for India.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and
Qatar’s sovereign fund are among investors that will be allowed
to sell their holdings in the banks starting July 16.  The three biggest Chinese banks posted their worst
quarterly stock performance in 2 ½ years on concern that local
governments may default on loans. The lenders’ credit outlook
may sour in the absence of a government plan to deal with the
issue, Moody’s Investors Service said this month, while
regulators globally are demanding banks increase buffers.  “You will certainly see share sales by some of these
cornerstone investors,” said Sandy Mehta, chief executive
officer for Hong Kong-based Value Investment Principals Ltd.
“The U.S. and European financial companies obviously need
capital for themselves. And there are more distressed
opportunities in financial sectors” elsewhere, he said.  A 12-month lockup period on 22 percent of  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. (1288) ’s Hong Kong-listed shares, valued at about HK$27
billion ($3.5 billion) and held by Qatar Investment Authority,
will expire July 16, the Beijing-based bank’s filings show.
Restrictions on 4 percent held by Standard Chartered also end
that day, a year after  China ’s third-largest lender by market
value made its trading debut.  Continuing Ties  Limits on most of Bank of America’s 10.2 percent stake in
 China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , worth $20 billion, will be lifted
Aug. 29, according to the Chinese bank, which is the world’s
second-largest lender by market value.  “We remain a significant shareholder in China Construction
Bank and we intend to continue the important long-term strategic
alliance with CCB originally entered into in 2005,” said Bank
of America spokesman  Jerry Dubrowski .  A spokesman for Qatar’s sovereign fund declined to comment,
and said he can’t be identified due to company policy.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which owns 20 percent of Huaxia Bank Co.,
a stake worth $2.35 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, was freed to sell about 8.6 percent of the Chinese
lender this year and can divest another 3.9 percent from
October.  “Deutsche Bank is fully committed to the development of
its business in China and partnership with Huaxia Bank,”
Michael West, the German bank’s  Hong Kong  spokesman, said in an
e-mail without elaborating. Deutsche Bank will be free to sell
its remaining Huaxia shares from April 2016, the Beijing-based
lender’s filings show.  ‘Solvency Problems’  Foreign investors including Bank of America, New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Edinburgh have trimmed more than $22 billion of holdings in
Chinese lenders since the start of 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Most recently, Temasek Holdings Pte raised $3.63 billion
selling almost a tenth of its stake in Construction Bank and
about half of its shares in  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  on July 5. That
was hours after Moody’s said the credit outlook for Chinese
lenders may sour, and sparked a more than 3 percent drop in the
two lenders’ Hong Kong shares the next day.  Temasek’s Stakes  “Investors’ sentiments have turned more negative this
month because of the issue of the local government debt,” said
Stanley Li, an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “There’s also evidence suggesting that some local
governments could have solvency problems. Together with the
Temasek sell-down news, sentiment on the Chinese banking sector
as a whole has become more gloomy.”  The sales still leave  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company with a $12 billion stake in Construction Bank, based on
yesterday’s closing price, and about $2.5 billion invested in
Bank of China, the nation’s third-largest lender by assets. It
also holds a stake worth about $250 million in Agricultural
Bank, according to Bloomberg data.  “Temasek maintains its long-term positive outlook on
Chinese banks,” the fund company said in an e-mailed response
to queries yesterday, without commenting on specifics.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, may
sell some of the Construction Bank stake it began accruing
before the Chinese lender’s October 2005 initial public
offering, three people briefed on the plans said last month. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender was the second-biggest
shareholder in Construction Bank at year end, with Temasek the
third largest, according to Bloomberg data.  Depressed Shares  “It isn’t very rational for these investors to sell at a
time when the Chinese banking sector is surrounded by short-term
issues,” said Victoria Mio, a Hong Kong-based portfolio manager
at Robeco Hong Kong Ltd., whose parent oversees $200 billion in
assets globally. “Their valuation is really depressed.”  Still, Construction Bank shares had more than doubled and
Bank of China’s gains had surpassed 30 percent since Temasek
bought the stakes before their IPOs more than five years ago.  Standard Chartered said it doesn’t plan to sell its stake
in Agricultural Bank when the last of the restrictions for
holders of Hong Kong-listed shares expire this week.  “We are very pleased to be a cornerstone investor in the
bank and seeing good progress in developing business
opportunities through our strategic partnership with them,”
Gabriel Kwan, a spokeswoman for the London-based lender in Hong
Kong, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Fourfold Returns  Goldman Sachs continues to hold shares worth $7.33 billion
in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
biggest lender by market value, since an agreement barring the
 U.S. bank  from selling them expired in April 2010, according to
the Chinese lender’s annual report. The $4.25 billion already
raised by Goldman Sachs and its affiliates from selling some
ICBC shares was more than four times what it paid.  David Wells, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  New York ,
declined to comment on the firm’s plans for its stake in ICBC.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  owned 10.5 billion shares in Bank of
Communications Co. as of Dec. 31, accounting for a 19 percent
stake, with no restrictions on when it can exit, according to
the Shanghai-based lender’s annual report. The London-based
lender has no plans to change its holdings, Gareth Hewett, a
spokesman in Hong Kong, said yesterday.  Bad Debts  Selling equity may become more attractive for some
investors as a record $2.7 trillion two-year credit boom that
allowed China to lead the global economic recovery threatens to
trigger defaults. The lending spree, which included loans to
local governments and counties to finance infrastructure
projects, left the nation with 51.4 trillion yuan ($7.9
trillion) in outstanding loans by the end of 2010, exceeding the
combined size of China and  India ’s economies.  “You always suspect that part of this lending has gone
into projects with little to no returns, and that these loans
will become bad debts at some point. We are getting to that
stage,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based  fund manager  at
Schroders Plc, which oversaw $323 billion as of March 31. “If
all these bad debts actually come through at the same time when
the domestic economy in China slows down, I think this will
increase the selling pressure.”  Inadequate Information  China’s national auditor last month underestimated the size
of local-government loans that could become problematic, Moody’s
said July 4. About 8 percent to 12 percent of loans made by
Chinese banks may become delinquent or could have low prospects
of being repaid, the ratings company estimated.  China can contain the risk from loans to local governments,
the central bank said on July 11. The National Audit Office,
which reported last month that local governments had about $1.7
trillion in liabilities including $1.3 trillion owed to banks,
this week denied understating the debt.  “The transparency on local government bank loans is not
enough,” May Yan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays
Capital , said by telephone on July 7. “We don’t know the local
government loan portfolio of each bank: When there is inadequate
information, the market tends to be pessimistic.”  The Hang Seng Finance Index, which tracks 12 stocks listed
in Hong Kong including ICBC, Construction Bank and HSBC, is the
worst performer among industry groups tracked by the city’s
benchmark equity index this year.  Stocks ‘Oversold’  The slump in shares has forced at least one lender to delay
fund-raising plans. China Everbright Bank Co., based in Beijing,
last month deferred the start of a $6 billion Hong Kong share
sale because of weak markets, two people with knowledge of the
deal said at that time. The lender, which is listed in  Shanghai ,
was scheduled to start the roadshow June 27.  Still, Chinese banking shares may rebound when the lenders
report first-half profits next month and demonstrate that their
“earnings power remains solid,” Robeco’s Mio said. Net income
in the six months ended June 30 probably climbed 45 percent,
Agricultural Bank reported on July 12, citing a preliminary
review.  The banks “have built in enough provisions to absorb a lot
of the potential non-performing loans,” Mio said. “There is no
need to be more bearish. Chinese banking stocks are oversold
right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  