-- 
China Won’t Face Hard Landing, Guild Investment’s Danaher Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-07-13T08:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/china-won-t-face-hard-landing-guild-investment-s-danaher-says.html
Anthony Danaher, president of Guild
Investment Management Inc., which oversees about $150 million in
assets, commented in  Singapore  on today’s advance in stocks and
why gold is a good buy.  On sell-offs:  “Sell-offs don’t last very long. Right now the headline
news is bad with respect to the European debt situation and it
will upset the market for the short term. But the market will
get used to the news. They stop reacting to it. The fact that
Ireland is being downgraded to junk should not surprise anyone
who’s paying attention, and the market has already discounted a
lot of this.”  On China’s possible soft-landing:  “It will be a soft-landing. A  hard-landing  would mean some
5 percent GDP growth for several quarters. It’s a possibility,
but if you saw the expansion of loan data, they can easily
reverse course, just like they did in 2009. They also have the
local government funding-vehicle problems but they are contained
with their large foreign currency reserves. They have a lot of
flexibility in  China . Sure, there’s overbuilding, but there’s
tremendous unmet demand in the tier-two and tier-three cities
that need infrastructure, development, public housing. So it’s
not going to be a hard landing.  On China stocks:  ‘‘They are getting cheap now. They are starting to rally
because they are discounting a decrease in inflationary
pressure. We agree China is near the peak of inflation.”  On gold:  “Gold is not too expensive now. As your wealth expands,
you need to have a certain percentage of their wealth in gold as
an insurance policy against financial system, banking system
disruptions. When there are such disruptions, central banks will
come to the rescue with immense liquidity and that will help
your gold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 