-- 
China’s Economy Grows 9.5%, Exceeding Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-13T03:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/china-s-economy-expanded-9-5-last-quarter-exceeding-economist-estimates.html
China ’s economy and industrial
production expanded more than analysts predicted,
indicating the nation is maintaining momentum even after
interest-rate increases to cool inflation.  Gross domestic product rose 9.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in
Beijing today, after a 9.7 percent gain the previous three
months. The median estimate was for a 9.3 percent pace in a
Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists. Industrial output
advanced 15.1 percent in June, the most since May 2010.  Stocks climbed in China on the signs that demand is
holding up after the central bank boosted lending rates
five times since mid-October and lifted bank reserve
requirements to a record. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday
that stabilizing prices remains the top priority, after
food costs soared more than 14 percent in June.  The government “can remain focused on inflation,
given that growth was pretty strong,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in
Hong Kong. The data “will encourage policy makers to
maintain tight policy settings,” he said.  The Shanghai Composite Index of shares advanced 0.8
percent to 2,775.62 as of 11:01 a.m. local time.  The economy expanded 2.2 in the second quarter from
the first three months of the year, the statistics bureau
said, picking up from 2.1 percent in January to March.  Europe's Crisis   Wen’s policy options are complicated by a faltering
U.S. economy and  Europe ’s spreading debt crisis threatening
export demand. Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut
Ireland’s debt rating to junk and soaring bond yields have
signaled that the contagion could spread to  Italy .  Fixed-asset investment, excluding rural households,
rose 25.6 percent in the first half from a year earlier,
today’s report showed. Retail sales expanded 17.7 percent
last month from a year before exceeding a median analyst
estimate of 17 percent.  The expansion in industrial output compared with the
median 13.1 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey.  While the global economy is increasingly dependent on
China’s demand as the U.S. labor market deteriorates,
investors are concerned that tightening measures will choke
off growth. The Shanghai Composite Index declined 10
percent from its April high through yesterday, while yuan
forwards indicate reduced expectations for gains in the
currency against the dollar.  Inflation Target   Signs of a slowdown have spanned weakness in imports,
a manufacturing index falling in June to the lowest level
since February 2009, and carmaker  General Motors Co. (GM)  saying
that sales may be at the low end of a forecast. At the same
time, lending exceeded forecasts last month and growth in
M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , rebounded.  Inflation has breached the government’s 4 percent
ceiling every month this year, with consumer prices rising
6.4 percent in June from a year earlier, the most in three
years. Pork, a Chinese staple, rose 57 percent and
accounted for more than a fifth of June’s overall inflation
rate.  The People’s Bank of China has raised the one-year
lending rate to 6.56 percent and the one-year deposit rate
to 3.5 percent, announcing the latest increases on July 6.
The nation’s biggest banks are required to set aside 21.5
percent of deposits as reserves, up from 17 percent in
November, locking up cash that could fuel inflation.  Ding Shuang, a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Hong Kong  who previously worked at China’s central bank,
said last week that he expects inflation to slow after this
month. UBS AG, sees price gains remaining above 6 percent
in July before moderating toward 4 percent at the end of
the year.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing
Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  