-- 
China Cities Value Land at Winnetka Prices With Bonds Seen Toxic

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-13T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/china-cities-sell-land-at-winnetka-values-with-bonds-seen-toxic.html
Workers toil by night lights with
hoes, carving out the signs for Olympic rings in front of an
unfinished 30,000-seat stadium, bulb-shaped gymnasium and
swimming complex in a little-known Chinese city.  Loudi, home to 4 million people in Chairman  Mao Zedong ’s
home province of Hunan, is paying for the project with 1.2
billion yuan ($185 million) in bonds, guaranteed by land valued
at $1.5 million an acre. That’s about the same as prices in
Winnetka, a Chicago suburb that is one of the richest U.S. towns,
where the average household earns more than $250,000 a year.  In Loudi, people take home $2,323 annually and there are no
Olympics here on any calendar.  “The debt isn’t a problem as Loudi is not a developed
place,” Yang Haibo, an official at the city’s financing vehicle,
says as he sits with colleagues in a smoke-filled meeting room
under a No Smoking sign. “It’s an emerging city.”  A 3,300-mile (5,310-kilometer) tour of three cities in
 China , coupled with reviews of dozens of Chinese-language bond
prospectuses that offer an unusually transparent view into local
government debt, shows just how widespread such borrowing has
become. In China, as in the U.S. before the collapse of the
subprime mortgage market in 2007, local debt is backed by
collateral that is overvalued, may be hard to sell and, in some
cases, doesn’t exist.  Officials in Loudi, whose colonnaded government building is
locally nicknamed the White House, value their 18 tracts of land
at almost four times what a similar plot sold for in May. In the
northeast city of Cangzhou, the man in charge of the assets
financing a port expansion can’t locate the land his company
posted as collateral for a 1 billion-yuan bond sale. And a
spending spree in Yichun, a district on the Russian border
covered by ice much of the year, is backed by promises of future
land sales that officials acknowledge may never materialize.  ‘Huge Myth’  More than 400 billion yuan of municipal bonds sold since
2008 -- part of as much as 14.2 trillion yuan in local borrowing
-- show how much local officials rely on their own forecast that
land prices will continue to rise. Efforts by the central
government to cool the  property market  so far have had no impact
on their bullish estimates.  Residential land sale values slumped 30 percent this year
as local officials increased sales to pay back loans, according
to  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   “It’s a huge myth that land sales are going to be able to
even support the interest payments let alone the principal
payments,” says Stephen Green, the Hong Kong-based head of
Greater China research at  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)  His research
team assumes that at least 4-6 trillion yuan of local government
loans -- and possibly much more -- will ultimately not be repaid
by the projects, Green wrote in a June 29 report on China’s debt.  Echoes of U.S. Crisis  Local governments set up more than 10,000 so-called
financing vehicles in the past decade to get around laws
prohibiting them from taking direct loans. One third of them
don’t have cash flow to service their loans, China’s banking
regulator says.  The similarities with special purpose vehicles in the U.S.
hiding toxic repackaged mortgages from banks’ balance sheets are
increasing. Subsequent losses prompted the U.S. government and
central bank to lend, spend or guarantee a peak of $12.8
trillion in 2009 to rescue the financial industry, including a
$45 billion direct investment to rescue  Citigroup Inc. (C) , then the
biggest U.S. financial services company.  ‘Playing with Fire’  “It means that China is playing with fire like we played
with fire when we had all those SPVs that took everything
supposedly off the books,” says Carl Walter, who retired this
year as the chief operating officer in China for  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  “It didn’t take them off the books. Citibank went down.”  Moody’s Investors Service puts overall local government
borrowing at 3.5 trillion yuan more than the 10.7 trillion yuan
stated in a national audit published June 27. China’s central
bank on July 11 backed the official count, saying estimates of
14 trillion yuan were “obviously” too large.  Banks cannot restructure all the local government loans on
their books, Yvonne Zhang, a Moody’s analyst in Beijing, says.
Recapitalizing the banks by the central government will slow
growth in the world’s second-largest economy, says Vincent Chan,
head of China research at Credit Suisse in  Hong Kong .  The effects would reverberate around the globe in weakening
the country’s appetite for U.S. Treasuries and European debt, as
well as driving down prices of oil and metals,  Fitch Ratings 
said in a June 28 report.  Touting Western Brands  The building binge fueled by this mound of debt is evident
a few hours’ drive into the hills of Loudi from the provincial
capital of Changsha. Cranes abound amongst new high-rise
apartment complexes with names like Wealthy City, surrounded by
billboards showing pictures of Caucasian women strolling through
shopping malls featuring brands like KFC and Microsoft.  Loudi City Construction Investment Group Co. plans to use
21 percent of the proceeds from its bonds issued in March for
the stadium complex and the rest for a new expressway into town,
water treatment facilities and a park, according to its
prospectus. The city is one of scores across the country
building roads, commercial centers and subways after being urged
to spend their way out of the 2009 global recession.  On a sunny day in early June, Yang smiles as he talks of
transforming Loudi from an economy dominated by a single state-
owned steelmaker into a bustling transport hub, a popular phrase
these days with officials who tout projects they say will bring
prosperity to their cities.  High-Speed Railway  Set on a lush green hillside, Loudi will be a stop on a
high-speed railway spanning more than 1,200 miles from  Shanghai 
in the east to Kunming in the west, near the border with the
Southeast Asian nation of Myanmar.  “Every train will stop here,” says Yang, in his downtown
office at the company’s headquarters. A Mao statue with a red
kerchief draped around its shoulders stands in the lobby.  Outside, Yang points to a vacant plot in a swathe of land
already cleared and being drained to build apartment blocks.
It’s one of the lots being used for collateral.  The company has pledged to repay debt by selling land it
received from the city, leveraging local land prices that
doubled between 2007 and 2010, according to the prospectus. The
9.69 million yuan an acre it values its land for the bond
compares with a tender price in May of 2.54 million yuan an acre
for a city plot zoned for commercial use, according to data from
the local State Land Resources Bureau.  Better Than Treasuries  Foreign ratings companies don’t assess China’s local bond
market and domestic evaluations vary. Beijing-based Dagong
Global Credit Rating Co. rates Loudi’s bonds at its fourth-
highest investment grade, one level higher than it gives to U.S.
Treasuries. That’s in spite of its own December 2010 report that
said: “The city’s ability to balance the general budget is
decreasing and the results of the sales of land use rights will
impact the company’s ability to invest and do construction.”  Dagong gives a high rating to the bonds of local government
financing vehicles because the central government has said
infrastructure debt will be repaid by local authorities,
chairman Guan Jianzhong said July 11. Rapid growth in local
fiscal revenue should enable them to pay debts, he said.  Loudi’s investment vehicle had a negative operational  cash
flow  of 187.1 million yuan in the first half of 2010, a period
during which it borrowed 284 million yuan. Beijing-based China
International Capital Corp., often referred to as CICC, gives
Loudi its third-lowest rating, a speculative or non-investment
grade.  The yield on Loudi’s bonds reached a record high of 7.318
percent on July 7, according to data from China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  Yang, the official, isn’t worried. “When we get to the end
of our loan we’ll just pay it back,” he says.  Defaults Forecast  Across China, cities increasingly turned to the country’s
nascent bond market last year after the national government
turned off the spigot for many bank loans. That’s propelled a
six-fold increase in bond sales this year from three years ago,
according to CICC, an investment bank run by the son of former
premier Zhu Rongji.  “We are forecasting a lot of local governments will have
to default,” says Jinsong Du, an analyst at Credit Suisse in
Hong Kong. About one-quarter of China’s municipal debt is
guaranteed with land sales revenue, Auditor General Liu Jiayi
said June 27.  Mansions Among Smokestacks  In Cangzhou, almost 800 miles northeast of Loudi, on the
shores of the  Bohai Gulf , luxury apartment complexes are
sprouting up in view of more than a dozen smokestacks at one of
China’s biggest coal depots. A billboard for Leader Mansion
promises, in English, that it will bring the buyer a “high
degree of endorsement of a city life.”  The city is expanding Bohai New Area, a port zone between
Tianjin and the border of Shandong province, by building roads
and developing unspecified “green” projects with 1 billion
yuan in bonds issued in May by Hebei Bohai Investment Co.
They’re guaranteed by five tracts of land the company says is
valued at more than 1.54 billion yuan, or 462 yuan per square
meter. That’s more than three times what it paid the local
government in December 2009, according to the company’s land use
permits viewed by Bloomberg News.  Ask Lu Chunjiang, a Communist Party member and head of the
local investment company’s asset management department, where
his assets are and he can’t say.  “It’s somewhere north of town, I don’t exactly know
where,” Lu, 41, says in his second-floor office in Huanghua
Port, built on saline marshes. “It’s like the land outside the
city, you know, with the big piles of salt.”  Inability to Pay  Hebei Bohai’s bonds were skewered by Xu Xiaoqing, head of
fixed income research at CICC, in a May 26 report.  “This issuer’s own profit and cash flow is very little,
its cash shortage is extremely big, its debt load is very heavy,
and it doesn’t possess the ability to pay this bond,” Xu and
his team wrote. The local government’s fiscal income “is very
limited, there will be a lot of pressure on it to support the
payment of this bond,” they added.  Hebei Bohai’s long-term debt of more than 7 billion yuan at
the end of 2010, before the bond was issued, was greater than
the city’s annual revenue of about 5 billion yuan for that year,
according to the prospectus.  The debt-to-government revenue ratio was higher than that
of Vallejo, the northern California city that filed for
bankruptcy in 2008. Vallejo cited falling revenue from real-
estate transactions as a reason for its bankruptcy.  Banks on the Hook  Banks including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd.
and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , China’s two biggest by market
value, may have problematic loans equivalent to 30 percent of
their books, says Victor Shih, a professor at Northwestern
University in Evanston,  Illinois , who studies China’s local
government debt.  The banks also are among the leading holders of China’s
mushrooming corporate debt according to data compiled by
Chinabond, China’s Beijing-based bond clearing house. This year,
mutual funds have been the biggest buyers, according to CICC.
They’ve snapped up half the corporate bonds issued in the first
five months of this year, 70 percent of which were to finance
local government projects.  Buyers are attracted to high yields and have faith that
the central government will bail out any in trouble, says George Weisi Tan, head of bond investments at Fortune SGAM Fund
Management Co. in Shanghai.  “They think the interest is risk free,” says Tan, who
says some brokerages leverage themselves as much as three times
their capital. “This is really a big systemic risk.”  Crisis ‘Unlikely’  Such pessimism is overblown, says  Nicholas Lardy , a senior
fellow at  Washington ’s Peterson Institute for International
Economics who specializes in China’s financial system. The
buildup of debt is slowing and many local infrastructure
projects will raise revenue and add to economic growth, he said.  “A majority of the projects that are being undertaken by
these companies are probably projects that have very high
economic rate of return,” Lardy says.  Wang Tao , a Beijing-based economist for UBS AG, wrote in a
June 7 report that a crisis from bad local debt is “unlikely in
the near future.”  Of most concern, she said, is borrowing obtained with no
collateral at all.  That’s the case in Yichun, a Maryland-sized area of about
1.3 million people deep inside the birch and pine forest on
China’s border with  Russia .  Yichun is a poor city in a poor province. Income of Yichun
residents was little more than half the national average last
year. That hasn’t stopped the government from going on a
spending spree. The new local police headquarters has a
miniature dome reminiscent of that on the Vatican’s St. Peter’s
Basilica.  Shanty Towns  Yichun City Construction Investment & Development Co. sold
1.2 billion yuan in bonds in 2009 backed only by a pledge from
the local government and possible future land sales. CICC gave
it the lowest debt rating of any city financing vehicle. In
contrast, Dagong rates the bonds one level higher than  U.S. debt .  Money raised from the sale is being used for the
destruction of what the prospectus calls “shanty towns.”
Single-floor traditional wooden homes in the valley
are being demolished to make way for thousands of low-income
apartments. The company has also financed a new reservoir, an
airport terminal and parklands, one featuring faux Corinthian
columns topped by winged warrior princesses and bronze
sculptures of chariot-riding local gods.  Missing Chairman Mao  Wang Zhongbing, 77, a retired factory worker who spends the
summer days chatting with friends in a park next to the Yichun
River, says the economic development is passing his family by.
Only one of his three adult sons has a job, he says.  “I miss Chairman Mao,” says Wang, sitting on a red plastic
chair in front of a billboard for newly built Pinaster Town,
featuring a picture of a woman in high heels stepping out of a
Rolls Royce. “The common people cannot afford these houses.”  The Yichun financing vehicle would have lost money every
year from 2006 to 2008 except for direct government subsidies.
At its offices above a local bank branch in the center of town,
Sun Yunlan, 49, who according to the prospectus is deputy
general manager of the company, referred questions to the city’s
finance department, which, in turn, referred questions back to
the company.  The prospectus promised that land from the city “will
provide a more substantial cash flow.” Two years on, that
hasn’t come to pass, according to Wu Liangguo, the head of the
Yichun City Bureau of Land and Resources and its Communist Party
secretary.  “The land market in Yichun isn’t that great,” says Wu, 49,
who jogs even in minus 30 degrees Celsius (minus 22 degrees
Fahrenheit) chill of the Siberian winter. “The local government
financing vehicle may get land in the future but it isn’t a
certainty.”  --Henry Sanderson, Michael Forsythe. With assistance from Bob Ivry and Belinda Cao in  New York , Bonnie Cao in Shanghai, Zheng Lifei and Emma Dong in Beijing. Editors: Neil Western, Melissa Pozsgay.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net .
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net .
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ; 