-- 
China Home Sales Jump 31% as Homebuyers Defy Curbs Aimed at Cooling Market

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-13T08:04:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/china-home-sales-jump-31-as-homebuyers-defy-curbs-aimed-at-cooling-market.html
China ’s June housing transactions
rose 31 percent from May as homebuyers defied government curbs
and developers posted gains from sales in smaller cities.  The value of home sold last month increased to 499.2
billion yuan ($77 billion), compared with 380.9 billion yuan,
based on first-half economic data provided by China’s statistics
bureau today. Housing sales in the first half climbed 22 percent
to 2.1 trillion yuan from a year earlier, according to the data.  “Developers accelerated property launches in May and June,
traditionally good season for home sales, especially in smaller
cities,” said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at
CIMB-GK Securities Research Pte. “But the question mark remains
on whether the government is able to curb  home prices  and drive
them lower.”  Chinese developers have posted gains in first-half sales
even as the government intensified measures this year to control
the risks of asset bubbles. The central bank last week raised
 interest rates  for the fifth time since October, while cities
including Beijing and Guangzhou introduced home-purchase
restrictions earlier.  More developers are selling homes in so-called third and
fourth-tier or less affluent cities which haven’t introduced
local restrictions or are immune to nationwide measures
targeting speculators, who usually buy in bigger metropolitan
areas, according to Hu.  Vanke, Evergrande  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer, reported
last week that sales in the first six months rose 79 percent to
65.7 billion yuan, while Evergrande Real Estate Group said on
July 11 that sales more than doubled to 42.3 billion yuan.  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.9 percent at the 3:00 p.m. local time
closing, extending this year’s gain to 8.4 percent.  Investment in Chinese real estate rose 33 percent to 2.6
trillion yuan in the first six months from a year earlier,
according to the government data today. New property
construction in the first half climbed 24 percent to 994.4
million square meters.  China’s economy  rose 9.5 percent from a year earlier in the
second quarter, down from 9.7 percent in the first.  China’s target to build 10 million social housing units or
affordable homes this year helped boost real estate investments,
according to CIMB-GK Securities Research Pte. The government
ordered all social housing projects to start before the end of
October.  ‘Not Worried’  “With the deadline approaching, I’m not worried about this
year’s real estate investment data,” Hu said.  China’s rising inflation, which hit a three-year high in
June, also boosted the investment data with higher costs for
materials and wages,  Sheng Laiyun , the statistics bureau’s
spokesman, said at a press conference today. Sheng declined to
give a breakdown on investment from social housing.  May new home prices increased in all but three of the 70
Chinese cities monitored by the government. The national
statistics bureau is scheduled to report June’s home price data
on July 18.  “The government’s property measures have showed some
positive effect as the rapid growing momentum of home prices has
been restrained,” Sheng said.  China’s June home prices eased in eight of the country’s 10
biggest cities, while nationwide prices rose 0.4 percent in June
from May,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real
estate website, said on July 1.  --Bonnie Cao, with assistance from Zhe Huang. Editors: Linus Chua, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  