-- 
China’s Economy Grows 9.5%, Besting Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-13T07:04:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/china-s-economy-grows-9-5-exceeding-estimates.html
China’s economy and industrial
output expanded more than analysts predicted, driving up
stocks across  Asia  as the nation maintains momentum after
monetary tightening to cool inflation.  Gross domestic product rose 9.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in
Beijing today, after a 9.7 percent gain in the previous three
months. The median estimate was 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of 18 economists.  Industrial output advanced 15.1 percent in June, the
most since May 2010, even after the central bank boosted
lending rates five times since mid-October and lifted bank
reserve requirements to a record. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
yesterday that stabilizing prices remains the top priority,
after food costs soared in June.  “This data should dispel concerns over a hard landing
in  China ,” said Wendy Liu, a Hong Kong-based analyst with
Royal Bank of  Scotland .  The Shanghai Composite Index of shares advanced 1.3
percent as of 2:14 p.m., paring to 0.5 percent the decline
this year that has been driven by  concern that monetary
tightening will choke off growth. Yuan forwards strengthened
and Asian stocks climbed.  ‘Strong’ Momentum  An easing of power shortages and supply-chain
disruptions from  Japan ’s earthquake and a rebound in money-
supply growth may have boosted output, according to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. The statistics bureau said the economy’s
momentum remained “strong” and highlighted gains in
investment by local governments and private businesses.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecast last month that
 China’s economy  will expand 9.6 percent this year. In the
U.S., where unemployment is rising, the expansion may be 2.5
percent, and in the  euro zone , where soaring bond yields have
signaled that a sovereign debt crisis may spread to  Italy ,
the gain may be 2 percent, according to the IMF.  While the global economy is increasingly dependent on
China’s demand, weakness in the nation’s import growth in
June indicated limits to the contribution it can make.
Inbound shipments grew by the least since 2009, climbing 19.3
percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau said July 10.  Investment, Retail Sales  The nation’s growth was 2.2 percent in the second
quarter from the first three months of the year, the
statistics bureau said, picking up from 2.1 percent in
January to March.  Fixed-asset spending, excluding rural households, rose
25.6 percent in the first half from a year earlier, today’s
report showed. Retail sales expanded 17.7 percent last month
from a year before, exceeding a median analyst estimate of 17
percent.  June housing transactions rose 31 percent from May even
after government curbs to cool the  property market ,
statistics bureau data showed. China Vanke Co., the country’s
biggest developer, says sales rose 79 percent in the first
six months.  The expansion in industrial output compared with the
median 13.1 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey. Easing power
shortages and “robust construction activities” may have
boosted the number, along with a pickup in growth in steel
production, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Loans,  Money Supply   Signs of a slowdown have spanned weakness in imports, a
manufacturing index falling in June to the lowest level since
February 2009, and carmaker  General Motors Co. (GM)  saying that
sales may be at the low end of a forecast. At the same time,
lending exceeded forecasts last month and growth in M2, the
broadest measure of money supply, rebounded.  Inflation has breached the government’s 4 percent
ceiling every month this year, with consumer prices rising
6.4 percent in June from a year earlier, the most in three
years. Pork, a Chinese staple, rose 57 percent and accounted
for more than a fifth of June’s overall inflation rate.  The People’s Bank of China has raised the one-year
lending rate to 6.56 percent and the one-year deposit rate to
3.5 percent, announcing the latest increases on July 6. The
nation’s biggest banks are required to set aside 21.5 percent
of deposits as reserves, up from 17 percent in November,
locking up cash that could fuel inflation.  Ding Shuang, a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Hong Kong  who previously worked at China’s central bank, said
last week that he expects inflation to slow after this month.
UBS AG, sees price gains remaining above 6 percent in July
before moderating toward 4 percent at the end of the year.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch said today that the chance
of further interest-rate increases this year is “very
small” and a “soft landing” for the economy is likely.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing
Tan in  Singapore  and  Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  