-- 
China’s Economic Growth Slows as Wen Targets Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-13T02:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/china-s-economic-growth-slows-to-9-4-.html
China ’s economy grew at a slower
pace last quarter, a moderation that may ease inflation
pressures in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Gross domestic product expanded 9.5 percent from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said in Beijing today, after a
9.7 percent gain in the first quarter. That compared with the
median 9.3 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 18
economists. Industrial production rose a more-than-estimated
15.1 percent in June, the agency said.  Monetary tightening that has pared the pace of the nation’s
expansion may also validate economists’ forecasts for inflation
to ease in the second half after surging to the fastest pace in
three years last month. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday that
stabilizing prices remains the nation’s top priority, while
officials also aim to avoid “big fluctuations” in growth.  “Slower growth would soften inflation pressures,”  Ken Peng , senior economist for China at BNP Paribas SA, said before
the report. It would also give policy makers more flexibility,
he said.  The economy expanded 2.2 in the second quarter from the
first three months of the year, the statistics bureau said,
after a previously reported 2.1 percent gain in the January-to-
March period.  China’s government may be wary of adding to five interest-
rate increases since mid-October as a faltering U.S. economy and
 Europe ’s spreading debt crisis threaten export demand. Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday cut Ireland’s debt rating to junk
and soaring bond yields have signaled that the contagion could
spread to  Italy .  Investment, Retail Sales  Fixed-asset investment, excluding rural households, rose
25.6 percent in the first half from a year earlier, today’s
report showed. Retail sales expanded 17.7 percent last month,
exceeding a median analyst estimate of 17 percent.  The expansion in industrial output compared with the median
13.1 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey.  While the global economy is increasingly dependent on
China’s demand as the U.S. labor market deteriorates, investors
are concerned that tightening measures will choke off growth.
The Shanghai Composite Index declined 10 percent from its April
high through yesterday, while yuan forwards indicate reduced
expectations for gains in the currency against the dollar.  Signs of a slowdown have spanned weakness in imports, a
manufacturing index falling in June to the lowest level since
February 2009, and carmaker  General Motors Co. (GM)  saying that sales
may be at the low end of a forecast. At the same time, lending
exceeded forecasts last month and growth in M2, the broadest
measure of  money supply , rebounded.  Inflation Target  Inflation has breached the government’s 4 percent ceiling
every month this year, with consumer prices rising 6.4 percent
in June from a year earlier, the most in three years. Pork, a
Chinese staple, rose 57 percent and accounted for more than a
fifth of June’s overall inflation rate.  The People’s Bank of China has raised the one-year lending
rate to 6.56 percent and the one-year deposit rate to 3.5
percent, announcing the latest increases on July 6. The nation’s
biggest banks are required to set aside 21.5 percent of deposits
as reserves, up from 17 percent in November, locking up cash
that could fuel inflation.  Ding Shuang, a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong
Kong  who previously worked at China’s central bank, said last
week that he expects inflation to slow after this month. UBS AG,
sees price gains remaining above 6 percent in July before
moderating towards 4 percent at the end of the year.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing
Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  