-- 
China May Sustain 9% Growth Pace for 2011 With Investment Moving Inland

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-14T05:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/china-may-sustain-9-growth-pace-for-2011-with-investment-moving-inland.html
China  may maintain growth of about 9
percent this year, avoiding a “hard landing,” as spending on
low-cost homes and developing inland provinces counters the
impact of Europe’s debt crisis and monetary tightening.  Investment by local governments and private businesses
helped drive a 9.5 percent gain in second-quarter gross domestic
product from a year earlier, the  National Bureau of Statistics 
said in Beijing yesterday. That was faster than estimated as
growth in industrial output and retail sales accelerated and
copper and aluminum production reached records.  Investment accounted for more than half of the nation’s
expansion in the first six months of the year and may offset
threatened weakness in exports in the second half. At the same
time, dependence on fixed-asset spending highlights limited
progress in shifting to a more consumption-driven model that
would play a bigger role in supporting global demand.  “I would be willing to increase my exposure to the Chinese
economy,” said Fred Hu, chairman of Primavera Capital Group in
Beijing and former Greater China chairman at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., adding that there are attractive opportunities with
 consumer goods , financial services and manufacturing stocks.
“Equity valuations and investor sentiment have become overly
bearish as markets got spooked about a hard landing.”  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. has “very strong
profit growth” with valuations converging to those of its
Western peers, which “doesn’t make sense,” Hu also said.  Easing Asian Growth  Signs of easing Asian growth include Singapore reporting
today that its economy shrank an annualized 7.8 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months.  Chinese shares tumbled 14 percent from mid April to late
June in part on concern that measures to rein in consumer and
property prices would cause a jump in bad loans and drop in
growth rates. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which has
rallied almost 7 percent since then, was 0.2 percent lower at
2,789.65 at 1:26 p.m. local time.  The second-quarter increase in GDP compared with a 9.7
percent gain in the previous three months and the median
estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
The expansion came even after the central bank boosted lending
rates five times since mid-October and lifted bank reserve
requirements to a record.  ‘Hard Landing’ Risk  “The economy is on track to grow about 9 percent this year
-- a hard landing in 2011 looks very unlikely,” said Chang Jian,
an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  Hong Kong  who formerly
worked for the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the  World Bank .
“Investment will remain the driver for growth this year and in
the next couple of years as rebalancing is a gradual process.’”  Fixed-asset spending, excluding rural households, rose 25.6
percent in the first half from a year earlier, yesterday’s
report showed. GDP growth was 2.2 percent in the second quarter
from the first three months of the year, the statistics bureau
said, picking up from 2.1 percent in January to March.  Leaders from the Group of 20 have said a consumer-led China
economy would help address global imbalances in spending and
saving that could lead to another financial crisis. Excessive
dependence on fixed-asset spending has restrained Chinese  living
standards , led to lower job creation and energy efficiency and
contributed to environmental damage, Bank of  Japan  researchers
Tomoyuki Fukumoto and Ichiro Muto wrote in a study this month.  Cheap Money  Chinese investment is financed in part by a “cheap cost of
capital,” with policy makers keeping  interest rates  “far below
the return on capital,” according to the BOJ working paper.  The benchmark one-year deposit rate is 3.5 percent, while
the one-year lending rate is 6.56 percent, a spread that gives
lenders the incentive to ramp up credit. With the consumer-price
inflation rate at 6.4 percent, the return on deposits also
leaves households’ savings eroded.  To bolster the role of  consumer spending , China needs to
embrace wage gains and address the “distortions” in the cost
of capital, Fukumoto and Muto wrote.  Investment made up 5.1 percentage points of the nation’s
first-half economic growth of 9.6 percent, the statistics bureau
said yesterday. Private and public consumption accounted for 4.6
percentage points, and net exports shaved off 0.1 percentage
points, said  Sheng Laiyun , a spokesman for the agency.  UBS AG said yesterday that China’s growth may cool in the
second half on export weakness, as unemployment in the U.S. and
a widening debt crisis in  Europe  restrain demand.  Five-Year Plan  Local authorities are “enthusiastic on investment” as the
nation begins a five-year economic plan running through 2015,
Sheng told reporters. “China remains at a stage where
industrialization and urbanization are accelerating,” he said.  Government spending  on affordable homes and water
facilities are filling a void left by a slump in railway
investment this year.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to build 36 million low-cost homes
by 2015, an initiative that has added to concern that swelling
debt at financing vehicles set up by local authorities will
increase non-performing loans at the nation’s banks. The audit
office estimated last month that local authorities’ liabilities
at the end of last year were 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.65 trillion).  China will expand by as much as 9.5 percent this year, Yu
Bin, director of the macroeconomic research department at the
State Council’s Development Research Center, said at a briefing
in Beijing today. The economy will need to grow at an annual
average of about 9 percent through to 2015 to help make sure the
risks from local government debt can be resolved, he said.  Going West  Investment at the local-government level climbed 28 percent
in the first half to 11.7 trillion yuan, while spending overseen
by the central government declined 3.8 percent, yesterday’s data
showed.  The ruling Communist Party is also developing the central
and western regions, left behind by export-powered growth in the
east in the past three decades. Fixed-asset spending in central
China grew 31 percent in the first six months of the year, and
29 percent in the west, compared with 23 percent in eastern
regions, yesterday’s data showed.  Foxconn Technology Group, which makes Apple Inc. iPads and
Dell Inc. computers at factories in China, is shifting
production from coastal  Guangdong province  to central Henan and
western Sichuan provinces where labor and land costs are lower.  Retail sales, which include purchases by companies and
government agencies, expanded 17.7 percent last month from a
year before, exceeding a median analyst estimate of 17 percent.
Still, higher food, fuel and housing costs are eroding
consumers’ spending power and curbing sales of some goods.  Inflation accelerated to 6.4 percent last month, the most
in three years as food costs climbed 14.4 percent, the
statistics bureau said last week.  Sporting goods companies including Li Ning Co., China’s
biggest sportswear maker, and China Dongxiang Group Co. this
month forecast declining sales.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei,  Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from
Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and  Chris Anstey  in Beijing. Editors:
Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story: Victoria Ruan in
Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or  vruan1@bloomberg.net ; Zheng Lifei
in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  