-- 
Colombia’s ETB Plunges 12% as Mayor Seeks to Avoid Sale

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-07-13T20:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/colombia-s-etb-plunges-as-bogota-mayor-seeks-to-avoid-sale.html
Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de
Bogota (ETB)  SA, the phone company serving  Colombia ’s capital, fell
the most in 10 months after Bogota’s mayor announced a plan to
avoid the sale of the company as the city council began debating
the issue.  Acting mayor Clara Lopez, of the opposition Polo
Democratico party, said she is seeking alliances with other
state-run companies in  Asia  to avoid having to sell ETB,
according to an interview with El Espectador yesterday. The
stock fell 12 percent, the most since Sept. 2, to 644 pesos at 4
p.m. New York time.  Colombia’s capital city is seeking a buyer to finance the
phone company’s planned expansions after a failed two-year
search for what it called “strategic” partners. The Bogota
council yesterday began debating a proposal that would allow the
city to sell part or all of its 86.6 percent stake.  Andres Arbelaez, of the Partido Verde, was one of three
council members to release recommendations yesterday opposing
the sale, according to a statement on the council’s website.  “We should be analyzing proposals that would create growth
in ETB’s weakest areas such as long distance and Web TV,”
Arbelaez said. Arbelaez said the proposal wasn’t properly
approved in a commission, putting its legal process “in
doubt,” according to the statement.  Alvaro Argote was among council members from Lopez’s Polo
party who called for a public referendum on whether to sell ETB,
according to a separate statement.  A regional administrative court yesterday ruled against an
attempt by ETB union workers to block the sale of the company,
La Republica reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 Bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  