-- 
Commodities Rise to Four-Week High as Bernanke Signals More U.S. Stimulus

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-07-13T22:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/commodities-rise-to-four-week-high-as-bernanke-signals-more-u-s-stimulus.html
Commodities rose to a four-week high
as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated he may
provide more U.S. economic stimulus, driving down the dollar and
boosting demand for raw materials as a hedge against inflation.  Gold climbed to a record and silver surged the most since
March 2009, partly as  Europe ’s debt crisis escalated. The dollar
dropped the most in two weeks against a six-currency basket.
Corn and soybeans jumped partly on concern that adverse weather
will cut output in the U.S., the world’s leading exporter of the
crops.  Bernanke told Congress that the central bank may buy more
government debt after record stimulus, and another options would
be to pledge to keep its benchmark interest rate at a record
low. U.S. employers added fewer jobs in June than the lowest
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, and the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly climbed, government data showed last week.  “All the markets are celebrating the fact that Bernanke is
already considering QE3,” a third round of so-called
qualitative easing, said  Michael Pento , the senior economist at
Euro Pacific Capital. “This is why you see a bid into gold and
all commodities.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities rose 1.2
percent to close at 698.04 at 4:10 p.m. New York time. Earlier,
the gauge reached 702.28, the highest since June 13, as  China’s
economy  in the second quarter expanded more than forecast by
analysts. The country is the largest consumer of raw materials
from metals to pork and cotton.  Twenty of the 24 prices in the index were higher. Gold
futures rose to a record $1,588.90 an ounce in  New York , and
silver closed up 7.1 percent, the most among GSCI components.
Corn capped the biggest two-day gain in eight weeks, and
soybeans posted the longest rally since August.  ‘Risk Back On’  “Risk is back on,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior
strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in  Chicago . Buying more
bonds “is an inflationary proposal,” he said.  Wheat on the Chicago Board of Trade had the biggest two-day
gain in 11 months. The grain competes with corn and soybean meal
as an ingredient in livestock feed. The 6.3 percent gain today
was the second-biggest in the GSCI gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  