-- 
Congolese Plane Crash Death Toll Rises to 83, Probes Begin

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-07-13T18:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/congolese-plane-crash-death-toll-rises-to-83-as-government-probes-begin.html
The number of people killed in a
July 8 plane crash in  Democratic Republic of Congo  has risen to
83 as the country begins investigations, said  Martin Kabwelulu ,
acting minister of transport.  The Hewa Bora Airways plane, a Boeing 727, was carrying 117
passengers and eight crew members when it tried to land in heavy
rain in Kisangani and crashed into a forest, he told reporters
in Kinshasa, the capital, today. It was the company’s second
crash in just over three years. Congo created a commission of
experts to determine the cause and will start a judicial probe,
Kabwelulu said.  “Congo can no longer accept that events like this
happen,” he said, adding that he would invite representatives
of Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and international aviation bodies to
serve on the investigation team.  The crash may be blamed on the weather, said Stavros
Papaioannou, chief executive officer of the airline. “The only
way to see who is exactly responsible is after the analysis of
the flight data recorder,” he said by phone from Kinshasa.  All of Congo’s airlines are prohibited from flying in the
European Union, including Hewa Bora, according to the bloc’s
list of banned carriers. In April 2008, a Hewa Bora Airways
plane crashed on takeoff in Goma, killing 37 people on the
ground, three on the plane, and injuring another 202.  Five people involved in the crash in Kisangani were not on
the plane’s manifest, which listed only 112 passengers,
Kabwelulu said. “The investigations by the judiciary and the
commission need to find out who is responsible for that,” he
said.  Papaioannou denied that there were 117 people on board the
plane. He said there were 112 passengers and that some people
used tickets registered under other names.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 