-- 
Conoco Targets First Australia Shale Exploration, Partner Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-07-13T06:54:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/conoco-targets-first-australia-shale-exploration-partner-says.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, plans to pay as much as $109.5 million to fund
shale gas exploration in Western  Australia  as part of a
preliminary agreement, partner  New Standard Energy Ltd. (NSE)  said.  Conoco, based in Houston, would have the right to earn as
much as 75 percent of the Goldwyer project in the Canning Basin,
New Standard Energy said in a statement today. The companies aim
to reach a binding accord by Sept. 30 and to start the first
phase in 2012, New Standard said. A message left on Conoco’s
media line in Houston after hours wasn’t immediately returned.  Conoco and Australian partner  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  plan a
project in Queensland state to liquefy natural gas extracted
from coal deposits.  Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT)  and AWE Ltd. are among
energy companies in Australia seeking to follow producers in the
U.S. in exploiting deposits trapped in shale rock.  “The wheels are starting to turn with shale gas” in
Australia, Sam Willis, managing director of Perth-based New
Standard Energy, said by phone today. “I don’t think it’s fully
appreciated yet by the broader industry here in Australia. I
liken it to the very early days of coal seam gas.”  The initial accord may represent the first shale gas
investment in Australia by an oil and gas “major,” he said.  Shale development, where rock formations are drilled and
fractured using water and chemicals, has driven a surge in U.S.
natural gas production.  New Standard Energy 15 percent to 23 Australian cents a
share at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, the biggest gain in
eight months. The S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  