-- 
Cornell’s Endowment Rises 17% Amid Departures of Two Top Fund Managers

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-07-13T18:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/cornell-endowment-increases-17-amid-departures-of-two-top-fund-managers.html
Cornell University ’s endowment rose
17 percent in the year ended June 30, amid the departures of two
top fund managers, including Chief Investment Officer Michael Abbott.  The endowment, after taking into account gifts and
spending, rose to $5.27 billion, helped by “a well-diversified
portfolio and good manager selection,” the Ithaca, New York
school said in a statement posted July 6 on its  website . Claudia
Wheatley, a spokeswoman for the school, declined to comment on
 investment performance .  Cornell’s gain moves the Ivy League university’s endowment
closer to its high of $5.8 billion before investments tumbled 26
percent in the aftermath of the September 2008  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  bankruptcy. Abbott, who was named chief investment
officer last year after the departure of James Walsh, stepped
down May 1 over differences about how to run the school’s
business, the university said.  “In a broad sense, all asset classes contributed positive
returns,” Wheatley said today in an e-mail. “The main drivers
were the public-equity markets and commodity-related
investments.”  John Regan, one of two senior investment officers at the
endowment, stepped down last month to start Permanens Capital
Advisors, a New York-based asset-management firm that will seek
to attract money from institutional investors.  Cornell’s endowment figures are preliminary and the final
numbers will be released in September, according to the
statement.  The school said last September that investments rose 13
percent in the year ended June 30, 2010, beating the returns at
Harvard University and Yale University, the two richest U.S.
schools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 