-- 
Corn Imports by China Seen Doubling to Cool Fastest Inflation Since 2008

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-07-13T09:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/corn-imports-by-china-seen-more-than-doubling-this-year-to-cool-inflation.html
China , the second-largest corn user,
may more than double purchases to a record as it seeks to boost
stockpiles and cool the fastest inflation in three years.  The country will probably buy 5 million metric tons this
year from about 2 million tons in 2010, said  Abdolreza Abbassian ,
senior economist at the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization. That would top the 4.3 million tons in the year
ended September 1995, according to U.S. government data.  Increasing demand for the feed ingredient consumed by hogs
and chickens may support Chicago prices that fell 17 percent
from a three-year high in June. Shrinking farmland and water
shortages in China have combined with rising incomes and a
doubling in pork consumption to drain supply and drive up costs,
pushing inflation to 6.4 percent in June, the most since 2008.  “It’s all very strategic,” said Victor Thianpiriya, a
commodity analyst at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   The country bought 540,000 tons of U.S. corn for delivery
in the year starting Sept. 1 and a further 300,000 tons was sold
to unknown destinations, the U.S. government said July 7.  That brought the amount sold by exporters without declaring
a destination to about 2.5 million tons, fueling speculation
China had already bought 3 million tons or more, Dave Smoldt,
vice president of operations at INTL FCStone Inc., said in an e-
mail. Corn traded at $6.5575 a bushel at 4:40 p.m. in  Singapore 
after jumping 4 percent yesterday when the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said global stockpiles would be less than expected.  Water, Farmland  Drought and dwindling arable land in China curbed growth in
supplies of the grain also used for sweeteners and starch as
urban incomes more than tripled in the past decade.  Farmland shrank by 8.33 million hectares (20.6 million
acres) in the past 12 years, said Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s top
agriculture adviser Chen Xiwen in March. Land under cultivation
has dropped almost to the government’s 120 million hectare limit
as new apartments and factories eroded supply and farmers were
attracted by jobs in the city.  Declining water supply and drought have added to farmers’
woes, forcing the country to rely more on imports to meet
domestic food demand, according to Lee McIntire, chief executive
officer of CH2M Hill Cos., an Englewood, Colorado-based company
that provides water-treatment and irrigation services.  Consumption of pork in China, the world’s biggest, doubled
in the past two decades and demand for chicken quadrupled, USDA
data show. That helped U.S. farmers whose income is predicted by
the government to climb to a record $94.7 billion this year on
exports. The U.S. is the top shipper of wheat, corn and soybeans.  Food Prices  Food-cost inflation in China accelerated to 14.4 percent in
June, the fastest pace since July 2008. The central bank has
raised  interest rates  three times this year, and boosted banks’
reserve requirements nine times since November to a record level,
as it grapples to contain price increases.  China sold 27.5 million tons of corn from state stockpiles
to slow price gains in 2010, ANZ said in a report on June 6,
citing Cngrain.com, an industry researcher owned by China Grain
Reserves Corp., manager of the nation’s grain reserves. The
nation’s total stockpiles were  estimated  by the USDA to be 51.3
million tons on Sept. 30.  The corn harvest may increase by 2.4 percent to an all-time
high of 181.5 million tons this year, according to the China
National Grain & Oils Information Center today.  “If the Chinese are buying, probably they know something
about their production that we don’t,” Abbassian said in an
interview from  Italy  yesterday. “I cannot speculate on that.”  Argentine Corn  China may also be planning to purchase supplies from
 Argentina , the second-largest shipper after the U.S. The country
approved imports from the Latin American nation after concluding
an agreement on quality inspections, state-controlled researcher
Grain.gov.cn said July 7. No purchases have been confirmed.  Expanding demand from China may tighten global stockpiles
expected to drop 4.3 percent to 115.66 million tons before the
2012 harvests, the lowest level in five years, as production
trails demand for a third straight year, the USDA said yesterday.  “We see upside risk to corn exports to China,” said
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in a report. Anecdotal evidence over
the past weeks signals purchases for 2011-2012 may already
exceed the new 2 million-ton USDA forecast, it said.  While production in China continues to grow, it’s still not
keeping pace with demand, said  Michael Creed , an agribusiness
economist at National Australia Bank.  “China is no longer fully self-sufficient,” he said in an
interview from  Melbourne  yesterday. “We will see more Chinese
activity in the corn market over the coming years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  