-- 
Czech Lawmakers Send Pension-Overhaul Bills to Second Reading

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-07-13T15:36:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/czech-lawmakers-send-pension-overhaul-bills-to-second-reading.html
Czech lawmakers approved the first
reading of bills aimed at overhauling the pension system and
boosting private savings for retirement, a key part of the
government’s plan to curb future public-finance deficits.  The vote today opened deliberations in parliament on three
bills allowing people to redirect part of compulsory pension
payments into personal accounts managed by pension funds from
2013. Plans including an overhaul of the deficit-making pay-as-
you-go pension system and a reduction of the budget gap helped
Czech bonds outperform German debt in the past year.  Premier Petr Necas, who last year assembled the largest
majority in the lower house since independence in 1993, pledged
to cut the public-finance shortfall to less than the European
Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product, calling the
overhaul of the pension and health-care systems the key goals
for his Cabinet. The government plans to narrow the gap to 3.5
percent in 2012 from the planned 4.2 percent in 2011.  “This law will, for the first time, allow the voluntary
diversification of risks to pension security,” Finance Minister
Miroslav Kalousek told the Prague-based parliament today. “It
is, if you wish, diversification between the risks to the
solvency of the state and risks in capital markets.”  While the deficits of the pension system wouldn’t exceed 1
percent of GDP in the next 20 years without “substantial
changes,” they may eventually reach about 4 percent without an
overhaul, the ministry said in a document accompanying the
bills.  Amendments  Lawmakers may propose amendments to the bills in the second
reading. The  Social Democrats , the largest opposition party, is
against diverting money into private pension funds and Chairman
Bohuslav Sobotka said the party will “correct” the pension
changes if it comes to power.  “We think it’s a risky step that will lead to the
destabilization of public finances,” Sobotka said during the
debate.  The Czech Republic’s A rating, with a positive outlook, may
be raised if the government “legislates and enforces social-
security reforms that lessen aging-related expenditure
pressures,” Standard and Poor’s ratings company said in a June
29 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net  