-- 
Danish $80 Billion Fund Bets Bank Losses Won’t Impact Tests

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-07-13T07:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/danish-80-billion-fund-bets-bank-losses-won-t-impact-tests-1-.html
Denmark ’s banks, which are grappling
with the fallout of  Europe ’s toughest resolution laws, will
probably pass European stress tests even after failures sent the
industry’s funding costs higher, the $80 billion ATP fund said.  “I don’t expect any of the Danish banks being stress
tested to cause any problems,” Torben Sand, who oversees 25
billion kroner ($4.7 billion) at the equity unit of the
Hilleroed, Denmark-based pension fund, said in a phone interview
yesterday.  The European Banking Authority is due to  publish  stress
test results for 91 of the region’s biggest lenders on July 15.
In Denmark, the tests will include Danske Bank A/S, Jyske Bank
A/S, Sydbank A/S and Nykredit A/S. The country’s financial
industry is struggling to overcome a jump in funding costs that
Moody’s Investors Service warns will be “long-term,” after the
failure of two regional lenders triggered senior creditor
losses.  ATP, which holds shares in Danske, Jyske and Sydbank,
doesn’t expect the collapse of Amagerbanken A/S in February and
Fjordbank Mors A/S last month to affect the value of its
investment in the country’s biggest lenders, Sand said.  “It is not a risk,” he said. “It might cost them
something, but I don’t see it as a risk.”  Shares Rise  Shares of Danske Bank rose 2 percent, or 1.85 kroner, to
96.10 kroner at 9:26 a.m. in Copenhagen. Sydbank stock gained
1.5 percent to 110 kroner. Jyske Bank shares traded 2.1 percent
higher at 209 kroner.  The difference between the Copenhagen interbank offered
rate and its euro-area equivalent, Euribor, yesterday reached
6.6 basis points, the widest since April 28. Credit default
swaps on senior five-year debt at Danske Bank, Denmark’s biggest
lender, touched 150 basis points on July 11, versus 144.5 on
July 8. That compares with 90 basis points on debt sold by
Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the biggest lender in the Nordic
region.  Still, investor skepticism about the state of Denmark’s
regional banks shouldn’t spread to its biggest lenders,
according to Niels Storm Stenbaek, chief economist at the Danish
Bankers Association in Copenhagen.  “The Danish financial system is very healthy, but we have
some issues with some small- and medium-sized banks, which is 
causing a bad reputation throughout Europe,” he said. “We are 
very concerned about that.”  Funding Wall   Spar Nord Bank A/S, Denmark’s fourth-largest listed lender,
isn’t approaching investors outside the Nordic country as it
waits for the fallout of the June 24 collapse of Fjordbank Mors
to recede, Ole Madsen, Spar Nord’s head of communications, said
in a June 28 interview.  Central Bank Governor Nils Bernstein has urged banks at
risk of failing to reduce their lending or look for buyers
instead of using the state’s resolution facility. Economy
Minister Brian Mikkelsen said this month the government’s “one
target” for the industry is “consolidation, consolidation,
consolidation.”  According to Storm Stenbaek at the Bankers Association,
Danish lenders’ exposure to fixed-income securities sold by the
euro area’s most indebted countries is 0.5 percent of all bonds
and loans on the banking and trading books.  Tougher Tests  “Of course the stress tests are tougher than last year,
but the banks are very well-capitalized,” Storm Stenbaek said.
“They have a lot of core equity and they’re not very exposed to
sovereign debt from the Mediterranean countries, so that
shouldn’t be a problem.”  This year’s exams will include a review of how lenders
would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area
in 2011, a 15 percent drop in European equity markets as well as
possible trading losses on sovereign debt. The banks will be
expected to maintain a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5
percent under the stress-test scenarios, the EBA has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  