-- 
Danske Unit Sacks Moody’s, May Hire Fitch

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-07-13T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/danske-unit-says-sacking-moody-s-makes-fitch-next-logical-step.html
The mortgage unit at  Denmark ’s
biggest lender, Danske Bank A/S, said asking  Fitch Ratings  to
grade its debt is the next “logical” step after it dropped
Moody’s Investors Service.  “The negative view from Moody’s has caused some
disturbance to the market and, at least among domestic
investors, the attitude is that Moody’s is out of line,” said
Klaus Kristiansen, executive vice president at Danske Bank unit
Realkredit Danmark A/S, in a phone interview in Copenhagen. “It
would be logical for us to go to Fitch.” The lender’s covered
bonds already carry the top rating at  Standard & Poor’s .  Fitch Director of Media Relations Christian Giesen declined
to comment on any talks between the rating company and
Realkredit Danmark.  Realkredit Danmark sacked Moody’s on June 23 after being
told to provide an extra $6.14 billion in collateral to keep its
covered debt graded Aaa. The New York-based rating company,
which this month cut Ireland and  Portugal  to junk, has come
under criticism from European leaders, including European
Commission President  Jose Barroso , for exacerbating financial
turmoil and fanning speculation through its actions.  In Denmark, Moody’s on July 1 cut the issuer rating on
Nykredit Realkredit A/S, Europe’s biggest seller of covered
bonds backed by mortgages, to A2 from A1, and its Tier 1 hybrid
rating to Baa2 from Baa1. That followed last month’s downgrade
of the so-called timely payment indicator on a number of Danish
mortgage bonds to “high” from “very high,” as Moody’s warned
a rise in the proportion of adjustable-rate debt is fueling
refinancing risks.  Riskier  A “comparison between adjustable-rate mortgage bonds and a
more traditional product” shows “in terms of credit risk, the
adjustable-rate mortgage bonds are riskier,” Moody’s credit
analyst Alexander Zeidler said in a July 11 interview.  (For a related story on Moody’s defending its Danish cuts,
click here. To read a story on  George Soros ’ joint venture
backing Danish mortgage bonds, click here.)  At S&P, analyst Casper Rahbek Andersen said a rise in the
proportion of adjustable-rate mortgage debt hasn’t weakened
issuers’ ability to obtain stable funding, in a July 7
interview.  Realkredit Danmark said last month it terminated its
contract with Moody’s because the two parties “disagree about
the fundamentals” of assessing risks facing the country’s
mortgage market.  “Moody’s has continued to do downgrades of issuer ratings
and that will of course put pressure on the covered bond
ratings,” Kristiansen said. “Moody’s will probably continue to
be a source of some disturbance to the market.”  Yield Spread  There is evidence that “investors are a little worried
about the situation, but not that worried,” Jacob Skinhoj,
chief analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen, said by phone.
“If they were very worried, they would have started selling and
the spread would have widened further.”  The difference between the yield on Nykredit’s 5 percent
2041 bond and the 30-year German bund has widened about 32 basis
points from June 30, to 172 basis points this week.  Denmark’s  Mortgage Bankers Association  has voiced concern
that rating cuts are making financing more expensive.  “The question is what they will require to give ratings,
if it becomes too costly,” said Jan Knoesgaard, deputy director
at the association, in a phone interview yesterday. Issuers are
“fighting to live up to their requirements and discuss what is
fair here. Moody’s has changed things, obviously.”  Matching Maturities  Moody’s argues that Denmark’s adjustable-rate mortgage
bonds represent a bigger refinancing risk because they, unlike
other Danish covered bonds, don’t match the maturities on the
loans linked to them. The adjustable-rate bonds tend to have
maturities of one to three years compared with an average loan
maturity of 20 to 30 years.  The outstanding volume of bonds for financing adjustable-
rate loans almost doubled to $235 billion between 2008 and 2011,
Moody’s said June 10, citing data from Denmark’s central bank.
That’s roughly half the country’s covered debt market, it said.  Nykredit says Moody’s has misunderstood Denmark’s home-loan
market. According to Jesper Berg, Nykredit senior vice president
and head of ratings, Moody’s “does not fully recognize the
transformation of market risk -- i.e. higher  interest rates  --
into a credit risk for the issuer,” he said in an interview
last week.  In the past 15 years, Denmark’s mortgage-bond market has
moved away from traditional fixed-rate, callable-at-par
securities into more varied debt instruments. Adjustable-rate
mortgages were introduced in 1996. Interest-only loans, which
the central bank has criticized for exacerbating volatility in
the country’s property market, were sold from 2003. So-called
capped floaters, which offer a floating interest rate with a
ceiling on how high borrow costs can rise, came in 2004.  Moody’s may be taking a tougher stance now because “they
have the experience of the financial crisis,” Knoesgaard said.
“Moody’s is still very clear in saying Denmark has one of the
best mortgage systems in  Europe . But we were used to being on
the very top.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 