-- 
David Jones Slumps Most in 14 Years After Cutting Sales, Profit Forecasts

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-14T01:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/david-jones-cuts-its-sales-profit-outlook-after-dramatic-deterioration.html
David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s
second-biggest department-store chain, fell the most in almost
14 years in Sydney trading after cutting its profit forecasts.  The retailer dropped 15 percent to A$3.31 at 10:29 a.m. in
Sydney, the biggest intraday decline since October 1997.  Profit after tax will drop as much as 12 percent in the
fiscal second half ending this month to between A$62 million
($67 million) and A$64 million, Sydney-based  David Jones  said in
a filing yesterday. That compares with a May 11 forecast for a 5
percent increase. Analysts at Citigroup Inc., Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
cut their ratings on the stock.  David Jones, which targets affluent customers with designer
labels, expects an 11 percent drop in fourth-quarter sales amid
volatile equity markets and falling property prices. Australian
consumer confidence fell this month by the most since Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008, and the nation’s
economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first quarter, the biggest
contraction in two decades.  “David Jones’s comments highlight how challenging
retailing conditions are at the present, particularly for those
at the higher end,” said Will Seddon, who helps oversee about
$350 million at White Funds Management in Sydney.  Bigger rival  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  affirmed its forecast that
annual profit will fall as much as five percent. Myer dropped 6
percent to A$2.49.  ‘Rapid Deterioration’  “The dramatic and rapid deterioration in trading
conditions in 2011’s fourth quarter has been unprecedented,”
David Jones Chief Executive Officer Paul Zahra said in the
retailer’s statement. “We are taking a cautious approach to the
first half of 2012 and have planned and forecast trading
conditions to continue to be challenging.”  Profit in the six months ending January, or the first half
of the company’s 2012 fiscal year, may fall from 15 to 20
percent to A$84. million to A$90 million, the company estimates.  “David Jones sales tend to have a high correlation with
movements in  house prices  and the Australian share market,”
Craig Woolford, an analyst at Citigroup in Sydney, said in a
report today. “Both asset classes have been soft over the past
three months,” wrote Woolford, who cut his rating on the
company’s shares to “hold” from “buy.”  Sexual Harassment  Zahra took over from Mark McInnes, who resigned last year
after a sexual-harassment lawsuit. David Jones and McInnes
agreed in October to pay A$850,000 to settle claims of sexual
harassment by a former publicist, the largest amount made public
in such a case in Australia.  David Jones’s market value more than quadrupled from 2003,
when the top job went to McInnes, through June 17 last year, the
day before he quit. McInnes, who was often photographed with
celebrities, signed agreements with companies including Polo
Ralph Lauren Corp. and  PPR (PP)  SA to lure affluent shoppers,
emulating the success that overseas chains such as
Bloomingdale’s had with international designer brands. David
Jones has dropped 13 percent in the period since McInnes left
through yesterday.  Zahra was part of the team that executed McInnes’s strategy
of luring wealthier customers with  luxury goods . The retailer,
founded in 1838, became the exclusive Australian department-
store outlet for brands including Ralph Lauren Home,  Ted Baker ,
and PPR labels  Bottega Veneta  and  Yves Saint Laurent .  “We will continue our investment in our online business,
our new point of sale system, our financial services business,
our brand installations, store refurbishments and our brand, as
we are confident that our business model will allow us to trade
through these difficult times,” Zahra said in the statement.  Australia ’s sentiment index plunged 8.3 percent to 92.8
from a month earlier, the biggest decline since October 2008 and
the lowest level since May 2009, according to a Westpac Banking
Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken
July 4-9 and released yesterday in Sydney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  