-- 
Democrat Hahn Wins U.S. House Race in Southern California Special Election

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-07-13T16:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/democrat-hahn-wins-u-s-house-election-in-california-ap-says.html
Democrat Janice Hahn won a U.S.
House special election in Southern  California , thwarting a bid
by Republican businessman Craig Huey in a traditionally
Democratic district.  With all the votes counted in yesterday’s election, the
 Associated Press ’s unofficial tally showed Hahn with 55 percent
to Huey’s 45 percent.  Hahn, 59, is a  Los Angeles  City Council member and scion of
a prominent local political family. Huey, 61, ran a largely
self-financed campaign and was making his first bid for public
office.  The two vied for the seat vacated by Democrat Jane Harman,
who gave up her seat early this year to become president and
director of the Washington-based  Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars . Harman won re-election in 2010 by about 25
percentage points, and in the 2008 presidential vote  Barack Obama  carried the House district by 30 percentage points --
evidence of its Democratic tilt.  Republicans saw an opportunity for victory because of
California’s 11.7 percent unemployment rate as of May, the
financial struggles facing the U.S. and the state governments
and the low turnout that usually marks special elections.  ‘Angry Voters’  “On a traditional political landscape, Craig Huey
shouldn’t have any chance of winning at all,”  Dan Schnur , head
of the  Jesse Unruh Institute of Politics  at the  University of
Southern California  in Los Angeles, said before yesterday’s
vote. Still, “angry voters do unusual things,” Schnur said.  With Hahn’s victory, the party breakdown in the House will
be 240 Republicans, 193 Democrats. Two seats are vacant -- one
that had been held by a Republican, the other by a Democrat.  The district encompasses much of Los Angeles County’s South
Bay area, including several beach communities. Long a center for
the defense and aerospace industries, the district’s major
employers include Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)   Hahn is the daughter of a longtime Los Angeles county
commissioner, the late Kenneth Hahn, and the sister of former
Los Angeles Mayor James Hahn. Janice Hahn first won her city
council seat in 2001, and in the House campaign was backed by
women’s organizations, labor unions and environmental groups.
She raised about $1.3 million, most of it coming from individual
contributions, according to the MAPLight group.  In ads, Hahn linked Huey to former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee, and
accused him of pushing an “extremist right-wing agenda” that
would benefit big business.  Privatization Plan  Taking a cue from Democrat Kathy Hochul, who in May won a
House special election in a traditionally Republican district in
 New York  by focusing her fire on a Republican proposal to
privatize Medicare, Hahn sought to link Huey to the plan.  Huey mobilized the district’s fiscally conservative Tea
Party activists in his campaign, voters who helped him finish
second to Hahn among 15 candidates in a May 17 primary in which
the two top finishers -- regardless of party --would face off in
the special election. California Secretary of State Debra Bowen,
a Democrat who some state political analysts had predicted would
emerge as Hahn’s opponent, trailed Huey by less than 1,000 votes
in the primary.  Huey, owner of a  marketing company , poured more than
$880,000 of his own money into his campaign, accounting for the
bulk of the almost $1.1 million he collected, according to
 MAPLight.org , a nonpartisan research organization based in
Berkeley, California.  ‘Career Politician’  He criticized Hahn as a “career politician” who supports
the type of policies responsible for federal and state fiscal
woes. He pledged to work to cut  government spending  and taxes if
sent to  Washington .  A controversial YouTube  ad  that targeted Hahn by a
filmmaker unaffiliated with Huey’s campaign figured prominently
in the race. The ad superimposed Hahn’s face on a stripper’s
body and linked her to gang members. Huey distanced himself from
the ad, denouncing it as sexist and racist.  Harman, 66, had first been elected to Congress in 1992. She
served three terms before unsuccessfully seeking the Democratic
gubernatorial nomination in California in 1998. She reclaimed
her House seat in the 2000 elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 