-- 
Derivatives Rules to Help Swaps Market Grow $40.7 Trillion, Citigroup Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-07-13T04:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/derivatives-rules-to-help-swaps-market-grow-40-7-trillion-citigroup-says.html
The market for interest-rate and
credit-default swaps will grow more than 10 percent to $435
trillion by 2013 as oversight of over-the-counter derivatives
improves price transparency and cuts trading risk, according to
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   Banks,  hedge funds  and other investors are bracing for
sweeping changes to the private derivatives market, including
increased  capital requirements  and most trades being processed
by clearinghouses, which require margin payments. The Dodd-Frank
Act, passed in the U.S. last year, and rules being created now
by the European Parliament will regulate swaps for the first
time in their 30-year history.  “Notional values in derivatives (especially interest-rate
swaps and credit-default swaps) are expected to rise, due to
increased transparency and counterparty risk mitigation,”
Citigroup’s Mike Sleightholme, global head of hedge fund
services, and Bikramjit Singh, global head of OTC derivatives
services, wrote in a report released today, citing internal
analysis from the New York-based bank.  Combined interest-rate and credit-default swap notional
values totaled $394.3 trillion as of December,  according  to Bank
for International Settlements data. The $601 trillion private
derivatives market also includes foreign exchange, equity and
commodity derivatives.  Rules Delayed  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has said it hopes
to finish its rule writing by year-end, a delay from the initial
goal of July after banks, investors and the commission agreed
that more time was needed. The Securities and Exchange
Commission is also writing regulations for the parts of the
market it will oversee.  Hedge funds and money managers, the so-called buy side,
will need to prepare for the coming changes to curb the costs of
doing business, the report said.  “If the buy-side commitment to derivatives is to be
maintained in the face of increased cost and complexity,
something’s got to give,” the executives wrote. “In this new
environment of onerous reporting and clearing requirements, the
buy-side must improve their operating efficiency.”  About 60 percent of the entire OTC  derivatives market  will
be eligible to be processed by clearinghouses, the report said.
That’s three times the amount predicted in a May report by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency that assumed 20
percent of OTC derivatives in the U.S. can be cleared.  Reducing Risk  “We estimate 85 percent of credit-related OTC derivatives
will be centrally cleared,” the executives wrote. They expect
virtually all indexes of credit swaps and most swaps on
individual companies that make up those gauges to be cleared.  Clearinghouses  become the buyer to every seller and seller
to every buyer, acting as a form of “super trading partner.”
They require initial margin to accept a trade and monitor market
prices several times daily to ensure losing investments don’t
accrue. The trade-processing services can move positions from
one bank to another as well, easing a situation such as when
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failed and its trading partners’
collateral was trapped by bankruptcy proceedings.  Clearinghouses also allow regulators access to traders’
portfolios and prices.  Swaps entered into between a bank and a customer generally
had looser margin requirements than what will be mandated by
clearinghouses, the Citigroup report said. The allowed use of
non-cash margin such as mortgage-backed securities may make
collateral management easier for investors and reduce systemic
risk, the report said. That’s because if only cash were allowed,
money managers may be forced to sell securities in stressful
conditions to meet margin calls, “which in turn extends the
market decline, creating a snowball effect,” the report said.  Managing Collateral  Investors also need to plan for managing collateral in the
coming regulatory framework, the Citigroup executives said.  “If both the number of trades with margin requirements and
the required margin amounts also rise, then a collateral
shortage is quite possible, meaning market participants won’t
have enough cash or eligible securities on hand to meet their
requirements,” Sleightholme and Singh wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 