-- 
Dial-a-Crowd Battles Spanish Banks Trying to Repossess Homes

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-07-14T10:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/dial-a-crowd-confronts-debt-laden-spanish-banks-by-thwarting-foreclosures.html
Luis Dominguez got up at dawn to
take a 5 a.m. bus to join a human chain around a  Madrid  home
threatened with foreclosure. Three weeks earlier, the crowd had
come to him after he telephoned for help.  “I was facing eviction and they saved me from losing my
home,” said Dominguez, 74, a pensioner with a walking stick in
one hand and a five-foot placard saying “Stop Evictions” in
the other. “I came today to show my gratitude and support.”  The 300 protesters, organized by a group called  La
Plataforma de los Afectados por la Hipoteca , or PAH, managed to
win a reprieve for the property’s owner, a single mother with a
disabled son. Rising unemployment in  Spain  may lead to 300,000
foreclosures this year and next, according to  Adicae , a rights
group representing bank customers.  Spain has become a battleground between banks hurt by a
five-fold increase in residential  mortgage arrears  since 2007
and debt-laden homeowners who are appealing to the government to
reduce the burden on those facing foreclosure.  “In large parts of the U.S., you can just walk away from
your home and your debt, and that contributed to the country’s
banking crisis,” Jordi Fabregat, a professor of management and
financial control at  Barcelona ’s Esade Business School, said by
telephone. “That can’t be done here, so the banks are protected
from defaults during a crisis.”  Property Bust  Similar to Ireland, whose credit rating was cut to non-
investment grade this week by Moody’s Investors Service, Spain’s
economic crisis was driven by a credit-fuelled property bubble
that burst. The housing boom that ended in 2008 left Spanish
banks with  313 billion euros  ($441 billion) in loans related to
real estate activity as of June, according to the  Bank of Spain .  The number of foreclosed homes advertised by Idealista.com,
Spain’s largest real-estate website, has risen 10-fold to 30,000
in three years. The properties are valued at about 4.6 billion
euros and owned by 40 banks.  “If the banks had to assume all the losses resulting from
the bad mortgages they granted during the property boom, the
whole financial system would collapse,” Jesus Encinar,
 Idealista.com ’s chief executive officer, said in an interview.  Spanish lenders including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  CaixaBank
SA (CABK)  will get the results of a second round of European stress
tests tomorrow. The bank bailout fund, known as the FROB, has so
far committed about 10 billion euros to recapitalize struggling
Spanish savings banks, according to the fund’s  website .  Twenty a Day  Every day, about 170 homes are foreclosed across the
country, Adicae estimates. In Madrid alone, 20 properties are
seized by banks and other mortgage providers, according to PAH,
a non-profit organization based in Barcelona with more than
5,000 members.  PAH has halted 59 evictions since it was created in 2009,
spokesman Eloi Morte said. In each case, the bank had to wait a
month before issuing another eviction order, giving the
homeowner more time to renegotiate the mortgage contract.
Members of the group have gathered again today to thwart an
eviction in El Raval, a neighborhood in the center of Barcelona.  Less than nine months before the next national election,
lawmakers are trying to make homeowners less vulnerable.  On July 1, the cabinet passed legislation forcing lenders
that seized homes to auction them for as little as 60 percent of
the estimated value. Previously, the minimum bid was fixed at 70
percent of the value, discouraging buyers in a market where
 house prices  have fallen 26 percent from the 2007 peak,
according to a July 5  report  by  Fotocasa.es , a real-estate
website, and the  IESE Business School .  No Bidders  If there are no bidders, banks can now award themselves the
property for 60 percent of the appraisal value, leaving the
mortgage holder liable for the remaining 40 percent minus any
loan repayments that have been made. Before the law was changed,
lenders could get the property for half of its estimated value,
increasing the amount payable by the former owner.  “Responding to populist pressure is all very well, but you
have to take care not to ruin a mortgage market that is seen as
a model internationally,” Angel Cano, president and chief
operating officer of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , told
reporters in Barcelona last month. BBVA is Spain’s second-
largest bank.  Enforced Write-offs  The measures don’t go far enough for PAH, whose name means
“platform for those affected by their mortgage,” and
opposition parties including the  Galician Nationalist Bloc . They
want the government to force banks to write off the debt of
homeowners who default due to illness or loss of employment, or
if the property is their only residence.  “We’re still seeing cases of people who lose their homes
and still owe the bank as much as 200,000 euros,” Morte said.  Bankinter SA (BKT) , a Madrid-based lender with about two-thirds
of its loan book in mortgages, said on July 12 that it will
offer Spain’s first non-recourse mortgages. Homebuyers will be
able to take out a 40-year loan for as much as 80 percent of the
purchase price without being personally liable, the bank said,
without disclosing the  interest rate .  In June, the Spanish parliament set up a committee to
examine Spain’s mortgage industry and, if necessary, recommend
changes to the law. The committee will report on its findings by
the end of the year.  House prices more than tripled during the market’s 13-year
boom, encouraging banks to offer mortgages of as much as 120
percent of the property’s true value, said Fernando Herrero,
general secretary for Adicae in Madrid. Like in places such as
the U.K., homebuyers could use the extra money to carry out
refurbishments or buy a car, he said.  ‘Irresponsible’ Lending  “Banks inflated valuations and granted subprime loans to
people without sufficient guarantees to pay them back,” Herrero
said in an interview. “They were irresponsible.”  Jose Blanco, Spain’s development minister, said on July 7
that there are many mortgages that shouldn’t have been granted
“under any circumstances.” Since no one was better placed to
judge risk than the banks, they should take some responsibility
for the fallout, he said.  According to Professor Fabregat, a bank should never grant
a mortgage that exceeds 80 percent of a property’s value and
monthly mortgage repayments should never be more than 30 percent
of an individual’s monthly income.  ‘Crossed the Line’  “These were two red lines that banks happily crossed time
and time again,” he said. “This led us to a situation where
families are being turned out into the street.”  A spokeswoman for the  Spanish Banking Association , who
declined to be identified, said lenders have never granted
mortgages to homebuyers in the knowledge that they wouldn’t be
able to pay back the money.  Spanish banks have about  614 billion euros  of outstanding
residential mortgages, according to data from the Bank of Spain.
At 21 percent, the jobless rate is the highest in  Europe , making
it harder for borrowers to keep up with their payments.  The delinquency rate rose to 2.5 percent at the end of the
first quarter from 0.5 percent in the first three months of
2007. That’s still lower than the U.S. rate of 8.1 percent and
Ireland’s 6.3 percent.  Spanish lenders also hold 69 billion euros of Spanish
sovereign debt, according to the Treasury’s  website .  The yield on Spanish government ten year bonds soared to
close at 6.03 percent, up 137 basis point a from a year ago, to
a euro-era record on July 11 as investors increased bets on a
default amid contagion from Europe’s debt crisis.  Extra Capital  Spanish banks may need to raise as much as 4 billion euros
of extra capital if homeowners are given the right to cancel
mortgage contracts without being saddled with the debt,
according to New York-based management-consulting firm  Oliver
Wyman . This could force lenders to add 400,000 unwanted
properties to their balance sheets.  Home prices  may fall by an additional 20 percent in the
next four years before bottoming out, R.R. de Acuna & Asociados,
a Madrid-based real-estate consulting firm, said at a briefing
last month. The company estimates there are about 1.5 million
unsold homes, which won’t be absorbed for another six years.  Jaime Alvarez, professor of finance at Madrid’s  Complutense
University , said there’s is no way of helping homeowners to
reduce their debts without hurting lenders.  “The committee is merely cosmetic and won’t recommend any
changes that will hurt the banks because they’re Spain’s sacred
cows,” said Alvarez, who was also a co-founder of  Publica
Subasta , Spain’s largest complier of data on public auctions.  Dominguez, meanwhile, will be putting on his green T-shirt,
with “Stop Evictions” in Spanish written in red across the
front, and will keep on trying to prevent more people from
losing their home until the law is changed.  “These people aren’t going away,” he said after the
locksmith, banker and lawyer were impeded from evicting the
Madrid homeowner last week. “And neither am I.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 