-- 
Dodgers Official Bankruptcy Creditors Committee to Include Beating Victim

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-07-14T04:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/dodgers-official-bankruptcy-creditors-committee-to-include-beating-victim.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers official
creditors’ committee will include representatives of the man
beaten after the team’s first home win, an attack that helped
prompt  Major League Baseball  to appoint a monitor over the team,
according to U.S. Bankruptcy Court records.  The family of the man who was beaten, Bryan Stow, sued the
Dodgers and team owner Frank McCourt in May. The attack drew
widespread media coverage and was one reason Baseball
Commissioner  Bud Selig  appointed a monitor to oversee the team,
Dodgers’ attorney Bruce Bennett said at a court hearing.  Others on the official committee of creditors include AVM
Systems Limited Partnership, KABC Radio LLC,  Major League
Baseball Players Association  and fireworks company Pyro Events,
Inc., according to a filing by the Office of the U.S. Trustee,
an arm of the Department of Justice that monitors bankruptcies.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy on June 27 after Selig
rejected a proposed television-rights deal McCourt negotiated
with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  Unsecured creditor committees are involved in business
bankruptcies, sometimes by challenging the company to raise more
money for creditors and sometimes as the company’s ally. The
committee hired the law firm Morrison & Foerster LLP to
represent it in the case. The firm’s bills will be paid by the
Dodgers.  “We’re very happy,” Morrison attorney Lorenzo Marinuzzi
said. Christopher Aumais, a Los Angeles-based lawyer for Stow,
declined to comment immediately.  Stow, a 42-year-old San Francisco Giants fan from  Santa
Cruz ,  California , suffered a fractured skull when he was
attacked in a Dodgers parking lot following the home team’s 2-1
win over the Giants on March 31.  Stow, who was in a coma, has shown signs of improvement
such as parting his lips when his temperature is taken, or
moving his arm toward a television in his room, according to a
website set up by his family.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  