-- 
Dollar Weakens as Bernanke Says the Fed Will Respond If Stimulus Is Needed

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-13T21:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/dollar-franc-weaken-on-china-s-economic-growth-fed-minutes-euro-rallies.html
The dollar weakened against all its
most-traded counterparts as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers will provide economic stimulus if
needed and investor demand for higher-yielding assets increased.  The greenback fell the most in six months versus the euro
as Bernanke said central bank is prepared to take additional
action, including buying more government bonds, if the economy
appears to be in danger of stalling. The Australian and  New
Zealand  dollars led earlier gains against the currency after
China’s economic growth exceeded analysts’ estimates. The euro
advanced as Italian and Spanish bonds rose for a second day.  “The biggest sound bite from Bernanke was that he
acknowledged the potential for an additional monetary stimulus
package is out there if necessary and that really caught the
market’s ear,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New York . “It
helps the risk-on trade.”  The dollar weakened 1.4 percent against the euro to $1.4167
at 5:02 p.m. in New York, its biggest drop since Jan. 13. It
reached $1.3837 yesterday, the strongest level since March 11.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose as much as 1.4 percent
percent and the yield on 10-year Treasuries increased as much as
eight basis points to 2.96 percent.  Swiss Strength  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, including the euro, yen and pound, slid for a second
day, shedding as much as 1.1 percent.  Switzerland ’s franc, which benefits in times of turmoil
from the nation’s role as a stable, neutral financial center,
strengthened to a record against the dollar, appreciating 1.5
percent to a record 81.78 centimes.  Bernanke testified before the House Financial Services
Committee as a fiscal-policy deadlock threatens to reverse the
decline in borrowing costs he gained through record stimulus.  The central bank is prepared to take additional action,
including buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears
to be in danger of stalling, he said.  Fed policy makers disagreed about whether additional
monetary stimulus will be needed, according to minutes of their
meeting last month released yesterday. Bernanke re-affirmed
plans by the Fed to sustain record stimulus and to hold its
benchmark interest rate near zero for an “extended period.”  Euro Relief  The 17-nation euro advanced 0.2 percent against a basket of
nine major trading partners, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. It is the first gain in four days.  Italian bonds rallied for a second day, pushing the yield
on the 10-year security down 12 basis points, and easing concern
that the region’s debt crisis may spread beyond  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal . Italy should meet this year’s budget goal and
adherence to fiscal targets would be consistent with stabilizing
the nation’s credit rating,  Fitch Ratings  said.  “Bernanke’s comments may take some of the focus off what
markets have been trading on, which have been largely linked to
European news,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc in New York. “We’ve seen a reduction of some of
the idiosyncratic risks related to  Europe  but some pretty
crucial events loom ahead.”  Reverse Measure  The seven-day relative strength index for the euro versus
the dollar rose to 40.75 after two days below the 30 level, the
longest streak since May 16. Readings below 30 indicate an asset
may have declined too quickly and may be due for a reversal.  China ’s gross domestic product increased 9.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
in Beijing. Industrial output advanced 15.1 percent in June, the
most since May 2010.  Australia ’s dollar rose for the first time in four days,
strengthening 1.5 percent to $1.0758, and gained 1.2 percent to
84.82 yen. China is the nation’s largest trading partner,
consuming Australia’s raw material exports.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19  Raw Materials 
advanced 1.4 percent and gold rose to a record in  London  and New
York.  New Zealand’s currency advanced 2.4 percent to 83.74 U.S.
cents and gained against all its major counterparts after a
report. China is the No. 1 destination for the nation’s exports.  Yen Falls  The yen weakened after Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said its moves have been “a bit one-sided.”  The yen dropped 1 percent to 111.86 per euro.  Japan ’s
currency added 0.3 percent to 78.98 per dollar after gaining 2.5
percent in the previous three days. It appreciated to 78.50
earlier today, the most since policy makers jointly intervened
in foreign-exchange markets in March.  “We were surprised at yen’s gain last night,” said C.J. Gavsie, managing director for foreign exchange trading at Bank
of Montreal in Toronto. “People we’re talking to in the market
said it was due to some very poor liquidity.”  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yukio Edano  echoed Noda’s
comments, saying rapid foreign-exchange moves were not
“desirable.” Group of Seven nations jointly sold Japan’s
currency on March 18 after the yen surged to a postwar record of
76.25 per dollar the previous day, threatening the nation’s
recovery from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  