-- 
Draghi Says EU Policy Makers Need to Formulate Stance to Prevent Contagion

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-07-13T10:56:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/draghi-says-eu-policy-makers-need-to-formulate-stance-to-prevent-contagion.html
Europe ’s debt crisis has entered a
new phase and policy makers must come up with a “clear”
response to stop the contagion that threatens the region’s
single currency, said the  European Central Bank ’s incoming
President  Mario Draghi .  “It’s now necessary for those trying to manage the
sovereign crisis to give certainty, to define with clarity the
political objectives, the scope of the instruments and the
amount of resources available,” Draghi said today in a speech
in Rome. “It’s a necessary step to ensure the stability of the
euro area and its currency.”  European governments can no longer count on their financing
costs remaining similar to those of  Germany , the region’s
strongest economy, simply because of their participation in the
single currency, he said.  “The solvency of the sovereign states is no longer
something acquired he said, but something earned with high and
sustainable growth, which is only possible if budgets are in
order,” Draghi, who also heads the Bank of  Italy  said.
“Today’s cost of credit reflects that new reality.”  Draghi’s comments at the annual meeting of Italy’s banking
association came after Italian bonds and stocks plunged in
recent days on concern the country would struggle to reduce the
euro-region’s second-biggest debt. The yield on Italy’s 10-year
bond reached the highest since 1997 and financing costs at a
sale of treasury bills surged on investor concern that Italy
would be the next victim of the region’s debt crisis.  Bonds Gain  Italian bonds gained today on pledges by the government for
swift passage of a 40 billion-euro ($64 billion) deficit-
reduction plan that seeks to balance the budget in 2014. The
premium investors demand to hold Italy’s 10-year bond over
German bunds fell 17 basis points to 269.3, down from a euro-era
record of 348 reached during trading yesterday.  Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti , speaking at the
same conference, said the plan would be passed by both houses of
parliament by July 15. Opposition parties have agreed to ease
passage of the measure in the legislature.  “Italian politicians decided to respond firmly to market
concerns over the credibility and implementation of the 40
billion-euro fiscal package,” Fabio Fois, European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London  said in a note to investors. “These
are clearly positive developments. The fiscal plan was
originally supposed to be voted on at the beginning of August.”  Asset Sales  The deficit plan is “an important step in strengthening
the public accounts” that will help reduce the debt, Draghi
said. He also called on the government to explain details of
additional measures for 2014 that will be needed to achieve the
balanced budget.  Tremonti did say the government was considering a plan to
sell off more state-owned assets “once the crisis passes.”  Austerity measures won’t be enough for Italy and other
euro-region countries to reduce debt if not accompanied by
policies to boost economic growth, Draghi said. The  Bank of
Italy  expects Italian growth to continue to lag behind the euro
area average for the next two years, he said. Second-quarter
growth did expand at a similar pace as that of the euro region,
Draghi said, reversing the trend in the first three month when
Italy grew 0.1 percent, a fraction of the 0.8 percent rate for
the euro area.  In contrast to many European economies, Italy has the
advantage of a solid banking system and a declining jobless
rate, Draghi said.  Italian lenders will pass stress tests this week with
a “significant” margin of capital above the core Tier 1 minimum,
he said. He estimated the lenders still need to boost capital by
20 billion euros to meet Basel 3 standards for 2019, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .
Jeffrey Donovan at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  