-- 
Dubai Shares Snap Two-Day Drop as Oil Rises; China Growth

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-07-13T08:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/dubai-shares-snap-two-day-drop-as-oil-rises-china-growth.html
Dubai’s stocks snapped a two-day
decline as oil advanced and  China ’s economic growth beat
estimates, buoying demand for riskier assets amid  Europe ’s
efforts to contain a debt crisis.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, advanced 1 percent.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the
United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank complying with Shariah rules,
gained the most in almost a week. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.4
percent, the most since July 10, to 1,539.24 at 12 p.m. in
Dubai. The measure had slumped 2.2 percent in the previous two
days. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  increased 0.1 percent, while
MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.8 percent after a 1.9
percent slump yesterday.  “We followed global markets on the downside the previous
two trading days and today we are seeing some relief” in Asian
markets, said Humam al-Shamaa, economic adviser at Abu Dhabi-
based Al-Fajer Securities LLC. “Volumes are low and the market
is being driven by speculators. The markets will continue to be
affected by the European debt crisis and U.S. developments.”  European and Asian stocks rallied as China said that its
economy and industrial output expanded more than analysts had
predicted. Gross domestic product rose 9.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in
Beijing, beating the median estimate for a 9.3 percent increase.
Industrial output advanced 15.1 percent in June, the most since
May 2010.  Europe Risk  The  MSCI AC Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index advanced 0.9 percent and the
STOXX Europe 600 Index increased 0.2 percent. European stocks
declined yesterday after Ireland joined Portugal and  Greece  as
the third euro-area nation to have its credit rating reduced to
below investment grade as European Union finance ministers
struggle to contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut Ireland to Ba1 from
Baa3, citing the probability that the country will need
additional official financing before it can return to the
private market to borrow.  In the U.S., policymakers continue to debate whether
additional stimulus will be needed if the outlook for economic
growth remains weak, minutes from the Federal Open Market
Committee’s June meeting showed yesterday. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will testify before Congress today.  Crude for August delivery rose as much as 0.5 percent to
$97.96 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It earlier
fell to $96.53. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
including the United Arab Emirates and  Saudi Arabia , supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  About 17 million shares were traded in Dubai so far today,
compared with a 12-month daily average of 122 million shares.  Emaar gained the most since July 7 to 3.01 dirhams. Dubai
Islamic gained 0.5 percent, the most since July 7, to 2.03
dirhams.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  increased 0.5 percent. Kuwait’s SE Price
Index gained 0.2 percent, while  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
rose less than 0.1 percent. Oman’s MSM 30 Index increased 0.3
percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index declined less than 0.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  