-- 
Gasoline Rises to Two-Month High After Unexpected Supply Drop

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-07-13T19:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/heating-oil-declines-on-speculation-fuel-production-may-increase.html
Gasoline rose to its highest price
since May after a government report showed U.S. inventories
unexpectedly declined last week.  Futures gained 1.7 percent after Energy Department data
showed total gasoline supplies fell 840,000 barrels in the week
ended July 8 to 211.7 million barrels. Analysts estimated that
stockpiles of the fuel increased 500,000 barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Crude oil stockpiles shrank 3.12 million
barrels.  “We got quite a shot in the arm with draw in crude and
gasoline supplies,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at
OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida . “That was a surprise for
the market.”  Gasoline for August delivery rose 5.34 cents to settle at
$3.1516 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since May 10.  Inventories of the fuel increased 0.8 percent on the East
Coast and 0.7 percent in the  Gulf Coast , with stocks in other
U.S. regions decreasing, lead by a 2.9 percent drop on the West
Coast.  Regular gasoline at the pump increased 0.9 cent to $3.645 a
gallon yesterday, the eighth consecutive increase, according to
AAA data. The price has gained 8.3 cents since July 4.  Distillate Supply  Distillate inventories increased more than analysts
forecast, rising 2.97 million barrels last week to 145 million
barrels, the government said. The survey called for an increase
of 500,000 barrels.  “We should be seeing more stock builds like this at this
type of year,” said Andrew Reed, a diesel analyst with Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “The fact
that we haven’t speaks to the strength of exports.”  Heating oil for August delivery gained 1.21 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $3.0997 a gallon on the exchange.  Demand for heating, trucking and industrial fuels sank 11
percent last week, the most since November, and on a four-week
average was 5.2 percent below a year earlier, department data
showed.  Distillate stocks rose on weakness in demand, which
“appears in line with recent economic indicators showing a
significant slowdown in U.S. economic activity” in the second
quarter,  Christophe Barret , a London-based oil analyst at Credit
Agricole SA, said in a note to clients today.  Federal Reserve  Prices also rose as  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress the central bank is prepared to take
additional action if the economy appears to be in danger of
stalling.  “The idea that  interest rates  are probably going to be
kept low” is giving strength to products, Cordier said. The
message from the Bernanke testimony is that the Fed will come to
the rescue, he said.  Bernanke’s comments are his first since a government report
on July 8 showed the economy added 18,000 jobs in June, less
than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Oil consumption in  North America  will rise by 150,000
barrels a day and European use will decline, the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries said yesterday in its first
forecast for next year.  “We expect that processing by refiners will increase as
Midwest plants come back from unscheduled outages,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. OPEC
reducing the world growth forecast “might also be putting some
pressure” on the fuel.  OPEC said oil demand will increase by 1.3 million barrels a
day next year, compared with 1.4 million this year.  “An unsteady world economy is negatively affecting the oil
market and imposing a high range of uncertainty for the short
term,” OPEC’s Vienna-based secretariat said in its monthly
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 