-- 
EBay Must Face Craigslist Fraud Claims in Californian Court, Judge Says

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ebay-must-face-claims-it-cheated-to-compete-with-craigslist-judge-rules.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  failed to persuade a San
Francisco judge that a  Delaware  lawsuit it won against
Craigslist Inc. ruled out fraud claims by the online classified
company in a  California  case.  Superior Court Judge Richard Kramer said yesterday that the
judge who presided over the Delaware case and ruled last year in
favor of EBay by throwing out closely-held Craigslist’s anti-
takeover plan meant for the California lawsuit to proceed. EBay,
a minority investor in Craigslist, had argued that the Delaware
case dealt with the “totality” of its relationship with
Craigslist.  “He makes no legal conclusion as to whether EBay is liable
for the various claims in the California case,” Kramer said at
a hearing yesterday. “He said clearly he is leaving it to me to
resolve the California claims.”  Craigslist, based in San Francisco, claims in the
California case, originally filed in 2008, that the world’s
largest Web auctioneer stole confidential information to start a
competing online ad site when the two companies were in
negotiations about EBay purchasing a stake in Craigslist. The
lawsuit alleges breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty,
negligent misrepresentation and violation of California
securities laws.  Corporate Governance   Craigslist’s lawyers told Kramer yesterday in court that
the Delaware case was about issues of corporate governance that
were separate from claims in the California case, which is over
whether EBay lied about its intent to compete with Craigslist
and try to increase its holdings and take the company over.  “eBay is considering its options for appeal,” Michelle
Fang, associate general counsel for the company, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “This litigation is still in its
early stages. In its decision today, the court did not address
the actual merits of the case, and we remain confident that we
will ultimately prevail.”  Susan MacTavish Best, a spokeswoman for Craigslist, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  EBay, based in  San Jose , California, bought a 28 percent
stake in Craigslist in 2004. The company developed an online
classified site called Kijiji in 2007. The site was renamed
EBayClassifieds.com.  Takeover Defense  The classifieds site prompted Craigslist owners James Buckmaster and Craig Newmark to enact takeover defenses and to
strip EBay of its board seat on the grounds that the minority
shareholder posed a threat to their company.  EBay sued Craigslist in Delaware and won a ruling last year
throwing out the poison-pill plan. The California lawsuit was
put on hold pending the outcome of the Delaware case.  Kramer held a trial yesterday to determine what effect the
Delaware ruling has on the California lawsuit. He scheduled a
hearing in the lawsuit for September.  The case is Craigslist v. EBay, 475276, Superior Court of
California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  