-- 
EBay’s PayPal Unveils Mobile-to-Mobile Payment System With NFC Technology

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-13T19:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ebay-s-paypal-unveils-mobile-to-mobile-payment-system-with-nfc-technology.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit unveiled a
service that will let users make payments by tapping their
mobile devices together, joining rivals in the market for
wireless transactions using near field communication technology.  The PayPal mobile application will be available later this
summer for Samsung Electronics Co.’s Nexus S phones, based on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system. It will be offered more
widely as NFC is included in more handsets, Laura Chambers,
senior director of PayPal Mobile, said in an interview today.  EBay, the world’s largest online marketplace, joins a
growing crowd of companies planning to broaden the availability
of payment options via NFC, including handset makers such as
Apple Inc. and financial institutions like Visa Inc. As the
technology gains traction, consumers may soon be able to pay for
goods at a retail store, redeem coupons and split a restaurant
bill with the touch of an NFC-equipped mobile phone.  “There’s a lot of technologies evolving around mobile
payments, and NFC is just one of those,” Chambers said in a
phone interview. “What we’re doing is testing out NFC. We’re
getting it into the markets, we’re getting it into the hands of
consumers and we’ll see how it goes.”  NFC is a technology that can beam and receive information
at short distances. Consumers worldwide will spend almost $50
billion using their mobile phones through NFC technology by
2014, Juniper Research said in a  report  last month.  EBay’s Acquisitions  EBay is investing in new smartphone services as PayPal, an
online-payment processor, faces growing competition. Last year,
 San Jose , California-based EBay acquired mobile comparison-
shopping applications Red Laser and Milo, and on July 7 it
agreed to buy closely held mobile-payment provider Zong Inc. for
$240 million in cash.  The company now has 8 million users conducting transactions
on mobile devices, Chambers said. PayPal’s new NFC feature lets
users instantly transfer funds between them by tapping two
handsets together.  Apple plans to introduce NFC features in its iPhone and
iPad tablet,  Richard Doherty , director of consulting firm
Envisioneering Group, said in January. Nokia Oyj and its
software partner Microsoft Corp. also are working on NFC
functionality.  Google kick-started adoption of NFC features last year,
with a service called  Hotpot  in  Portland ,  Oregon . Vendors such
as Voodoo Doughnut have put special tags on their doors that can
be tapped with an enabled phone to give users access to reviews,
menus and directions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 