-- 
Technical Faults Pressure NYSE to Take Deutsche Boerse System

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-07-13T16:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/technical-faults-pressure-nyse-to-take-deutsche-boerse-system.html
NYSE Euronext’s fourth technical
malfunction in less than a month increases pressure for it to
use  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s trading technology should they succeed
in combining to form the world’s largest exchange.  The two firms said last month they will seek to save more
than 51 million euros ($71 million) by having common trading and
clearing infrastructure and combining networks. They haven’t
said whose systems they will use after the completion of the
merger, which must win the support of 75 percent of the
Frankfurt-based exchange’s shareholders by midnight.  NYSE Euronext’s benchmark equity indexes in  France ,
 Belgium ,  Portugal  and the Netherlands didn’t update for 3 1/2
hours yesterday. That followed a June 27 fault that stopped
trading in CAC 40 stocks for more than 45 minutes and two
incidents the previous week that delayed the start of trading by
an hour in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Luxembourg and Lisbon and
halted transactions in the largest Dutch and Belgian stocks.  “These glitches don’t support the NYSE’s case,” said
 Richard Repetto , exchange analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP in  New York . “They need to fix them. You don’t have the
other global exchanges reporting this frequency of outages.” He
has a “buy” recommendation on NYSE stock.  Computer Systems  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , formed when the operator of the New York
Stock Exchange bought Europe’s second-largest exchange in 2007,
has cited improving computer systems as a goal of its
combination with  Deutsche Boerse , first announced in February.
The $9.4 billion all-stock transaction will give Deutsche Boerse
60 percent of the combined entity, while NYSE Euronext Chief
Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  will run the organization.  “We are doing our utmost to improve,” Lisa Dallmer, NYSE
Euronext’s chief operating officer for European cash markets,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “We operate a
sophisticated technological architecture, as do all the players
in the market place. We all have a mixture of hardware and
software that adds to the challenge.” She said the four recent
outages were all unrelated incidents.  NYSE Euronext matches equity trades on its Universal
Trading Platform while Deutsche Boerse uses its Xetra technology
and is developing a new system for all its markets.  “Glitches could be a factor, but it should be a very
thoughtful process on which platform survives,” said Repetto  Exchanges are seeking mergers as competition from new
entrants such as Chi-X  Europe  Ltd. and Bats Europe, who are also
trying to combine, eats into their market share and revenue.  ‘Certainly Don’t Help’  “The technical problems certainly don’t help NYSE,” said
Steve Grob, London-based director of group strategy at Fidessa
Group Plc, a developer of financial software. “We are in an
increasingly complicated technology world and it’s harder and
harder to do this stuff reliably, but people now have
alternative places to trade and are increasingly comfortable
trading there when the incumbent exchange goes down.”  Approval from Deutsche Boerse shareholders would remove the
second of three main obstacles to the takeover after NYSE
investors voted in favor of the transaction on July 7. About
60.2 percent had tendered stock as of 4 p.m. today.  European regulators are reviewing the deal because it would
unite venues that handle more than 90 percent of the region’s
exchange-traded derivatives. They have set an initial deadline
of Aug. 4 to make a ruling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  