-- 
Egypt Shares Rise Most Since May as Government Cedes to Demands

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-07-13T13:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/egypt-shares-rise-most-since-may-as-government-cedes-to-demands.html
Egyptian shares rallied the most in
seven weeks after the government moved to appease demonstrators
in several cities and former ministers were jailed for wasting
public funds.  The benchmark EGX30 Index gained 2.4 percent, the most
since May 29, to 5,092.18 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The
gauge is the third-best performer among 91 indexes tracked by
Bloomberg.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , North Africa’s biggest
mobile phone company by subscribers, rose the most since May 22.
 Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC)  advanced 2 percent.  Prime Minister Essam Sharaf said he will change members of
his cabinet within five days and will resign if the move fails,
 Al Jazeera  reported yesterday. The Supreme Judicial Council
yesterday recommended broadcasting trials of former government
officials for alleged corruption and killing of protesters
during the January uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak .  “The market is rallying because of the concessions given
by the military, such as the revamp of police, the cabinet
reshuffle and the planned televised trials of ex-regime
figures,” said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at
Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities.  Hundreds of protesters continued a sit-in in Cairo’s  Tahrir
Square  and at least three other cities for a sixth day. They are
demanding a speedy trial of officials linked to the previous
regime and police officers accused of killing civilians during
the uprising.  A court yesterday handed down sentences ranging from one to
10 years to former government officials, including Prime
Minister Ahmed Nazif, after they were convicted of wasting
public funds by awarding a contract for motor vehicle license
plates without holding a public tender.  Orascom Telecom gained 3.4 percent to 3.97 Egyptian pounds.
Orascom Construction, the country’s biggest publicly traded
builder, gained the most since June 9 to 255.97 pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  