-- 
Egypt May Add Ukraine, Romania to List of Wheat Suppliers

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-07-13T11:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/egypt-may-add-ukraine-romania-to-list-of-wheat-suppliers-1-.html
Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat
importer, is considering adding Romania and Ukraine to its list
of approved suppliers, said Nomani Nomani, vice chairman of the
state-run  General Authority  for Supply Commodities.  The authority, which buys between 5 million and 6 million
metric tons of the grain a year via international tenders
because local production is too low to meet demand in the Arab
world’s most populous nation, wants to diversify its range of
sources, Nomani said.  “We are still studying the possibility of adding the
Romanian and the Ukrainian source to our list,” Nomani said
today in a phone interview from Cairo. “This will depend on
several factors, including the quality of the crop and their
ability to export, especially in the long-run.”  Nomani said he will visit  Russia  July 18-22 as part of a
delegation to meet with government officials and private grain
traders for discussions on regulations governing wheat
shipments.  When Russia halted grain exports in mid-August as the
country suffered the worst drought in a half century the
Egyptian authority, also known as GASC, dropped it from the list
of approved sources for wheat imports and bought subsitute
supplies from countries including  France  and the U.S. Egypt
reinstated Russia after the country’s export ban expired on July
1 and bought 180,000 tons of Russian grain, GASC said July 7.  “The objective of the meeting is to emphasize the
specifications of the wheat sought and ensure that the quality
is good,” Nomani said. “We want to make sure that what
happened in August will not be repeated.”  The delegation will also ask whether Russia is prepared to
increase the number of ports from which the grain is exported to
Egypt, Nomani said. Novorossiysk on the  Black Sea  is the only
port used for the trade now, he said.  Egypt, which has a population of about 80 million people,
uses imported wheat to make subsidized bread.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in  London  at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 