-- 
Egypt Revolt Halts U.S. Bid to Push Israel Ties Using Trade

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-07-14T12:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/egypt-revolt-may-undo-u-s-bid-to-spur-middle-east-peace-with-trade-ties.html
Sinai gunmen,  Egypt ’s revolt and a
retired diplomat threaten to derail U.S.-backed efforts to spur
the peaceful integration of Israel and the Arab world through
trade and investments.  Three decades after former President Jimmy Carter brought
Egypt’s  Anwar Sadat  and Israel’s Menachem Begin together at Camp
David, the historic peace treaty they signed is at risk. The
ousting of President  Hosni Mubarak  has unleashed criticism of
the Egyptian-Israeli ties and repeated bombings of a Sinai
Peninsula pipeline are imperiling its biggest economic plum.  Apart from the gas accord, concluded under Mubarak, the
administration of then-President  George W. Bush  in 2005 helped
expand a trade agreement with  Jordan  to Egypt, allowing both
countries to exempt exports to the U.S. from tariffs if they
included an Israeli component. The efforts boosted ties between
the business communities, breathing life into peace treaties
upheld by the Arab governments and resented by their people.  “Part of the U.S. strategy has been to try to integrate
 Israel  into the Arab world economically,” said Elijah Zarwan, a
Cairo-based senior analyst for the International Crisis Group.
“Egyptian foreign policy is going to be much more sensitive to
public opinion following the revolt, and that means being
sometimes less sensitive to foreign pressure.”  Chants accusing Mubarak of being an agent of Israel made
their way into Egypt’s protests and the rallies since. Security
forces used teargas in May to prevent protesters from breaking
into the Israel embassy in Cairo.  Not Scared  “Israel doesn’t scare anybody anymore,” said Ibrahim
Yusri, a former ambassador to  Algeria  who filed lawsuits against
the Mubarak government to end the gas exports, which he says are
sold below fair value. The Egyptian-Israeli joint venture that
operates the pipeline, East Mediterranean Gas Co., denies his
claim.  The pipeline was bombed by masked militants this week for
the fourth time in five months. The attacks will force Israel to
use dirtier and costlier alternatives and undermine “the most
important economic aspect in the peace treaty,” Israel’s
National Infrastructure Minister Uzi Landau said July 12.  Shares of  Ampal-American Israel (AMPL)  Corp., which owns a 12.5
percent stake in the pipeline, have plunged more than 60 percent
since the first attack on the facility on Feb. 5, compared with
a 4.1 percent drop of the TA-25 benchmark index. Shares were
down 2.9 percent in Tel Aviv to 2.90 shekels at 2:43 p.m.  ‘Why Get Involved’  Israel recognizes that the pipeline woes, together with the
breakdown of Middle East peace efforts, have reinforced wider
sentiment in Arab countries that now is not a good time to
expand business ties, said Gil Feiler, managing director of
Info-Prod Research Ltd., an Israeli consulting firm specializing
in information on Arab countries.  “Israel is such a volatile issue with their populations
that they say, ‘Why get involved?’” Feiler said in a telephone
interview. “The potential for direct trade is very slim.”
Qatar shuttered an Israeli trade office after the 2008 military
campaign in the  Gaza Strip .  A lack of progress to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
helped push Arab opinion of the U.S. to its lowest since at
least 2008 when “Arabs were hopeful that the election of  Barack
Obama  would improve” relations, according to a poll released
yesterday by the Arab American Institute. The  Zogby
International survey  of 4,005 people was carried out in six
countries, including Egypt.  Economic Damage  For Egypt, an unraveling of the export agreement will
deprive the country of a source of hard currency, further
weakening an economy that contracted 4.2 percent in the first
quarter this year, according to government figures. Israel’s
gross domestic product expanded 4.7 percent in the same period.  Egypt’s energy exports were the third-biggest earners of
hard currency in the fiscal year that ended June 2010 at $10.3
billion, said Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at Cairo-based
investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. Egypt’s official
international reserves have plunged 26 percent this year to
$26.6 billion in June, according to central bank data.  Economic damage isn’t limited to gas. Talks between Egypt
and Israel to expand the U.S.-brokered  Qualified Industrial
Zones , known as QIZ, agreement to more Egyptian provinces are
now on hold, said Gavriel Bar, head of Israel’s Industry and
Trade Ministry’s Middle East division.  Plant closures in the early days of the revolt cut revenue
for the first half of the year and chased away some U.S.
customers who bought from  Asia  instead. “Buyers want to see
stability in the QIZ and that’s a challenge we continue to
face,” Bar said.  Respect Treaties  Officials under Mubarak had wanted to allow factories in
more areas to exempt exports to the U.S. from tariffs. The
accord doubled Egypt’s garment sales to the U.S. market to $800
million until 2010, according to Alaa Arafa, chief executive
officer of  Al Arafa Investments and Consulting (AIVC) , the country’s
biggest clothing exporter.  Shares of Al Arafa have slid 11 percent this year, compared
with a 29 percent drop for the benchmark  EGX 30 Index. (EGX30)  The
shares were up 1.6 percent to $0.65 in Cairo at 1:54 p.m. today.  Yusri, who served as assistant foreign minister, has been
using the judicial system since 2007 to end the gas sales. He
says he’ll go to the courts again to pressure interim Oil
Minister Abdalla Ghorab to enforce a 2010 order to end sales
until a price-review mechanism is put in place. Oil Ministry
officials didn’t respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Egypt seeks to raise  gas prices  to Israel to gain 4 billion
pounds ($671.7 million) more a year, the state-run Al Ahram
newspaper reported today, citing interim Finance Minister  Samir Radwan .  No Incentives  The military council that took over interim power from
Mubarak has said that Egypt respects all international treaties.
Amre Moussa, former foreign minister and the leading candidate
for president according to polls from groups including Pew
Research Center, said in April he will respect the peace accord
“so long as the other side respects it too,” according to his
official Facebook page. The  Muslim Brotherhood  says Israel
shouldn’t be offered economic incentives before peace with the
Palestinians is achieved.  Some of EMG’s shareholders who include Israel’s Merhav
Group, U.S. billionaire  Sam Zell  and  PTT Pcl (PTT) ,  Thailand ’s biggest
energy company, are seeking more than $8 billion in damages from
Egypt because of its failure to protect the pipeline.  “It is sad to observe that over the past six months the
government of Egypt behaves as though respecting binding
contracts is optional,” Merhav’s Senior Vice President Nimrod Novik, an EMG board member, said in a telephone interview.  That doesn’t bother Yusri, who, at “more than 70” years
of age, says he has dedicated his remaining years to forcing
Israel to pay more or turning off the tap.  “It has been a hard struggle, but we are determined,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 