-- 
Egypt Says Gas Exports to Start 10 Days After Pipeline Repairs

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-07-13T16:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/egypt-says-gas-exports-to-start-10-days-after-pipeline-repairs.html
Egypt ’s natural-gas exports to
Jordan are due to start within 10 days after repairs on the
network that will take at least a week following sabotage
yesterday, Energy Minister Khalid Touqan said.  The  Jordan Petroleum Refinery Co. (JOPT) , the country’s only
refiner, has 122,500 metric tons of heavy fuel that is
sufficient to keep the kingdom’s power stations running for 43
days, he said in a  statement  on the official news agency Petra.
It also has a similar quantity of diesel that would meet power
needs for another 22 days if gas disruptions continue, he said.  Egypt’s gas supplies to Jordan and  Israel  were disrupted
for the fourth time in five months due to a sabotage attack on
the pipeline network in Egypt’s Sinai region. Jordan, one of the
smallest economies in the  Middle East , is forced to switch its
 power plants  to more expensive heavy fuels. The kingdom imports
almost all of its energy needs and relies on foreign investment
and grants to support its budget and current-account deficits.  The Jordanian Finance Ministry, through the Central Bank of
Jordan, issued two days ago 100 million dinars ($141 million)
worth of bills for the Central Electricity Generating Co. and
the amount was wired to the Jordan Petroleum Refinery yesterday,
Touqan said.  A delegation from the Jordanian Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Resources is due to travel to Iraq next week to discuss
Iraq’s supply by trucks of crude and gasoil, as well as a
planned project to install a pipeline for Iraqi oil to flow into
Jordan and also future natural-gas shipments, Touqan said.  The  Central Bank  of Jordan last month agreed to allow the
country’s only refiner to borrow beyond its legal limit to help
overcome financial difficulties. The repeated gas disruptions
also prompted the government to allow on July 5 manufacturers to
import heavy fuels including diesel and fuel oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 Nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  