-- 
Egypt Postpones Elections, Purges Police Following Protests

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 
2011-07-13T16:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/egypt-postpones-elections-purges-police-following-protests.html
Egypt  postponed parliamentary
elections and ended the service of hundreds of police officers
in an attempt to appease protesters who have camped in Cairo’s
Tahrir Square for almost a week.  The elections, originally due in September, will be held
the following month or in November, Egypt’s state-run Middle
East News Agency reported today, citing an unidentified military
official. “Polling procedures” will start before the end of
September and voting will take place within 60 days, MENA said.  The Interior Ministry also announced it was “ending the
service” of 669 senior police officers, including 505 generals,
82 brigadier generals and 82 colonels. Some of the officers have
been referred to trial, the ministry said in a statement
distributed to reporters, without giving further details.  Protesters, some of whom have occupied Tahrir Square since
July 8, demanded the removal of police officers accused of
abuses under former President  Hosni Mubarak  and during the
revolt that ousted him, in which at least 800 people died. Other
demands include speeding up efforts to prosecute officials and
officers accused of corruption or the killing of demonstrators.  Many activists had also called for postponing the first
legislative vote since Mubarak’s ouster, saying holding
elections so soon would benefit established forces such as
Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood at the expense of the young
protesters who were the main driver of the revolt.  Premier’s Pledges  The rallies in Cairo and other cities continued even after
Prime Minister Essam Sharaf announced July 11 that he would
change members of his Cabinet within a week and that he had
ordered the removal of senior police officers accused of crimes.
Many protesters said his pledges fell short of their demands.  Egyptian shares rallied the most in seven weeks before
today’s announcements, which came after the market closed.  The benchmark EGX30 Index gained 2.4 percent, the most
since May 29, to 5,092.18 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The
gauge is the third-best performer among 91 indexes tracked by
Bloomberg. Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, North Africa’s biggest
mobile-phone company by subscribers, rose the most since May 22.
Orascom Construction Industries advanced 2 percent.  ‘Cleansing the Police’  “We have always called for cleansing the police forces,”
Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood, said by
telephone in Cairo. “What happened is a response not just to
our demands but to those of the Egyptian people. We hope that
elections can be held as soon as possible so that the military
council can turn power over to an elected, civilian authority.”  Abdel Rahman Fares, an activist who has been camped out in
Tahrir since July 8, said the changes aren’t enough to end the
sit-in. “These are good steps but you cannot throw us a bone
and expect us to leave,” he said in a telephone interview.
“The sit-in will continue” until all demands are met,
including an end to military trials of civilians, he said.  State employees returned today to their work at the main
government building in  Tahrir Square , a site that had been
closed by some protesters, MENA reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 