-- 
Germany’s Helaba Snubs EU Stress-Test Regulator in Run Up to Publication

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/helaba-snubs-eu-stress-test-agency-in-run-up-to-publication.html
Germany ’s Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen snubbed the European Union’s bank stress tests two
days before the publication of results, refusing to give the
 European Banking Authority  permission to publish all of its
data.  The bank, known as Helaba, disputes the EBA’s measurements
of Core Tier 1 capital, the factor by which banks are said to
have passed or failed the tests, because they don’t include some
instruments allowed by German regulators. The lender said it
passed the exams with a capital ratio of 6.8 percent, counting
contractual changes around state funds of 1.92 billion euros
($2.71 billion), not included in the EBA results.  German regulators had already been critical of the EBA.
Bafin Chairman  Jochen Sanio  last month said the EBA lacks
“clear, defined corporate-governance structures, which alone
could guarantee process legitimacy.”  Helaba’s move “challenges the very validity of the tests”
because the EBA “doesn’t have the authority to force anyone to
participate” in the exams, James Babicz, head of risk at
analytics company SAS U.K., said in a telephone interview.  To pass, the 91 European banks tested need a Core Tier 1
capital ratio above 5 percent. This year’s exams, which will be
published on July 15, will include a review of how lenders would
handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area in
2011, a 15 percent drop in European equity markets as well as
possible trading losses on sovereign debt.  The EBA’s evaluation of Helaba’s reserves “would lead to a
halving of the core capital without legal grounds,” the
Frankfurt-based bank said in its statement yesterday.  ‘Incomprehensible’  “It is incomprehensible that the EBA will exclude capital
that for 10 years has been included in the balance sheet as
fully liable and regulatory-approved capital,” Helaba said.  The London-based EBA’s definition of core tier 1 capital
has been “consistently applied across the participating banks
and conforms to the criteria agreed by its board of
supervisors,” the regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  There is a “good chance that other landesbanken will
follow” Helaba’s decision to restrict the amount of data
released by the EBA as part of the publication of stress test
results, Babicz said.  Germany’s central bank said Helaba is sufficiently
capitalized. The German state of Hesse’s “public and binding”
decision to apply non-voting capital, known as silent
participations, in its results meant the bank is well
capitalized, Sabine Lautenschlaeger, vice president of Deutsche
Bundesbank, said yesterday.  Helaba’s situation is “fairly unique,” Sony Kapoor,
managing director of policy group Re-Define  Europe  in  London ,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Every time a bank accuses EBA
of being too tough, the star of the nascent regulator rises.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  