-- 
Helaba Fails European Bank Stress Test in Standoff With EBA

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-07-13T20:26:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/helaba-fails-european-bank-stress-test-in-standoff-with-eba.html
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen failed
this year’s  stress test  for banks amid a dispute with the
European Banking Authority over the type of capital funding
companies can include.  Germany’s fifth-largest state-owned lender, known as
Helaba, said today its Core Tier 1 capital ratio for 2012 is 6.8
percent, including non-voting capital from its owners. The EBA
won’t recognize such funding, pushing the bank’s core capital
below the 5 percent threshold required to pass the test, Helaba
spokesman Wolfgang Kuss said in an interview.  The spat pits Germany against the banking regulator two
days before  Europe ’s financial institutions are scheduled to
release their results. Deutsche Bundesbank said Helaba is
sufficiently capitalized under the most stringent stress test
criteria. The state of Hesse, one of Helaba’s owners, supported
the bank’s decision to restrict publication of the results to
data supplied under the original criteria, it said in a
statement. The dispute centers around so-called silent
participations, a form of non-voting capital used in  Germany .  “It is incomprehensible that the EBA will exclude capital
that for 10 years has been included in the balance sheet as
fully liable and regulatory-approved capital,” Helaba said in
an e-mailed statement.  State funds of 1.92 billion euros ($2.7 billion) at
Frankfurt-based Helaba will be contractually changed so that
silent participations count as core capital, the Hessian  finance
ministry  said on April 29. The conversion meant Helaba would
pass the test, the ministry said at the time.  Sufficient Capital  Helaba is sufficiently capitalized under “strict”
European stress test criteria, Deutsche Bundesbank Vice
President Sabine Lautenschlaeger said today. Hesse’s “public
and binding” declaration to apply silent participations in the
bank as core capital means it is sufficiently funded, she said.  Helaba  said it will only authorize the EBA to publish the
stress-test templates with details that the bank has submitted.  “This is not criticism against the underlying stress
scenarios,” Helaba said. “Our criticism is solely directed at
the quality of the underlying terms of core capital, which would
lead to a halving of the core capital without legal grounds.”  German banks are scheduled to publish the results of the
stress tests on July 15.  The London-based EBA’s definition of core tier 1 capital
has been “consistently applied across the participating banks
and conforms to the criteria agreed by its board of
supervisors,” the regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  