-- 
Emerging Stocks Snap 3-Day Loss on China GDP, Output

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-07-13T07:23:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/emerging-stocks-snap-3-day-loss-on-china-gdp-output-correct-.html
(Corrects losing streak in headline.)  Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark index rebounding from the biggest drop in seven
weeks, as  China ’s economy expanded more than analysts predicted
and investors weighed efforts to contain  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.8 percent to
1,129.98 as of 2:17 p.m. Jakarta time, following a 1.9 percent
drop yesterday. The measure slumped 4 percent in the three days
ended yesterday, the steepest losing streak in a year. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index gained 2 percent. South Korea’s
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 0.9 percent and the Philippine Stock
Exchange Index increased 1.2 percent.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288) , the nation’s third-biggest
lender by market value, jumped 4.2 percent in  Hong Kong  after
China’s economy expanded 9.5 percent last quarter, exceeding the
9.3 percent median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. European Union officials are struggling to stem the debt
contagion that’s threatening to spread to  Italy , where Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi said he’s determined to tackle the
crisis in his country.  “The data today showed the Chinese economy is on track,”
said Danny Yan, a fund manager at Haitong International Asset
Management, which oversees $600 million. “Investors are
interpreting this as a positive sign, discounting the
possibility of hard landing.”  China’s industrial output rose 15.1 percent in June, the
statistics bureau said in Beijing today. That’s the biggest gain
since May 2010. Retail sales expanded 17.7 percent last month
from a year before, exceeding the median analyst estimate of 17
percent. Demand is holding up in China even after the central
bank boosted lending rates five times since mid-October and
lifted bank reserve requirements to a record.  Banks, Developers  Agricultural Bank gained 4.2 percent in Hong Kong after
saying net income for the first six months of 2011 rose more
than 45 percent from a year ago.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,
the nation’s No. 2 lender by market value, advanced 2 percent.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd. added 2.4 percent.  A measure of financial stocks on the MSCI emerging market
index increased 0.9 percent, the biggest contributor to gains
among the broader gauge’s 10 industry groups.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , a developer owned by
the nation’s construction ministry, surged 5.8 percent in Hong
Kong.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , a state-run developer, jumped
4.4 percent. Housing transactions rose 31 percent in June from
May, and the value of homes sold last month increased to 499.2
billion yuan ($77 billion) from 380.9 billion yuan, based on
first-half data provided by the statistics bureau today.  Europe’s Crisis  Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi vowed yesterday to hasten
passage of a 40 billion-euro ($56 billion) deficit-cutting plan
and Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said today the nation
might need to endure deeper spending cuts next year. Ireland’s
credit rating was reduced to junk by Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday after European finance ministers failed to reach a
decision on how to stem the debt crisis in Greece.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest
contract chipmaker that last year generated about 12 percent of
its revenue from Europe, rose 2.7 percent in Taipei.  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270) , the South Korean automaker that got 12 percent of its
revenue from Europe last year, advanced 3.3 percent in  Seoul .  HTC Corp. (2498)  fell 4.9 percent, dropping for a second day in
Taipei trading after Asia’s second-largest maker of smartphones
was accused of infringing Apple Inc. patents in a case that may
halt U.S. imports of the Taiwanese company’s phones and its new
Flyer tablet computers.  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)  and Inotera Memories Inc. tumbled
more than 4.6 percent each in Taipei after UBS AG said memory-
chip prices may fall more than previously estimated. Prices may
drop 17 percent in the third quarter, compared with an earlier
estimate of 10 percent to 15 percent, the brokerage said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  