-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Advance on China Economic Growth; Gold at Record

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-13T21:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/emerging-market-stocks-advance-on-china-economic-growth-gold-at-record.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in four days after  China ’s economic growth beat
forecasts sparking a rise in commodity prices. The euro rallied
while gold climbed to a record.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index surged 1.5 percent to
1,137.88 at 4:15 p.m. in New York, and Chinese shares rebounded
from the biggest one-day slump in seven weeks. The  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index pared gains advancing 0.3 percent as U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
is prepared to take additional action if the economy appears to
be in danger of stalling.  The euro strengthened 1.4 percent to $1.4167. Gold futures
for August delivery climbed $23.20, or 1.5 percent, to settle at
$1,585.50 on the Comex in New York.  The Chinese economy grew 9.5 percent in the second quarter,
down from 9.7 percent in the previous three months, the
statistics bureau in Beijing said today. The median estimate was
9.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 18 economists.  Europe ’s
policy makers must come up with a “clear” response to stop the
contagion that threatens the region’s single currency, incoming
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in  Rome .  China’s “data helps risk appetite in general,” said Goh Puay Yeong, a Singapore-based strategist at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “It means that investors can price out the tail risk of a
hard landing in China.”  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 1.5 percent. The
government said industrial output increased 15.1 percent in
June, the most since May 2010.  India ’s Sensex rose 1 percent,
and Brazil’s Bovespa gained 1.6 percent on the positive outlook
for commodity demand in China, its largest trading partner.  Cyrela  Cyrela  Brazil  Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes,
Brazil’s second-biggest homebuilder by revenue, gained 6.2
percent after announcing it plans to buy back as much as 7
percent of its shares outstanding.  The Irish-German 10-year spread widened 60 basis points to
a euro-era record of 1,123 basis points after Moody’s cut
Ireland to Ba1 from Baa3, citing the probability that the
country will need additional financing before it can return to
the private market to borrow. Ireland is the third euro-region
nation to be cut to below investment grade by a ratings company,
joining Greece and Portugal.  Credit-default swaps insuring Irish bonds rose 62 basis
points to 1,062, signaling a 61 percent chance of the government
failing to pay in the next five years. Contracts on  Greece 
increased eight basis points to 2,293, according to CMA.  Bernanke  Bernanke told Congress the central bank is prepared to buy
more  government bonds  if the economy appears in danger of
stalling. Bernanke said “disappointing” job growth in May and
June was partly a result of temporary effects, such as high
energy prices, and repeated that the economy will pick up in the
second half of the year.  Bulgaria’s lev strengthened 1.3 percent against the dollar
while Poland’s zloty gained 2 percent. Hungary’s forint advanced
1.9 percent.  Zinc rose 0.5 percent. China is the biggest buyer of zinc,
used to rust-proof steel. Crude oil for August delivery advanced
0.6 percent to $98.05 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  