-- 
Menthol Cigarette Prices Aimed at Teens Stir Call for Ban

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-07-13T20:19:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/menthol-cigarette-prices-aimed-at-teens-stir-call-for-ban-2-.html
A report that  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  cut
prices and increased advertising for its best-selling U.S.
menthol cigarette where minority teens gather is renewing calls
to ban the products even as the company disputes the finding.  The  study  by Stanford University’s Prevention Research
Center in Stanford,  California , is the first to quantify menthol
cigarette marketing to concentrations of black high school
students, according to its authors. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  on July 21 will  review  its report on whether the
mint-flavored product’s effect on children and minorities is
harmful enough to warrant a ban.  The study reinforces conclusions in a March U.S. report on
the public-health effects of menthol cigarettes, and
Representative  Henry Waxman , the California Democrat who
sponsored a 2009 law giving the FDA power to regulate tobacco,
said the findings justify why regulatory action is needed.  “We’ve long known”  tobacco companies  “engineer and
manufacture marketing that’s inflicted great harm,” said Waxman
in a telephone interview. “Removing those cigarettes from the
market would improve public health. This underscores that more
needs to be done to protect American youth.”  A ban remains “very unlikely” because of a “knowledge
gap” in research on how harmful and addictive menthol products
are, said Vivien Azer, a tobacco analyst at Citigroup Global
Markets Inc. in New York. “I believe it will take time,” she
said. “The decision to take no action is a possibility.”  Menthol cigarettes generate $25 billion in annual U.S.
sales, or about  30 percent  of all cigarette revenue, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lorillard’s Newport brand had
$5.3 billion in 2010 sales for the Greensboro, North Carolina-
based company, according to its Feb. 18 annual  report .  Adult Smokers ‘Ignored’  The Stanford study gave an inaccurate impression because it
didn’t factor in adult smokers within the neighborhoods studied,
said Gregg Perry, a Lorillard spokesman. Company marketing isn’t
affected by proximity to schools, he said.  “The study ignores the simple fact that the areas where you
find African-American students, you necessarily find African-
American adult smokers, the majority of who prefer menthol
cigarettes,” Perry said in an e-mail.  National Marketing  “Newport marketing plans, with the exception of
promotional discounting, are national in design,” he said.  Promotional discounts are regional and offered at the state
level, with no variation within a state, Perry said. Individual
retailers set prices based on a number of variables, he said.  The study, published June 24, reviewed prices and
advertising at 407 retailers within half of a mile of 91
randomly selected California high schools in 2006. The authors
recorded the prices per pack of Newport menthols and of Marlboro
non-menthol cigarettes made by Richmond, Virginia-based  Altria
Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA unit.  Lorillard rose 30 cents to $109.33 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Altria fell 4 cents to $26.86.  The price of Newports fell an average of 12 cents for every
10 percent rise in the number of black students at nearby
schools, the study found. The cost of Marlboros didn’t change.  Proportion of Ads  For every 10 percent increase in the number of neighborhood
children between 10 and 17 years old, the proportion of ads for
all menthol brands jumped by almost 12 percent, said Lisa
Henriksen, a senior research scientist and the lead author.
Marlboro promotions increased 0.9 percent for the same
population jump.  The researchers reviewed all cigarette advertising in the
targeted areas, not just Lorillard’s and  Philip Morris ’s,
according to the report.  The study didn’t take into effect the number of black
adults in the vicinity, Henriksen said in a telephone interview.  Even so, the industry’s argument that it is targeting adult
smokers “doesn’t explain the greater availability of menthol
ads and promotions in areas with a larger proportion of
residents age 10-17, regardless of race,” Henriksen wrote in an
e-mail. “Tobacco industry targeting of African-Americans is
unethical but not illegal, targeting youth is both.”  The findings add to “the overwhelming evidence that the
industry has been targeting African-American youth and African-
Americans,” said Marie Cocco, a spokeswoman for Washington-
based advocacy group  Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids .  Flavored Preference  More than 80 percent of black smokers 12 to 17 years old
prefer the flavored cigarettes, according to an FDA advisory
panel  report  issued on March 18. The preference among all U.S.
teens jumped to 48.3 percent in 2008 from 43.4 percent in 2004,
the report said.  Rising menthol cigarette use among youth since 2004 and
claims that the mint flavor lures and then hooks new smokers
prompted the FDA to assess whether to include menthol in the
 Tobacco Control Act of 2009 , which outlawed flavorings like
cinnamon, grape, and cocoa.  Menthol was excluded from the ban, but the law called for
an investigation that led to the March report. The FDA said on
June 27 it will issue findings later this year on whether
menthol’s impact on children and minorities is harmful enough to
warrant a ban.  If the FDA doesn’t ban the product, lawmakers may next
consider advertising curbs, said Azer, the Citigroup analyst.
Regulating packaging and levels of menthol could also be
possibilities, she said. Azer has a ‘buy’ rating for Lorillard
and a ‘hold’ rating for Altria.  Jeff Lenard, spokesman for the Alexandria, Virginia-based
 National Association of Convenience Stores  said the targeted
marketing strategy outlined in Henriksen’s study doesn’t
surprise him.  ‘It Fits’  “It sounds like it fits,” he said. “You want the price
to be attractive to a customer, or they’ll find another
seller.” Cigarette customers don’t switch brands or willingly
try new products, he said.  Lorillard announced July 1 that the company will raise
prices for cigarettes for the first time in seven months.
Newport non-menthol prices per pack rose 11 cents, while
menthols increased 5 cents. The move indicates that
manufacturers have significant control over prices, Lenard said.  “It seems like with some of these recent price
announcements that manufacturers are trying to dictate prices
and costs at retailers,” Lenard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in  New York  at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 