-- 
EPA Carbon Rules Delayed in House Panel’s Bill Cutting Funding

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-13T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/epa-carbon-rules-delayed-in-house-panel-s-bill-cutting-funding.html
Funding for the Environmental
Protection Agency would be cut, greenhouse-gas regulations
delayed and a ban on uranium mining near the Grand Canyon
repealed under legislation approved by a U.S. House panel.  The Republican-led House Appropriation Committee approved
the fiscal 2012 spending bill yesterday on a 28-18 vote, sending
it to the full  House of Representatives .  Republicans led by Representative Mike Simpson of  Idaho 
said they introduced the measure to rein in regulatory
overreach. Democrats said the bill overturns key environmental
safeguards. The bill’s deepest cuts target the EPA, faulted for
hurting the economy with new rules including limits on carbon-
dioxide emissions blamed for  climate change .  “Wherever I go, the biggest complaint I hear about the
federal government is about how the EPA is creating economic
uncertainty and killing jobs,” Simpson, chairman of the
subcommittee on the interior, environment and related agencies,
said before the vote.  President  Barack Obama ’s environmental regulator is “the
scariest agency in the federal government” and has “lost its
bearings,” he said.  Representative James Moran, a Virginia Democrat, said the
Republican measure is a “virtual dump truck” of provisions to
protect polluters.  “This bill is too short on needed funds and too long on
anti-environmental riders,” Moran said. “It’s not so much a
spending bill as a wish list for special interests.”  Under the measure, the EPA’s budget would be cut to $7.1
billion, or 20 percent less than Obama’s request. The measure
would fund EPA, Interior Department and related agencies at
$27.5 billion in the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1, which is 12
percent less than Obama’s request to Congress.  EPA Rule Delay  The bill would delay for one year EPA rules limiting
greenhouse-gas emissions from industrial polluters such as  power
plants  and oil refineries, and prohibit the agency from
regulating such discharges from vehicles after model year 2016.  The measure would overturn the Interior Department’s
temporary prohibition on uranium mining near Arizona’s  Grand
Canyon  and prevent the Obama administration from establishing a
long-term ban without congressional approval.  Environmentalists say waste from uranium mines threatens
the region’s land, wildlife and drinking water.  The House spending measure would expose “the Grand Canyon,
and the millions of Americans who depend on the Colorado River
for their drinking water, to the long and well-known hazards of
uranium mining,” Moran said. “These riders have nothing to do
with budget cuts or deficit reduction and everything to do about
carrying out an ideological agenda.”  Simpson said the mining provision won’t harm Grand Canyon
National Park in northern  Arizona .  Interior Funding  The bill also would provide $9.9 billion to the Interior
Department, about $1.2 billion less than the president
requested. The bill increases funding for oil and gas rig
inspections and doesn’t include Obama’s proposal to increase
offshore oil and gas inspection fees by $55 million.  Proposed funding cuts may hurt offshore oil exploration,
according to  David Hayes , the deputy U.S. Interior secretary.  “The house budget would likely affect our ability to
execute our offshore program across the board, in a negative
way” Hayes told reporters in Washington yesterday. He declined
to elaborate.  Lawmakers also debated the  Endangered Species Act , passed
by Congress in 1973 to protect plants and animals. The spending
bill would ban all new listings of threatened species and
permanently prohibit the courts from reviewing proposals to
remove from protection gray wolves in  Wyoming  and the upper
Midwest.  While Democrats and Republicans support the Endangered
Species Act, the law needs revision, Simpson said.  Endangered Species  Since being enacted, the law has helped in listing 2,018
species with 21 species recovered, Simpson said.  “By any calculation, that’s a pretty poor track record,”
he said. “Any other program with such a poor rate of success
would have long since been terminated.”  Environmentalists such as Andrew Wetzler of the  Natural
Resources Defense Council  say such provisions will damage
already vulnerable animal populations.  “Some in Congress want to yank the last safety net away
from wildlife that’s hanging by a thread,” Wetzler, director of
the New York-based council’s wildlife and land program, said in
an interview. “I guess they weren’t satisfied with making it
easier to poison our waters and pump filth into our air, so they
figure it was time to take a whack at walruses and wolverines
too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in  Washington  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  