-- 
Mets Send Closer Francisco Rodriguez, Cash to Brewers for Two Players

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-13T20:24:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/mets-send-closer-francisco-rodriguez-cash-to-brewers-for-two-players.html
The  New York Mets  sent right-handed
pitcher  Francisco Rodriguez  and cash to the Milwaukee Brewers
for two players to be named, easing a payroll strain on a
franchise that may lose $70 million this season.  Rodriguez was 2-2 with a 3.16 earned-run average and 23
saves in 42  Major League Baseball  appearances this season.  Looming larger for the Mets was a $17.5 million option for
2012 that would kick in if Rodriguez finishes 55 games this
season. He already has finished 34 and would end up with more
than 60 if he maintains that pace.  “Clearly we now can look forward in 2012 to considerably
more payroll flexibility and have more latitude in how we
allocate our payroll,” Mets General Manager  Sandy Alderson  said
during a media conference call.  The Mets are 46-45 and 11 games out of first place in the
National League East. The season resumes tomorrow following the
three-day All-Star Game break. Alderson said the trade of
Rodriguez isn’t a signal that more changes are in store, such as
moving All-Star outfielder  Carlos Beltran .  “We’re obviously in a delicate part of the season where
wins and losses might dictate what we do, but I certainly
wouldn’t draw any conclusions from this transaction,” Alderson
said.  Alderson wouldn’t comment on how the trade might impact the
negotiations with All-Star shortstop  Jose Reyes , who is also set
to become a free agent after the season.  Cash to Brewers  Rodriguez had a $3.5 million buyout clause that he could
collect after this season and approximately $4.9 million
remaining on his current deal for 2011. Alderson said the amount
of cash the Mets sent to  Milwaukee  covered a “substantial
portion” of that $8.4 million.  The Mets started this season with a $120 million player
 payroll , seventh in the major leagues, according to the
 Associated Press . The team needed a $25 million emergency loan
from Major League Baseball in November and owner  Fred Wilpon 
told Sports Illustrated magazine in May that it may lose $70
million this season. Wilpon also is negotiating to sell 33
percent of the team for $200 million to David Einhorn, head of
Greenlight Capital Inc.  These financial maneuvers come as Wilpon and co-owner Saul Katz battle a $1 billion lawsuit by the trustee liquidating
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm.  Trustee Irving Picard sued in federal  bankruptcy court  in
December, claiming Wilpon and Katz, through Sterling Equities
Inc., had made $300 million in “fictitious” profits and took
$700 million out of Madoff’s firm while ignoring signs of fraud.
Wilpon and Katz have repeatedly denied Picard’s claims.  Mets Record  The Mets signed Rodriguez on Dec. 10, 2008, after seven
seasons with the Los Angeles Angels.  During three years with the Mets, he was 9-10 with 83 saves
in 165 games. Since 2002, the 29-year-old has gone 32-27 with a
2.54 ERA and 291 saves in 573 appearances.  Alderson said manager Terry Collins will determine who
replaces Rodriguez as the closer. Bobby Parnell and Jason Isringhausen are considered the top candidates.  “The way Bobby Parnell has thrown over last three weeks or
so has been very impressive and also was a factor,” Alderson
said of the decision to complete the trade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  