-- 
European Industrial Output Increases Less Than Forecast

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-07-13T09:15:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/european-industrial-output-increased-less-than-forecast-in-may.html
European industrial production
increased less than economists forecast in May, adding to signs
the euro-region recovery is losing some momentum.  Production in the 17-nation euro area advanced 0.1 percent
from April, when it rose 0.2 percent, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
forecast a gain of 0.4 percent, the median of 31 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Production increased 4 percent
from a year earlier after rising 5.3 percent in April.  European manufacturers have helped power the euro region’s
economic expansion as governments step up spending cuts to
counter a worsening debt crisis. While  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s
largest automaker, said yesterday that first-half deliveries
exceeded 4 million for the first time, European manufacturing
growth weakened in June and economic confidence declined.  “The upward trend remains intact overall with some
weaknesses,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , who was among the 10 most accurate euro-region
forecasters in a Bloomberg News survey. “ Germany  remains the
growth locomotive. There may be some weakening output dynamic
into the second half of the year on cooling global demand.”  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
trading at $1.4073 at 11:13 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.7 percent.  Construction Spending  Energy production rose 0.9 percent from April, when it
dropped 4 percent, today’s report showed. Production of capital
goods advanced 0.6 percent, while output of intermediate goods
slipped 0.1 percent from the previous month. Production of
durable  consumer goods  dropped 0.5 percent.  A rebound in construction spending and strengthening export
growth helped the economy gather strength in the first quarter,
with gross domestic product rising 0.8 percent. Euro-region GDP
may increase 1.9 percent this year instead of a previously
projected 1.7 percent, the  European Central Bank  said last
month.  With governments struggling to contain the region’s fiscal
crisis and prevent a sovereign default, the euro has shed 3.9
percent against the dollar over the past three months. That’s
helping shield the region from cooling global growth by making
exports more competitive abroad.  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, employers added
jobs at the slowest pace in nine months in June and the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent.  China ’s
factory index dropped to the lowest since February 2009.  ‘On the Accelerator’  Volkswagen based in Wolfsburg, Germany, “continues to stay
on the accelerator in all markets,” Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Winterkorn  said on July 11. German rival  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  said earlier this month that deliveries jumped
16 percent in June.  In Germany, which has powered European growth, industrial
output rose 1.2 percent from the previous month, when it fell
0.5 percent, today’s report showed. French production advanced 2
percent while Italian output fell 0.6 percent. In Ireland,
output rose 0.5 percent in the month, matching a monthly gain in
 Greece . Portugal’s production jumped 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  