-- 
Euro Crisis in ‘Uncharted Territory’ Menaces Eastern States

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-07-14T10:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/euro-crisis-in-uncharted-territory-menaces-eastern-states-berglof-says.html
The European debt crisis has entered
“uncharted territory,” rekindling concern it will spread
eastward through banking and trade links, according to the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  Italy ’s  Unicredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , two of
eastern Europe’s biggest lenders, fell to the lowest in more
than two years July 11 as political infighting threatened to
delay efforts to cut the  budget deficit  in the country with
Europe’s largest debt burden. European leaders this week failed
to agree on a new aid package for Greece.  “We are in uncharted territory,” Erik Berglof, chief
economist at the London-based EBRD, which invests in eastern
Europe and Central Asia, said in a July 12 interview. “The
source of the contagion seems to be in worse shape.”  The EBRD led efforts to persuade western banks, with 76
percent of the eastern European market, to maintain their
commitment to the region when credit dried up in 2008. The debt
crisis’s expansion to Italy, Europe’s fourth-largest economy,
would increase the risk that lenders facing losses at home would
curb lending in the east, stalling the region’s recovery.  Europe’s debt woes have entered a new phase, and policy
makers must come up with a “clear” response to stop the
contagion that threatens the euro, the  European Central Bank ’s
incoming president,  Mario Draghi , said yesterday in  Rome .  Resisting the Pressure  Ireland on July 12 joined Portugal and Greece as the third
euro-area nation to have its  credit rating  reduced to below
investment grade. All three received bailouts from the EU and
the  International Monetary Fund .  “The whole effort at trying to resolve the  euro zone 
crisis has been focusing around building a defense between the
three countries that already have programs with the EU and the
IMF and  Spain , possibly Italy,” Berglof said. “There’s now
concern about the ability of this wall to resist the pressure.”  Yields on Italy’s 10-year bonds reached an intraday high of
6.02 percent on July 12, widening the spread over German bunds
to a euro-area record of 318 basis points. The yield was at 5.69
percent as of 12:43 p.m. today in Milan. Spanish bond yields
soared to 6.31 percent on July 12, the most since the euro was
created. They traded at 5.91 percent today.  Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said yesterday in
 Madrid  that her country may need deeper spending cuts next year
to stave off contagion.  Fitch Ratings  cut  Greece ’s credit rating
to the lowest for any country yesterday, citing the lack of a
“fully funded and credible plan” to reduce debt.  Markets ‘More Pessimistic’  “Suddenly the markets seem to have taken a more
pessimistic view on the possibility of resolving the euro zone
crisis,” Berglof said. “The potential direct impact is on
southeast Europe, and the indirect impact is through banks in
western Europe and ultimately also through growth in the euro
zone,” the biggest market for eastern European countries.  While southeast Europe is the area that’s most at risk,
given its proximity to Greece, an escalation of the crisis would
hurt more western European banks, with implications for all of
the EBRD’s recipient nations, Berglof said.  Greek bank units in the Balkans, including  Bulgaria  and
 Romania , received 630 million euros ($871 million) in loans from
the EBRD in October. The EBRD expects the Balkans to expand 1.9
percent this year, half the pace of the rest of central and
eastern  Europe .  Almost a third of Bulgaria’s banks and 12 percent of
Romania’s are owned by Greek parents such as Piraeus Bank SA and
Alpha Bank SA. Greek lenders own 15 percent to 25 percent of the
banks in the non-EU states of Macedonia, Serbia and Albania.  No ‘Spillovers’ Yet  “We spent a lot of energy trying to build a wall against
spillovers into southeast Europe,” Berglof said. “So far we
don’t see signs of spillovers in that part of the world. We’re
not saying this is the main scenario, just something we have to
be worried about.”  The biggest threat is that western European banks, which
have increased loans to businesses and consumers this year, will
rein in that financing, derailing the recovery, Berglof said.  The EBRD in May raised its 2011 economic-growth estimate
for the 29 countries where it invests to 4.6 percent from the
4.2 percent forecast in January. It expects growth to slow to
4.4 percent next year.  While the largest western banks pledged to stay in eastern
Europe at the height of the credit crunch, they reduced lending
by 15 percent over the last two years, according to IMF data.  “Foreign banks have been quite restrictive with credit,
and it’s only recently that they are restarting lending again,”
Berglof said. “We are concerned that this will now contract
again.”  The ultimate level of contagion would be if western banks
had difficulty supporting their eastern units, he said.  “What’s happening now, if it’s sustained, it will weaken
for instance Italian banks’ ability to lend to the region, and
that’s something that we are, of course, concerned about,”
Berglof said. “The funding from parent banks has come down and
these subsidiaries are fully contained in the local markets, but
there still is a risk of spillovers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  