-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Aluminum Wait Triggers LME Review

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-07-13T07:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/europe-commodity-day-ahead-aluminum-wait-triggers-lme-review.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Seven-Month Wait for Aluminum Drives LME to Review Rules (1)  When the  London  Metal Exchange was founded in the days of
steamships, contracts were priced three months out to reflect
the time it took to get tin from  Southeast Asia  or copper from
 Chile . These days, it can take twice as long to get aluminum out
of an LME-approved warehouse in  Detroit .  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Gecamines Sale of Congo Copper Assets May Undermine Share Offer  The undisclosed sale of assets by Gecamines, the Democratic
Republic of Congo’s state-owned copper and cobalt miner, may
undermine its plans to offer shares to investors, analysts and
lawmakers said.  Heatstroke Deaths Quadruple as Japan Shuns Air Conditioners (1)  Deaths from heatstroke in Japan quadrupled in the early
part of summer as temperatures rose and air conditioners were
switched off in line with government appeals to curb electricity
usage to avoid power blackouts.  Orange-Juice Breakfast Heads for Record Cost: Chart of the Day  U.S. consumers are poised to pay the most ever for their
breakfast orange juice as inventories dwindle.  Aluminum 2-Year Rally ‘Intact’ Above $2,300:  Technical Analysis   Aluminum’s almost 2-1/2 year rally is “intact” as long as
the metal stays above $2,300 a metric ton, according to
technical analysis by  Barclays Capital .  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  China ’s Copper, Aluminum Production Gain to Records in June (1)  Copper and aluminum production in China climbed to records
in June as high prices, ample raw materials and power supplies
prompted smelters to raise output.  Copper Gains for Second Day as China Growth Data Beat Estimates  Copper advanced in London for a second day as stronger-
than-expected economic data from China, the world’s largest
consumer, boosted the demand outlook. Aluminum and zinc also
advanced.  MINING:  EPA Funds Cut as House Panel Approves Bill Delaying Carbon Rules  Legislation that would slash funding for the Environmental
Protection Agency, delay greenhouse-gas regulations and repeal a
ban on uranium mining near the Grand Canyon was approved by a
U.S. House panel.  Fresnillo Silver Mine to Produce 10 Million Ounces in 2015 (1)  Fresnillo Plc, the world’s largest primary silver miner,
will produce 10 million ounces of silver and 50,000 ounces of
gold in 2015 at its Saucito mine in north- central  Mexico , said
Alberto Bailleres, company chairman.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Indian Gold Investment Seen Extending to Record on Incomes (1)  Record investment demand for gold in India will keep
climbing as higher incomes spur buying even with the metal
trading near an all-time high, according to Reliance Capital
Asset Management Ltd.  Gold May Extend Rally, Near Record, as Debt Crisis Escalates  Gold, trading within 1 percent of an all-time high, may
advance for an eighth day on concern that the escalating debt
crisis in  Europe  may trigger a global slowdown, boosting
investment demand. Bullion in  Shanghai  reached a record.  AGRICULTURE:  Indonesia  to Import Rice to Maintain Stocks, Pangestu Says  Indonesia will import rice to maintain stocks, Trade
Minister Mari Pangestu told reporters in Jakarta today. The
necessary volume and the timing of the imports are being
calculated, she said.  Palm Oil  Gains as Lower U.S. Soybean Inventory May Boost Demand  Palm oil advanced for the first time in three days on
speculation that a decline in U.S. soybean stockpiles may boost
demand for the tropical cooking oil.  Corn Trades at Two-Week High; Rice Jumps to Highest Since 2008  Corn traded at a two-week high after the U.S. government
said stockpiles will be smaller than expected, stoking concern
about higher food and fuel costs. Rice climbed to the highest
since 2008.  India ’s Monsoon Deficit Widens to 4% Since June 1, Agency Says  India’s monsoon, the main source of water for the nation’s
235 million farmers, was 4 percent below a 50-year average, the
weather office said.  Rubber Rebounds From Two-Week Low as Yen’s Retreat Spurs Buying  Rubber increased, snapping a four- day losing streak, as
investors bought back yen-based contracts after the Japanese
currency retreated from a four-month high against the dollar
amid speculation over intervention.  Rice Climbs to Highest Level Since November 2008 in Chicago  Rice for September delivery advanced as much as 2.2 percent
to $16.54 per 100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade, the most
expensive level for the most active contract since November 2008,
and traded at $16.42 at 8:25 a.m. in  Singapore .  SHIPPING:  International Container Says It’s ‘Studying’ Options for Portek  International Container Terminal Services Inc. is studying
its options over its bid for Singapore’s Portek International
Ltd. following a plan by Mitsui & Co. to make a higher offer.  Russia Recovers 100th Body After Sinking of Tour Boat Bulgaria  Russian rescue workers recovered the 100th body from the
July 10 sinking of an unlicensed tourist boat in the Volga River,
the Emergency Ministry said.  ECONOMIES:  China Economy Grows 9.5%, Exceeding Economists’ Estimates (1)  China’s economy and industrial output expanded more than
analysts predicted, driving up stocks across  Asia  as the nation
maintains momentum after monetary tightening to cool inflation.  Ireland’s Rating Cut to Junk as EU Seeks to Contain Debt Crisis  Ireland joined Portugal and  Greece  as the third euro-area
nation to have its  credit rating  reduced to below investment
grade as European Union finance ministers struggle to contain
the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Spain May Need Even Deeper Spending Cuts in 2012, Salgado Says  Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said the nation
might need to endure even deeper spending cuts next year than
those approved by Parliament yesterday as it battles to stave
off Europe’s debt crisis.  OTHER MARKETS:  Asia Stocks, Metals Gain After China Economic Data; Yen Weakens  Asian stocks halted a two-day slump while metals and the
New Zealand dollar climbed after economic data indicated China
is maintaining its momentum and as investors weighed efforts to
stem Europe’s debt crisis. The yen slid on speculation  Japan 
will intervene to weaken its currency.  Oil Falls From Three-Day High on Rising Stockpiles, Europe Debt  Oil declined from a three-day high in  New York  as investors
bet that increasing U.S. crude supplies and Europe’s spreading
debt crisis signaled demand for raw materials may falter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  