-- 
European Stocks Rise as Bernanke Says Fed Is Prepared to Take More Action

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-07-13T16:04:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/european-stocks-little-changed-snapping-three-days-of-losses-asml-falls.html
European stocks rose, halting three
days of losses for the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as
 Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
is prepared to take additional action to support the economy.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  advanced 4.4 percent as Exane
BNP Paribas upgraded the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars.
 Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  surged 6.5 percent as the U.K.’s largest
luxury-goods maker reported first-quarter sales that beat
analysts’ estimates.  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  tumbled 2.7 percent after
Europe’s biggest semiconductor-equipment maker reported second-
quarter orders that missed its own forecast.  The Stoxx 600 surged 0.7 percent to 269.94 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London . The gauge had fallen 2.8 percent over the past
three days as investors speculated that the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis would spread to the bigger economies of
 Italy  and Spain. The benchmark measure has still declined 7.3
percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17.  “Investors are realizing the selloff early in the week on
Italy was overdone as the Italian economy is much stronger than
the other PIIGS countries,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior
strategist at Copenhagen-based PFA Pension A/S, which manages
$45 billion. “Italy is on track with its budget and is the
world’s third-largest bond market, so there’s a lot of private
support out there to keep Italy from spinning into the ground.”  National benchmark indexes in 16 out of 18 western European
markets advanced. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  jumped 0.6 percent
and France’s CAC 40 Index increased 0.5 percent, while Germany’s
DAX Index rallied 1.3 percent.  ‘Additional Policy Support’  Bernanke told Congress the central bank is prepared to take
additional action, including buying more  government bonds , if
the economy appears in danger of stalling.  “The possibility remains that the recent economic weakness
may prove more persistent than expected and that deflationary
risks might reemerge, implying a need for additional policy
support,” Bernanke said in prepared testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee in  Washington  today. “The Federal
Reserve remains prepared to respond should economic developments
indicate that an adjustment of monetary policy would be
appropriate.”  China said that its economy and industrial output expanded
more than analysts had predicted. Gross domestic product rose
9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said in Beijing. That beat the median estimate
of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey for an increase of
9.3 percent. Industrial output advanced 15.1 percent in June,
the most since May 2010.  Mining Companies Rise  Metals including nickel, tin and zinc rallied on the London
Metals Exchange.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , the world’s largest primary
silver producer, surged 5.6 percent to 1,520 pence after
announcing that it will produce 10 million ounces of silver and
50,000 ounces of gold in 2015 from its Saucito mine in north-
central Mexico.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  climbed 4 percent to 1,365 pence.  Ireland joined Portugal and Greece as the third euro-area
nation to have its  credit rating  reduced to below investment
grade after the close of European markets yesterday. Moody’s cut
Ireland to Ba1 from Baa3, saying that the country may need
additional European Union financing.  “We’re entering a new phase where global growth will
accelerate again,” said Bo B. Christensen, chief analyst at
Copenhagen-based Danske Capital, which has 90 billion euros
($127.5 billion) under management. “Because growth in the
global economy has eased, there’s been plenty of space for
investors to care about the troubles in Greece and Portugal.
When growth returns, news on the European sovereign-debt crisis
will attract less attention.”  BMW, Daimler Gain  BMW surged 4.4 percent to 70.18 euros as Exane raised its
recommendation on the carmaker to “neutral” from
“underperform.” Separately, Morgan Stanley lifted its share-
price estimate to 72 euros from 66 euros.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of Mercedes trucks and luxury cars,
rose 2.9 percent to 53.17 euros. Morgan Stanley increased its
estimate for the company’s shares to 68 euros from 62 euros.  Burberry soared 6.5 percent to 1,531 pence after posting
revenue in the three months ended June 30 that surged 30 percent
to 367 million pounds ($591 million). That beat the average
estimate of 11 analysts compiled by the company for sales of 344
million pounds.  Hermes International (RMS) , the maker of the Birkin
bag, jumped 3.8 percent to 222.05 euros, its highest price since
at least 1993.  ASML slipped 2.7 percent to 25 euros after Europe’s biggest
semiconductor-equipment maker forecast that third-quarter orders
will probably not exceed 500 million euros. The company also
reported second-quarter orders of 840 million euros, missing its
own prediction of as much as 1 billion euros.  L’Oreal, Marks & Spencer  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s biggest cosmetics maker, declined
3.4 percent to 84.94 euros after reporting that second-quarter
sales rose 0.9 percent to 4.99 billion euros. That missed the
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for
sales of 5.07 billion euros.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  declined 2.5 percent to 363.8
pence after the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer said that
first-quarter sales at stores in its domestic market open at
least a year climbed 1.7 percent. That fell short of the average
economists’ estimate for 2 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 