-- 
Facebook Quizzed by Nordic Privacy Agencies on Data Storage

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-07-13T16:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/facebook-quizzed-by-nordic-privacy-agencies-on-data-collection.html
Facebook  Inc. is being quizzed by
data protection officials in Norway,  Denmark ,  Sweden  and  Finland 
about how it collects and uses information that its members post
online.  The four data protection agencies have sent a series of
 questions  to Facebook, seeking answers by the end of August on
what it collects and how this information is then used, Bjorn Erik Thon, Norway’s data protection commissioner, said in an
interview.  “There are still a lot of uncertainties about what
Facebook is actually doing with the users’ information,” Thon
said today. “We have some concerns about this and about how
Facebook informs users about what happens to their
information.”  A group of privacy watchdogs drawn from the European
Union’s 27 nations will probe possible privacy violations in a
feature on Facebook that uses face-recognition software to
suggest people’s names to tag in pictures without their
permission the measure for possible rule violations, Gerard
Lommel, a Luxembourg member of the so-called  Article 29  Data
Protection Working Party said last month. Authorities in the
U.K. and Ireland said they are also looking into the issue.  “We constantly work on making sure the information we
provide to our users is as clear and useful as possible,”
Facebook said in an e-mailed statement. “We are looking forward
to working with the Norwegian” data protection authority “and
their colleagues on this shared objective.”  ‘Possible Probe’  The questions that were sent to Facebook last week are
based on a  report  drawn up by the Norwegian data protection
authority. A “possible probe” into Facebook will depend on the
feedback from the  Palo Alto , California-based company, said
Thon.  “At this stage, this is an invitation to continue the
dialogue in meetings with Facebook,” said Thon, adding that
some of the commissioner’s representatives had meetings with
Facebook in Ireland and had a visit from Facebook officials in
Oslo.  About 2.4 million of  Norway ’s almost 5 million people are
members of Facebook, said Thon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  