-- 
FCIC Member Sought to Aid Dodd-Frank Repeal, E-Mails Show

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-13T17:32:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/fcic-republican-sought-to-aid-dodd-frank-repeal-e-mails-show.html
A Republican commissioner on the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission urged his colleagues to make
sure the panel’s conclusions would “not undermine” his party’s
efforts in the U.S. House to change or repeal the Dodd-Frank
Act, according to e-mails cited by congressional investigators.  Peter J. Wallison, an FCIC member and former Treasury
Department official, sent the e-mails to two of his Republican
colleagues on the commission in the days after Republicans won
the House in November’s elections, according to a report
released today by Elijah Cummings, the senior Democrat on the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  “It’s very important, I think, that what we say in our
separate statements not undermine the ability of the new House
GOP to modify or repeal Dodd-Frank,” Wallison wrote in a Nov. 3
e-mail to Republican Commissioner  Douglas Holtz-Eakin .  The report by Cummings, of  Maryland , is drawn from more
than “400,000 internal commission e-mails, memos and other
documents” obtained by the House committee, according to a
press release accompanying the report.  “The documents raise significant new questions about
whether Republican commissioners geared their efforts on the
commission toward helping  House Republicans  in their campaign to
repeal the Dodd-Frank Act, rather than determining the facts
that led to the financial crisis,” the report states.  Wallison, in a phone interview about the e-mails, said that
he wanted his colleagues to understand it’s always been the
desire of the Republicans to repeal Dodd-Frank.  ‘Simple as That’  “I was very disappointed that the other Republican
commissioners were not going to support the position I was
taking because I thought with a split among the Republicans, it
would be less helpful in getting the Dodd-Frank Act repealed.
It’s as simple as that,” Wallison said.  The 10-member commission, charged by Congress with delving
into the origins of the 2008 financial collapse, released split
findings in January. While the Democratic majority pinned much
of the blame on Wall Street firms and Washington regulators,
Republican members issued two dissents that criticized Democrats
for failing to uncover the actual causes of the crisis.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
chairman of the Oversight panel, pledged to look into the crisis
commission’s work to learn whether its final report was driven
by politics or the misuse of taxpayer dollars. A hearing on the
FCIC titled “What Went Wrong at the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission” had been scheduled for today. Issa subsequently
postponed the hearing.  ‘Ethical Questions’  The investigation raises “a host of new ethical questions
about Republican commissioners and staff, including evidence
that they leaked confidential information to outside parties on
multiple occasions,” the Cummings report said.  The report cites regular communications between an
assistant to the commission’s Republican vice chairman,  Bill Thomas , and Alex Brill, an economic policy adviser at
Pittsburgh-based  Buchanan, Ingersoll and Rooney PC  and the chief
executive officer of Matrix Global Advisors, a political
consulting firm.  The assistant, who was not named in the report, sent Brill
“a draft outline of a preliminary investigative report prepared
by committee staff” on San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s
acquisition of Wachovia Corp., according to the report. Brill
also sought, and received, information on how the commission
would treat New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at a public hearing,
the e-mails show.  Staff Memo  Brill, who worked for Thomas when he was chairman of the
House Ways and Means Committee, did not immediately respond to a
request for comment. Thomas also serves as a senior adviser at
Buchanan, Ingersoll and Rooney.  The Democrats also cited a confidential staff memo
analyzing housing data to commissioners that Wallison sent to
Edward Pinto, a former chief credit officer at  Fannie Mae  and a
fellow, along with Wallison, at the  American Enterprise
Institute .  Wallison, who told commissioners he had forwarded the memo,
said today he thought Pinto should see it because it dealt
directly with information Pinto had provided the commission.  “I wear it as a badge of honor,” Wallison said of the
report issued by the Democrats. “Apparently they are so
concerned about what I’ve been saying that they had to attack
me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  