-- 
Bernanke Says Fed ‘Prepared to Respond’ If Stimulus Needed

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-07-13T23:21:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/fed-prepared-to-respond-if-needed-bernanke.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress the central bank is prepared to take
additional action, including buying more  government bonds , if
the economy appears to be in danger of stalling.  “The possibility remains that the recent economic weakness
may prove more persistent than expected and that deflationary
risks might reemerge, implying a need for additional policy
support,” Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee
in Washington today. The Fed “remains prepared to respond
should economic developments indicate that an adjustment of
monetary policy would be appropriate.”  The comments are Bernanke’s first since a government report
on July 8 showed employers added 18,000 jobs in June, less than
the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Bernanke said “disappointing” job growth in May
and June was partly a result of temporary effects, such as high
energy prices, and he predicted in response to a question that
the pace of economic expansion would accelerate above 3 percent
in the second half of 2011.  “Once the temporary shocks that have been holding down
economic activity pass, we expect to again see the effects of
policy accommodation reflected in stronger economic activity and
 job creation ,” Bernanke said in his prepared remarks. He also
said that “the economy could evolve in a way that would warrant
a move toward less-accommodative policy.”  Stocks Climb  Stocks rallied on the comments before trimming gains. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to 1,317.72 at 4
p.m. in  New York  after rising as much as 1.4 percent. The yield
on the 10-year Treasury note was little changed at 2.88 percent.  Bernanke said the central bank still has ammunition to aid
the recovery if the recent economic weakness proves more
persistent than policy makers currently expect.  Responding to a question, he said the central bank must
“keep all options on the table.”  Bernanke re-affirmed plans by the Fed to sustain record
stimulus and to hold its benchmark interest rate near zero for
an “extended period.” With unemployment at 9.2 percent,
Bernanke told lawmakers that the “economy still needs a good
deal of support.”  The committee’s chairman, Representative  Spencer Bachus , a
Republican from  Alabama , told Bernanke he was glad that the Fed
was keeping its options open. “You don’t want to get straight
jacketed,” Bachus said. “Because we don’t know what tomorrow
may bring.”  Inflation Prospects  Bernanke acknowledged there are “uncertainties” in both
directions -- about the strength of the economic recovery and
the prospects for inflation -- over the medium term.  The Fed chief repeated his belief that inflation won’t be a
problem for the economy because gasoline and food prices, which
had surged earlier this year, are now moderating.  At the same time, he also reiterated that sagging home
prices, high unemployment and hard-to-get loans pose long-term
obstacles to growth.  One option for additional stimulus, Bernanke said, would be
to pledge to hold  interest rates  at record lows and the Fed’s
balance sheet at a record high close to $3 trillion for a longer
period of time. Another option is to embark on a third round of
government bond purchases or to increase the average maturity of
the Fed’s current securities holdings. The Fed also could reduce
the interest rate it pays banks on excess reserves parked at the
central bank.  Bernanke said there is also the possibility that inflation
could pick up in a way that would require the Fed to begin
tightening credit and exit its record monetary stimulus.  Purchases Completed  The Fed last month completed a program to buy $600 billion
worth of Treasury bonds aimed to stimulate the economy by
reducing borrowing costs, boosting stock prices and spurring
 consumer spending .  Bernanke said a failure by Congress to raise the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt limit would lead to a “major crisis” and
throw “shock waves” through the financial system. He avoided
endorsing specific tax and spending proposals in response to
questions from House members.  The debt ceiling should be raised “to prevent us from
defaulting on obligations which we have already incurred,”
Bernanke said. “We also need, of course, to take a serious
attack on the unsustainability of our fiscal position.”  President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in Congress are
scrambling to work out a deal to boost the legal debt limit in
return for cutting federal deficits over the next decade. The
Treasury Department has said the U.S. will reach the limit of
its borrowing authority on Aug. 2.  Bond Yields  For all the concern in  Washington  about the deficit, bond
yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government was
running a  budget surplus  a decade ago. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note is below the average of 7
percent since 1980 and the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998
through 2001 period, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader.  Bernanke said the Fed’s bond purchases helped the economy.
Stock prices are higher and bond yields have fallen. He
estimated that effect of the program was roughly equivalent to a
40 to 120 basis-point reduction in the federal funds rate. And,
the second round of bond buying lowered long-term interest rates
by roughly 10 to 30 basis points.  Bernanke cited estimates made in the fall that the bond-
buying could boost employment by about 700,000 over two years,
or by about 30,000 extra jobs a month.  Benchmark Rate  At a June 22 news conference, Bernanke didn’t rule out
additional purchases if the economy were to weaken further. He
and his colleagues pledged at a meeting the same day to hold the
Fed’s benchmark interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent, where it’s been since December 2008.  Minutes of the Fed’s meeting released yesterday showed that
policy makers were divided on whether additional monetary
stimulus will be needed if the outlook for economic growth
remains weak.  A few Fed members thought the committee “might have to
consider providing additional monetary stimulus, especially if
economic growth remained too slow to meaningfully reduce the
 unemployment rate  in the medium run,” the minutes said. A few
voiced concern inflation may accelerate and warrant the FOMC
“taking steps to begin removing policy accommodation sooner
than currently anticipated.”  Economic growth slowed to a 1.9 percent annual pace in the
first three months of this year from a 3.1 percent rate in the
final quarter of 2010. Fed policy makers blamed bad weather and
energy prices for sapping consumer spending.  Growth Forecasts  The economy’s growth probably accelerated to a 2 percent
pace in the second quarter, according to the median forecast of
62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg from June 28 to July 7.
Shortages of parts for manufacturers caused by the earthquakes
and tsunami in  Japan  forced factories to slow production.  Parts supplies are now rising, along with measures of
production. The  Institute for Supply Management  reported on July
1 that manufacturing expanded at a faster pace in June than the
prior month. Orders to U.S. factories also have picked up.  Economic growth will accelerate to a 3.2 percent pace
during the second half of this year, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The slowdown in the first six months of 2011 prompted Fed
officials to mark down their growth projections for the entire
year. They forecast that the rate of expansion won’t exceed 2.9
percent this year, down from April’s top-end forecast of 3.3
percent.  Outlook for Unemployment  Unemployment by the end of the year will decline to between
8.6 percent and 8.9 percent. That’s higher than the range of 8.4
percent to 8.7 percent under the previous forecast.  Lockheed Martin Corp., the world’s largest defense
contractor, and Cisco Systems Inc., the largest networking
equipment company, are among firms reducing employment.  Cisco, based in  San Jose ,  California , may cut as many as
10,000 jobs, including 7,000 by the end of August in a bid to
revive profit growth. Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda,
 Maryland , said late last month that it plans to eliminate about
1,500 employees from its Aeronautics business unit that makes F-
35 jet fighters.  Inflation, excluding food and energy, also will be slightly
higher this year, between 1.5 percent and 1.8 percent, Fed
officials predict. That’s up from a range of 1.3 percent to 1.6
percent under the old forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net  