-- 
Fed Stimulus Could Help and Hurt Latin America, S&P Says

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-07-13T21:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/fed-stimulus-could-help-and-hurt-latin-america-s-p-says-1-.html
Another round of bond purchases by
the  Federal Reserve  could have “positive and negative” impacts
on  Latin America  as the region benefits from a stronger  U.S.
economy  and some countries try to minimize the impact of capital
inflows, a  Standard & Poor’s  analyst said today.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress
today the central bank is prepared to take additional action,
including buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears
to be in danger of stalling. The Fed last month completed $600
billion in Treasury purchases that were called QE2 because they
were the second round of a policy known as quantitative easing.  The Fed policy increased capital inflows into Latin
America, which caused local currencies to appreciate, Chile’s
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters April 21. A new
round of U.S. bond purchases, or QE3, could continue that trend
while benefitting countries like  Mexico  with trade ties to its
northern neighbor, S&P analyst Lisa Schineller said today in a
conference call with reporters.  “Bottom line: a stronger U.S. economy would be positive
for the region,” said Schineller, S&P director of sovereign
ratings. “On the other hand, clearly QE3 feeds into the dynamic
potentially of the extension of very loose global monetary
conditions, and that we know has continued to pose a challenge
to countries.”  Capital Inflows  Central banks and governments in Latin America have taken
steps to minimize the pace of capital inflows and soften the
appreciation of currencies, she said.  “This would just continue that challenge,” she said about
a new round of quantitative easing, which in Latin America would
create “positive and negative dynamics.”  Chile ’s central bank in January started a dollar-buying
program designed to increase international reserves and weaken
the peso, which has gained 16 percent against the dollar in the
past year. Brazil, whose currency has gained 12 percent over the
same period, has changed tax rules this year to slow the
currency’s gains.  Latin American countries can continue to address the impact
of increased global liquidity by implementing capital control
measures and new financial regulations, the  United Nations ’
economic unit for the region, known as Cepal for its initials in
Spanish, said in a report today.  Cepal increased its 2011 growth estimate for Latin America
and the Caribbean to 4.7 percent in today’s report from its 4.2
percent forecast made in December. Economic expansion will slow
to 4.1 percent in the region next year, Cepal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  