-- 
Feral ‘Romeo and Juliet’ Sizzles With Brutality: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-07-13T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/feral-romeo-and-juliet-sizzles-with-brutality-jeremy-gerard.html
The astonishing  Royal Shakespeare
Company  production of “Romeo and Juliet” opens at night with a
young man in a hooded jacket, fiddling with earphones as if
listening to a museum guide while wandering the darkened
streets.  The docent’s words -- Shakespeare’s Prologue -- are quickly
drowned out by the clatter of cold weaponry on hard pavement as
daggers, switchblades, chains, stilettos and other instruments
of mayhem echo off Verona’s cobblestones.  Members of two opposing households have been brawling. Just
as one fighter is about to be torched, the old Prince appears,
furious at this latest eruption in the feud that roils his quiet
city. He forces the young delinquents to disarm, which they
noisily do as the mysterious fellow watches from the shadows.
Despite the Prince’s efforts, the machinery of violence will not
be stilled.  Rupert Goold’s staging is not an updating of Shakespeare’s
tragedy of star-crossed lovers, though it does indulge in a bit
of time-travel. It’s what the Bard of Avon might have written
after seeing Jerome Robbins and Company’s “West Side Story”
rather than the other way around. For this production seethes
with all sorts of passion -- blood lust and adolescent sexual
hunger chief among them.  Down to Skivvies  Goold, whose ear-splitting, blood-drenched “Macbeth” was
seen recently at the  Brooklyn Academy of Music , goes for extreme
effects, stripping these lords and ladies of their finery.  Juliet favors black high-top sneakers. Lady Capulet
(Christine Entwisle), wigless, prowls the house looking like a
slattern. Nurse (Noma Dumezweni) smokes a churchwarden pipe and
rolls her eyes with unmasked insouciance.  On the Montague side, there’s Romeo in what looks like
American Apparel. Mercutio (Jonjo O’Neill), in a gold lame cape,
delivers the Queen Mab speech with spectacular dash. When he
dies at Tybalt’s hand, he does so with a swagger.  The lovers’ abettor, Friar Laurence, is played by Forbes
Masson as a reluctant accomplice. Richard Katz’s Capulet
spittingly renounces daughter Juliet when she refuses to marry
Paris, emphasizing the bald cruelty in the language.  Kids Next Door  As the lovers, Sam Troughton and Mariah Gale are not the
air-brushed models we have come to expect, but normal-looking,
hot-blooded kids (Goold makes sure we remember that Juliet is
not yet 14 when her story unfolds). Troughton is more scrappy
than suave; Gale more gamine than glamorous.  Inevitably, the production flags a bit in the long second
half. Falling in love is more interesting, after all, than
dying.  Nevertheless, Goold and his designers -- Tom Scutt, sets
and costumes, and especially Howard Harrison’s spectral lighting
-- make this a truly dark and stormy tale. And those fights,
staged by Terry King, may scare the heck out of you.  “Romeo and Juliet” is running through Aug. 13 in repertory
with four more Shakespeare plays at the  Park Avenue Armory , Park
Avenue and East 67th Street. Information: +1-212-721-6500;
 http://www.lincolncenterfestival.org   Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 