-- 
Fiat, Chrysler to Have One Management Structure, Sergio Marchionne Says

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-07-13T12:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/fiat-chrysler-to-have-one-management-structure-marchionne-says.html
Fiat SpA (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC will
have a single management structure soon,  Sergio Marchionne ,
chief executive officer of both companies, said today, as he
takes another step toward merging the two carmakers.  Marchionne plans to announce a unified structure “in terms
of leadership pretty quickly,” the executive told reporters in
Zurich after a speech at the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce.
Marchionne, 59, declined to say whether the announcement would
come along with Fiat’s quarterly earnings report July 26.  Marchionne is working on management changes as he steps up
the integration of the two companies. He plans to merge the
carmakers to reduce costs and achieve a target of more than 100
billion euros ($140 billion) in combined revenue by 2014. The
executive said in May that the timing of a merger hasn’t been
decided yet, adding that a combination isn’t likely this year.  “No one is better than Marchionne at selling an auto
story,” Societe Generale analyst Stephen Reitman wrote in a note
to clients July 11. “The current stock price already discounts
most of the good news to come from Chrysler and ignores much of
the risk,” said Reitman, who cut his recommendation to “sell”
from “buy.”  Fiat consolidated Chrysler’s results starting at the end
of May, a sign of the rapid integration of the two carmakers
since the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based manufacturer exited
bankruptcy in June 2009.  Fiat, which was initially granted a 20 percent stake in
Chrysler by the U.S. government, aims to hold 57 percent of the
third-biggest U.S. automaker by the end of 2011. The United Auto
Workers union’s trust will have 41.5 percent of Chrysler at that
time, Fiat said.  VEBA Stake  Marchionne reiterated today that he’s not in talks to buy a
stake in Chrysler held by the UAW’s retiree health-care trust,
known as VEBA.  Fiat agreed June 3 to pay $500 million for the U.S.
government’s remaining 6 percent stake in Chrysler, boosting its
holding to 52 percent. The CEO expects to receive an additional
5 percent stake in the fourth quarter in return for developing a
fuel-efficient car for Chrysler.  Turin, Italy-based Fiat will expand a  credit line  to as
much as 2 billion euros as Marchionne aims to improve financing
flexibility after gaining control of Chrysler, two people
familiar with the matter said July 11.  Editors: Jerrold Colten, Thomas Mulier  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  