-- 
FIFA Accepts Corinthians New Sao Paulo Stadium Will Be Ready for World Cup

-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-07-13T23:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/fifa-accepts-corinthians-new-sao-paulo-stadium-will-be-ready-for-world-cup.html
Sao Paulo ’s chances of staging the
opening ceremony of soccer’s 2014 World Cup improved after  FIFA 
accepted a guarantee that  SC Corinthians Paulista ’s new stadium
will be completed in time for the tournament.  The stadium, being built by Odebrecht SA, will cost 820
million reais ($522 million), Corinthians President Andres
Sanchez told reporters yesterday in Sao Paulo. BNDES, the
national  development bank , pledged $400 million and the city of
Sao Paulo will provide a property fund worth $400 million.  “This approval -- in record time, less than a year -- is
the result of efforts by the government of Sao Paulo,
particularly the Governor Geraldo Alckmin and Mayor Gilberto Kassab,” Ricardo Teixeira, president of the  World Cup  local
organising committee and the Brazilian Football Confederation,
said in a statement on Corinthians’ website.  FIFA’s approval of the project to build a new home for
 Brazil ’s biggest soccer club by revenue -- which originally had
a cost estimate of $1.2 billion -- was required for Sao Paulo to
host World Cup games.  In June, sports minister Orlando Silva said in an interview
that the federal government would tell tournament organizer FIFA
that Sao Paulo,  Salvador ,  Belo Horizonte  and Brasilia are
eligible to stage the opening ceremony. FIFA will announce the
venue in October.  “I said before that if Corinthians could fulfill all the
requirements of FIFA, the opening of the World Cup would be in
Sao Paulo,” Corinthians’ Sanchez said. “Corinthians gave the
guarantees required by FIFA, so the opening will be in Sao
Paulo.”  Investment in airports, stadiums, ports and urban
transportation before the World Cup will total about 23 billion
reais, Silva said. Most of the funding will come from the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story: Carla Simoes in Brasilia
at   csimoes1@bloomberg.net  Joao Oliveira in
Sao Paulo at   joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Francisco
Marcelino at   mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  