-- 
Finland Seeks Non-Nokia Growth to Sidestep Portugal’s Fate

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-14T09:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/finland-searches-for-non-nokia-growth-to-avoid-portugal-s-fate.html
Ari Koskinen counts himself lucky
after he got a job at  Finland ’s national jobless association.  The 37-year-old technology specialist is helping local
groups support the country’s 9.8 percent unemployed as the
northernmost euro member grapples with the decline in its two
main industries, technology and paper.  “Unemployment brings many difficulties -- alcoholism,
health problems,” Koskinen said in a July 5 phone interview
from Helsinki. “Finns are vulnerable to depression when the
jobs go and there’s no more work.”  Finland, one of six AAA rated euro countries, may face a
similar fate to junk-graded  Portugal  in the next decade unless
it finds new growth industries soon, said Timo Tyrvaeinen, chief
economist at Helsinki-based Aktia Oyj. Mobile-phone maker  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  has announced 1,900 job cuts in Finland since last year, or
10 percent of its local workforce, as its market value plunged
almost 50 percent since January. Without growth, Finland must
raise debt to pay for  Europe ’s fastest-aging population.  “Finland has an underlying competitiveness problem and an
imbalance in public finances exacerbated by the aging
population,” Tyrvaeinen said by phone. “In 10 years, we could
have similar problems to those Portugal is facing now.”  The number of workers for every pensioner will drop to
three from four by 2015. That’s about five years earlier than in
the rest of Europe, Luxembourg-based Eurostat estimates. Debt
will swell in 2011 to more than 50 percent of gross domestic
product from 34.1 percent three years ago, according to the
European Commission.  Specter of Ireland  “The growth of debt must be stopped,” said Jan von Gerich, chief analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Helsinki. “Ireland
had a AAA rating, a lower debt level than Finland and a surplus
in its public sector, but then the crisis hit and the situation
changed rapidly.” Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland to junk
on July 12, arguing the euro member’s 85 billion euro ($119
billion) bailout may not be enough to keep it afloat.  While Ireland’s plight was linked to over-leveraged banks,
its example remains relevant for economies where growth can’t
keep pace with  government spending , von Gerich said.  Europe’s debt crisis has shown that failure to tackle
fiscal weakness in time can force governments to impose severe
austerity measures later. Finland risks having to “take
emergency action” to fix its finances if the country’s budget
drain isn’t fixed “promptly,” Bank of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen said on June 15.  Yield Widens  The difference between Finnish and German five-year
government yields widened to 36 basis points today from 35.5
points, according to Bloomberg data. Portugal’s five-year notes
yielded 1,529 basis points more than same-maturity German debt.  The six-party coalition government, led by Prime Minister
 Jyrki Katainen , may struggle to find the unity needed for cuts.
Katainen, who formed his Cabinet in June after two months of
talks to keep the euro-skeptic True Finns from office, needs to
persuade lawmakers it’s right to back bailouts while enduring
cuts at home.  Finland’s $255 billion economy, home to Europe’s two
biggest papermakers,  Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV)  and  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V) , was
built on its forests. Since the 1960s, the country’s pulp
industry has languished as emerging markets produce cheaper
timber. Forestry’s share of the economy dropped to 2.4 percent
in 2009 from twice that in the late 1970s. It employed 2 percent
of the workforce in 2009, from almost 5 percent four decades
ago, government data show.  World’s Largest  Nokia, based near Helsinki in Espoo, took off in the 1990s
to become the world’s largest mobile-phone maker. The company’s
success helped pull Finland out of recession. After contracting
some 6 percent in 1991, the economy grew 4.5 percent on average
in 1994 through 2000. At the peak in 2000, Nokia accounted for 4
percent of Finland’s GDP, according to Jyrki Ali-Yrkkoe, an
economist at Helsinki-based researcher ETLA.  Now, the company’s days as the powerhouse of Finnish growth
are over. Its profit sank 74 percent since 2007 and its share of
the economy has dwindled to 1.6 percent as Nokia struggles to
compete with Apple Inc.’s iPhone and devices using Google Inc.’s
Android software.  Nokia said in April it will slash 7,000 jobs globally.
Though some 3,000 of those positions will be transferred to
technology-consulting company  Accenture Plc , the economic
fallout is clear.  Nokia’s Decline  The Nasdaq OMX Helsinki index is down 16 percent this year,
the second-worst performer among developed countries after
 Greece . Nokia has plunged 48 percent in the period, versus a 2.6
percent dip in Europe’s benchmark Stoxx 600 Index.  “None of the traditional industries are in the kind of a
growth mode” that helps the economy, said Pasi Kuoppamaeki,
chief economist at Sampo Bank, a unit of Danske Bank A/S.
“Without growth, the situation is quite hopeless.”  While the  Finance Ministry  estimates Finland’s economy will
grow 3.9 percent this year after expanding 3.6 percent in 2010,
it will hardly make up for the 8.2 percent contraction in 2009.  Aktia’s Tyrvaeinen said there’s still time for Finland to
change course. Programs to foster startups are running at Aalto
University and at Nokia itself, with the aim of replicating the
success of “Angry Birds” creator Rovio Mobile Oy.  Educated Population  Finland can also fall back on the industrialized world’s
second-best educated population after  South Korea , according to
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. And
the government has stepped up support for entrepreneurs.  Tyrvaeinen says that may help Finland escape its reliance
on a handful of companies and avoid the mistakes of its past.  “It’s a bit like in investing, where diversifying is
wise,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  