-- 
‘Fiscal Reckoning’ Faces Nation as Fed’s Ammunition Exhausted, Fisher Says

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-07-13T20:37:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/fisher-says-fed-has-reached-limit-of-what-it-can-do-for-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas 
President  Richard Fisher  said central bank efforts to boost the
economy have reached their limits and the U.S. faces a “fiscal
reckoning” that only lawmakers can resolve.  “Our great country now finds itself in a very difficult
predicament,” Fisher, 62, said today in a speech in Dallas.
“Congress can no longer carry on as before, oblivious to the
deleterious effect of spending our, and the successor
generations’, money with unfunded abandon.”  The regional Fed chief, who votes on policy this year,
reiterated his view that the central bank has done enough and
he’ll be among the first to advocate tighter policy if prices
and inflation expectations rise. Fisher spoke a few hours after
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress that he and his
colleagues are prepared to take new action, including buying
more  government bonds , if the economy appears to be in danger of
stalling.  “There may be some things the chairman mentioned this
morning -- those are tinkering at the margin,” Fisher told
reporters after the speech. “We’ve exhausted our ammunition, in
my view” and expanding the Fed’s balance sheet from about $2.7
trillion to more than $3 trillion “might spook the
marketplace,” he said.  “I do not personally see the benefit of more monetary
accommodation even if the economy weakens further,” Fisher
said. “Again, there’s so much liquidity out there, the question
is, ‘What is the trigger to put it to work?’”  Fed Division  The bank president’s remarks underscore the division among
policy makers on whether further monetary stimulus will be
needed if the economy remains weak. A few members of the  Federal
Open Market Committee  indicated that the group might have to
consider additional actions if growth stays too slow to
“meaningfully” lower unemployment, according to the minutes of
their June 21-22 meeting released yesterday. Others suggested
that the rising risk of inflation might require the Fed to
remove accommodation “sooner than currently anticipated.”  Adding more liquidity “is not the answer” and “now a
fiscal reckoning is upon us,” with Congress needing to
“develop an entirely new structure of incentives for private
businesses and investors,” Fisher said in remarks to the Dallas
Rotary Club.  Stocks rallied, halting the worst three-day global slump
since March, after Bernanke’s comments, while gold climbed to a
record. The MSCI All-Country World Index increased 1.1 percent
as of 4:35 p.m. in  New York  after tumbling 3.4 percent in the
previous three sessions. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
0.3 percent to 1,317.72 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Cutting Forecasts  Fed officials had cut their forecasts for growth this year
before a July 8 government report showed employers added jobs at
the slowest pace in nine months in June. American employers
increased payrolls by 18,000 workers, less than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists,
and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent
from 9.1 percent in May.  Fisher said he expects the economy to expand in the second
half of this year, with growth rising at an average annual rate
of 3 percent to 4 percent. The “temporary influences” of high
gas and food prices earlier this year will fade, he said. The
U.S. has the potential to expand at more than 3 percent beyond
2011, “assuming the fiscal authorities get it right.”  “At this juncture, I think it sufficient to say that,
assuming the people we elect to tax us and spend our money and
create the rules and regulations that govern our economic
behavior can at long last get their act together,” then there
should be “plenty of potential for the economy to move forward
at an accelerating clip,” Fisher said.  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren ,
speaking earlier today in Worcester,  Massachusetts , said the
outlook for the  U.S. economy  is for “very slow improvement,”
and monetary accommodation is still needed to help spur growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in Dallas at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  