-- 
Fitch Says Italy Can Cope With Yield Jump, Debt Crisis

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-07-13T16:16:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/fitch-says-italy-can-cope-with-yield-jump-debt-crisis-1-.html
Italy  can cope with this week’s
increase in bond yields provided it meets its deficit-reduction
targets,  Fitch Ratings  said.  The yield on 10-year Italian government bonds surged above
6 percent yesterday, the highest since 1997, and the premium
investors demand to hold them over German bunds reached a euro-
era record of 348 before falling to 269.3 today.  The increase “reflects a crisis of market confidence in
the European policy response to the euro-zone debt crisis rather
than deteriorating sovereign credit fundamentals,” David Riley ,
Fitch’s head of global sovereign ratings in London, said in a
statement. “Italy is on track to meet this year’s budget target
and the additional measures recently announced strengthen the
credibility of the goal of a balanced budget by 2014.”  Italian politicians are rushing a 40 billion-euro ($57
billion) package of deficit-reduction measures through
parliament in an effort to reassure investors as euro-area
governments try to contain a sovereign debt crisis that is
almost two years old.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  told a bankers forum in
Rome today that the plan will be passed by both houses of
parliament by July 15. Opposition parties have agreed to ease
passage of the measures in the legislature.  Few Imbalances  Unlike other major developed economies, Italy has limited
household or corporate debt and doesn’t suffer large
macroeconomic imbalances, according to Fitch. The government
will probably meet its target of cutting the  budget deficit  to
3.9 percent of output this year, meaning it will run a surplus
before interest payments of 0.9 percent, Fitch said.  “Public debt is not on an unsustainable path, even
assuming continued weak economic growth and higher  interest
rates  on government borrowing,” the rating company said.  Even if yields were to climb to 7 percent, the effective
interest rate on Italian government debt would rise to 5.5
percent from about 4 percent and the cost of servicing its debt
would increase to 110 billion euros, or 6.1 percent of gross
domestic product, from about 75 billion euros, or 4.8 percent
currently, according to Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  