-- 
Five French Soldiers Killed in Taliban Ambush in Afghanistan

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-07-13T15:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/five-french-soldiers-killed-in-taliban-ambush-in-afghanistan.html
Five French soldiers in  Afghanistan 
were killed and four wounded by a suicide bomber who triggered a
bomb near a convoy east of Kabul, the capital.  An Afghan civilian also died and two were injured in the
ambush in the town of Joybar in the Kapisa province, the  French
president’s office  said in an e-mailed statement today.
Zabihullah Mujahed, a spokesman for the Taliban, claimed
responsibility for the attack in a text message to reporters.  “A suicide bomber blew himself up amid a gathering of
French and Afghan forces today in the Tagap district of Kapisa
province, killing and wounding 27 soldiers including French
troops,” Mujahed said.  The attack came a day after French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s visit to Afghanistan, during which he said France will
withdraw a quarter of its 4,000 soldiers there by the end of
2012. The troops that were targeted by the bomber were
protecting a local council meeting, according to the statement.  Today’s killings bring the death toll of French soldiers to
72 since they arrived in Afghanistan in late 2001. A soldier was
also killed accidentally on July 11. French troops who operate
in Afghanistan will join a military parade tomorrow in Paris
marking Bastille Day, which celebrates the beginning of the
French Revolution.  “This did not happen in a combat situation, but as French
troops were working on supporting Afghan power and transferring
power,” said  Jean-Vincent Brisset , a researcher on Afghanistan
at the International and Strategic Relations Institute in Paris.
“The Taliban are challenging this transfer of power,” he told
BFM Television.  Heavy Toll  Today’s death toll is the highest for  France  in Afghanistan
since an August 2008 attack in which 10 French soldiers were
killed. That ambush occurred on a mountainous road about 40
kilometers (24 miles) east of Kabul during a fight with 100
Taliban insurgents that lasted for more than 12 hours.
Additional details about today’s attack haven’t been disclosed.  France has the fourth-largest contingent in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s Afghan mission after Sarkozy
doubled the number of troops following his 2007 election. French
forces are mostly based east of Kabul to shield the capital from
insurgents operating along the Pakistani border.  The French government announced plans to start pulling
troops from Afghanistan on June 23, a day after President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. would withdraw 10,000 troops before the end
of this year and an additional 23,000 by September 2012.  Sarkozy told journalists in Kabul yesterday that he will
pull together a five-year French-Afghan development plan. “We
should not abandon Afghanistan, but the manner in which we help
it is going to change,” he said. “The withdrawal of troops is
not disengagement. Afghans need to take charge of Afghanistan.”  Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said today at the National
Assembly that a debate on France’s military operation in
Afghanistan should be held in the Parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  