-- 
Flight Options Wins $167 Million Loan as Jet Users Visit Masters

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-07-13T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/flight-options-wins-167-million-loan-as-jet-users-visit-masters.html
Flight Options LLC, the second-
largest fractional jet company in the U.S., won $167 million in
financing from  Brazil ’s development bank to pay for new planes
as it takes advantage of a rebound in demand.  The financing from Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico e Social, known as BNDES, will be used to buy dozens
of  Embraer SA (ERJ)  Phenom 300 aircraft over the next several years,
Cleveland-based Flight Options said today in a statement.  Flight Options is expanding its  100-plane  fleet and
recalled 35 pilots amid rising business-jet trips, including a
50 percent jump in travel for golf’s  Masters Tournament  in
Augusta,  Georgia , in April, Chief Executive Officer Mike Silvestro said. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  is the best
gauge of demand because it’s a proxy for corporate profits and
personal wealth, he said.  “If I showed you how utilization tracks with the Dow,
you’d look at it and say a third-grader created it because it’s
too close,” Silvestro said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New
York headquarters.  The 30-company Dow Jones index rose 7.5 percent this year
through yesterday. The Dow climbed 11 percent in 2010 and 19
percent a year earlier after plunging 34 percent in 2008 during
the recession.  Fractional jet use at Flight Options increased 9 percent in
the first quarter of this year, compared with 2010, while jet-
card use surged 30 percent amid strength in the financial,
retail and manufacturing industries, Silvestro said. Similar
growth patterns continued in the second quarter, he said.  “All indications are that things are more positive” than
over the past couple of years, Silvestro said.  The financing from the Brazilian bank will allow Flight
Options to sell jet cards in 25-hour increments for the Phenom
300 aircraft for the first time, making access to that jet more
affordable than previously, when customers had to buy a fraction
of the plane, he said.  “Customers have been looking for more non-asset purchase
options,” he said.  Fuel costs, which are passed on to customers, don’t have as
direct an impact on demand as corporate profits and the
investments of wealthy individuals, Silvestro said.  Crude oil climbed 5.8 percent in the year through
yesterday, and its closing price averaged about $101 over the
past three months.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s NetJets is the largest
fractional-jet business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 