-- 
Former Spy Warns of Cyber Terrorism in Booz Allen Role

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-07-13T20:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/former-spy-warns-of-cyber-terrorism-in-booz-allen-role-5-.html
From a wall-mounted video monitor at
the International Spy Museum in  Washington , former U.S. spy
chief Mike McConnell warns about the perils of terrorists
hacking into computer systems.  A cyber attack on a major bank network or utility grid
“could have pretty terrible consequences,” he says in the
 video , echoing advice he has shared with the last three U.S.
presidents.  McConnell, 67, is a former Navy vice admiral who ran the
National Security Agency in the mid-1990s and served as director
of national intelligence under George W. Bush. In 2009, he took
his decades of experience to the private sector for a second
stint at  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , where he is an
executive vice president charged with expanding the government
contractor’s intelligence business, including cybersecurity.  As a private-sector executive, McConnell hasn’t changed his
message, whether delivered to tourists in a video’s continuous
loop or in testimony before Congress. If a cyberwar broke out,
the U.S. would lose, he said at a February 2010 hearing of the
Senate Commerce Committee.  Underscoring McConnell’s warnings, Booz Allen yesterday
said it recently was hit by a hacker attack itself, exposing
files from one of its systems.  “I’m a code breaker, an intel guy, a spy at the National
Security Agency, so I understand what our vulnerabilities are,”
McConnell said in an interview with Bloomberg Government. “A
relatively small group of terrorists could get in and penetrate
this soft underbelly.”  ‘Threat Exaggeration’  Such rhetoric has provoked criticism that McConnell is
inflating the risk of attack to further  Booz Allen ’s interests.  “That kind of talk is irresponsible -- it’s classic threat
exaggeration,” said  Jim Harper , a cybersecurity specialist at
the  Cato Institute  in Washington, which promotes limited
government. “McConnell is trying to move policy in the
direction that benefits him, trying to motivate Congress and the
American public to take action when there’s no actual war.”  McConnell stands by his remark at last year’s Senate
hearing and says he made it to illustrate a point.  “My worry is we’re going to talk about it and not act,”
he said. “What galvanizes this nation to act is crisis.”  The computer-security debate in Washington has intensified
after hacking incidents at  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
Spurred by those and other recent assaults, Senate lawmakers are
drafting legislation to boost protections for government and
private-sector networks.  Booz Allen Hacked  Booz Allen said yesterday that some of its files were
posted on the Internet after an attack on an information-
technology system. The data pertained “to a learning management
system for a government agency,” the company said in a news
release without naming the U.S. agency.  “Admiral McConnell must be very upset about this,”
 Richard Falkenrath , a principal at Chertoff Group, a Washington-
based security advisory firm, said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “He was really one of the early
evangelists of cybersecurity. He was the first senior official
in the U.S. government to really push this.” Falkenrath is a
contributing editor at Bloomberg Television.  Booz Allen declined today to make McConnell available to
comment on the attack. An online activist group called Anonymous
claimed on July 11 that it stole thousands of military passwords
from Booz Allen, the  Associated Press  reported yesterday. The
company is conducting a full review of the incident and doesn’t
believe the attack affected other data, its statement said.  Obama Briefing  Last month, the Obama administration offered its
recommendations for cybersecurity legislation, urging wider
disclosure of data breaches and tighter oversight of companies
deemed vital to the  U.S. economy . McConnell briefed then-
candidate  Barack Obama  on the issue in September 2008, and Obama
ordered a 60-day cybersecurity review shortly after taking
office, declaring the initiative a national priority.  As the government moves on cybersecurity, Booz Allen is
competing with other contractors, including Arlington, Virginia-
based  CACI International Inc. (CACI) , the second-largest provider of
information-technology services to the Defense Department, and
New York-based  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)   Founded in 1914 as a management-consulting firm, Booz Allen
has evolved into one of the largest providers of technology and
personnel to U.S. defense and intelligence agencies. In July
2008, Washington-based  Carlyle Group , the world’s second-largest
private-equity firm, purchased the company’s government-services
unit for $2.54 billion.  Sales Growth  Carlyle took the unit public in November as Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. in an offering that raised $238 million
while keeping a 71 percent stake. Booz Allen’s shares closed at
$19.87 today, up 17 percent from the IPO price of $17.00.  The intelligence business that McConnell runs accounted for
$1.2 billion, or 22 percent of Booz Allen’s $5.6 billion in
revenue in the fiscal year that ended March 31, according to a
regulatory filing. About 97 percent of the McLean, Virginia-
based company’s sales are to the U.S. government.  McConnell’s business unit is driving sales growth at Booz
Allen, said  Michael Lewis , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
LLC who has a target price of $24 on the stock and rates the
shares as a “buy.”  The company is poised to profit as agencies and private
businesses look to thwart hackers, Lewis said in an interview.
He said he expects Booz Allen’s sales to grow about 10 percent
annually, with its cyber business expanding 15 percent a year.  ‘Senior Statesman’  In April, Booz Allen won a contract worth as much as $189.4
million to support Navy cybersecurity efforts, following deals
last year to help build a Pentagon cyberwar command center and
strengthen Air Force network defenses.  “With regard to their cyber business, they have a very
strong position within the National Security Agency, and Mr.
McConnell has been very instrumental in that,” Lewis said.
“Mr. McConnell has built Booz Allen’s cyber business and will
now leverage his expertise as the company expands into the
commercial sector.”  In fiscal year 2010, McConnell received $4.1 million in
compensation, according to a company  filing  with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  “In many ways Admiral McConnell can be more influential in
supporting the intelligence community now than when he was in
office,” Ellen McCarthy, president of the  Intelligence and
National Security Alliance , a group of industry and public
sector members that promotes national-security issues, said in
an interview. “He’s not constrained by the bureaucracy, and is
viewed as a senior statesman operating in an advisory
capacity.”  Navy Service  McConnell, who is fond of swing-dancing and collecting
Irish antiques, was born and raised in Greenville,  South
Carolina , where his textile worker father advocated for
organized labor and civil rights. McConnell received an
economics degree from Furman University in his hometown and
volunteered for Navy service after his 1966 graduation.  During his 29 years in the Navy, he rose through the ranks
to serve as an adviser to General  Colin Powell , who chaired the
Joint Chiefs of Staff during the first  Gulf War .  In 1992, President  George H.W. Bush  tapped McConnell to
lead the National Security Agency, which uses some of the
world’s most powerful computers to conduct surveillance.
McConnell ran the NSA through early 1996, when he retired from
the Navy as a vice admiral and left the agency to join Booz
Allen, where he worked for the next 11 years.  Eavesdropping Authority  McConnell rejoined the government in February 2007, when he
was named director of national intelligence by President  George W. Bush . The position was created by Congress in 2004 to
coordinate information-sharing by the 16 U.S. intelligence
agencies and prevent a repeat of the communications breakdowns
that preceded the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  As Bush’s intelligence chief, McConnell led administration
lobbying for legislation to boost U.S. eavesdropping authority.
The bill, approved by lawmakers in July 2008, included a
provision ending more than 40 lawsuits that accused phone
companies of violating customer privacy by aiding government
wiretaps of suspected terrorists.  Privacy groups including the San Francisco-based Electronic
Frontier Foundation assailed the bill. The EFF sued the NSA in
September 2008, saying the increased eavesdropping powers
granted by the measure were unconstitutional.  “The entire premise of the legislation was
inappropriate,” said Kevin Bankston, a senior staff attorney at
EFF. “We’re still grappling with the legacy that Mike McConnell
has left and that is a legacy of mass surveillance that impacts
the privacy of every American that uses that technology.”  Security ‘Foresight’  McConnell says national security trumps personal freedom
when it comes to protecting the electric grid, financial
networks and other critical infrastructure from cyber attacks.  “Many people worry about this issue as a civil liberties
and privacy debate,” he said. “Here’s the fundamental thing
that most people just don’t understand: We all ride the same
physical infrastructure.”  The  International Spy Museum , which has drawn 6 million
visitors since its 2002 opening, asked McConnell in 2009 to
record videotaped remarks for an exhibit called “Weapons of
Mass Disruption” on the risk of cyber attack.  In a series of clips, McConnell outlines his worst-case
scenario for a network intrusion, which he says would result in
“chaos,” and likens the current lack of safeguards on the
Internet to the “wild west of 1870.”  When McConnell stepped down as director of national
intelligence, many people thought he was being alarmist about
cybersecurity, Pat Gorman, chief information security officer at
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and former chief information officer for
the director of national intelligence, said in an interview.  “But looking back over the past two years, things have
come out exactly as he has said,” said Gorman, who has known
McConnell for two decades and previously worked as an executive
at Booz Allen. “The cyber game has changed, and Mike had the
foresight to point that out in advance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  