-- 
Freescale, EBay, P&G, Elpida: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-13T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/freescale-semiconductor-ebay-assemblies-of-god-intellectual-property.html
A U.S. trade agency agreed to
investigate claims made by Freescale Semiconductor Inc. that
Funai Electric Co.,  Mediatek Inc. (2454)  and  Zoran Corp. (ZRAN)  infringed a
patent for chip technology used in televisions.  Freescale, based in Austin,  Texas , filed the complaint with
the U.S. International Trade Commission on June 8, seeking to
block imports of products from those companies, according to an
ITC statement on July 11. The trade agency agreed to review the
claims, it said.  The ITC, an independent federal agency, has the power to
block imports into the U.S. of products it determines to have
violated patents, including devices that use those products.
Freescale alleges infringement of a patent issued in 1995 for
technology used to reduce unwanted signals between integrated
circuits, according to the complaint.  Mediatek was aware of the case on June 8 and doesn’t see
any impact on its operations, Sharon Lo, a spokeswoman for the
Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company, said by telephone yesterday.
Funai is aware of the case, Naoyuki Takanaka, a spokesman in
Osaka, said by telephone. Both declined to comment further.  A call to the office of Sunnyvale, California-based Zoran
wasn’t answered after office hours. Zoran, which makes chips for
digital audio and video products, agreed to be bought by  CSR Plc (CSR) 
in a $484 million cash-and-share transaction, CSR said June 17.  Freescale filed a similar complaint last year against
Funai, with Mediatek and Zoran added to the new complaint,
according to documents the company submitted in support of the
June 8 case.  The current ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Integrated
Circuits, Chipsets, and Products Containing Same Including
Televisions, 337-786, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ). The earlier ITC case is 337-709, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  Myhrvold Sues Hynix, Elpida as Chipmakers Balk at Royalty  A patent business controlled by former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
Chief Technology Officer Nathan Myhrvold sued Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. and Elpida Memory Inc., along with 10 of
their customers, after the companies refused to pay royalties on
computer-chip technology.  The complaint by Intellectual Ventures LLC targets products
made by Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix, the world’s second-
largest maker of computer-memory chips, and Tokyo-based Elpida,
the third-largest.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Best Buy
Co., which make or sell products that have Hynix or Elpida
chips, were also targeted in the lawsuit.  Closely held Intellectual Ventures, founded by Myhrvold
after he left Microsoft in 2000, has bought more than 30,000
patents and collected almost $2 billion in licensing fees,
according to the complaint. Hynix and Elpida have “failed and
refused to license Intellectual Ventures’ patents on reasonable
terms and continues to use those inventions without
permission,” the Bellevue, Washington-based company said in the
complaint filed July 11 in federal court in  Seattle . This is the
forth patent-infringement suit Intellectual Ventures has filed
since December.  The other companies named in the new suit are:  Acer Inc. (2353) ,
A-Data Technology Co., Asustek Computer Inc.,  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) , Kingston Technology Co.,  Logitech International SA (LOGN)  and
Pantech Co.  In dispute are patents 5,654,932, 5,982,696, 5,500,819,
5,687,132 and 5,963,481. The first four patents were originally
issued to  Cirrus Logic Inc. (CRUS)  of Austin, Texas, between 1996 and
1997. The other patent was issued to the Enhanced Memory Systems
unit of  Ramtron International Corp. (RMTR)  in 1999.  Investors in Intellectual Ventures include Microsoft, Apple
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., and the Mayo Clinic, according to a
court filing in a Xilinx Inc. lawsuit against Intellectual
Ventures that challenged some of patents.  Myhrvold is a columnist for Bloomberg View, which is owned
by Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News. He is
also the author of “ Modernist Cuisine ,” a six-volume     The
case is Intellectual Ventures I LLC v.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) ,
11cv1145, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  EBay May Be Liable in L’Oreal Trademark Suit, EU Court Says  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  may be held liable for trademark breaches on its
auction site if it has knowledge of the infringing data, the
European Union’s highest court said in a dispute involving
cosmetics maker L’Oreal SA.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg ruled yesterday that,
as an operator of an online platform, EBay is liable if it
“played an active role” that would “give it knowledge of or
control over the data relating to the offers for sale.”  L’Oreal has argued EBay, the world’s largest online
marketplace, is liable for trademark breaches, citing its active
involvement in the pre-sale, sale and after-sale processes.  The EU court was called in at the request of the U.K.,
which sought guidance in 2009 after a local tribunal found EBay
wasn’t liable for trademark breaches by users. A French court
ordered the two companies into mediation in 2009 after saying
EBay’s efforts to block sales of counterfeits showed its good
faith, and in 2008 a Belgian case rejected similar claims by
L’Oreal, the world’s largest cosmetics company.  “The judgment provides some clarity on certain issues, and
ensures that all brands can be traded online in  Europe ,” said
Stefan Krawczyk, EBay’s European government-relations director.
“A lot of cases will still have to be assessed by the national
courts. We’ve moved on -- we fulfill most of these conditions
now anyways.”  EBay, based in  San Jose ,  California , had hoped the EU court
ruling would provide enough legal guidance to help settle
pending trademark disputes between it and L’Oreal, he said. The
EU court ruled last year, in a dispute between  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , that Internet hosts may
benefit from an exemption under the EU’s e-commerce law only if
their role in processing potentially infringing data is neutral.  Laurence Balmayer, a spokeswoman for L’Oreal in Paris, said
the company would study the ruling before commenting.  The case dates back to 2007 when L’Oreal sent a letter
expressing its concerns about the “widespread” sale of fake
products on EBay’s European websites and asking it to address
those concerns. L’Oreal sued, saying EBay hadn’t done enough.  Trademark-protected words EBay bought to bring visitors
using search engines to its site via sponsored links were a
point of contention raised by L’Oreal. While L’Oreal said the
practice helps guide people faster to fake products, EBay and
the U.K. government argued it is meant as an EBay advertisement.  The case is C-324/09,  L’Oreal SA (OR) , Lancome parfums et beaute
& Cie SNC, Laboratoire Garnier & Cie, L’Oreal (UK) Limited v.
EBay International AG, eBay Europe SARL, eBay (UK) Limited.  P&G Sues German Private-Label Manufacturer for Infringement  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer products
company, sued a private-label manufacturer for trademark
infringement in the District Court of Dusseldorf, according to a
statement from the Cincinnati-based company.  Luhns GmbH is accused of infringing trademark rights
related to P&G’s  Fairy  dishwashing liquid. According to the
statement, Luhns is selling Magnum private-label dishwashing
liquid to a retailer in the U.K.  The bottle of the Luhns product too closely imitates the
bottle shape and overall appearance of the Fairy product, P&G
said in its statement.  The company filed the case to protect its investments in
the innovations behind the Fairy product and to ensure that
customers aren’t being confused, Deborah P. Majoras, P&G’s chief
legal officer, said in the statement.  P&G seeks an order barring the sale of infringing products
and any future intellectual property violations, the company
said.  Luhns, based in Wuppertal,  Germany , didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  Assemblies of God Wins $6.1 Million in Trademark Dispute  The General Council of the Assemblies of God , a Pentecostal
Christian church based in Springfield,  Missouri , won $6.1
million in a trademark-infringement case against the proprietors
of two stores in Stockton, California.  U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve, in a June 29 order,
awarded damages and attorney fees and ordered a transfer of 32
domain names to the church. She also said all goods bearing
counterfeit trademarks must be destroyed and ordered the
defendants to halt all infringing activities.  The defendants were two separate stores, Ranger Supply
Store and Valley Homebuyer Service, and three Stockton residents
who the church said are the proprietors. The suit, filed in
federal court in  Chicago  in November, stemmed from the sale of
counterfeit versions of emblem patches, t-shirts and other items
bearing the church’s trademarks.  The church also accused the defendants of unauthorized use
of Internet domain names that mirror some of its ministry
groups, such as “ Royal Rangers ,” “Missionettes” and
“ Frontiersman Camping Fellowship .” In addition, they were
accused of copyright infringement for copying the text and
images on the church’s website.  The defendants were unrepresented by counsel and didn’t
appear in court or respond to the allegations against them.  The church was represented by  Julianne Marie Hartzell ,
 Gregory James Chinlund ,   Maureen Beacom Gorman  and  Tiffany D.
Gehrke  of  Chicago’s Marshall, Gerstein & Borun LLP .  The case is General Council of the Assemblies of God v.
Ranger Supply Store Inc, 1:10-cv-07050, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  New Zealand ISPs to Be Paid for Processing Infringement Claims  Content owners who sent New Zealand Internet service
providers copyright-infringement notices against their customers
will have to pay the ISPs NZ$25 ($20) in processing fees for
each notice under a new copyright regime in the country,
 Australia ’s ITNews  reported .  ISPs lacking automated processing systems may not be able
to cover their costs with that fee and may require it be
increased to about NZ$40, Paul Brislen, of the New Zealand
Telecommunications Users Association, told ITNews.  New Zealand’s Minister of Commerce Simon Power told ITNews
that the fee is intended to prevent the inundation of ISPs with
automated copyright-infringement notices.  Rights holders also must provide specific details about
each alleged infringement, according to ITNews.  Biker Claims IP Rights to Image of Vancouver Neon Sculpture  A former member of a Canadian Hells Angels biker group is
claiming ownership rights to a image featuring a cross shape
containing the words East Van, and has accused a photographer of
copyright infringement, the Vancouver Sun  reported .  The photographer shot a picture of a neon cross sculpture
by artist Ken Lum installed in the city in January 2010,
according to the Sun.  The City of Vancouver registered the sculpture as a
trademark last year, about five months after biker Rocco
Dipopolo registered “East Van Inc., + Original cross” with the
Canadian Intellectual Property Office, the Sun Reported.  Barb Floden, a spokeswoman for the City of Vancouver, told
the Sun that while Dipopolo has the legal right to continue
using the mark, which was tattooed on his arm in 1993, the city
alone has the right to permit or bar its use.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Kilpatrick Townsend Hires Director of Fujitsu Patent Center  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP hired Thomas S.
Auchterlonie for its IP practice, the Atlanta-based firm said in
a  statement.   Auchterlonie , who does patent-acquisition work, will be a
member of the firm’s electric engineering/software team.  He joins from  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) ’s Fujitsu Management Services of
America unit, where he was the director of the Fujitsu Patent
Center. He also has worked as a patent examiner at the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  He has handled patent applications in a wide range of
technologies, including software, network and communications
protocols, storage-area networks, integrated circuits, LCDs,
photocopiers, x-ray filters and digital cameras.  Auchterlonie has an undergraduate degree in physics from
Dickinson College, a master’s degree in engineering from City
University of New York City College and a law degree from George
Mason University School of Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 