-- 
French Lawmakers Endorse Constitutional Rule on Balanced Budgets

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-07-13T09:55:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/french-lawmakers-endorse-constitutional-rule-on-balanced-budgets.html
French lawmakers endorsed a
constitutional balanced-budget measure, mirroring German efforts
to limit deficit spending and an effort to maintain its AAA
rating.  The rule, approved in a voice vote in the lower house today
after Senate passage July 11, now needs final ratification,
either in a referendum or by a vote of at least 60 percent of
the two chambers. The opposition  Socialist Party  has said it
would vote against the measure.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  introduced the balanced-
budget law as investors questioned  France ’s ability to maintain
its top credit rating amid the European debt crisis. The
proposed “golden rule” will demand all future governments set
out three-year plans to balance budgets.  “This is the tangible proof that France wants to restore
public finances,” Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse told I-Tele
today. “It’s for our credibility, it helps reassure our
partners.” Pecresse noted France has not submitted a balanced
budget for the last 35 years.  Standard & Poor’s  said June 10 France needs to stick to
plans to cut its  budget deficit  and push through changes to its
health and pension systems to avoid risking its top  credit
rating .  Sarkozy cut the budget deficit to 7 percent of gross
domestic product last year. His government promised its European
partners last month that the shortfall will drop to 5.7 percent
this year, 4.6 percent in 2012 and to within the European
Union’s 3 percent limit in 2013.  “French authorities will likely continue to introduce
policies to contain the future budgetary impact of the
population’s aging,” S&P said last month. “If France were to
balance its general government deficit by 2016, future net
indebtedness would improve sufficiently for us to maintain our
AAA rating on the sovereign almost through to 2050.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  