-- 
U.K. Stocks Rise on Bernanke Comments; Fresnillo, Burberry Climb

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-13T16:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ftse-100-stocks-gain-burberry-group-advances-as-marks-spencer-slides.html
U.K. stocks gained for the first
time in four days after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the U.S. central bank is “prepared to respond” if the
economy requires assistance.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , the world’s largest primary silver miner,
led materials companies higher.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  advanced to a
record as sales climbed on increased demand from Asian
countries.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  climbed 2 percent
even after News Corp. withdrew its bid for Britain’s biggest
listed broadcaster.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 0.6 percent to 5,906.43 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, ending the gauge’s largest three-day
retreat since March. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also gained 0.6
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.7 percent.  The FTSE 100 has still retreated 3 percent from this year’s
high in February as concern intensified that the euro-area’s
sovereign-debt crisis is spreading.  “Its a good sign short-term, but there are so many
underlying worries that what he said will be soon forgotten with
what’s happening in the euro zone,” said Martin Dobson, head of
trading at Westhouse Securities in London. If Bernanke loosens
monetary policy “there will probably be a knock-on effect, but
the European markets are going to be led by the sovereign debt
crisis rather than the  U.S. economy .”  Bernanke told Congress the Fed is prepared to take
additional action, including buying more  government bonds , if
the economy appears to be in danger of stalling.  ‘Deflationary Risks’  “The possibility remains that the recent economic weakness
may prove more persistent than expected and that deflationary
risks might reemerge, implying a need for additional policy
support,” Bernanke said in prepared testimony before the House
Financial Services Committee in Washington. “The  Federal
Reserve  remains prepared to respond should economic developments
indicate that an adjustment of monetary policy would be
appropriate.”  China ’s gross domestic product increased 9.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the country’s statistics
bureau said today. That beat the median estimate of 9.3 percent
in a Bloomberg survey of 18 economists. China’s industrial
production advanced 15 percent in June, the largest increase
since May 2010.  Unemployment Gains  U.K. unemployment claims rose at their fastest pace since
May 2009 last month, the Office for National Statistics said
today. Jobless benefit claims rose 24,500 from May to 1.52
million, more than the 15,000 median prediction in a Bloomberg
survey of 21 economists. Unemployment, measured by International
Labour Organization methods, fell 26,000 to 2.45 million people
in the quarter through May.  Mining and resources companies had the biggest gains in the
FTSE 100. Fresnillo rose 5.6 percent to 1,520 pence after Chief
Executive Officer Jaime Lomelin said its Saucito mine in Mexico
may double output in “coming years.”  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  climbed 4 percent to 1,365 pence and  Randgold
Resources Ltd. (RRS)  increased 4.3 percent to 5,440 pence.  Burberry gained 6.5 percent to 1,531 pence, the highest
price since its initial public offering nine years ago. The
U.K.’s largest luxury goods maker said revenue surged 30 percent
to 367 million pounds ($585 million) in the three months to June
30. That beat the average estimate of 11 analysts compiled by
the company for sales of 344 million pounds.  BSkyB Bid Dropped  BSkyB advanced 2 percent to 705.5 pence, rebounding from
the lowest level in a year. News Corp. withdrew its bid to gain
full control of the broadcaster after U.K. lawmakers demanded
the offer be scrapped because of a phone-hacking scandal at its
newspapers.  “This didn’t come as a total surprise to the market,”
said Mark Kelly, special situations strategist at Olivetree
Securities Ltd. “BSkyB shares were already trading with very
little M&A expectation in them.”  SuperGroup Plc (SGP)  surged 21 percent to 1,062 pence, the
biggest gain since it first sold shares in March 2010, as the
owner of the Superdry clothing brand said retail sales rose 48
percent in the 10 weeks to July 10. The shares had dropped 32
percent in 2011 before today as the company faced what Peel Hunt
analyst John Stevenson last month called a “wall of
skepticism” over the longevity of its brand.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  fell 2.5 percent to 363.8 pence
as the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer said sales at stores
open at least a year rose 1.7 percent, missing the median
estimate of 2 percent in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Conor Sullivan in  London  at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  