-- 
GE Appoints Heintzelman Oil & Gas Chief as Santiago Retires

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-07-13T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ge-appoints-heintzelman-oil-gas-chief-as-santiago-retires.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  shuffled some
of its energy executives, naming Dan Heintzelman to lead the
burgeoning Oil & Gas unit after Claudi Santiago retires in
December.  The changes at the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s
largest industrial unit are effective immediately, with Santiago
reporting directly to Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  in
the interim, GE said in a statement today.  Santiago “led GE Oil & Gas during a period when it became
a global leader in its industry,” Immelt said in the statement.
The unit’s sales more than doubled to $7.56 billion in the five
years through 2010. Heintzelman, Santiago’s successor,
previously ran the services division at Atlanta-based  GE Energy .  GE Energy Infrastructure, the world’s biggest provider of
power-generation equipment and related services, has made more
than $11 billion in acquisitions since October. Those include
John Wood Group Plc’s well-support division;  Wellstream Holdings
Plc (WSM) , an oil-services provider focused on Brazil; and Dresser
Inc.  GE Energy Infrastructure generated 25 percent of the parent
company’s $150.2 billion in sales last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  GE also moved Dan Janki, the energy division’s chief
financial officer, to lead a new energy-management business and
expanded the duties of Steve Bolze, who oversees power and
water, to include power-generation services.  The energy-management division includes technology
solutions for the delivery, management and conversion of
electrical power. Lynn Calpeter, currently chief financial
officer for  NBC Universal , will take Janki’s previous role.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ; 