-- 
Georgia Says Detained Photographer Has Links to Russia Spies

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-07-13T15:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/georgia-says-detained-photographer-has-links-to-russia-spies-1-.html
Georgia  said a photographer detained
on suspicion of espionage has links to two Russians expelled for
spying five years ago.  Zurab Qurtsikidze from the European Pressphoto Agency was
arrested July 7 along with presidential photographer Irakli
Gedenidze, Gedenidze’s wife Natia, and Foreign Ministry
photographer Giorgi Abdaladze. A court in Tbilisi ordered July 9
that Qurtsikidze, Gedenidze and Abdaladze be held for two months
while they await trial. Natia Gedenidze was released on bail.  “Qurtsikidze has links to the spy scandal members from
2006,” Interior Minister Vano Merabishvili told reporters today
in Tbilisi. “He is suspected of having made phone and possibly
other contact since 2004 and we have enough evidence.”  Police say the photographers passed confidential
information about President Mikheil Saakashvili through
Qurtsikidze to  Russia , which won a five-day war with Georgia in
2008. Abdaladze said July 11 that they were targeted because
they sold pictures of anti-government protests in May at which a
demonstrator was killed by riot police.  Qurtsikidze had ties to Anatoly Sinitsin and Sergey
Okrokov, who were arrested on suspicion of spying and sent back
to Russia in 2006, Merabishvili said, adding that his employer
is not under suspicion.  Rather than spying, Qurtsikidze’s detention relates to six
pictures of May’s anti-government rally, including one of a dead
protester, according to Cengiz Seren, the European Pressphoto
Agency’s chief editor. Seren said today by phone that he won’t
come to Georgia to assist Qurtsikidze unless the spying
allegations are dropped.  Merabishvili denied any connection between the arrests and
photographs taken at the protests.  Dozens of reporters gathered for a seventh day outside
police headquarters to demand an independent review of the case.
Several will meet with Merabishvili today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  