-- 
Ghana’s Inflation Slowed for Fourth Consecutive Month in June to 8.6%

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-07-13T10:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ghana-s-inflation-slowed-for-fourth-consecutive-month-in-june-to-8-6-.html
Ghana ’s inflation slowed for the
fourth consecutive month in June as the effects of an increase
in fuel prices at the beginning of the year eased and the cedi
stabilized.  The inflation rate fell to 8.6 percent from 8.9 percent in
May,  Grace Bediako , a statistician at the Ghana Statistical
Service, told reporters in the capital, Accra, today.  “Our expectation is for inflation to continue its downward
trend, through into the third quarter,” Collins Appiah, head of
asset management at Accra-based  NDK Financial Services Ltd. ,
said yesterday. “We do not see any major source of price
changes that could reverse the trend, such as fuel price
increases, significant spending pressure from the government or
a volatile currency.”  A 30 percent increase in gasoline prices on Jan. 4 by
 Ghana ’s National Petroleum Authority pushed the inflation rate
to 9.2 percent in February from 9.1 percent in January and 8.6
percent in December. Price-growth had slowed in the previous 18
months from a five-year high of 20.7 percent in June 2009.  “We see inflation declining again, in June, moving close
to 8.1 percent,” Sampson Akligoh, an economist at Accra-based
Databank Financial Services, said yesterday. “The currency
remains stable, while excessive fiscal pressure seems subdued.”  After weakening as much as 5.7 percent against the dollar
in the first five weeks of 2011, Ghana’s cedi has stabilized and
is now down only 2.2 percent down in the year, easing pressure
on import costs.  Slowing inflation enabled the central bank to cut its key
interest rate by 5 percentage points in the 12 months through
July 2010. It resumed the rate cuts on May 13 and again on July
6, cutting the key rate to 12.5 percent.  “For now we think  interest rates  remain on hold until we
get a clearer picture for July and August inflation,” Akligoh
said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 