-- 
Ghana Inflation Rate Falls to Joint Lowest Level in 19 Years on Food Costs

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-07-13T13:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ghana-inflation-rate-falls-to-joint-lowest-level-in-19-years-on-food-costs.html
Ghana ’s inflation rate fell to 8.6
percent in June, the joint lowest level in 19 years, as
increased agricultural output damped food prices.  Inflation slowed from 8.9 percent in May,  Grace Bediako , a
statistician at the Ghana Statistical Service, told reporters in
the capital, Accra, today. The rate was last at this level in
December, and hasn’t been lower since June 1992. Prices rose 1.3
percent in the month, Bediako said.  “The current inflationary trend may only reverse if fuel
and utility prices go up,” she said. “Even then, moderating
food inflation will tamper any excessive inflationary
pressure.”  Good rains and a program to supply farmers with subsidized
fertilizers have pushed up food supplies and damped prices. Food
inflation eased to 2.8 percent in June, the slowest pace since
September 1991, and down from 3.9 percent in May. Non-food
inflation accelerated to 12.4 percent from 12.2 percent in May.  The effect of a 30 percent increase in gasoline prices on
Jan. 4 by  Ghana ’s National Petroleum Authority is also easing.
The increase pushed the inflation rate to 9.2 percent in
February from 9.1 percent in January and 8.6 percent in
December.  Inflation Outlook  “Now it looks obvious that inflation will continue to slow
into the third quarter and most likely close the quarter at 7
percent,” Sampson Akligoh, an economist at Accra-based Databank
Financial Services, said in a telephone interview today.
“Government’s plan to increase spending through a supplementary
budget does not pose a fiscal threat, because of a six-month lag
effect. That notwithstanding, a stable cedi will continue to
support the disinflationary trend.”  After weakening as much as 5.7 percent against the dollar
in the first five weeks of 2011, Ghana’s cedi has stabilized and
is now down only 2.2 percent down in the year, easing pressure
on import costs.  Slowing inflation enabled the central bank to cut its key
interest rate by 5 percentage points in the 12 months through
July 2010. It resumed the rate reductions on May 13 and again on
July 6, lowering the key rate to 12.5 percent.  “The  Bank of Ghana  will see this as a vindication of its
earlier decision to cut rates,”  Razia Khan , London-based head
of research at Standard Chartered Bank Plc said of June
inflation in an e-mailed note today. “We’re not so sure.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 