-- 
GM Says Volkswagen CEO Winterkorn Has Fanned Rumors Opel Unit Is for Sale

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-07-14T01:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/gm-says-volkswagen-ceo-winterkorn-has-fanned-rumors-of-opel-sale.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the automaker
that has lost $14.5 billion in Europe since 1999, said
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  is
stoking speculation that GM’s German-based Opel unit is for sale.  Winterkorn was quoted in the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung 
saying that if Opel were for sale, a Chinese automaker would be
more likely than  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to buy it. The comment
“continues a regrettable pattern of fanning speculation” that
Opel is on the sales block, Detroit-based GM said on its website.  German magazines  Der Spiegel  and Auto Bild reported last
month that GM may be considering a sale of Opel. GM has called
such reports speculation and hasn’t commented on them. The
company said it is making progress in restructuring the business.  “He shouldn’t have said anything,”  Maryann Keller ,
principal of auto-industry consulting company Maryann Keller &
Associates in Stamford, Connecticut, said of Winterkorn’s
comments. “To suggest that only a Chinese company would be
interested is unseemly.”  GM said in May its European operations would have broken
even in the first quarter without a $395 million charge to
goodwill. The carmaker lost $1.8 billion in Europe last year.
Opel’s market share in Europe rose to 7.4 percent from 7 percent
for the first five months of this year.  Carsten Krebs, a Volkswagen spokesman, confirmed that
Winterkorn made the remarks at a press event in Berlin yesterday.
Winterkorn was speculating who might buy Opel if it was for sale
and didn’t say the unit is definitively for sale, Krebs said.  ‘He Only Speculated’  “He only speculated,” Krebs said. “The journalist asked
him a question and he speculated. If you read it properly, he
doesn’t think GM is selling Opel.”  GM rose 7 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $30.75 yesterday in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined
17 percent this year.  Keller said GM would have a tough time selling Opel.
Chinese companies would want the technology in Opel’s cars,
which are used for GM vehicles like the Chevrolet Malibu and
several Buick models, while GM would want to keep intellectual
property rights, making a deal difficult to reach, she said.  “If GM sold Opel to a Chinese company, it would only
hasten their ability to eat GM’s lunch,” Keller said. “Without
the intellectual property, GM would only be selling some high-
cost plants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  