-- 
Canadian Stocks Advance as Gold Climbs From Record Settlement

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-13T20:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/goodfellow-yellowhead-mining-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for a second
day as financial and energy companies advanced on speculation
the U.S. may return to stimulus policies and demand for a haven
from debt crises propelled precious-metals producers.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, increased 2.6 percent as gold futures climbed to a
record.  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , Canada’s fifth-largest energy
company, increased 2.1 percent as U.S. oil inventories dropped.
 Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , the country’s biggest base-metals and coal
producer, climbed 1.1 percent after  China  reported faster
economic growth than most economists in a Bloomberg survey had
forecast.  “It’s a lack of confidence in terms of what’s happening to
the euro,” said  Todd Johnson , a  money manager  at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, which oversees C$300 million
($313 million). “The U.S. debt-ceiling debacle and the
dysfunctional politics make people realize they need more
tangible hard currency, adding to demand for precious metals.”  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 90.87
points, or 0.7 percent, to 13,324.94.  The S&P/TSX rallied 3.5 percent from a seven-month low on
June 17 through yesterday as gold stocks jumped 9.9 percent.
Three of the world’s five largest gold companies by market
value, and eight of the top 20, are Canadian, according to
Bloomberg data.  Gold has surged 6.7 percent since July 1 as investors
speculated the European debt crisis will spread beyond  Greece 
and the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the U.S. debt ceiling to
prevent default neared without an agreement among lawmakers.  Precious Metals  Gold gained 1.5 percent while silver surged 7.1 percent,
the most in 27 months, a day after Moody’s Investors Service cut
Ireland’s credit rating to below investment grade. The  U.S.
dollar  dropped the most in three weeks today against a basket of
world currencies.  Barrick climbed 2.6 percent to C$46.62.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the
world’s second-biggest gold producer by market value, increased
2.5 percent to C$52.12, extending its July advance to 12
percent.  Tahoe Resources Inc. (THO) , which is developing a silver
project in  Guatemala , soared 14 percent to C$19.92.  North American Palladium Inc., a precious-metals producer
in Ontario, jumped 18 percent, the most in 17 months, to C$4.51
after  Leon Esterhuizen , an analyst at Royal Bank of Canada,
raised his rating on the shares to “outperform” from “sector
perform.”  Hotter Weather  Energy companies rose as natural gas futures advanced for a
fourth day on forecasts for above-normal temperatures in the
U.S. Stocks extended their gains after the U.S. reported a
weekly drop in crude inventories more than twice as large as the
median analyst forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Cenovus climbed 2.1 percent to C$36.25.  Trican Well Service
Ltd. (TCW) , Canada’s largest oilfield-services company, rallied 5.4
percent to C$25.69. ARC Resources Ltd., which produces oil and
gas in western Canada, increased 1.8 percent to C$24.50.  Trilogy Energy Corp. (TET) , a western Canadian oil and gas
producer, rallied 8.8 percent to a five-year high of C$27.45
after jumping 5.5 percent yesterday. Mark Polak, an analyst at
Bank of Nova Scotia, called the stock a “top pick” July 11.  Producers of base metals gained after China, the world’s
biggest user of the commodities, said its gross domestic product
increased 9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier.
Economists had forecast economic growth of 9.3 percent,
according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Mining Companies  Teck climbed 1.1 percent to C$49.73.  Quadra FNX Mining
Ltd. (QUX) , which produces copper in Canada, the U.S. and  Chile , rose
3.1 percent to C$14.37. Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., which is developing
a copper and gold mine in  Mongolia  with Rio Tinto Group, gained
2.3 percent to C$24.94.  Directory publisher  Yellow Media Inc. (YLO)  sank 5.1 percent to
C$2.25, extending its 2011 plunge to 64 percent, after Tim Casey, an analyst at Bank of Montreal, cut his rating on the
stock to “underperform” from “market perform.” The shift to
online listings from printed publications will reduce profit
margins, Casey said in a note to clients.  Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier,
advanced 1.9 percent to C$54.27. Adam Shine, an analyst at
National Bank of  Canada , began coverage of the company with an
“outperform” rating in a note dated yesterday. He cited the
growth of the smartphone and wireless-data markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  