-- 
Google Requires Oversight but Not a U.S. Antitrust Probe: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/google-s-conduct-requires-oversight-but-not-a-u-s-antitrust-probe-view.html
When  Google Inc. (GOOG)  went public in
2004,  its founders declared  that the search-engine leader wasn’t
a conventional company and didn’t intend to become one. This
maverick attitude has defined Google ever since, especially in
its hot-and-cold relations with the world’s governments.  Regulators constantly find some aspect of Google’s business
that demands attention. There are bogus advertisers to be shut
down and offensive YouTube videos to be challenged. Authors fret
about copyright issues involved in digitizing old books.
Privacy-minded citizens worry about unwanted visibility from
 Google Maps  and Google Earth. The controversies are endless. To
date,  regulators  have acted as if Google is moving in the right
direction but needs to be more careful about how it proceeds.  Now some of Google’s fundamental business practices are
under fire. At issue is the company’s dominance in online
search, with more than 60 percent of the U.S. market and an even
larger share in  Europe . The biggest critics, which tend to be
other online businesses, argue that Google is skewing search
results to favor its own services, that it is making it hard for
other businesses to win top ad placements, or that the company
is using other sites’ content in unwelcome ways.  The Federal Trade Commission has embarked on a wide probe
of Google, looking for antitrust violations. The agency is
adopting the time-honored way of dealing with market dominators,
going back to the meatpackers and steel companies of the 1920s.  The protracted rituals of antitrust, however, were built
for a world in which monopolists stymied innovation, jacked up
prices, stifled competition and arm-twisted customers into
buying extra goods or services they didn’t need. It’s not that
simple in high tech.  Refining Algorithms  Google hardly acts like a classic monopolist. It innovates
furiously, having made 500 refinements to its search-engine
algorithms last year alone. Google gives away most of its
products. Google’s easy-to-use AdWords and AdSense products have
helped thousands of businesses get started. And for all its
supposed market clout, Google has launched its share of flops,
such as Google Health.  The  Mountain View , California-based company argues that
rival  search engines  are just a click away. It also points out,
rightly, that the marketplace would punish it if Google puffed
up its own offerings in search results. Both  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 AOL Inc. (AOL)  got carried away promoting their own content in the
late 1990s; it didn’t work out well for either.  Jitters about Google’s ability to run its own ads next to
search results seem overblown. Although such “house ads” could
push up other advertisers’ costs, Google’s ads equate to less
than 0.5 percent of all spending on the site. Besides, similar
house ads have long been accepted in print and broadcast.  Antitrust Cudgel  Complaints about Google overstepping its right to treat
others’ data as public-domain material may carry more weight.
Here, though, the antitrust cudgel is an ill-suited fix. The
decade-long pace of many antitrust cases makes it impossible to
cure problems as they unfold. What’s more, the classic trust-
busters’ remedies -- forcing divestitures or asking Google to
operate under a consent decree -- seem more anticompetitive than
the supposed problems they might cure. Do we want the U.S.
government constantly fiddling with Google’s algorithms?  Fortunately, better approaches are at hand. In highly
technical fields, such as health care or engineering, regulators
routinely convene expert panels to help make specialized
judgments or set industrywide standards. Google, its critics and
the FTC should sign on to a similar, binding approach. Doing so
would let them negotiate contentious issues calmly and
efficiently. Other thorny matters, such as how to allocate
Internet domain names, have been resolved by forming
 international, multiparty rule-setters .  Privacy Concerns  The ultimate answers on licensing, copyright and privacy
may require legislation some day. In the meantime, face-to-face
negotiation is bound to be more efficient than a drawn-out
antitrust suit. An example: In March, the FTC announced a well-
crafted resolution of privacy concerns regarding Google’s Buzz
social-networking service, barely a year after lawmakers and
advocacy groups asked the agency to investigate.  The FTC’s rightful role in watching Google may be more as a
convener of working groups on specific Internet business issues
than as an old-fashioned trust-buster. That’s less exciting than
trying to gear up for a big antitrust case. But a tighter focus
avoids debacles like the  13-year government probe  of
International Business Machines Corp., which ended in a big
“never mind” in 1982. That inquiry became a litigation time
capsule -- trapped in debating an outdated set of facts while
the information economy kept rolling forward.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 