-- 
Gordhan Says South Africa Fiscal, Monetary Policies Aimed at Faster Growth

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-07-13T10:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/gordhan-says-south-africa-fiscal-monetary-policies-aimed-at-faster-growth.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said the government’s efforts to ensure a
competitive  exchange rate , including a buildup of reserves and
fewer exchange controls, were having the desired effect.  The rand has fallen 3.3 percent against the dollar this
year, trimming its gains against the U.S. currency since the
beginning of 2009 to 37 percent. Labor unions and businesses
have called on the government to do more to weaken the rand,
saying the currency’s strength is undermining exports.  “Policy measures implemented thus far have helped to
prevent further nominal appreciation” of the rand “despite the
fact that aggregate capital flows have remained positive,”
Gordhan said in a written reply to a parliamentary question
circulated via e-mail today. “Fiscal and monetary policy have
been adjusted to support the economic recovery. Real  interest
rates  remain low and supportive of growth.”  The rand traded at 6.8536 per dollar at 11:17 a.m. in
Johannesburg, up from 6.8764 late yesterday.  South Africa ’s exchange rate policy has to take into
account “the national interest,” Gordhan said.  “If we spend more on reserve purchases, we either need to
borrow more or spend less on something else,” he said. “If we
impose  capital controls , we risk raising the cost of domestic
capital and not have enough inflows to finance the current
account deficit.”  Manufacturing Weakness  South African manufacturing output increased 0.6 percent in
May, the government statistics agency said yesterday, less than
the 2.4 percent median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “There are a lot of pressures on manufacturing; lack of
demand from  Europe , uncertainty in the global economy, the
overvaluation of the rand, competitiveness issues,” Gordhan
told reporters in Johannesburg today. “Over the last six to
nine months manufacturing has coped reasonably. We need to do
more as government to support the manufacturing sector.”  Gordhan reiterated that there were benefits of having a
strong rand, including the fact that it helped contain fuel
price increases.  “If the rand were to weaken to 8 rand per dollar and the
oil price rose back to $125 a barrel, then the petrol price
would rise above 11 rand a liter,” from 9.92 rand currently, he
said. “This would impact negatively on household spending
power, increase inflation and ultimately result in higher
interest rates, which would reduce economic growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 