-- 
Graham Packaging Bondholder Group Plans to Reject Tender

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-07-13T21:39:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/graham-packaging-bondholder-group-plans-to-reject-tender-before-takeover.html
Graham Packaging Co. bondholders
plan to reject the company’s offer to buy back or change terms
of outstanding debt before its $4.5 billion takeover by Reynolds
Group Holdings Ltd.  “The offer is fundamentally flawed for all parties
involved,” according to a letter to Credit Suisse Group AG, the
manager of the tender offer, from lawyers at Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP. “The holders do not intend to tender or consent
pursuant to the terms proposed,” according to the letter,
obtained by Bloomberg News from an investor.  The  law firm  represents holders of 81 percent of York,
Pennsylvania-based Graham Packaging’s $253.3 million of 8.25
percent notes due January 2017 and 78 percent of its $250
million of 8.25 percent debt maturing in October 2018, according
to the letter, which was dated yesterday.  Resistance to the tender offer and an associated consent
solicitation may complicate Auckland-based Reynolds Group’s
takeover. The solicitation seeks to alter terms that allow
bondholders to sell the debt back to Graham Packaging at 101
cents on the dollar in the event of an acquisition, The pushback
shows investors are trying to taking advantage of slowing junk-
bond issuance and widening relative yields to gain the upper
hand from borrowers.  Graham Offer  Graham Packaging is offering 102 cents on the dollar for
the notes as well as for its $375 million of 9.875 percent notes
due October 2014, it said in a July 7 statement distributed by
PR Newswire. Investors may also consent to change the terms
without selling their bonds back to Graham Packaging, according
to the statement. The 2017 and 2018 notes can first be called at
104.125 cents on the dollar in October 2014 while Graham
Packaging can retire the 2014 notes in October of this year at
101.646 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is very rare for an issuer to offer such a paltry
tender premium,” wrote Rob Matz, a New York-based analyst at
Covenant Review LLC, a research firm that analyzes bondholder
safeguards, in a July 8 note to clients. “Holders of the 2017s
and 2018s should uniformly reject this offer.”  The debt maturing in 2018 fell 0.5 cents to 106.5 cents on
the dollar, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Loans, Notes  Reynolds Group will finance the takeover with $4 billion
split evenly between new bonds and term loans, that company said
in a July 7 statement distributed by  Business Wire . Reynolds
Group also plans to make a $2 billion loan to Graham Packaging,
according to Brian Bogart, an analyst at KDP Investment
Advisors, wrote in a July 12 note to clients.  The terms of the intercompany loan require Graham Packaging
to pay back $200 million in principal annually and give Reynolds
a secured claim on the company’s assets, wrote Bogart, who’s
based in Montpelier,  Vermont .  Bondholders “reserve the right to challenge the
acquisition, particularly the terms of the $2.0 billion
intercompany note,” according to the letter.  Reynolds Group may choose to keep Graham Packaging’s bonds
in place and pay higher  interest rates  to raise debt to finance
the acquisition that isn’t guaranteed by the target company,
according to Eric Swanson, an analyst at Thrivent Financial,
which has $73 billion in assets including Graham Packaging
bonds.  ‘A Little Unusual’  “Reynolds will try to see what the debt will cost them,
but we hope it flat-out doesn’t get done because the structure
is a little unusual and that could lead them to come back to
us,” said Swanson, who’s based in  Minneapolis .  High-yield, high-risk bond sales of $350 million this week
are poised to fall short of the 2011 average of $6.77 billion
for the seventh straight period, Bloomberg data show. The extra
yield investors demand to own the debt instead of Treasuries has
widened 23 basis points since touching 534 basis points on July
1, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Cristopher Greer and Joseph Minias, the New York lawyers
who signed the letter, didn’t return calls seeking comment.
Steven Vames, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, and Joseph Doyle,
legal counsel for Reynolds Group, declined to comment. David Bullock, Graham Packaging’s chief financial officer didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  Willkie Farr represents Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
Bloomberg News, in regulatory and legislative matters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 