-- 
Greece Gets World’s Lowest Rating by Fitch

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/greece-gets-world-s-lowest-rating-from-fitch-in-catch-up-downgrade-to-ccc.html
Greece ’s credit rating was cut three
levels to Fitch Ratings’ lowest grade for any country in the
world as the company followed rivals and said that a default is
a “real possibility.”  The move to CCC from B+ “reflects the absence of a new,
fully funded and credible” program by the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union, the ratings company said
yesterday in a statement in London. It also reflects
“heightened uncertainty surrounding the role of private
creditors in any future funding, as well as Greece’s weakening
macroeconomic outlook.”  Fitch is the third ratings company to cut Greece to the
bottom tier of its rankings, reflecting concerns that a new aid
package being negotiated for the nation will inflict losses on
investors. Greece was downgraded to Caa1 by Moody’s Investors
Service on June 1 and CCC by  Standard & Poor’s  on June 13.  “We’re so far past the stage with Greece where ratings
themselves make a difference because they’re all so low,” said
Vincent Truglia, managing director of economic research at New
York-based Granite Springs Asset Management LLP and a former
head of the sovereign risk unit at Moody’s. “What’s more
important is what the effects will be when Greek debt is
essentially rescheduled and the effect on the periphery.”  In its statement, Fitch said that it has taken Greece off
Ratings Watch Negative.  No Difference  “Fitch finally caught up with the rest on Greece,” said
 Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates strategy at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  London . “At this point, CCC or B+ doesn’t make much
difference. It’s whether Greece will go to D or SD that really
matters.”  The difference in yields between Greece’s benchmark 10-year
bond and comparable German debt rose 16 basis points to 1,423
basis points yesterday before Fitch cut the rating.  More than a year after Greece received a 110 billion-euro
($156 billion) aid package that aimed to stem the spread of the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis, EU officials are trying to put
together a new package for Greece as the country remains locked
out of bond markets. A two-day meeting of finance ministers
concluded this week without an accord on a new package.  European officials have struggled to agree on whether
investors should bear some of the burden of any losses from
Greece. The  European Central Bank  has opposed such a move,
saying it risks causing a crisis on a par with the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Default Risk  Fitch’s new assessment “encapsulates substantial credit
risk and acknowledges that default is a real possibility,” it
said in the statement yesterday. “As previously stated by
Fitch, private sector involvement would likely be viewed as a
sign of sovereign credit impairment and could trigger a rating
default event.”  Greece’s finance ministry challenged the move yesterday,
saying that it’s “questionable” why Fitch took its decision
given the fact that there is a timeframe known for international
action to aid the nation.  Ireland and  Portugal  followed Greece in seeking bailouts as
investors shunned the debt of the region’s other high-deficit
nations, driving up their borrowing costs. Both countries have
also had their ratings cut to non-investment grade by Moody’s.  Fitch said that there are “growing doubts” on whether
Greece can withstand a further fiscal squeeze at a time of
economic and financial uncertainty. It predicted an economic
contraction of 4 percent this year, followed by a “weak
recovery” in 2012.  “The crisis is not going to get better with all the band
aids people are using and all the constant calls for austerity
that’s being heaped on in the Greek case,” Granite Springs’
Truglia said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  