-- 
Greece Has ‘Little Scope for Deviation’ in Program, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-07-13T17:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/greece-has-little-scope-for-deviation-in-program-imf-says-1-.html
Greece  has little margin for error
in implementing the budget cuts and asset sales attached to its
110 billion-euro ($156 billion) bailout, the International
Monetary Fund’s staff said.  In an appraisal of Greece’s policies under the joint rescue
plan with the European Union, the IMF said that exceptional
liquidity support from the  European Central Bank  is
“critical.” European policy makers need to decide how to
provide additional funding for Greece, the staff said.  “The debt dynamics show little scope for deviation,” the
IMF staff wrote. “Incomplete fiscal adjustment, privatization
shortfalls, or delays in structural reform implementation --
producing a considerably slower economic recovery and fiscal
adjustment -- would see debt remain at very high and likely
unsustainable levels through 2020.”  European finance chiefs haven’t yet agreed on how to reduce
Greece’s debt burden, floating ideas this week from bond
buybacks to a temporary default as they sought to shift a
strategy that has failed to contain the debt crisis. There are
also doubts about whether Greece will be able to complete its
privatization program.  The country’s deputy finance minister yesterday said Greece
won’t manage to sell everything on the list of planned state-
asset sales and real-estate developments. He was later corrected
by the government’s spokesman who said the program would be
fully implemented.  International Markets  While the IMF acknowledges Greece cannot return to
international markets next year as initially planned because of
soaring borrowing costs, the fund’s chief  Christine Lagarde  told
reporters this week that the IMF is not yet discussing details
of a second bailout package and that “nothing should be taken
for granted.”  While there’s been no request for a new aid package, the
IMF is thinking about what the financing needs may be and what
its contribution may amount to, Poul Thomsen, the mission chief
to Greece, said on a conference call with reporters today. That
is linked to what financing is provided by  Europe  and by the
private sector, he said.  The IMF said the debate over the new financing, with
uncertainties on how the private sector would contribute, hasn’t
helped Greece and its banks, with deposit outflows picking up.  Greek Support  “It will be important for euro-area member states to
decide how they fundamentally wish to support Greece, and then
put in place the mechanisms needed to deliver this support,”
the report said. “Comprehensive private sector involvement is
appropriate, given the scale of financing needs and the
desirability of burden sharing.”  Given the impact of private-sector involvement on Greece’s
credit rating, euro-area member states need to put in place
mechanisms to guarantee liquidity support to Greece’s banking
system, it said.  Banks will face liquidity pressure throughout 2011 and will
likely need additional capital, according to the IMF, which also
urged the ECB to clarify that exceptional support will remain in
place for the Mediterranean country.  “ To manage near-term liquidity risks, expeditious
approval by the ECB’s Governing Council of the use of new
government-guaranteed bonds would be very helpful,” IMF staff
wrote. “The Bank of Greece must also be prepared to utilize its
whole toolkit of options,” including Emergency Liquidity
Assistance, a short-term loan program by national central banks
in use in Ireland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  