-- 
EPA’s Clean-Water Powers Limited in House Measure Obama May Veto

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/limits-on-epa-s-clean-water-powers-pass-house-over-veto-threat.html
The Environmental Protection
Agency’s powers to set clean-water standards would be limited
under legislation passed by the Republican-led U.S. House over
threats of a veto by the Obama administration.  The bill blocks the EPA from tightening water pollutant
limits without a state’s consent if the agency previously
approved the state standard. The measure, which passed 239-184
yesterday, is part of an effort to rein in what Republicans say
is an agency’s regulatory overreach threatening the economy.
Sixteen Democrats joined Republicans to support the measure.  Supporters said limits on the EPA would give farmers, coal
companies and other businesses that discharge pollutants into
waterways greater certainty that standards won’t be changed.  The EPA is engaged in an “unprecedented regulatory grab”
during a “difficult time in our economy,” Representative John Mica, a Florida Republican and chairman of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said during debate.  The bill is the “single-worst assault on clean-water
protections in a generation,” Steve Fleischli, a senior
attorney at the New York-based Natural Resources Defense
Council, said in a statement.  Democrats said the EPA should retain its authority to
supersede state rules because pollution crosses political
boundaries.  Advisers to President  Barack Obama  will recommend a veto if
the legislation passes Congress, according to an administration
statement issued yesterday. The measure must also pass the
Senate before being sent to the president.  Health, Economy  The bill “would significantly undermine the  Clean Water
Act  and could adversely affect public health, the economy, and
the environment,” the administration said.  Supporters of the bill cited the EPA’s decision in January
to revoke a federal permit granted in 2007 to the Spruce No. 1
mountaintop mine in Logan County,  West Virginia , operated by St.
Louis-based  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  The  EPA said  the mine operations were
“destructive and unsustainable.” The legislation would
prohibit such actions without state concurrence.  House Republicans  are pursuing other measures to restrict
the EPA. The House Appropriations Committee approved a bill on
July 12 to cut the EPA budget to $7.1 billion, or 20 percent
less than Obama requested.  The spending bill also would delay rules limiting
greenhouse-gas emissions from industrial polluters such as  power
plants  and oil refineries.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved a bill on
July 12 that postpones a clean-air rule targeting pollution that
leads to smog and soot.  The bill is H.R. 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  