-- 
Anglo, Impala Face Strikes at World’s Largest Platinum Mines

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-13T11:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/impala-platinum-faces-strike-in-south-africa-as-pay-talks-fail-union-says.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , together making up about two-
thirds of platinum supply, face strikes threatening output of
the metal that’s trading near the highest in almost three years.  “We are heading for a strike,” the  National Union of
Mineworkers  said in an e-mailed statement today, declaring a
dispute with Impala. The country’s biggest union has also
“approached members at Anglo Platinum for a mandate to shake
the biggest platinum company in the world,” it said.  Anglo and Impala mine mostly in  South Africa , accounting
for more than three-quarters of world output of platinum used in
applications from electronics and jewelry to devices that curb
vehicle pollution. The NUM also yesterday declared a dispute
with  Northam Platinum Ltd. (NHM) , owner of the deepest platinum mine.  A 43-day strike that began Sept. 6, 2010, cost Northam 380
million rand ($55 million) in lost sales before workers settled
for pay increases of as much as 13 percent, with international
platinum prices rising about 9 percent over the period. The NUM
is now demanding wage gains of more than four times the pace of
inflation, which was running at an annual 4.6 percent in May.  Anglo American Platinum, a Johannesburg-based unit of  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) , produced 2.57 million ounces of platinum last year
and directly employed more than 54,000. Impala, also based in
the city, produced 1.74 million and had 38,000 workers.  Share Prices  Anglo American Platinum fell 1.2 percent by 1:13 p.m. in
Johannesburg, Northam was unchanged and Impala rose 0.9 percent.
Platinum in  London  gained 0.9 percent to $1,744.50 an ounce. On
May 2, the metal rose to $1,886.50, the highest since July 2008.  Gold and coal producers such as  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and
Xstrata Plc also face strikes. Gold industry wage talks resumed
today, while the NUM declared a coal industry dispute last week.  A strike over pay in the  petroleum industry  is in its third
day as the Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied
Workers Union demands higher pay. Workers in the National Union
of Metalworkers of South Africa began a walkout on July 4.  Last year, state employees won a 7.5 percent pay raise and
a 60 percent increase in housing allowances after nine months of
negotiations and labor action that shut schools and interrupted
services at hospitals and courts, and led to violent protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  