-- 
U.S. Import Prices Drop for First Time in a Year on Lower Oil, Food Costs

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-13T12:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/import-prices-in-u-s-drop-for-first-time-in-year-on-lower-oil-food-costs.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. dropped in June for the first time in a year as oil and
food expenses retreated.  The 0.5 percent fall in the import-price index followed a
revised 0.1 percent gain in May, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.6 percent decrease
for June, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Prices excluding petroleum fell 0.2 percent, the first
decline since July 2010.  Falling costs will benefit companies like  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and
Hanesbrands Inc. that are dealing with more expensive inputs
eating into margins. Today’s report supports Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s forecast that elevated commodity costs
will moderate as supply constraints wane.  “The drop is really reflective of what we’re expecting for
the second half of the year with weaker energy and food
prices,” said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in New York, who correctly forecast the decrease.
“This really feeds into the transitory story that you’ve been
hearing from the Fed.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report as
 China’s economy  grew faster than forecast and investors waited
for Bernanke to testify before Congress. The contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in September rose 0.4
percent to 1,316.3 at 8:35 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities 
dropped, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to
2.93 percent from 2.88 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  Projections for import prices ranged from decreases of 1.5
percent to increases of 0.2 percent, according to the Bloomberg
survey of 50 economists.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 13.9
percent, the biggest 12-month advance since August 2008, today’s
report showed.  The cost of imported petroleum fell 1.6 percent from the
prior month, the largest one-month drop since June 2010. Even
with the decrease, the cost was still up 50 percent from a year
earlier.  Excluding all fuels, import prices decreased 0.1 percent
from the prior month and were up 4.8 percent from June 2010. The
12-month gain was the biggest since October 2008.  Food Costs  Imported food was 1.9 percent cheaper last month, the
largest decline since February 2009. A 2.6 percent drop in
unfinished metals also helped hold down non-fuel import costs.  Rising costs for automobiles limited the overall decline in
prices. Costs of imported automobiles, parts and engines climbed
0.3 percent, and were up 2.9 percent over the past 12 months. It
was the biggest yearly gain since August 2008.  Consumer goods  excluding vehicles showed a 0.1 percent
advance after increasing 0.3 percent in May.  Bernanke told reporters on June 22 that Fed officials
anticipate “inflation will subside in coming quarters to levels
at or below its mandate-consistent rate.”  Policy makers were divided on whether the economy needed
additional stimulus, minutes of the central bank’s June 21-22
meeting showed yesterday. Some members said a further slowdown
in growth would signal a need for additional support, while
others said the growing risk of inflation would require
withdrawing stimulus sooner than currently anticipated.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 1.2 percent in May from a year earlier. Fed policy
makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7 percent to 2
percent, according to their June forecast.  Input Costs  U.S. companies are, nonetheless, feeling the effects of
more expensive goods. Input cost inflation and air freight
expenses will reduce gross margins by at least 300 basis points
for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, Donald Blair, chief
financial officer of the Nike, the world’s largest sporting-
goods company, said during a June 28 call with analysts.  “There are rising costs as we know for raw materials,
energy and labor, which is sparking inflation in world
economies,” Mark Parker, president and chief executive officer
of the Beaverton, Oregon-based company, said during the call.  High-priced cotton will “work its way through the supply
chain,” according to Richard Noll, chairman and chief executive
officer of Hanesbrands, maker of Hanes underwear and the Wonder
Bra. “I don’t see this big spike up and this drop down,” he
said during a June 21 conference call.  Country Breakdown  The cost of goods from  China  climbed 0.1 percent, the
smallest gain since September, while those from  Japan  were
little changed, the report showed. Goods from  Latin America  fell
1.1 percent, and those from the European Union increased 0.1
percent. Prices of Canadian imports dropped 1 percent, and goods
from  Mexico  fell 2.2 percent, the biggest decline since November
2008.  U.S. export prices increased 0.1 percent after advancing
0.2 percent the previous month, today’s figures showed. Prices
of farm exports rose 0.7 percent, while those of non-farm goods
were little changed.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Data on producer prices come
out tomorrow, and the consumer-price index will be released on
July 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  