-- 
India ETF Assets Surge as Low Costs Lure Flows: Chart of the Day

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-13T18:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/india-etf-assets-surge-as-low-costs-lure-flows-chart-of-the-day.html
Assets held by exchange-traded funds
in  India  have more than doubled in the past year while those
under actively managed rivals have declined as investors seek
low-cost financial products.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows percentage change of assets in
ETFs and  mutual funds  since the end of June 2010, based on data
from the Association of Mutual Funds in India. Money held by
ETFs surged 148 percent through the end of last month, compared
with a 6.1 percent increase for active funds. ETFs manage 76.3
billion rupees ($1.7 billion), 1 percent of the industry total.  “ETFs charge lower management fees than mutual funds,”
Reid Steadman, global head of ETF Licensing at Standard & Poor’s
Indices in  Hong Kong , said in a phone interview. “They are
typically ideal for a volatile market like India where new
information is processed every moment.”  ETFs tracking Indian equity indexes returned an average 21
percent annually in the three years ended July 8, compared with
13.8 percent by active stock funds, according to Value Research
India Pvt. The average expense ratio for funds is 2.2 percent,
three times the 0.71 percent incured by ETFs, data compiled by
the New Delhi-based researcher show.  The growth of ETF assets in India suggests the passive,
low-cost style of investing that changed asset management in the
U.S. and  Europe  may do the same for the Asian nation, Rajan
Mehta, excutive director at Benchmark Asset Management Co., the
country’s biggest manager of ETFs, said by phone from Mumbai.  Assets held by U.S. ETFs grew 15-fold in the decade ended
Dec. 31, while active funds increased 69 percent, according to
Washington-based  Investment Company Institute . ETFs held $1.08
trillion in May, up 39 percent from a year earlier, and mutual
funds managed $12.4 trillion, the data show. In  Asia  excluding
 Japan , ETFs held $59 billion at end of May, up 23.4 percent from
a year earlier, BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money
manager, said in a May report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  