-- 
ING Said in Talks to Sell Latin America Unit to Saieh Group

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-07-13T17:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ing-said-in-talks-to-sell-latin-america-business-to-saieh-group.html
A group including Chilean
entrepreneur Alvaro Saieh and Mexico’s Grupo BAL is in talks to
buy  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Latin American pension business, which may
fetch $3 billion or more, said people with knowledge of the
matter.  The group also includes  Colombia ’s Santo Domingo family and
J.C. Flowers & Co., the New York-based private-equity firm, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private. ING has indicated it may decide on the
unit sale as soon as today, the people said. While ING was in
advanced talks yesterday with the Saieh group, other bidders
including  MetLife Inc. (MET)  remained in the process, the people said.  At stake is control of the second-largest mandatory
pension fund management business in Latin America, including
positions in the biggest markets of  Mexico  and  Chile . ING also
operates those businesses in  Peru , Uruguay and Colombia.  If successful in acquiring the ING division, Saieh’s group
plans to sell off the Mexican operations to Grupo BAL,
controlled by the Bailleres family, said people with knowledge
of the plans. The other investors would jointly own the business
in the remaining countries. A representative for Grupo BAL, a
holding company with operations including mining and insurance,
wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Alvaro Saieh wasn’t available to answer questions, an
assistant said by e-mail. He controls  Corpbanca (CORPBANC) , Chile’s sixth-
biggest bank, as well as retailer SMU SA and media company
Copesa SA. Representatives for J.C. Flowers and Santo Domingo
didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. Peter Stack,
a spokesman for MetLife, declined to comment.  Latin America  Unit  Victorina de Boer, an ING spokeswoman, said the company
continues to examine options for its Latin American insurance
business and declined to comment further. The pension business
is part of ING’s insurance unit in Latin America.  The assets also attracted an offer from a group including
Chile’s Luksic family and Mexico’s Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter who said the
group is no longer pursuing a deal.  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, is under
European Union orders to sell its insurance operations as a
condition for approval of state aid received during the
financial crisis. ING is considering divesting the U.S.,
European and Asian businesses in two initial public offerings
while it has said it is evaluating options for the Latin
American insurance unit.  Cor Kluis, an Utrecht, Netherlands-based analyst at
Rabobank International, said ING’s Latin American pension
business is probably worth about 1.8 billion euros ($2.5
billion). ING’s minority stake in  Brazil ’s Sul America SA is
worth another 0.8 billion euros, Kluis said in a note dated July
5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  