-- 
Minn. Shutdown Means MillerCoors Must Pull Beer

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-13T16:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/minn-shutdown-means-millercoors-must-pull-beer.html
MillerCoors LLC must pull 39 brands
of beer from  Minnesota  bars, restaurants and stores because it
failed to renew brand-label registrations before the state
government shut down July 1, the Public Safety Department said.  The company disputes that it failed to file the paperwork
and fee in time and is talking with state officials, said Julian Green, a spokesman for the No. 2 U.S. beer company.  “We’re hoping that for the consumers in Minnesota, as well
as the retailers and the distributors who depend on this to make
a living, we can bring some resolution,” Green said in a
telephone interview today from  Chicago .  The registration, which must be renewed every three years
with a $30 fee per brand, is required for the manufacturing,
distribution or sale of alcohol, said Doug Neville, a spokesman
for the Minnesota Public Safety Department.  The state has contacted the company seeking a plan for how
it will remove the beer from the state and wants that to happen
“within days,” Neville said in a telephone interview from  St.
Paul .  “They’re unable technically to either distribute or sell
their product in the state,” Neville said.  The MillerCoors registration expired June 13, and although
the company tried to renew it, the registration could not be
processed in time before the shutdown, he said. The company
filed its paperwork and two checks to cover the fee, Green said.  Lite Out  The company is a joint venture between  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and
 Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP)  The affected brands include Miller,
Miller Lite, Coors Light and Foster’s, Green said. Sales figures
were not available, though Minnesota is “one of our top
markets,” he said.  State agents are checking to see whether other brewers also
may be affected, Neville said.  The Minnesota stalemate, the longest of the nation’s six
state government shutdowns since 2002, began July 1 after
Democratic Governor Mark Dayton and Republican legislative
leaders failed to resolve an impasse about how to address a
$5 billion  budget deficit . Republicans want spending cuts alone,
and Dayton is pushing for additional revenue to preserve
services. The shutdown has idled about 23,000 state workers,
closed agencies and stopped construction projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  