-- 
Isolux Said to Prepare Takeover of T-Solar After Subsidies Cut

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-07-13T11:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/isolux-said-to-prepare-takeover-of-t-solar-after-subsidies-cut.html
Grupo Isolux Corsan SA is set to
take control of T-Solar Global SA, the world’s biggest operator
of photovoltaic plants, and integrate it into a newly created
infrastructure company with 7.5 billion euros ($10.6 billion) of
investments, according to a person familiar with the deal.  Spain ’s largest closely-held construction company will
convert its 19 percent stake in T-Solar into a majority holding
through a 120 million-euro capital increase, said the person,
who asked not to be named because the transaction hasn’t been
completed yet.  Isolux, based in  Madrid , is aiming to increase its revenue
by investing in  Brazil ,  India  and the U.S. as the Spanish
government reduces subsidies for solar energy to keep a lid on
its own deficit. Photovoltaic plant earnings in Spain were cut
by as much as a third this year after above-market rates they
earned were reduced to lower power bills.  T-Solar will be combined with Isolux Infrastructure, which
will control 1,000 miles of highway concessions, 3,100 miles of
power transmission lines and 168 megawatts of photovoltaic
generators, the person said.  The solar developer built most of its plants in 2007 and
2008 when the government sparked an investment boom by offering
subsidized rates for clean energy. Spain changed the law in
December to limit the hours that plants could earn above-market
rates after installations exceeded their target almost 10-fold.  Photovoltaic generators convert sunshine into electricity
when light strikes a semiconductor such as silicon, creating a
current that can be fed into the  power grid . The technology will
provide about 11 percent of the world’s electricity by 2050, the
 International Energy Agency  says.  Two Spanish savings banks, Caja Navarra and Cajasol, also
invested in the capital increase, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  