-- 
Israeli June Consumer Prices Probably Rose 0.4% on Summer Items

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-07-13T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/israeli-june-consumer-prices-probably-rose-0-4-on-summer-items.html
Israeli consumer prices probably
rose in June as clothing and shoe stores restocked for summer
after clearance sales ended, and hotels and airlines entered the
peak vacation season.  The consumer-price index advanced 0.4 percent from the
previous month, according to the median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation rose to 4.2
percent from 4.1 percent, according to the survey. The
Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  is scheduled to
release the data at 2 p.m. local time tomorrow.  Israeli consumer prices have surged as the economy recovers
from the global recession faster than most advanced countries.
Inflation exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target for a fifth month in May, and is likely to do so again in
June, according to the survey.  “Inflation in annual terms will probably stay high for the
three months beginning in June,”  Michael Sarel , chief economist
at Harel Insurance Investments & Financial Services Ltd. in
 Ramat Gan , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “From
September we will see inflation begin to decline.”  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  held the interest
rate at the end of June at 3.25 percent, after raising the
benchmark 10 times in the past two years. He is unlikely to
increase the rate again at the end of July, according to 13 of
15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg at the end of June and
beginning of July.  Slowing Inflation  Slowing growth, the appreciation of the shekel and the
increase in interest rates are all working to bring the
inflation rate down, Sarel said. Inflation is likely to slow to
within the government’s target range in the first quarter of
2012, he said.  “Inflation is peaking or has peaked,”  Daniel Hewitt ,
senior emerging-market economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. Global food and energy
costs as well as Israeli wholesale food prices have reached
their highest point and are declining, he said.  Economic growth may be slower in 2011 than the bank’s
forecast of 5.2 percent, because the expansion in the second
quarter may have been less than expected, Fischer said July 7.
Economic indicators published ahead of the last interest-rate
decision support the assessment that growth slowed in the second
quarter from the previous three months, according to minutes of
the decision released July 11.  Seasonal increases in clothing and vacation prices in June
were probably offset in part by a decline in fruit and vegetable
prices and the cost of gasoline, Victor Bahar, an economist for
Bank Hapoalim Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Inflation for the next 12 months is likely to decline
to 2.8 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 