-- 
Italian Yields Surge to Three-Year High at Bond Sale as Senate Weighs Cuts

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-07-14T10:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/italy-braves-yield-surge-with-7-billion-bond-sale-as-senate-votes-on-cuts.html
Italy  sold five-year bonds at the
highest yield in three years and the government was forced to
call a confidence vote on an austerity package that aimed to
show the nation can tame  Europe ’s second-largest debt burden.  The Treasury priced 1.25 billion euros ($1.8 billion) of
the bonds, the maximum set for the sale, to yield 4.93 percent,
the highest since June 2008 and up from 3.9 percent at the
previous auction on June 14. It was the first sale of longer-
term debt since Italy’s 10-year yield reached a 14-year high of
6.02 percent on July 12. Italy also sold 1.72 billion of 15-
years bonds and 2 billion euros of bonds due in 2017 and 2023.  “This is not a result that sweeps away contagion fears,
ratings fears,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-
rate strategy at Credit Agricole CIB. “Concessions are costly,
though not crippling at this point.”  The failure of European Union policy makers to complete a
second aid package for Greece and contain the region’s debt
crisis fueled concern about the sustainability of Italy’s 1.8
trillion-euro debt, which is larger than that of Greece,
Ireland,  Spain  and Portugal combined. The market selloff that
also sent Italy’s benchmark stock index to a two-year low led
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to push for speedy passage of
40 billion euros in deficit cuts to balance the budget in 2014.  Demand Rises  Demand for the five-year bonds was 1.93 times the amount on
offer, up from the 1.28 times at the June sale. In the secondary
market, the yield on similar maturity bonds rose 7 basis points
to 5.11 percent. The premium investors demand to hold Italy’s
10-year debt over German bunds rose 15 basis points to 295, down
from a euro-era high 348 basis points on July 12.  Bonds extended declines after the government announced that
it had requested that today’s vote on the 40 billion-euro
deficit-reduction measures would be under a motion of
confidence. In Italy governments use confidence votes to
maintain party discipline and pressure their own lawmakers to
support their position, or risk the collapse of the government.
Berlusconi, who has a comfortable majority in the Senate, rarely
calls confidence votes in the upper house.  Final Passage  The Chamber of Deputies, where Berlusconi has a narrower
margin, holds a confidence vote tomorrow. The Cabinet passed the
plan on July 1 to balance the budget in 2014 and initially aimed
for parliamentary approval by the end of July. After the market
slump, opposition parties pledged not to hinder its passage.  “The likelihood of the Italian budget being passed means
short term, we’re expecting the relief rally to continue,” said
 Harvinder Sian , a senior bond strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London.  Bank of Italy Governor and incoming European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that the plan is “an
important step in strengthening the public accounts” that will
help reduce debt.  Fitch Ratings  called the package “an ambitious fiscal
consolidation plan” and said yesterday that sticking to the
goals would “be consistent with stabilizing Italy’s sovereign
credit profile and rating at AA-.”  Credit Rating  Warnings from Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s that they were reviewing Italy’s rating for a possible
downgrade, coupled with opposition within Berlusconi’s
government to the budget plan designed by Finance Minister
 Giulio Tremonti , helped drive yields higher this week.  Italy hasn’t had its rating cut since  Greece  set off the
region’s sovereign debt crisis in October 2009. Italy’s deficit
of 4.6 percent of gross domestic product last year is less than
half those of Greece, Spain and Ireland. Tremonti’s success at
containing the shortfall helped limit the increase in the
country’s debt, even though total borrowing has topped 100
percent of GDP for more than 20 years.  With its bond yields rising, financing that debt is
becoming more expensive. Italy priced 6.75 billion euros of one-
year bills to yield 3.67 percent at an auction on July 12, a
more than 50 percent increase from the previous sale a month
earlier. Limiting the size of today’s auction may have helped
bolster demand, said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist
at Commerzbank AG in  London .  Size Matters  “The overall target range of 3 to 5 billion euros is, by
Italian standards, fairly low,” Schnautz said before the sale.  Italy will spend about 75 billion euros financing its debt
this year, based on the average interest rate of 4 percent
forecast by the government. Those projections foresee a jump to
85 billion euros by 2014 as financing costs rise by a point.
Jefferies International Ltd. estimates that a rate of 6 percent
would cost the government an additional 35 billion euros.  Cutting spending will allow Italy to reduce debt even if
10-year yields top 7 percent for a sustained period, a threshold
that prompted Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.
That’s because Italy will have a primary surplus -- the budget
balance before debt servicing costs -- starting this year. The
government projects that surplus will reach 2.4 percent of GDP
next year, a figure Draghi said would be the biggest in the EU.  “If you look at Ireland, Portugal and Greece, not one of
those issuers failed to get an auction done,” said  Padhraic Garvey , the head of developed-market debt at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “The problem for those issuers was the cost of
funding. That made going to the markets uneconomic.”  Italy still needs to sell about 90 billion euros of bonds
this year, about 41 percent of the total for 2011, with a
financing hump coming in September when 46 billion euros of debt
matures, analysts at BNP Paribas estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net . 