-- 
Italian Parliament Aiming to Pass Austerity Measures by the End of Week

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-07-13T15:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/italian-parliament-aiming-to-pass-austerity-measures-by-the-end-of-week.html
Italian lawmakers are set to approve
most of a 40 billion-euro ($56 billion) austerity plan this week
as politicians seek to calm financial markets after Italian bond
yields hit record highs.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said today that approval
of the package by the Rome-based legislature will come on July
15. The upper house Senate will pass the measures tomorrow, with
the Chamber of Deputies set to push them through in a confidence
vote the next day.  Opposition parties vowed not to obstruct the legislation in
Parliament, where Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s government
has a majority. “These are tough times for Italy and for the
euro, so it’s right to put stability absolutely before any other
consideration,” said Marina Sereni, a parliamentarian with the
main opposition Democratic Party.  Europe ’s debt crisis has entered a new phase as contagion
threatens to spread to Italy and Spain,  European Central Bank 
incoming President  Mario Draghi  said today in a speech in Rome.
Italian bond yields soared to the highest since 1997 yesterday
as European policy makers meeting in Brussels failed to agree on
a second aid program for Greece.  The deficit plan is “an important step in strengthening
the public accounts” that will help reduce the debt, Draghi
said today. He also called on the government to explain details
of additional measures for 2014 that will be needed to achieve
the balanced budget.  Tremonti, speaking at the same banking forum in Rome where
Draghi made his comments, said the government was considering a
plan to sell state-owned assets “once the crisis passes.”  The premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
over German bunds fell 5 basis points today to 280, down from a
euro-era of 348 reached during trading yesterday.  Fitch Ratings  said  Italy  is on track to meet this year’s
budget target of 3.9 percent of gross domestic product. Italy’s
adherence to fiscal targets would be consistent with stabilizing
Italy’s sovereign credit profit and rating at AA-, Fitch said
today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  