-- 
Italian Banks Face Funding Squeeze as Debt Crisis Widens

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-07-14T09:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/italian-banks-face-funding-squeeze-as-crisis-enters-new-phase.html
Italian banks, saddled with the
nation’s record borrowing costs, may struggle to reverse a drop
in profitability that’s already turned  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  into European laggards.  Italy ’s two biggest lenders have about 55.4 billion euros
($78.4 billion) of debt maturing in 2012, according to the
banks. Investor concern that the sovereign debt crisis is
spilling over to Italy, which has the region’s largest debt,
pushed the country’s 10-year bond yields to their highest
relative to German bunds since the introduction of the euro,
adding about 1 percentage point to funding costs this month.  The crisis has entered a new phase and higher financing
costs for some European nations are here to stay,  Bank of Italy 
Governor Mario Draghi said yesterday. For the banks, that
translates into pressure on earnings and may force cost cutting,
greater competition for deposits and a contraction in lending,
mirroring the challenges Spanish lenders are also facing.  “The widening of sovereign spreads is so critical for
southern European banks,” Morgan Stanley analyst Huw van Steenis wrote in a note to clients July 12. “Deleveraging
remains the base case for those banks with high funding costs
and impacts bank earnings and is a drag on economies.”  UniCredit Funding  A spokeswoman for Milan-based UniCredit, the nation’s
largest bank, said the impact of wider spreads will be mitigated
by having access to different sources of funding such as the
retail market and covered bonds. About 58 percent of UniCredit’s
funding comes from Italy, with the rest from Germany and
 Austria , she said.  The bank needs to refinance about 32.1 billion euros in
2012 and doesn’t rule out that it may start fundraising sooner
for next year if the markets are favorable, the spokeswoman
said.  Officials for Intesa, which is also based in Milan,
declined to comment. The bank said on May 13 it had funded about
two-thirds of this year’s maturities.  (For a related story on Italy’s planned bond sale today,
click here.)  The yield premium investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
bonds over German bunds reached a euro-era record 348 basis
points July 12, amid concern that a budget-adjustment plan may
not be approved by parliament. Spreads were at 283 basis points
today, about 100 basis points higher than at the beginning of
the month.  Spanish Bonds  The premium investors demand on Spanish 10-year bonds has
averaged about 222 basis points over German bunds in the past
six months. The spread rose to 336 basis points on July 11.  “I do see deleveraging as a very good read-across to Italy
from what’s been happening in  Spain ,” said  Simon Maughan , head
of sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd. in  London . “The
market is saying to the Italian banks that it will force them to
deleverage by pushing up the cost of funding.”  Deleveraging, or cutting the use of borrowed money, would
require banks to reduce assets such as bonds and loans.  Lending in the Spanish economy dropped 3 percent since the
end of 2008, according to Bank of Spain data as of April. The
pace of contraction may be accelerating:  Banco Espanol de
Credito SA , a retail banking unit of Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
said on July 12 lending in the second-quarter fell 5.7 percent
to 55.7 billion euros.  Retail Networks  While the bank can access short-term funding, there is
“tight liquidity” in the medium to long-term markets, said
Banesto Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio Garcia Cantera.  Italian banks count on retail networks as a steady source
of funding. Individual investors who buy bonds account for about
63 percent of their borrowings, compared with a European average
of 48 percent, data compiled by Italy’s banking association
show. Retail investors don’t have pricing power when buying
bonds and tend to be more stable than institutional buyers.  In Spain, higher funding costs have triggered a war for
deposits, not yet seen in Italy. In May, Italian banks on
average paid 1.7 percent on new one-year deposits, compared with
2.6 percent in Spain, European Central Bank  data  show.  “The competition for deposits is definitely picking up
among the smaller players in Italy although the Spanish banks
still pay a lot more than the Italians,” said  Ronny Rehn , an
analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in London.  Banks were “wise” to accelerate refinancing this year,
said Draghi, speaking at the annual meeting of Italy’s banking
association in  Rome  yesterday.  Profitability Lags  That may not be enough to salvage a revival in
profitability. The average return on equity of Italy’s banks is
4.2 percent, almost half of the 8.4 percent European average,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Draghi yesterday urged banks to cut costs by trimming their
branch networks with “determination” to bring profitability to
a “satisfactory” level, echoing the advice repeatedly doled
out to Spanish lenders by Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez.  “Banks are very dependent on funding and if the cost goes
up, it’s always bad,” said  Florian Esterer , who manages about
$60 billion, including UniCredit shares, at Swisscanto Asset
Management in Zurich. “It’s obvious that the net interest
margin will come under more pressure.”  Shares of UniCredit dropped 15 percent this month, compared
with Intesa’s 10 percent decline and a 5 percent drop in the
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index . UniCredit
climbed 2.6 percent to 1.27 euros as of 11 a.m. in Milan trading
today. Intesa added 0.7 percent to 1.65 euros.  “The reaction in the stock markets has been vicious and it
should be fairly well priced in by now,” Esterer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  