-- 
Liverpool to Discuss Terms With Downing After Agreeing on Fee With Villa

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-14T01:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/liverpool-agrees-on-fee-with-aston-villa-to-sign-winger-stewart-downing.html
Liverpool will open contract talks
with  Stewart Downing  after agreeing on a fee with Premier League
soccer rival Aston Villa for the transfer of the England winger.  Liverpool, which had two previous bids rejected for the 26-
year-old, said it had been given permission to discuss personal
terms with Downing and arrange a medical.  The fee wasn’t disclosed in a two-sentence statement on
Liverpool’s website last night. The Reds will pay 20 million
pounds ($32.3 million) for Downing, the Independent reported.  “We have reached an agreement with Liverpool following an
improved offer and the submission of a formal transfer request
by Stewart,” Villa Chief Executive Officer Paul Faulkner said
on his club’s website.  Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish has added midfielders
 Jordan Henderson  and  Charlie Adam  since the team finished sixth
in the Premier League last season.  Adam made his Liverpool debut off the substitutes’ bench
yesterday as the club opened its tour of  Asia  with a 4-3 victory
over Chinese second-tier team Guangdong Sunray Cave.  The left-footed Downing, who’s played 27 times for the
England national team, completed a division-best 135 crosses in
open play last season, according to the British Broadcasting
Corp. He was voted Villa’s best player of the 2010-11 campaign
by supporters and teammates.  Should he join Liverpool, Downing would become the second
England international to leave Villa in four weeks after  Ashley Young  moved to  Manchester United .  Villa is trying to bring in replacements and is also in
talks to sign a goalkeeper, Faulkner said.  “There are replacements available in the market who can
strengthen our squad ahead of the coming season, and we are in
discussions as such,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  