-- 
Japan Snatches First Pacific Nations Cup Rugby Title With Final Play-Try

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-13T08:02:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/japan-wins-pacific-nations-cup-rugby-for-first-time-by-beating-13-man-fiji.html
Japan  won its first Pacific Nations
Cup rugby championship by beating host Fiji 24-13 in the
tournament’s last match, sealing the title with the final play.  Japan entered today’s game in Lautoka, Fiji, needing a
four-try bonus-point victory to secure the cup and got the
championship-clinching five-pointer in the 84th minute when Yuta
Imamura darted over.  The Cherry Blossoms, who finished the tournament level with
Tonga on 10 points in the four-team standings, claimed the
trophy for the first time in the event’s  six editions  because
they had beaten the Tongans 28-27 four days ago. The teams were
using the event as part of their preparations for this year’s
 World Cup  in  New Zealand .  “We’re working really hard,” Japan coach John Kirwan, a
World Cup winner with New Zealand in 1987, said in an interview
with Fox Sports. “It’s been a great tournament and we’re really
proud to have come away with the win.”  Tokyo  had been scheduled to host all six matches before
five games were relocated to Fiji following the March earthquake
and tsunami that hit Japan’s northeast coast.  Tonga had earlier moved atop the standings by beating Samoa
29-19 in the opening match of the final-round doubleheader at
Lautoka’s Churchill Park.  In the second game, Japan trailed 8-0 at halftime before
quick tries by Go Aruga, Ryan Nicholas and a conversion by Shota
Horie put the Cherry Blossoms 17-13 ahead. Imamura then carved
through a shorthanded Fijian defense to score the title-sealing
try under the posts.  Fiji had two players red-carded and another three received
yellow cards, reducing the home side to 13 men or less for more
than half the match. The Fijians played the closing minutes with
only 12 of their 15 players on the pitch.  “We paid for our mistakes,” Fiji captain Dominiko
Waqaniburotu, who was one of the players shown a yellow card,
told Fox Sports. “We still have a lot of work to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  