-- 
JD Wetherspoon Sees ‘Reasonable’ Year as Beer Sales Hold Up

-- B y   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-07-13T15:49:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/jd-wetherspoon-says-11-week-comparable-sales-increased-by-1-6-.html
JD Wetherspoon Plc (JDW) , the U.K. owner
of more than 750 pubs, said it’s confident of achieving a
“reasonable outcome” for the fiscal year as beer sales
continue to hold up and it adds more outlets.  Sales at outlets open more than a year increased 1.6
percent for the 11 weeks to July 10, the Watford, England-based
company said in a statement today. Total sales climbed 7.1
percent, compared with a 7.5 percent gain for the 50 weeks to
that date. Comparable sales in that period rose 2.2 percent.  Weekly beer sales per pub are holding up, Chairman Tim Martin said in a phone interview, even as the price of a pint
has climbed “well above inflation.” He attributed rising
prices to the increase in excise duty on beer and wine
introduced by  George Osborne , the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
in his budget statement in March.  “You have two excise duty increases which have been
deliberately above inflation,” Martin said. “You have utility
and commodity increases as well on the back of inflationary
pressures.”  The performance of recently opened pubs has been
“encouraging,” the company said. More pubs will open this
month, adding to 38 new pubs so far this fiscal year. “We’re
planning to open 15 in July,” Martin said.  Costs have risen for staff pay, electricity, and “across
the whole spectrum of food purchases,” added Martin, who said
last month food accounts for 30 percent of revenue. One billion
meals were served in U.K. pubs in 2010, more than were sold in
restaurants, according to the British Beer & Pub Association.  Wetherspoon forecast an operating margin of about 9.5
percent for the second half of the year. That compares with 9.4
percent for the 26 weeks ended Jan. 23.  The shares fell 1.2 percent to 437.1 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London trading. The stock has dropped 2.9 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 575.2 million pounds
($927 million).  Martin said he ”couldn’t speculate” on the likelihood of
increasing the dividend if conditions improve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
or  ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  