-- 
Jeter 3,000-Hit Fan Gets Tax-Pay, Loan Help From Yankees Sponsor Modell’s

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-07-13T18:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/jeter-3-000-hit-fan-gets-tax-pay-loan-help-from-yankees-sponsor-modell-s.html
The fan who caught  Derek Jeter ’s
home-run ball that gave him 3,000 career hits is getting help
paying  student loans  and possible tax bills from one of the  New
York Yankees ’ chief sponsors.  Modell’s Sporting Goods Inc. , the official sporting goods
partner of the Major League Baseball team, said it would donate
5 percent of its Yankees merchandise sales from today through
July 19 to Christian Lopez, a 23-year-old mobile-phone salesman
who caught the ball and returned it to Jeter, the club’s
shortstop and captain.  Lopez received roughly $70,000 in tickets and merchandise
from the team, gifts that may be taxed by the  Internal Revenue
Service  at fair-market value. He said that has $150,000 in
college loans to repay in addition to potential taxes, which
accountants cited by the  New York  Times said may be as high as
$14,000.  “When you hear about what Christian did, it wasn’t about
Christian, it was really about his love for the Yankees, his
love for Derek Jeter,” Mitchell Modell, president of the
sporting goods company, said at a presentation at the chain’s
Times Square store in  Manhattan . “We thought it was critically
important that someone think about Christian.”  Modell’s and  Steiner Sports Marketing Inc.  each guaranteed
$25,000 toward the elimination of Lopez’s debts. Lopez will
receive whatever additional money the campaign brings in, Modell
said. He won’t pay taxes on the donations because this year
there is a $5 million exemption on taxable gifts.  World Series Ring  Lopez also received Modell’s 2009 Yankees World Series ring
and a 20 percent lifetime discount at the company’s stores.  “I’m absolutely speechless right now,” Lopez said. “My
hand is shaking. This is a surreal experience.”  Doug Allen, president of Chicago-based  Legendary Auctions ,
said that the ball may be worth as much as $250,000. Lopez said
after the game that he returned the ball because “Mr. Jeter
deserved it.”  The Yankees gave Lopez four Champions Suite season tickets
for the rest of the season and front-row seats for another game,
worth between $37,000 and $62,000, according to the team’s
website. Lopez also received three bats, three balls and two No.
2 jerseys, Jeter’s uniform number signed by the shortstop, worth
between $7,500 and $8,100, according to Brandon Steiner, chief
executive officer of  Steiner Sports Marketing Inc .  The IRS may claim taxes in two ways, Paul Caron, a
professor at the  University of Cincinnati  College of Law and
author of ‘ TaxProfBlog ,’ said in a telephone interview.  Tax Basis  Lopez could be taxed on the fair-market value of the ball,
which he possessed as soon as he caught it, or for what he
received from the Yankees.  Caron said the IRS avoided a public-relations nightmare in
September 1998 by declining to pursue tax payments from a fan
who returned  Mark McGwire ’s 62nd home run, after the St. Louis
Cardinals’ first baseman surpassed Roger Maris’s single-season
home run record.  In that case, the IRS issued a press release saying that
although the ball was valuable, the fan wouldn’t realize that
value until the ball was sold, and it thus declined to seek
taxes on the fair-market value.  IRS spokesman Grant Williams declined to comment. Lopez
said that he had not yet been contacted by either the IRS or the
State of New York regarding any tax liability.  ‘Crazy’  Lopez is from Highland Mills, New York, 55 miles (88
kilometers) northwest of  New York City . The 2010 graduate of  St.
Lawrence University  said that he had 378 friend requests on the
Facebook social-networking site this morning and has given out
roughly 50 autographs to co-workers, friends and strangers.  “How crazy is it that a normal kid touches a ball and then
gets to meet Derek Jeter?” Lopez said in an interview.  Miller High Life , a beer brand of a joint venture between
 SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) , also offered today
to cover Lopez’s tax bill.  “Miller High Life believes you should be rewarded for
doing the right thing, not penalized,” Brendan Noonan, Miller
High Life’s brand manager, said in a statement.  Founded in 1889, Modell’s is America’s oldest and largest
Family owned and operated sporting goods equipment, footwear and
apparel retailer. The Manhattan-based company has over 140
stores from  New Hampshire  to  Virginia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  