-- 
Shell, Petronas, Sasol’s South African Gas Stations Running Dry on Strike

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-13T15:30:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/johannesburg-pretoria-face-fuel-crisis-if-strike-continues-retailers-say.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Petroliam
Nasional Bhd gasoline stations in South Africa are running low
on fuel after a strike by oil industry employees in the country
that threatens to escalate as more workers join the pay dispute.  Shell’s South African unit had at least 40 of its sites in
Gauteng, the country’s most populous province, run out of one or
more grades of motor fuel, the Hague-based  oil company  said by
e-mail today. Engen Ltd., a unit of Petroliam Nasional, or
Petronas, reported 19 of its outlets were dry, spokeswoman Tania
Landsberg told the South African Press Association.  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , South Africa’s largest fuel producer, also said
today that some of its gasoline stations were empty of stock.  “We are already bleeding, especially in Gauteng,” said
Reggie Sibiya, chief executive officer of the Fuel Retailers
Association, in an interview broadcast today by Johannesburg-
based e-News Channel. “Gauteng is the hub of our economy.” The
province faces a “crisis” in the next two days unless there’s
a resolution to the strike, which began on July 11.  Workers are demanding pay gains of as much as 13 percent,
while companies offered 6.25 percent, Clement Chitja, head of
talks for the Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied
Workers Union, said yesterday. The Solidarity union said today
workers at Sasol and state-owned PetroSA, would join the strike.  “We’re waiting for the employers,” Chitja said by phone
today, adding no date has been set for talks or mediation.  Economic Damage  Cobus Jansen, a spokesman for Sasol, said by e-mail that
while the company’s plants were still operating, some of its
retail outlets were out of stock as deliveries were “hampered
by intimidation at depots.” Jansen said in an earlier message
that the National Petroleum Employers Association may comment
today on the status of wage negotiations with unions.  “There is no cause for public concern yet,” the South
African Petroleum Industry Association said in an e-mailed
statement today. Members, which include the biggest refineries,
have had “some difficulties,” it said, without elaborating.  South Africa  has six refineries with a combined processing
capacity of about 692,000 barrels a day.  “On their own, the fuel strikes should only have a
marginal impact on the economy,” Peter Attard Montalto, an
economist at Nomura Plc, said from  London . “However, there are
strikes happening or looming in a number of other sectors and
overall these could have a much larger potential impact.”  Mining Action  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd., which together contribute about two-thirds of platinum
supply, are threatened by strikes by South African workers.  “We are heading for a strike,” the  National Union of
Mineworkers  said in an e-mailed statement today, declaring a
dispute with Impala. The country’s biggest union has also
“approached members at Anglo Platinum for a mandate to shake
the biggest platinum company in the world,” it said.  Gold and coal producers such as  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and
Xstrata Plc also face action. Gold industry wage talks are
deadlocked, while the NUM declared a coal dispute last week.  Consumer inflation rose to an annual 4.6 percent in May.  Glenda Zvenyika of BP Plc didn’t immediately respond to
messages on left on her mobile phone seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  