-- 
Jordan Says SNB Is Very Concerned, Monitoring Franc Development

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-07-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/jordan-says-snb-is-very-concerned-monitoring-franc-development.html
Swiss central bank Vice President
Thomas Jordan said policy makers are “very concerned” about
recent currency developments after the franc appreciated to a
record against the euro.  The  Swiss National Bank  is “monitoring the euro-franc
 exchange rate  very closely,” Jordan said at an event in Zurich
late yesterday. Asked whether policy makers would be willing to
weaken the franc through purchases of foreign currencies as in
the 15 months through mid-June 2010, he said “we’re constantly
assessing the situation and if there was a situation with a
deflation threat, then we’d have the possibility to act.”  The Swiss currency has gained about 7 percent against the
euro this year, reaching a record earlier this week, as the
euro-area’s worsening debt crisis eroded investor confidence.
While the franc’s ascent has helped curb imported price
pressures, it’s also clouding Switzerland’s economic prospects.
Manufacturing cooled in June, investor confidence fell and the
government cut its 2012 growth forecast.  The franc traded at 1.1583 versus the euro, the currency of
the country’s main trading partner, late yesterday in Zurich,
after reaching a record 1.1553 on July 12 as investors grew
increasingly concerned that a possible sovereign default may
undermine the 17-member currency region. Against the dollar, the
franc traded at 81.91 centimes.  No Failure  While Swiss business lobby groups and lawmakers have called
on the SNB to weaken the franc as the economy shows signs of
cooling and exports falter, policy makers led by Philipp Hildebrand have so far declined to comment on whether they’d
consider such a move. The intervention policy contributed to a
record loss of $21 billion at the central bank in 2010.  “It’s not true at all that” the intervention policy “was
a failure,” Jordan said. “ Switzerland  has weathered the crisis
very well” and “that’s partly due to the central bank’s
monetary policy.”  The Zurich-based SNB last month kept borrowing costs at
0.25 percent and reiterated its 2011 growth forecast of about 2
percent. Jordan said today that policy makers “are not
powerless” and are ready to fight deflation threats if needed.  He also said that pegging the franc to the euro “would
mean that we’d adopt” the  European Central Bank ’s monetary
policy and that  interest rates  would increase. That’s “not in
the interest of Switzerland,” he said.  “We have the biggest possible interest” in European
leaders being able to counter the debt crisis and avoid a
“domino effect,” Jordan said. “It’s enormously important that
all parties concerned are making a joint effort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  