-- 
Joy Global Is Said to Be in Talks to Purchase China’s International Mining

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-07-14T05:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/joy-global-said-to-be-in-talks-to-acquire-international-mining-machinery.html
Joy Global Inc. (JOYG)  is in talks to buy
 International Mining Machinery Holdings Ltd. (1683) , a Chinese maker of
coal-mining equipment, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter.  A deal may be announced as soon as this week, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are private. International Mining, controlled by private-equity
firm Jordan Co., has a market value of HK$8.5 billion ($1.1
billion), based on its July 11 closing stock price. The shares
were suspended from trading July 12 and yesterday.  The acquisition may be Joy’s biggest, topping its $1.1
billion purchase of LeTourneau Technologies Inc. from Rowan Cos.
in June, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Joy may have to pay a
premium of as much as 30 percent for International Mining,
according to a note from Piper Jaffray Cos. published today,
implying a price of up to $1.42 billion.  “IMM’s products are purchased by major Chinese coal mining
companies, which is a testimony to its good products, and this
is also why  Joy Global  may be interested,” said Tan E Wuen, a
Hong Kong-based analyst with Osk  Asia  Holdings BHD.  International Mining makes shearers, which cut coal from
the coal face, and underground excavating and tunneling machines.
 China  is the largest coal producer. Thermal coal at the
Australian port of Newcastle, the benchmark price for Asia, has
climbed 26 percent to $121.45 a metric ton in the past year,
according to McCloskey data.  Valuation Discount  Jordan, which oversees about $6 billion and owns 41 percent
of International Mining, plans to sell its stake as part of the
proposed deal, one of the people said. Under Hong Kong law, that
would trigger a mandatory offer for the rest of the company.
Jordan invested in International Mining in 2006, according to
its  website .  Sandy McKenzie, a spokeswoman for Milwaukee-based mining-
equipment manufacturer Joy, declined to comment. International
Mining Chief Executive Officer Allen Chan didn’t respond to two
telephone calls seeking comment.  Joy rose $1.09, or 1.2 percent, to $94.87 as of 4 p.m.  New
York  time yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading after
climbing as much as 3.7 percent. International Mining, which
closed at HK$6.55 on July 11 in Hong Kong, has advanced 87
percent in the past year.  International Mining is forecast to boost profit by 51
percent to 529 million yuan ($81 million) this year, according
to the average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. It
trades at 13.3 times projected 2011 earnings, compared with 16.6
times for Joy, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Target Price Raised  International Mining’s valuation has been depressed by
speculation that Jordan would sell its stake, said Tan. A lock-
up on Jordan’s shares expired in mid-February, BOC International
Holdings Ltd. analyst Lawrence Lau wrote in a note to clients
last month.  In the June 7 note, Lau raised his target price for
International Mining to HK$9.14 from HK$7.30, citing speculation
that Jordan had appointed an investment bank to find a buyer for
its stake in the company. He cited Caterpillar Inc.’s $8.61
billion takeover of Buycrus International Inc., valuing the
target at 20 times estimated full-year earnings, as “an
important reference for any potential buyer of IMM.”  A price-to-earnings multiple of 20 would value
International Mining at $1.62 billion, based on the average
analyst’s 2011 earnings estimate.  Drilling Rigs  Joy’s takeover of LeTourneau added drilling rigs with
retractable legs to a portfolio that includes excavators,
shovels and mining equipment such as conveyors and roof supports.
Chief Executive Officer Michael Sutherlin said on a June 2
conference call that the company would “aggressively” pursue
growth in underground mining equipment.  An International Mining purchase would mark the second
billion-dollar foreign acquisition of a Chinese company this
month, after Nestle SA said July 11 it would spend S$2.07
billion ($1.7 billion) for a majority stake in Hsu Fu Chi
International Ltd., a Chinese candy maker.  Based on International Mining’s market value, a bid for the
company would be the largest in the construction and mining
machinery industry since Caterpillar’s offer for Buycrus, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 