-- 
JPMorgan, Citigroup Struggle to Boost Revenue as Analysts Look Past Profit

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-07-13T15:30:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/jpmorgan-citigroup-revenue-a-focus-as-analysts-downplay-profit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , which report earnings this week, are under pressure to
show that banks can increase revenue as the U.S. economic
recovery sputters.  JPMorgan, set to announce results tomorrow, may say second-
quarter revenue declined 0.8 percent to $24.9 billion, according
to the average estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Revenue at Citigroup, which reports results a day later, may
fall 10 percent to $19.9 billion, with more than half the
decline tied to assets the company has tagged for sale.  “The street is going to be looking at revenue growth”
that will be difficult for banks to produce in the current
economic environment,  Paul Miller , an analyst with FBR Capital
Markets, said in a phone interview. “You need the economy to
work, you need rates to go higher and you need to see continued
improvement in credit.”  Boosting profit won’t be enough to impress investors,
according to analysts including Miller, a former examiner at the
 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia . They already know that
fewer borrowers are defaulting, allowing banks to bolster profit
with funds that had been set aside for future loan losses.  JPMorgan, led by CEO  Jamie Dimon , 55, may say second-
quarter profit climbed 6.2 percent from a year earlier to $5.09
billion according to the average estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Citigroup may say profit rose 14 percent from the
same period last year to $3.07 billion.  Bonds, Equities  The sovereign debt crisis in Europe and slowing economic
growth in the U.S. depressed trading volume and curtailed
revenue in the second quarter as investors bought and sold fewer
bonds and equities, according to analysts including Chris Kotowski at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York .  U.S. central bankers said last month that the economy will
expand 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from forecasts
ranging from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent in April. The revised
outlook was the second time this year that Federal Reserve
officials lowered their forecasts for growth.  Home prices  have fallen since mid-2010 and will continue to
suppress bank revenue and earnings for the foreseeable future,
analysts said. A further decline in property values of 10
percent to 25 percent over the next five years “wouldn’t
surprise me at all,”  Robert Shiller , who helped create the
S&P/Case-Shiller Index of property values, said last month.  ‘Going to Struggle’  “If you’re a short-term investor, banks are going to
struggle, probably for the next six to 12 months,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief executive officer and founder of YCMNet
Advisors in Walnut Creek,  California , which manages about $1.1
billion, including Citigroup shares. “When you have slow
economic growth and you have more stringent credit requirements,
they’re just making less loans.”  Earnings at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the nation’s largest
lender by assets, were wiped out during the quarter by expenses
linked to mortgages that soured during the housing crisis.  The bank said June 29 it expects to report a second-quarter
loss of $8.6 billion to $9.1 billion driven by $20.4 billion in
charges, including a settlement of disputes over home loans,
provisions for future claims, legal costs and a writedown of
mortgage-unit goodwill. Excluding these expenses and gains from
asset sales, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender said it
would have posted as much as $3.7 billion in profit.  Goldman, Morgan Stanley  Total trading revenue at the five biggest Wall Street banks
--  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , JPMorgan, Citigroup
and Bank of America -- may have dropped 4.4 percent to $21.7
billion in the second quarter, compared with the same period
last year, and 17 percent from last quarter, Kotowski said.
Trading accounted for almost a quarter of the firms’ revenue
last year.  “Investors are likely to be disappointed with second-
quarter results for the universal banks as the combination of
challenging trading and interest rate environment is likely to
result in declining revenue trends,” KBW Inc. analysts led by
David Konrad wrote in a June 29 research note. They projected an
8 percent drop in industry revenues from last year.  JPMorgan and Citigroup may counter declines in trading
revenue with an increase in fees from  investment banking , which
includes managing sales of equities and bonds as well as
advising on mergers and acquisitions.  Expanding Abroad  James Staley, JPMorgan’s investment-banking chief, may
increase revenue from those businesses by 28 percent to $1.8
billion, according to Moshe Orenbuch, a New York-based analyst
at Credit Suisse AG. Citigroup’s investment-banking unit, run by
Ray McGuire, may also post a 28 percent gain to $865 million,
estimates provided by Orenbuch show.  Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit, 54, aims to mitigate declining
U.S. revenues by expanding abroad, according to Richard Staite,
a London-based analyst with Atlantic Equities LLC. Citigroup got
62 percent of first-quarter revenue outside  North America .  Revenue from  Latin America ,  Asia ,  Europe , the  Middle East 
and  Africa  may climb 7.7 percent to $4.67 billion at Citigroup’s
regional consumer bank while dropping 10 percent to $3.31
billion in North America, according to Staite.  The lender’s Citi Holdings unit, which includes assets
Pandit tagged for sale in January 2009, may post a $1.59 billion
plunge in revenue, accounting for more than half the bank’s
overall decline, according to Staite.  ‘Slightly Skeptical’  Citigroup’s increased lending abroad has been accompanied
by higher expenses, which are eroding profit, Staite said in a
phone interview. Consumer banking income from continuing
operations in international markets may fall 7.1 percent to
$1.01 billion in the second quarter compared with the same
period last year, Staite’s estimates show.  “For the time being, they’re still in investment mode,”
Staite said. “That’s why investors remain slightly skeptical
about whether Citigroup can be successful in those countries.”  The release of loan-loss reserves accounted for $2.55
billion, or almost half, of JPMorgan’s record first-quarter
profit of $5.56 billion. Citigroup would have reported a loss
for the three months ended March 31 if it hadn’t drawn down
$3.37 billion in reserves.  When banks beat profit estimates by continuing to release
reserves, investors view the earnings as being of “poor
quality” and focus on the banks’ “underlying fundamentals,”
Miller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  