-- 
‘Nuclear Village’ Protester Turns Hero in Japan

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-07-14T07:04:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/kan-takes-on-japan-s-nuclear-village-in-renewable-energy-drive.html
Toshinobu Hatsui’s protest against
construction of a nuclear power plant split friends and families
in his hometown. After the biggest atomic accident in 25 years,
resentment has turned to gratitude.  “Those of us who opposed the plant can finally be proud of
what we did,” said Hatsui, a 62-year-old fisherman, recalling
the anger among nuclear supporters in Hidaka, south of Osaka,
who missed out on an economic windfall when the town rejected
the plant in the 1970s. “Since the accident, people called to
express their relief that it wasn’t built.”  Opinion polls show more Japanese agree with Hatsui in
demanding a future less reliant on atomic power, a pillar of
 energy policy  for five decades. Getting what they want may
depend on Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  surviving the backlash from
the so-called “nuclear village” of politicians, bureaucrats
and power utilities that promoted the industry’s rise, academics
including  Jeff Kingston  said.  “ Japan ’s nuclear village is worried and they’re extremely
well connected,” Kingston, head of  Temple University ’s Asian
Studies program at its Tokyo campus, said in a phone interview.
“They’re out to get Kan and it’s not because he’s that
incompetent. What worries them is that he’s been making
provocative statements that trample on very powerful toes.”  It’s an unfamiliar challenge for the nuclear industry,
which before the March 11 Fukushima disaster provided about 30
percent of Japan’s electricity. The national energy policy
called for that percentage to rise to 53 percent by 2030.  Abandon Plan  After the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami knocked out
cooling systems at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s plant in northern
Japan and caused three reactors to meltdown, Kan said Japan
should abandon plans to build 14 new reactors by 2030. He wants
to pass a bill to promote renewable energy and questioned
whether private companies should be running atomic plants.  “When we consider the risk of nuclear energy, I’ve come to
strongly feel that this is a technology that cannot be
controlled by our conventional thinking of securing safety,”
Kan told reporters yesterday. “We should reduce nuclear
dependency in a planned, step-by-step manner. We should
eventually create a society where we can do without atomic
energy.”  Other plans include separating Japan’s nuclear regulator
from the industry’s chief promoter, the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry, and ending the monopoly that utilities have
over power production and transmission.  “All these things hit at the heart of the nuclear village
and they’re not going down without a fight,” said Kingston, who
also edited “Tsunami: Japan’s Post-Fukushima Future,” a
collection of essays.  Key Policy  Nuclear power was a key policy of the  Liberal Democratic
Party , which governed Japan with almost no interruption for 55
years until 2009. Close ties with the government meant
opposition was mostly confined to left-wing parties and the
rural towns where utilities chose to build their plants.  All that changed when radiation began leaking from  Tokyo
Electric ’s stricken nuclear plant in March, forcing more than
160,000 people to evacuate to shelters.  “Policy-makers face a stark choice between continued
devotion to nuclear power, with all the attendant costs and
risks, and a more sustainable future,” Andrew DeWit, professor
of politics and public finance at Tokyo’s Rikkyo University,
said in a phone interview. “The nuclear village is unraveling,
and Kan realizes it because he doesn’t have ties to that base.”  Fighting Bureaucracy  Kan, Japan’s first prime minister in five who isn’t
descended from past premiers, has a track record of taking on
the establishment.  As health minister in 1996, he forced bureaucrats to
release documents exposing their role in allowing as many as
5,000 Japanese to contract HIV through contaminated blood
products.  While opinion polls show support for his stance on nuclear
power, public backing for Kan has slumped on criticism about how
his administration has dealt with the crisis. He survived a no
confidence vote on June 2, though only after appeasing critics
by saying he would step down once the crisis is contained.  About 77 percent of Japanese support the “gradual
abolition” of nuclear power, the Asahi newspaper said on July
12, up 3 percent from June, citing its own polls.  The fight over Japan’s energy future is dividing some of
the country’s biggest companies into separate camps, DeWit said.  Minority Voice  Nuclear power is “the only way to secure a stable supply
of environmentally clean electricity at a relatively low cost,”
Shosuke Mori, chairman of  Kansai Electric  Power Co., the
nation’s second-biggest power producer, said in an interview
last month.  Softbank Corp. (9984)  Chief Executive Officer Masayoshi Son
countered with plans to invest about 80 billion yen ($1 billion)
to build 10 solar farms if he gets access to transmission
networks and agreement from the 10 regional utilities to buy his
electricity.  “A framework should be designed to make the power business
open to anyone who has the will to start it,” Son said at a
government panel meeting June 12.  Hiroshi Mikitani, president of Japan’s biggest online
retailer  Rakuten Inc. (4755) , quit the main business lobby Nippon
Keidanren in protest over the group’s support for the energy
status quo.  Public Works  Around Japan, towns that agree to host nuclear  power plants 
benefit from public works spending and jobs. The town of Ohi,
north of  Osaka , was saved from bankruptcy in the 1970s when
Kansai Electric built a plant there, creating 2,400 jobs, Mayor
Shinobu Tokioka said in an interview last month.  In contrast, there is little extra revenue for towns that
host power-generating windmills, according to Masao Hatanaka,
mayor of Yura, a town neighboring Hidaka.  “There’s not much advantage” to hosting the wind farms,
he said in an interview. “They don’t provide employment as the
maintenance is handled by two people.”  Osaka Gas Co., which operates a 10-megawatt unit wind power
plant in Wakayama, said a feed-in tariff like the one Kan has
proposed would stimulate investment. The tariffs guarantee
renewable energy producers a higher price for their electricity.  For the 7,800 residents of Hidaka, the debate over nuclear
power was decided during the 1970s and 1980s.  Support for the plan faltered after the Three Mile Island
accident in  Pennsylvania  undermined safety claims, Hatsui, the
fisherman said. A sign next to the main road promotes it as a
“nuclear-free, peaceful town.”  “If these plants were safe, they would have built them
near population centers,” Hatsui said in an interview in the
town. “We’re not sure what is the best alternative, but we know
that we don’t want nuclear power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  