-- 
Kenya Bill Demand at Smallest in 2 Months as Central Bank Tightens Lending

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-07-13T14:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/kenya-bill-demand-at-smallest-in-2-months-as-central-bank-tightens-lending.html
Kenya  got the smallest amount of
bids for six-month bills in more than two months as the central
bank curbed overnight borrowing, preventing lenders from using
those funds to invest in yields at almost nine-year highs.  The bank issued 567.3 million shillings ($6 million) of
debt after investors bid for 575.7 million shillings, or 19
percent, of the 3 billion shillings offered, the Nairobi-based
Central Bank of Kenya said in an e-mailed statement. The yield
on the 182-bills fell for a third sale to 9.845 percent from
9.854 percent at the June 29 auction, it said. The yield reached
9.949 percent, the highest since May 2002, on June 2.  Banks planning to lend to other operators in the  interbank
market  can’t access funds through the discount window on the
same day, the  central bank said yesterday . It also reversed an
increase in the rate it charges lenders for overnight loans back
to 6.25 percent after raising it just two weeks ago.  “Banks were making full use of the arbitrage opportunity
created by low overnight borrowing rates, and reinvesting the
proceeds” in bills, until the rate was raised,  Razia Khan ,
regional head of research for Africa at Standard Chartered Bank
Plc, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients before the auction.
“A sell-off at the short end of the Kenyan curve now looks
increasingly likely as banks, without the usual access to the
discount window, scramble to meet their liquidity.”  Lenders were using the 8 percent rate as a base for
interbank lending, resulting in “distortions in the money
market,” the central bank said. Weekly borrowing is now capped
to a maximum of banks’ statutory cash reserves, or the money
kept at the central bank, it added.  ‘Last Resort’  The bank had raised the overnight rate to 8 percent from
6.25 percent on June 29 to rein in inflationary expectations and
curb speculative trading in the shilling, which reached the
weakest level in 17 years on June 22.  The central bank said it was concerned that lenders “have
not been using the discount window as a last resort, but as a
permanent supply of liquidity.” Commercial banks “should
consider other avenues” such as selling bills, bonds and
foreign currency “to satisfy their liquidity requirements
before considering the discount window,” it said.  Inflation accelerated to the strongest in more than two
years as East  Africa ’s biggest economy faced higher food and
fuel costs.  “The new measures will lead to tight liquidity and
investors will have to seek higher yields above the interbank
rates to lock in their funds for six months,” Anne Musyoka, a
fixed-income trader at Nairobi-based Tsavo Securities Ltd., said
in a phone interview today before the auction.  Kenya’s government plans to borrow 119 billion shillings on
the domestic market in the fiscal year through June 2012,
Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said in his annual budget speech
on June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  