-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Gains Most in Two Weeks as Central Bank Restricts Lending

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-07-13T09:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/kenya-s-shilling-gains-most-in-two-weeks-as-central-bank-restricts-lending.html
Kenya ’s shilling surged the most in
two weeks after the central bank announced measures to restrict
loans to commercial lenders and to help rein in speculative
 currency trading .  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.9 percent to 89.53 per dollar and was trading 0.5
percent stronger at 89.85 by 12:13 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi
from yesterday’s close of 90.30.  Banks planning to lend to other operators in the  interbank
market  can’t access funds through discount window on the same
day, the central bank  said yesterday . Weekly borrowing is now
capped to a a maximum of banks’ statutory cash reserves, or the
money kept at the central bank, it said.  “The measures signify a further tightening of policy and
we expect further gains in the near term, reversing the earlier
sell-off as the full extent of the tightening becomes clear to
the market participants,”  Razia Khan , regional head of research
for Africa at Standard Chartered Bank Plc, wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients.  The central bank also reversed an increase in the rate it
charges lenders for overnight loans back to 6.25 percent
yesterday after raising it just two weeks ago, saying banks were
using this as a base for interbank lending, resulting in
“distortions in the money market.”  The central bank said it was concerned that lenders “have
not been using the discount window as a last resort, but as a
permanent supply of liquidity.”  The bank had raised the overnight rate to 8 percent from
6.25 percent on June 29 to rein in inflationary expectations and
curb speculative trading in the shilling, which reached the
weakest level in 17 years on June 22.  Inflation accelerated to the strongest in more than two
years as East  Africa ’s biggest economy faced higher food and
fuel costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  