-- 
Kinetic Concepts Agrees to Be Acquired by Apax-Led Group for $4.98 Billion

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-07-13T20:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/kinetic-concepts-agrees-to-be-acquired-for-68-50-a-share-1-.html
Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , a maker of
wound-care products and hospital beds, agreed to be acquired for
$4.98 billion in cash by a group including private-equity firm
Apax Partners LLP in the biggest leveraged buyout since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Stockholders will receive $68.50 a share, San Antonio-based
Kinetic said in a statement today. The price is 6.2 percent
above yesterday’s close on the New York Stock Exchange, and 17
percent above July 5, the day before Bloomberg News reported
that the company was in talks on a buyout.  While sales in Kinetic’s main wound-treatment business are
little changed since 2008, the company’s free cash flow yield of
almost 9 percent and a new portable wound-care device may help
generate a return of as much as 40 percent in five years, Piper
Jaffray Cos. estimated before the deal was announced.  “The  cash flow  is the attraction for private equity, and
the questionable growth outlook means there’s a limit to how
much public investors and strategic buyers are willing to pay,”
said Jason Wittes, an analyst for Caris & Co. in New York, in an
interview today. "$5 billion is about the range I was
expecting,” he said.  Kinetic has 40 days in which it can solicit alternative
proposals from potential buyers, according to the statement.  Wanted a ‘Go-Shop’  London-based Apax made a formal offer “some time ago,”
Kinetic Chief Executive Officer Catherine Burzik said in an
interview today. “We wanted to have a go-shop, and we’ll see if
others are interested.”  Kinetic rose $3.74, or 5.8 percent, to $68.23 at 4:06 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 63 percent this year.  “It’s a pretty good deal for shareholders,” said Spencer Nam, a Boston-based analyst for Madison Williams & Co., in a
telephone interview. “I don’t think there’s going to be a
higher bidder.”  Kinetic’s price tag of $6.3 billion when assumed debt is
included surpasses the $5.68 billion takeover of Del Monte Foods
Co. to become the biggest private equity LBO since New York-
based Lehman filed for  bankruptcy protection  in September 2008.  Financial Advisers  J.P. Morgan Securities LLC was the financial adviser to
KCI, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Cox Smith
Matthews Inc. were legal advisers, according to the statement.
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC was the financial adviser to the buyout
group, and Simpson Thatcher Bartlett LLP are acting as legal
advisers. Kirkland & Ellis LLP acted as the group’s legal
adviser on the financing and Epstein Becker was health-care
regulatory counsel.  The buyers include the  Canada  Pension Plan Investment Board
and the Public Sector Pension Investment Board. The Canada
Pension is a “significant minority shareholder with the
appropriate governance rights in this transaction,” said Andre Bourbonnais, senior vice president of private investments for
the investment board.  Apax, which manages a 11.2 billion-euro fund ($15.8
billion) and is on the road to raise another 9 billion euros
from investors, is joining other firms including KKR & Co. and
Blackstone Group LP in resuming purchases after the credit
crisis brought dealmaking nearly to a halt for two years.
Private equity firms have announced $234 billion of deals this
year, more than double the amount in the same period last year,
according to Bloomberg data, as banks resumed lending to fund
acquisitions.  Burzik raised Kinetic’s full-year earnings forecast in
April. Profit for 2011 will rise to $4.96 to $5.08 a share,
Kinetic said in a statement.  Kinetic has increased sales for its products using vacuums
and skin grafts to treat wounds this year and leads the global
market for negative-pressure therapy using vacuums to aid
healing. The company has lost ground to lower-priced
competitors, said Michael Matson, a Mizuho Securities analyst in
New York, in a June 16 note to clients.  To regain business, Kinetic introduced new products
including the disposable wound-care system V.A.C.Via and
expanded into new geographic areas including Japan and  Brazil ,
Tao Levy, an analyst with  Collins Stewart  in New York, said on
July 6.  Founded in 1976  The company, founded in 1976 by emergency-room physician
Jim Leininger, generated $1.41 billion, or 70 percent of its
revenue, from negative-pressure devices last year. Tissue-
regeneration products that use skin grafts in hernia and breast
reconstruction surgeries rose to $341.4 million, while sales of
beds and other hospital equipment fell to $270.2 million.  Kinetic holds about 81 percent of the worldwide market for
negative-pressure products, followed by London-based Smith &
Nephew Plc, with about 5 percent, said Matson, the Mizuho
analyst. The two companies have been battling over patents for
the technology, with Kinetic winning lawsuits in the U.S. and
U.K. in the last two years.  Going private may allow Kinetic to more easily shed or buy
units, changing its direction, Madison Williams’ Nam said. Apax
and Kinetic have not yet had discussions about any change in
strategy, Kinetic’s Burzik said.  There were 540 announced acquisitions of medical products
and equipment companies in the last 5 years through July 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average premium for
a takeover was 51 percent. The largest was Johnson & Johnson’s
$21.3 billion purchase of Synthes Inc., announced in April.  Kinetic Concepts is the second private-equity deal
involving Canada Pension Plan Investment Board in the past six
weeks. Canada’s second-biggest public pension manager was among
a group that agreed to buy a 24.1 percent stake in  Europe ’s
Gassled natural gas pipeline network from Statoil ASA for about
$3.3 billion on June 6.  Canada Pension began investing in private equity in 2001
and has committed about C$34 billion to private-equity fund
investments, of which more than C$24 billion has been invested
so far, according to the Toronto-based fund’s Web site. The
Toronto-based fund has also completed more than C$7 billion in
investments predominantly alongside its private equity fund
managers.  The Public Sector Pension Investment Board, also known as
PSP Investments, manages retirement savings for public service
employees including the Canadian Forces and  Royal Canadian
Mounted Police . The Ottawa-based fund, which has C$46.3 billion
in assets, joined British Columbia Investment Management Corp.
in buying Canadian lumber producer TimberWest Forest Corp for
C$910 million in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  