-- 
KKR, Apax Lead Cannibals Contest for Shrinking Investor Dollars

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-07-13T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/kkr-apax-lead-cannibals-contest-for-shrinking-investor-dollars.html
About a month after London-based
Apax Partners LLP began raising a 9 billion-euro ($12.7 billion)
leveraged buyout fund, local rival Permira Advisers LLP told
investors it wanted 6.5 billion euros for a new pool, people
briefed on the talks said.  Permira, which still has more than a year to finish
investing its existing 9.6 billion-euro fund, is joining a rush
by private-equity firms including New York’s KKR & Co. and
 Warburg Pincus  LLC to raise cash now, just as investors warn
they haven’t got the money to continue backing all firms.  “Many firms have realized they can’t count on their
clients’ loyalty only to raise funds,” said Jeremie Le Febvre,
a partner at Triago SA, which helps firms raise money. “They
can’t afford to wait if they want a piece of the pie. It’s
reality-check time for everyone, and some will be
disappointed.”  Investors in private-equity funds, known as limited
partners, say they’re planning to reduce pledges to the largest
of the new pools and invest in fewer of them, partly because
they haven’t received enough money back from previous funds to
match commitments during the boom years. LPs are also shifting
away from large buyout funds to firms targeting smaller deals
and investments in faster-growing emerging markets, making the
pie available for LBO firms in  Europe  and the U.S. even smaller.  “Firms at the larger end are taking one another on in
fundraising, vying for scarce and selective capital,” said
Mounir Guen, head of MVision Private Equity Advisers, which
helps firms raise funds. “They’ll end up partially
cannibalizing one another, hence take much longer to raise their
funds and make it more challenging to reach their targets.”  Ramping Up  Leveraged-buyout firms are seeking more than  $170 billion 
this year, more than what they sought in 2006 at the height of
the private-equity boom, according to research firm Preqin Ltd.
Nearly half of all private-equity fund managers plan to raise
capital in 2011, according to a survey by  Rothstein Kass , an
advisory firm.  “Fund managers can influence the timing of their
fundraising, and many of them delayed it last year,” said Helen Steers, head of Pantheon’s European primary funds group, a
backer of private-equity firms. “Equally, they have been
ramping up this year, because debt financing has come back
allowing to fund deals, but also because they are more eager to
come back to market now.”  In the U.S., KKR and  Providence Equity Partners  are seeking
as much as $10 billion and $6 billion respectively. New York-
based Warburg Pincus is preparing to raise a new fund after
investing more than 80 percent of the $15 billion vehicle it
raised in 2008, people familiar with the matter said last month.  Crowded Europe  Unlike KKR, which invests in broad range of companies,
Providence specializes in media and communication deals, and
Warburg’s investments range from backing early stage companies
to buyouts of mature businesses.  Europe is more crowded. Five of the region’s seven largest
firms are raising funds or are about to do so.  BC Partners  Ltd,
which last year began marketing the first large European buyout
fund since the financial crisis, has gathered more than 4
billion euros for its 6 billion-euro pool. Cinven Ltd., the
London-based firm founded by the coal miners’ pension plan, is
seeking 5 billion euros. EQT Partners AB, Scandinavia’s biggest
private-equity firm, has secured 3.5 billion euros out of the
4.3 billion euros it’s seeking, people familiar with the matter
said on July 5.  Officials at Warburg, KKR, and Providence declined to
comment on fundraising. Officials at Permira, which outlined its
fundraising plans to investors last month, Cinven, BC Partners,
EQT and Apax also declined to comment.  ‘Harder Than Ever’  “It’s a big issue if managers can’t get at least 50
percent from current investors,” said Richard Anthony, senior
managing director at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) ’s private funds
group, which helps firms raise money. “It’s hard to raise money
when existing clients aren’t backing you, because sourcing new
capital is harder than ever, even for more established funds.”  Almost 90 percent of limited partners won’t commit -- or
“re-up” -- to some of their existing fund managers, partly
because they don’t have enough capital available, a June
investors survey by investment firm Coller Capital Ltd. showed.
A fifth of firms may fail to raise new funds, investors polled
by Coller predicted.  Sharing Clients  “We’ll very quickly see who the winners are,” said Rhonda Ryan, head of the European Private Funds group at Pinebridge
Investments, which manages about $20 billion of private equity
assets. “It will take longer before we see those who can’t
reach their target, and for some funds, we’ll probably see some
targets revised down over time.”  Firms are competing for the same clients. Apax and Permira
in  London  share 26 investors across their funds, according to
Preqin. California State Teachers’ Retirement System and
 Pennsylvania  State Employees’ Retirement System are among 19
investors in both of their most recent funds. Apax and BC
Partners share 23, including the Michigan Department of Treasury
and Pennsylvania State. Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board,
 Canada ’s largest pension plan, and  New York  State Teachers’
Retirement System are among 10 investors in both Permira and
Cinven’s latest pools.  “Investors have finally woken up to the huge costs
associated with having many relationships,” said Erik Hirsch,
chief investment officer for Hamilton Lane Advisors, which helps
clients with $89 billion select private equity funds and manages
an additional $16 billion in direct investments. “They should
have always chosen between A or B fund and not committed to both
A and B. But there’s a lot more pressure now to choose one, which
means fewer ‘yes’ votes.”  Dropping Blackstone  While still committing to large buyout funds, Pinebridge
favors mid-market funds, Ryan said. Pantheon won’t commit to
about 40 percent of the managers it invests with today, up from
30 percent before, Steers said.  Investors are already making choices affecting the most
established firms. Pennsylvania State Employees’ Retirement
System, a longtime backer of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s buyout funds,
hasn’t committed to the New York firm’s latest fund, which so
far has attracted more than $16 billion.  Washington State Investment Board , one of the largest
private equity investors, cut its allotment to KKR’s latest fund
to $500 million from a $1.5 billion commitment to its
predecessor. The  Oregon  Public Employees’ Retirement Fund has
committed $525 million to KKR’s new pool, down from a $1.3
billion pledge in the firm’s 2006 pool.  Providence’s Niche  “ Washington  continues to look for balance in its
investment selections,” said Liz Mendizabal, a spokeswoman for
Washington State Investment Board.  Pamela Hile, a spokeswoman for Pennsylvania, and James Sinks, a spokesman for Oregon, didn’t respond to calls seeking
comment.  Both pensions committed to Providence’s new fund, which has
secured about $3 billion so far. Washington State raised its
investment to $300 million from $250 million in the previous
fund, according to the board’s minutes. Oregon allotted $150
million, half the amount committed previously.  “It’s clearly in the minds of some fund managers that you
need to be differentiated to fundraise at the moment,” Ryan
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  