-- 
N.J. Faults Lehman for ‘Piecemeal’ Use of Directors, Officers’ Insurance

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-13T18:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/n-j-faults-lehman-for-piecemeal-use-of-directors-officers-insurance.html
The  New Jersey  Treasury faulted
bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. for the “piecemeal
consumption” of its directors and officers insurance to pay
some claims ahead of others.  The state, whose lawsuit against former Lehman Chairman
Richard Fuld and other executives was put on hold by the
bankruptcy, said the so-called automatic stay is supposed to
stop creditors “from dismantling the estate in a piecemeal
fashion.” It filed the comments in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Manhattan yesterday after Lehman asked a judge to let it pay $15
million out of its policies.  The New Jersey Treasury’s investment division lost more
than $192 million of a Lehman stock purchase of $385 million,
according to the state’s amended lawsuit filed in U.S. District
Court in April. It sued the defunct firm’s former executives,
saying, “Lehman made numerous materially false or misleading
statements” about its financial condition in 2007 and 2008,
when it filed bankruptcy.  The $15 million insurance payment would go to  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC) , which won a securities claim filed with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority against three former
Lehman officers and employees --Roland Hansalik, George Perry
and Joseph Arena, according to a court filing by their lawyers.
According to New Jersey, it would be at least Lehman’s fourth
payment from a limited pool of funds.  ‘Full Benefit’  “The individuals and entities who serendipitously reach a
final judgment before other claimants will receive the full
benefit of the insurance policies while other plaintiffs are
left with nothing,” the state said.  Lehman has sought permission to use more directors’
insurance at least eight times, according to filings.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, said she couldn’t
immediately comment.  The bankruptcy is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-
13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The New Jersey suit is State of New Jersey v.
Richard Fuld, 10-cv-05201, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 