-- 
National League Beats American League 5-1 for Second Straight All-Star Win

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-13T04:52:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/national-league-beats-american-league-5-1-for-second-straight-all-star-win.html
Prince Fielder blasted a three-run
homer as the National League beat the American League 5-1 in
Major League Baseball’s  All-Star Game.  Milwaukee Brewers first baseman Fielder drove in Carlos Beltran of the  New York Mets  and Matt Kemp of the Los Angeles
Dodgers in the fourth inning last night to give the National
League a 3-1 lead at Chase Field in Phoenix.  Fielder is the first Brewer to hit a home run in an All-
Star game and the only Milwaukee player to be named the Most
Valuable Player at the midseason exhibition.  “I’m happy he came through for us,” Cincinnati Reds
second baseman Brandon Phillips said in a televised interview.
“He had a great year.”  The NL has won the past two All-Star Games after ending a
13-year losing streak. Victory in the 82nd edition gives the NL
a 42-38-2 record over the AL and home field advantage in this
year’s  World Series .  “It’s really beneficial to have the first two home
games,” said Brian Wilson of the  San Francisco Giants , who
pitched the final two outs last night to get the save.  The Giants beat the AL champion  Texas Rangers  in last
year’s World Series.  Adrian Gonzalez of the  Boston Red Sox , who was second in
the Home Run Derby behind Robinson Cano of the  New York Yankees ,
hit a home run in the fourth inning to give the AL a 1-0 lead.  After Fielder’s 410-foot homer, his Brewers teammate Rickie Weeks crossed the plate in the fifth on a single by Andre Ethier
of the Dodgers to make it 4-1. Pablo Sandoval completed the
scoring in the seventh with a run-scoring double.  Tyler Clippard of the  Washington Nationals , one of 10 NL
pitchers, was credited with the win after allowing one hit in
one-third inning.  The Rangers’ C.J. Wilson got the loss after giving up three
hits and three runs in one inning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  