-- 
Netflix Customers Jam Phones on Higher Prices, Analyst Says

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-13T23:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/netflix-customers-jam-phones-over-price-increase-analyst-greenfield-says.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s telephone lines were
jammed by customers complaining about a 60 percent price
increase for the company’s online and mail-order movie rental
services, a BTIG LLC analyst said.  Of 35 calls BTIG made to Netflix over a couple of hours
today, 15 went through,  Rich Greenfield  of New York-based BTIG
said in a report. He cited wait times of 9 minutes to 15
minutes.  Netflix, citing the costs to acquire and deliver films and
TV shows, said yesterday that the $9.99-a-month package of DVD-
by-mail and unlimited streaming for U.S. customers would be
split into two services costing $7.99 each. When customers
threaten to cancel, operators suggest waiting until the price
increase takes effect in September, Greenfield said.  “There was simply no promo or ‘save’ technique to offer us
a discount to retain our business,” Greenfield wrote. “This
would appear to illustrate that Netflix is simply not concerned
with the prospect of losing customers.”  A minority of consumers say they’re happy about the billing
change because they’ll save money by only paying for DVDs or
streaming, he wrote, citing conversations with service
representatives.  Netflix’s call centers have been operating at peak capacity
since yesterday,  Steve Swasey , a spokesman for the  Los Gatos ,
California-based company, said in an interview. He wouldn’t say
how many customers are canceling because of the higher prices.  “We’ve been getting tremendous caller volume today and
yesterday,” Swasey said. “Some will leave and some of those
will eventually come back. It’s still a great value.”  Netflix gained $7.46, or 2.6 percent, to $298.73 today in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 70 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  