-- 
Canadian Stocks Fall as Mining Shares Decline; Gabriel Surges

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-14T20:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/new-millennium-iron-nexen-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks dropped for the
first time in three days as energy and raw-materials producers
fell on speculation the U.S. is unlikely to restart stimulus
policies immediately.  Copper producer  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  lost 3.1
percent after receiving a “reduce” rating from an analyst at
Arbuthnot Banking Group Plc.  Gabriel Resources Ltd. (GBU) , which is
developing a gold and silver mine in  Romania , surged 9.3 percent
after getting government approval of its archaeological review.
BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. retreated 3.3 percent
after an analyst at Needham & Co. cut his profit estimates for
the company.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index slipped 72.02
points, or 0.5 percent, to 13,252.92. The index had advanced 0.6
percent before U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank won’t soon begin a third round of bond
purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing.  “Some people were paying attention to Bernanke’s comments
yesterday that he was ready to ease monetary policy if the
economy did slow,” Jeff Bradacs, senior investment analyst on a
Manulife Asset Management team that oversees about C$1.7 billion
($1.8 billion), said in a telephone interview. “People were
expecting QE3 from those comments, and now not.”  The S&P/TSX gained 0.7 percent yesterday as Bernanke told a
Congressional committee the bank might renew stimulus policies
if the economy stalls.  Record Gold  Speculation that the Fed might return to stimulus policies
helped propel gold futures to a record high yesterday. The
S&P/TSX Materials Index rallied 6 percent this month through
yesterday as gold advanced 5.5 percent. Precious-metals
companies make up 13 percent of Canadian stocks by market value,
according to Bloomberg data.  Bernanke told a U.S. Senate committee today that higher
inflation will discourage the central bank from restarting
quantitative easing quickly.  “We’re not prepared at this point to take further
action,” he said.  Precious-metals producers fell as gold fluctuated after
seven days of gains.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest
gold producer, decreased 1.3 percent to C$46.01.  Agnico-Eagle
Mines Ltd. (AEM) ,  Canada ’s fourth-biggest company in the industry by
market value, slipped 1.4 percent to C$62.07.  Extorre Gold Mines
Ltd. (XG) , which explores in  Argentina , slumped a record 14 percent
to C$12.57 after Michael Gray, an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd., cut his rating on it to “neutral” from “outperform.”  Archaeological Permit  Gabriel Resources Ltd., which is developing a gold and
silver mine in Romania, soared 9.3 percent, the most since
November, to C$8 after saying the country’s government has
signed off on the company’s archaeological review of historic
mining activity on the site.  Base-metals companies fell as copper and zinc futures
dropped.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest producer of
industrial metals and coal, declined 2.1 percent to C$48.70.
HudBay Minerals, Inc., which mines copper and zinc in Canada,
lost 2.3 percent to C$14.59.  First Quantum decreased 3.1 percent to C$131.21 after Gavin Wood, an analyst at Arbuthnot in  London , set a 12-month price
estimate for its U.K.-traded shares 14 percent below their
closing price yesterday.  In a note to clients, Wood cited the shares’ performance
since 2009 -- they gained four times as much as the FTSE 300
Mining Index through yesterday -- and the chance they may slump
if copper retreats or new mines are delayed.  Oil Producers  Energy stocks declined as crude oil futures retreated the
most in three weeks in  New York .  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s
largest oil and gas producer, lost 1.2 percent to C$37.60.
Talisman Energy Inc., which operates in  North America , the  North
Sea  and  Indonesia , decreased 2.1 percent to C$18.05.  The S&P/TSX Insurance Index slumped to the lowest level
since June 17.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , North America’s fourth-
biggest insurer, lost 1.1 percent to C$16.03.  Sun Life Financial
Inc. (SLF) , Canada’s No. 3 insurer, fell for a seventh day, slipping 2
percent to an eight-month low of C$27.54 in Toronto Stock
Exchange trading.  RIM declined 3.3 percent to C$26.18 after  Charlie Wolf , an
analyst at Needham & Co., cut his 2012 and 2013 profit estimates
on the company. Unless the company improves its sales in the
consumer market, “RIM is likely to become a shadow of its
former self,” Wolf wrote in a note to clients.  Gildan Activewear Inc. (GIL) , Canada’s largest apparel maker,
sank 4.6 percent, the most in seven months, to C$32.91. In a
note to clients, Kenneth M. Stumphauzer, an analyst at Sterne
Agee Group Inc., said his firm’s surveys indicate Gildan’s
wholesale sales volumes dropped more than 10 percent in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  