-- 
New Zealand Growth Spurs Economists to See RBNZ Rate Increase in December

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-07-14T04:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/new-zealand-economy-grows-more-than-estimated-driving-currency-to-record.html
New Zealand ’s central bank will
raise  interest rates  this year, most economists in a Bloomberg
News survey said, after a report showed manufacturing and
farming led the fastest quarterly growth in more than a year.  ASB Bank Ltd. economist Jane Turner changed her forecast
for a rate increase to December from January after  Statistics
New Zealand  said gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the
three months ended March 31. Analysts at Goldman Sachs &
Partners New Zealand Ltd. and TD Securities Inc. are reviewing
their forecasts for no change in rates until 2012.  New Zealand’s dollar reached the highest since currency
controls ended in 1985 after the GDP report added to signs the
central bank may raise its benchmark rate from a record-low 2.5
percent in the fourth quarter.  Reserve Bank  Governor Alan Bollard last month said the pace and timing of increases in
borrowing costs will be guided by the speed of the economy’s
recovery after a Feb. 22 earthquake.  “There’s no reason to have the cash rate at 2.5 percent,”
said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in
Sydney who accurately forecast the quarterly GDP increase. He
predicts a rate rise in October, having previously forecast an
increase in December.  Growth was more than twice the central bank’s forecast for
an expansion of 0.3 percent, which matched the median estimate
of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Rate Forecasts  After the GDP report was released, six of 11 economists in
a Bloomberg survey predicted a quarter-point rate increase at
the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand ’s meeting in December.  New Zealand’s dollar reached as high as 85.07 U.S. cents,
from 83.74 cents late yesterday in  New York , before trading at
84.19 cents at 4:12 p.m. in Wellington.  Bollard cut the official cash rate a half a percentage
point in March to shore up confidence after the southern city of
Christchurch suffered the nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80
years. The temblor wrecked homes, killed more than 180 people
and shut the central business district.  Interest-rate swaps show a 64 percent probability the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand will raise the cash rate a quarter
point at the December meeting, up from 36 percent late
yesterday, according to prices from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   “Risks are certainly skewed toward the RBNZ resuming
tightening policy before the end of the year,” said  Philip Borkin , an economist at Goldman Sachs & Partners New Zealand, in
Auckland. His forecast of a rate rise in January is under
review, he said.  Tourism Boost  New Zealand’s economy is expected to accelerate amid
reconstruction of Christchurch and spending by an estimated
85,000 visitors as the nation hosts the Rugby  World Cup  in
September and October.  “The rebuild, along with near record commodity export
prices, interest rates at 40-year lows, improving business
confidence, lower household debt and the upcoming Rugby World
Cup, give us confidence in the outlook for New Zealand’s
economy,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Prime Minister John Key faces a general election in
November.  Business confidence rebounded in the second quarter from a
two-year low in the first three months of the year, the New
Zealand Institute of Economic Research said last week, citing a
survey of 782 companies.  House prices  rose 1.3 percent in June,
the Real Estate Institute said today.  ‘Gathering Clouds’  Still, there are “gathering clouds” in the global
economy, and there’s a risk the Rugby World Cup and quake
reconstruction may be weaker or emerge more slowly than
estimated, said Robin Clements, chief New Zealand economist at
UBS AG in Christchurch.  Consumer confidence  fell this month after reaching a five-
month high in June, according to a Roy Morgan-ANZ  National Bank
Ltd. (NBL)  survey published today. Manufacturing expanded at a slower
pace in June, according to an index today calculated by Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. and Business New Zealand.  “Whether the New Zealand economy has entered a
sustainable, robust recovery remains to be seen,” Clements
said. “The RBNZ can afford to be patient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  