-- 
News Corp.’s U.K. Woes Unlikely to Put Pressure on U.S. Broadcast Licenses

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/news-corp-s-u-k-woes-unlikely-to-put-pressure-on-u-s-broadcast-licenses.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is unlikely to face a
push by U.S. regulators to revoke any of its 27 U.S. broadcast
television licenses as a result of a U.K. law-enforcement probe
of alleged phone-hacking by a London newspaper.  The Federal Communications Commission won’t involve itself
in the U.K. probe of allegations that journalists at the now-
defunct News of the World newspaper tapped phones and paid
police for stories, FCC chairman  Julius Genachowski  said
yesterday in Washington.  “Obviously there is a process going on in the U.K., and
that is a U.K. process, and I don’t expect we will be involved
with that,” Genachowski told reporters after an unrelated FCC
meeting. Neil Grace, an agency spokesman, said the FCC wouldn’t
comment on the licensing question.  U.S. Senator  John Kerry , chairman of the subcommittee that
oversees communications policy, doesn’t plan to take any action
in response to the hacking allegations, according to a
spokeswoman for the Massachusetts Democrat.  “We’re keeping an eye on the situation, but are not
planning on officially looking into it at this time,” Jodi
Seth, the Kerry spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday. “For
now, all that is certain is that there was hacking in Britain,
which is outside of our jurisdiction.”  Allegations that News of the World staff tapped phones and
listened to messages including those of a 13-year-old murder
victim led U.K. politicians from all parties to urge Murdoch to
withdraw a bid to take full control of  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc. (BSY)   Privacy Questions  The incident “raises serious questions” about whether
News Corp. has broken U.S. law, Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat, said in a statement late yesterday, calling
the alleged hacking “offensive and a serious breach of
journalism ethics.”  “I encourage the appropriate agencies to investigate to
ensure that Americans have not had their privacy violated,”
Rockefeller said in the  statement , which did not mention News
Corp.’s broadcast licenses.  The company’s licenses to operate 27 U.S. broadcast
 television stations  probably aren’t at risk from the U.K.
scandal, said  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-based analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. The FCC has a high standard for revoking
such licenses, Arbogast said in a July 11 note.  A U.S. law requiring broadcast licensees to be of “good
character” is rarely used by the FCC to revoke licenses,
Arbogast said. Typically, licensees are judged to have violated
the standard when they have been convicted of a felony or of
lying to the government, she said.  ‘Not in Jeopardy’  “We are not aware of any precedent for a foreign
conviction to be the basis of an FCC decision to revoke a
license, and we’re not aware of any allegations of phone hacking
or serious misrepresentation against News Corp. in the  United
States ,” Arbogast said. “So at this point, we do not expect
the fire to spread to the U.S., though questions could always be
raised.”  “Based on what we know right now, the licenses are not in
jeopardy,” Andrew Jay Schwartzman, policy director of Media
Access Project, a Washington-based  law firm , said yesterday in
an e-mail.  News Corp.,  Rupert Murdoch ’s New York-based media company,
lost $7 billion in market value since July 4 amid investor
concern that a U.K. investigation into possible hacking into
individuals’ voicemail messages left on cell phones may affect
the company more broadly.  15 Percent Drop  News Corp. declined 13 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$15.35 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday. The shares have
dropped 15 percent since the first reports on July 4 that News
of the World employees in 2002 hacked the voicemail messages of
a missing teen who was later found murdered.  Murdoch, his son James and News International Chief
Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks were summoned yesterday to
appear before U.K. lawmakers to answer questions about the
company paying police for stories.  It would be unusual for the FCC, under Genachowski’s
leadership, to take any action as a result of the U.K.
investigation, said Art Brodsky, communications director for
 Public Knowledge , a Washington-based advocacy group.  “They’re very reticent to do much of anything that’s even
in their bailiwick, so going far afield to do something like
this would be totally out of character,” Brodsky said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in  Washington  at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  