-- 
Murdoch’s Digital Ambitions for BSkyB Thwarted by Phone-Hacking at Tabloid

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-14T16:16:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/news-corp-withdraws-offer-for-british-sky-broadcasting-amid-hacking-probe.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. spent
two decades building the largest U.K. pay-television company.
His efforts to leverage that into new digital businesses were
dashed by a scandal at a 168-year-old tabloid.  News Corp. was forced to drop a 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6
billion) bid for full control of British Sky Broadcasting Plc
yesterday after a phone-hacking scandal at the News of the World
prompted Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government to
side with the opposition  Labour Party  to block the deal.  Full ownership of BSkyB, which has 10 million subscribers,
would have facilitated the bundling of print and pay-TV
subscriptions by spreading content over different media
platforms. That in turn would make New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) 
less susceptible to advertising sales at its newspapers.  “The modern business is in screen media, it’s in TV, it’s
in cinema, and it’s online,”  Douglas McCabe , an analyst at
London-based media researcher Enders Analysis, said in a phone
interview. News Corp., which already owns 39 percent of BSkyB,
may attempt another bid at some point, he said.  Allegations that employees of the News of the World hacked
into the voicemails of murder and terror victims and paid police
for stories created an unprecedented political backlash against
Murdoch in the U.K. He closed the newspaper on July 10.  Subscriber Surge  (For a story on Murdoch’s media empire, click here. To read
about the judge leading the U.K. government review, click here.)  About 3 billion pounds has been wiped off BSkyB’s market
value since the Guardian reported on July 4 that the News of the
World in 2002 hacked into the voice mails of murdered schoolgirl
Milly Dowler and deleted messages. Before the allegations, U.K.
Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  had said several times this year
that he would probably approve the deal.  “The real question is, now can they not consolidate the
growth story of BSkyB?”  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein in London who has an “outperform” rating on BSkyB
shares, said via phone.  Created from the merger of Murdoch’s Sky Television with
British Satellite Broadcasting in 1990, BSkyB has boosted
subscription numbers tenfold in that period.  BSkyB’s free cash flow climbed 60 percent to 615 million
pounds in the nine months ended March, compared with 385 million
pounds in the same period a year earlier.  Top Soccer League  Shares of BSkyB slipped 1.4 percent to 696 pence in  London 
trading today. News Corp. rose 0.4 percent to $16 at 12:12 p.m.
in New York.  Revenue at New York-based News Corp grew by 37 percent in
the five years through June 2010, according to Bloomberg data.
That compares with BSkyB’s growth of 54 percent in the period,
as exclusive rights to popular events such as the  England ’s top
soccer league and offerings including the History Channel and
Disney Channel attracted customers.  “We believed that the proposed acquisition of BSkyB by
News Corporation would benefit both companies but it has become
clear that it is too difficult to progress in this climate,”
 Chase Carey , News Corp.’s chief operating officer, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “News Corp. remains a committed
long-term shareholder in BSkyB.”  The failed bid is also a setback for Rupert’s son  James Murdoch , 38, who was pushing News Corp. to generate more money
from subscriptions at a time when many newspapers, magazines and
TV shows are free online and films and music can easily be
downloaded illegally.  Paywall Push  James Murdoch has since 2007 been overseeing News
International, the U.K. publishing unit that included News of
the World. The younger Murdoch, the non-executive chairman of
BSkyB, previously ran the satellite company for four years as
CEO. Under his leadership, News Corp. started charging for the
websites of the  Times of London  and the Sunday Times, following
the example of the company’s Wall Street Journal newspaper.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  In March, James was promoted to deputy chief operating
officer at News Corp. While the company said at the time he
would move to  New York , the phone-hacking scandal has kept him
in London. News Corp. will probably consider retreating from the
newspapers in the U.K., Enders Analysis’s McCabe said.  Exit Newspapers?  “I think James would be quite happy to see them exit the
newspapers,” Johnathan Barrett, an analyst at Singer Capital
Markets, said via phone. “Exiting the U.K. newspapers may not
necessarily be such a bad thing, particularly if it takes off
the issue of conflict with the ownership of those assets and
they come back to bid for Sky in a year’s time.”  The company never fully considered the notion of selling
the U.K. newspaper titles amid the phone-hacking scandal, a
person familiar with Murdoch’s thinking said, declining to be
identified because the deliberations were private. The remaining
newspapers under News International include the Sun, the Times
and the Sunday Times.  London police have made nine arrests as part of the phone-
hacking investigation, including that of  Andy Coulson , one-time
editor of the News of the World and former communications chief
for Cameron. Coulson has denied any knowledge of reporters
tapping phones when he led the paper.  Investigations  The relationship between politics and the media needs to
examined following the phone-hacking scandal, former U.K. Labour
Prime Minister  Tony Blair  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Francine Lacqua today. Blair said he doesn’t have
the “faintest idea” whether he was affected by the hacking in
his time as prime minister as he never had a mobile phone while
in office.  News Corp. faces at least four investigations over the
phone-hacking scandal. Rupert Murdoch, his son James, and News
International CEO Rebekah Brooks will attend a July 19
parliamentary committee meeting to give evidence about the
scandal, the company said today.  As the investigations make a fresh offer unlikely any time
soon, the withdrawn bid may also dampen appetite for more
investments in BSkyB.  “He had, whatever figure you choose to use, to invest in
this, not just to buy it, he was going to invest more money in
creating more products and expanding that business,” said
Charlie Beckett, director of the media institute Polis at the
 London School  of Economics. “In that sense, it puts a whole lot
of stuff on hold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  