-- 
Nigerian Cocoa Processors Want a Regulatory Board, Copan Says

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-07-13T13:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/nigerian-cocoa-processors-want-a-regulatory-board-copan-says.html
Cocoa processors in  Nigeria , the
fourth-biggest producer of the chocolate bean, want the
government to set up an industry regulator to boost earnings
from the crop, the Cocoa Processors Association of Nigeria said.  “We are asking for the government to set up an agency, an
authority to monitor and provide the legal framework for this
industry to operate,” Akin Olusuyi, president of the
association known as Copan, said by phone today from Ile-Oluji
in southwestern Ondo state.  The absence of such a regulator has led to a “very high
distortion” in the pricing of  cocoa beans  in the country, with
international buyers going as far as farm gates to buy the
produce, he said. “In  Ghana , such buyers stay at the port areas
to buy, but here, nobody cares because there is no regulatory
body.”  Nigeria ranks behind the  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana  and  Indonesia 
as the world’s largest cocoa producer, according to the
 International Cocoa Organization . Ghana’s cocoa industry is
regulated by the country’s Cocoa Board, while the Coffee and
Cocoa Bourse regulates the industry in  Ivory Coast .  Cocoa is Nigeria’s second-biggest foreign-exchange earner
after crude oil, according to figures published by the Nigerian
government. Exports of cocoa products from the country rose 47
percent to $822.8 million in 2010, Olakunle Akingbola, business
development manager of Cobalt International Services, an
inspection company, said on June 2. That represented about 35
percent of $2.32 billion earnings from non-oil exports,
Akingbola said.  Earnings  Nigeria’s earnings from cocoa will rise further, if the
proposed regulator is established, Olusuyi said. “If with all
the leakages the industry is able to generate so much revenue,
it means it can generate more than 50 percent of non-oil revenue
if it is properly managed.”  Only about 20 percent of Nigeria’s cocoa output is
processed locally, with the rest being exported as raw beans,
according to figures given by the Cocoa Association of Nigeria,
which includes farmers, processors, marketers and the government
officials. The country should do more processing to raise value-
addition in the industry, Olusuyi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos via Accra at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 