-- 
Nikko Asset Said to Begin Picking Underwriters on Global IPO

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-07-14T06:53:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/nikko-asset-said-to-begin-selecting-underwriters-this-month-for-global-ipo.html
Nikko Asset Management Co.  this week
began choosing lead underwriters for an initial public offering,
said three people familiar with the plan, setting up the first
debut share sale by a major Japanese asset manager in a decade.  Nikko Asset is preparing to list on the  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange as early as March 31, according to the people. Sumitomo
Trust and Banking Co. will sell some of its stake in a global
offering, said the people who declined to be identified as the
process is private.  Japan’s equity capital market has started to recover after
share sales plunged in the wake of the earthquake in March. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average has pared losses since the disaster to
about 5 percent from as much as 18 percent, and Japan Airlines
Co., Tokyo Metro Co. and Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. are
among companies looking to sell shares to the public.  “This deal will provide a litmus test of  Japan ’s asset
management business, and rivals are likely to follow,” said
 Fumiyuki Nakanishi , senior strategist at SMBC Friend Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “By listing, Nikko Asset will improve its
visibility in Japan and abroad, making it easier to raise funds
and sell its products.”  Nikko Asset will conduct so-called beauty contests this
month to select managers for the offering, the people said. The
firm’s Tokyo-based spokeswoman Kyoko Wada declined to comment,
as did Sumitomo Trust’s Tokyo-based spokesman Yasushi Kojima.  Nomura, Goldman Sachs  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which acquired Nikko Asset from Nikko
Cordial Corp. in 2008, sold the company to Sumitomo Trust as
part of a transaction that valued it at 120 billion yen ($1.5
billion) in October 2009.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup ,
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  are
among potential bidders to manage the sale, the people said.
Nomura was No. 1 underwriter for Japanese equity sales in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since the earthquake on March 11, 28 Japanese companies
sold shares in public offerings worth 240 billion yen in total,
In the same period a year earlier, 35 companies sold stock worth
2 trillion yen, according to the data. Goldman Sachs appointed
two senior bankers to run Japanese equity and bond underwriting
to boost its investment banking business following the quake.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc., the parent of Sumitomo
Trust, fell 1.4 percent to 284 yen at the close of trading in
Tokyo. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  slid 0.3 percent.  Global Reach  Nikko Asset, founded in 1959, employs 572 staff including
72 fund managers, and has 12.8 trillion yen under management.
The investment management firm, run by Chief Executive Officer
Timothy McCarthy, has subsidiaries in  London ,  New York ,
 Singapore  and Sydney.  In Japan,  Nomura Asset Management Co.  and Daiwa Asset
Management Co. are among investment companies that remain
unlisted. Asset manager Sparx Group Co. listed on the Jasdaq
exchange in 2001.  “The shares will gain popularity among overseas investors
as Nikko Asset operates globally and has opportunities to merge
with other asset managers under Sumitomo Trust’s umbrella,”
Nakanishi said.  Sumitomo Trust and Nikko Asset agreed to buy DBS Asset
Management from  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest bank, for S$137 million ($113 million) to tap business
from the expanding ranks of wealthy Asians, the companies said
in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  