-- 
Nokia Siemens Says Private Equity Review Ended With No Deal

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-07-13T14:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/nokia-siemens-says-nokia-and-siemens-to-remain-sole-shareholders.html
Nokia Siemens Networks, the world’s
second-biggest maker of telecommunications network equipment,
will remain under the full ownership of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) 
after buyout firms failed to come up with a compelling offer.  The company, based in Espoo,  Finland , now plans to cut
costs and take other measures to improve competitiveness as a
standalone entity, it said in a statement today. Nokia shares
fell to their lowest in 13 years after the company reaffirmed
its commitment to the business.  For Nokia, restructuring the unit could be an unwelcome
diversion for Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop as he battles
to improve the profitability of mobile phone operations. Nokia
Siemens, which began operating in April 2007 as a 50-50 joint
venture, began talking with private equity firms last year about
selling a stake that could bring in more cash and open strategic
options.  “There are now unmistakable signs of the European handset
market starting to decline, and selling a mobile network company
ahead of a slump is not an easy undertaking,” Tero Kuittinen,
an analyst at Greenwich, Connecticut-based MKM Partners, said by
e-mail.  Nokia fell 4.5 percent to 3.99 euros, the lowest since
January 1998. Siemens added 0.9 euros to trade at 93.97 euros.  ‘Not Shy’ About Sale  The joint venture was originally set up to run for six
years. NSN, which has been unprofitable every quarter but one
since its founding, has cut jobs and bought assets from Motorola
Solutions Inc. in an effort to turn the business around.  Elop has made few comments about his plans for NSN as he
focuses on an overhaul of handsets and readying a new product
offering based on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7. Nokia said
May 31 that the second-quarter adjusted operating resultfor the
handset unit could be “around breakeven” as competition pares
prices.  “We are not shy about looking at alternative ownership
structures, but we’re only interested in those that would create
a solid base for long-term competitiveness and bring benefit to
customers,” Nokia spokesman James Etheridge said by phone.  TPG Capital and Gores Group LLC were pursuing stakes in the
equipment maker, people familiar with the discussions said in
February.  Siemens Share Catalyst  For Siemens, which doesn’t consolidate NSN and books half
of the losses generated, the decision to remain in the business
removes a potential catalyst for its shares. JP Morgan Cazenove
analyst Andreas Willi on July 7 called Siemens’ investment in
NSN “a risk” that supports the use of a conglomerate discount
when valuing the shares.  “NSN must become more profitable, that’s the most
important task now,” Wolfram Trost, a spokesman for Siemens,
said in a telephone interview.  Labor representatives at Nokia Siemens Networks GmbH & Co.
KG, the German arm of NSN, in May reiterated a request for an
initial public offering should Nokia and Siemens decide on
changes in the ownership structure. An IPO would be "the best
solution" from the perspective of employees, the German
company’s works council then said.  No concrete measures for how the parent companies will
improve competitiveness have been decided, Nokia spokesman
Etheridge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  