-- 
Obama Said to Consider Camp David Summit This Weekend for Deficit Talks

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-14T00:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/obama-said-to-consider-camp-david-summit-this-weekend-for-deficit-talks.html
President  Barack Obama  is
considering summoning congressional leaders to Camp David this
weekend to find a way to cut the deficit and avoid a financial
default, two people familiar with the matter said after a tense
White House meeting.  Obama asked the lawmakers to decide by July 15 whether they
want to do a significant deficit package or just figure out a
way to raise the debt ceiling before U.S. borrowing authority
expires Aug. 2, two Democratic officials said afterward.  With Democratic and Republican congressional leaders
divided over how to cut the deficit, the president “got very
agitated” and left the room after House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  suggested a vote on a smaller deal, Cantor said. The
president met with the eight top congressional leaders for close
to two hours.  “Don’t call my bluff; I am going to the American people,”
Obama said, according to Cantor, a Virginia Republican. The
president “shoved back from the table” and left, Cantor said
after the meeting.  A Democratic official disputed Cantor’s description of
Obama’s departure from the room as abrupt and said the president
had emphasized he believed people were engaging in too much
political posturing.  The meeting followed a day of skirmishing between the two
parties over how to agree on raising the national debt ceiling.
Republicans have insisted for months that any debt-limit
increase must be accompanied by major spending cuts and have
rejected Democrats’ argument that such cuts need to be
accompanied by more  tax revenue  from higher-income Americans.  Moody’s Statement  Moody’s Investors Service said today it would consider
downgrading the U.S. credit rating, adding to concern that
political gridlock will lead to a default.  A final decision on a possible Camp David retreat in the
Maryland mountains hasn’t been made, said the people, who
requested anonymity.  Obama and the lawmakers discussed discretionary and other
spending today and plan to discuss health care and revenue at a
meeting scheduled for tomorrow at the White House, a Democratic
official said.  Cantor told reporters that the amount of cuts under
discussion has shrunk to less than $1.4 trillion in part because
he said the administration is seeking additional spending on
 unemployment benefits  and health-care programs.  $14.3 Trillion  Cantor said he proposed having multiple votes to raise the
$14.3 trillion debt limit, which he said Obama rejected.  “We’re so far apart and going back on the momentum,”
Cantor said.  The announcement by Moody’s was “the news that we have
dreaded,” said House Democrat Robert Andrews of  New Jersey . “I
am fearing that much worse news will be right around the corner.
I hope this very unwelcome news shakes people into a sense of
reality.”  U.S. stock-index futures fell and the euro strengthened
versus the dollar after Moody’s Investors Service said the
American government may lose the Aaa credit rating it’s held
since 1917.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in September
dropped 0.2 percent to 1,309 at 8:13 a.m. in  Tokyo . The euro
rose to $1.4222 from about $1.4170 before the Moody’s
announcement.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said in a statement that Obama has listened to congressional
leaders suggestions “at extensive meetings over the past few
weeks, and now we have a responsibility to act.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, yesterday proposed a “last-choice” plan that would
give Obama unilateral power to raise the national debt ceiling
without approval by Republicans.  McConnell told radio host Laura Ingraham today that default
“destroys your brand and would give the president an
opportunity to blame Republicans for a bad economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  