-- 
Obama Re-Election Campaign Says More Than $86 Million Raised

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-13T19:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/obama-re-election-campaign-says-more-than-86-million-raised.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
effort raised more than $86 million in the quarter ending June
30, eclipsing the combined haul of the 2012 Republican field and
signaling that his re-election effort will be as aggressive and
imposing as his 2008 White House bid.  The total is a combination of money collected by Obama’s
campaign and the  Democratic National Committee , including
contributions received by the Obama Victory Fund, a joint
fundraising committee run by the two entities.  Obama for America , the president’s re-election campaign
committee, collected more than $47 million, while the DNC’s take
was more than $38 million, the campaign said in a video release.  The total exceeds the $60 million second-quarter goal set
by the president’s campaign and the DNC, and may help silence a
narrative that Obama’s fundraising will suffer because  Wall
Street  and business donors are sitting on the sidelines in
protest of his policies. The record-breaking sum also sends a
signal to existing and potential challengers that they will face
a well-funded opponent in the general election.  ‘Breadth of Participation’  “It’s a very impressive opening quarter, particularly in
terms of the breadth of participation,” said Anthony J. Corrado, a professor who studies political fundraising at Colby
College in  Maine . “It indicates that he still has a very strong
base of support in the party.”  In a  video  link e-mailed today to supporters announcing the
totals,  Jim Messina , Obama’s campaign manager and a former
deputy White House chief of staff, drew attention to the 552,462
individuals who donated -- the vast majority of whom contributed
small amounts.  “This should end any Washington chatter about whether or
not our grass-roots base will be engaged,” Messina told
reporters on a conference call today. “Our supporters are back,
they’re energized, there’s a new generation of supporters who
have joined this organization.”  In the video, Messina said: “We have reason to be proud of
what we have built so far, but it’s going to get tougher from
here. Our job is to bring more people into this campaign.”  First Timers  More than 260,000 of those who contributed are first-time
donors to Obama’s campaign, Messina said.  The average contribution to the campaign was $69, he said,
adding that 98 percent of donations were for $250 or less. He
couldn’t immediately provide a proportion for how much of the
total was from contributions of $250 or less.  “We didn’t enter this campaign with just a database,”
Messina said. “We maintained active relationships with
supporters across the country. This is a huge strategic
advantage for us.”  The president’s fundraising take also reflects the power of
incumbency, including a U.S. Air Force jet that transports him
nationwide to fundraisers often packaged around official
government events.  Even when the DNC’s portion of the fundraising is
subtracted, Obama’s campaign total alone is more than twice the
amount raised by his closest rival and still exceeds the amount
raised by the entire Republican field.  Romney’s Total  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who polls show
is the leading contender for the 2012 Republican nomination,
said he raised $18.3 million during the quarter.  Among other Republicans who have announced their second-
quarter fundraising totals, U.S. Representative Ron Paul of
 Texas  said he took in more than $4.5 million; former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty  raised about $4.2 million; and the
campaign of former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman said it collected
$4.1 million, including personal money from the candidate.  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who lost more than
a dozen of his campaign staff members in a mass resignation on
June 9, reported raising $2 million and being $1 million in
debt.  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who
formally announced her candidacy on June 27, hasn’t yet released
her total for the quarter in advance of a July 15 deadline for
reports to be filed with the  Federal Election Commission . She
had $2.9 million in her congressional campaign account as of
March 31, all of which could be used for her presidential run.  Bush Record  Obama collected more during the quarter than did past
incumbents at this point in the campaign cycle. During the same
quarter in 2003, when then-President  George W. Bush  was
preparing to run for re-election, he raised $35.1 million,
according to the Washington-based  Campaign Finance Institute .
Bush set the record for a quarter in a non-election year --$50.1
million --in the third quarter of 2003, the institute said.  Messina has tried to damp predictions that the president
will raise $1 billion for the 2012 campaign. Still, Obama has
maintained a fundraising schedule that has included almost 30
donor events since January for his campaign, his party, or both.  His efforts helped the  Democratic National Committee 
outpace  its Republican counterpart  so far this year. Through May
31, the DNC had taken in $45.5 million, compared with $30.5
million collected by the  Republican National Committee ,
according to FEC records.  Field Offices  In presidential campaigns, the national party can
coordinate some of its advertising with its nominee and
underwrite Election Day get-out-the-vote programs. The campaign
has used the money to open about 60 field offices already, with
an eye toward the general election.  Obama kicked off fundraising for his own campaign with
three events on April 14 in Chicago, where his re-election bid
has its headquarters. His  top bundlers , who solicit money from a
wide circle of donors, have been asked to collect at least
$350,000 this year alone. Four years ago, members of Obama’s
national finance committee were instructed to raise $250,000 for
the 2007-08 election cycle.  Ben LaBolt , a campaign spokesman, told reporters on the
conference call that on July 15 Obama’s organization would
release the names of bundlers who have raised more than $50,000.  The higher fundraising bar has been set in part because
Democrats don’t know whether Obama will be helped or hurt by
Republican efforts to handicap labor union finances, a big
source of Democratic money. The governors of Wisconsin and  Ohio 
have signed bills making it harder for unions to collect dues.  Independent Groups  In addition, the campaign is anticipating a new threat:
Negative ads launched by independent Republican groups created
during the 2010 midterms.  The outside groups can accept unlimited donations, and many
don’t have to disclose their donors because they are classified
by the  Internal Revenue Service  as charitable social welfare
groups. They are banned from coordinating their activity with
candidate campaign committees, a hurdle easily surmounted by the
like-minded party strategists present inside the groups.  American Crossroads and its sister organization, American
Crossroads GPS, were organized with the help of  Karl Rove ,
Bush’s longtime top political adviser. Officials with American
Crossroads have said they intend to raise a combined $120
million for the 2012 election cycle.  David Axelrod , one of Obama’s top campaign strategists,
said last year he expects American Crossroads and other
conservative groups to spend a combined $500 million to oust the
president.  Useful Adversary  The groups are providing a useful adversary for Obama’s
campaign to raise money against, especially before he has a
general election opponent in place, said Corrado, the Colby
College professor.  Democrats have also responded by creating their own
independent groups, Priorities USA and Priorities USA Action, to
counter American Crossroads. Priorities USA is run by a
coalition of Democratic insiders, including former White House
spokesman  Bill Burton . They have set an initial fundraising goal
of $100 million for the 2012 season.  Unlike his other primary opponents, Romney allies have
created their own outside committee,  Restore Our Future PAC , to
bolster his campaign. The PAC’s treasurer is Charles R. Spies,
who served as Romney’s general counsel in his failed 2008 White
House bid. Restore Our Future reported raising $12 million in
the first six months of this year.  Corrado said he suspects Republicans won’t be overly
intimidated by Obama’s quarterly total. “The Republican nominee
can expect that they will receive a surge of funding, once they
have” wrapped up the nomination, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  