-- 
Obama, Congressional Leaders Said to Focus on Spending Cuts in Debt Talks

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-07-13T21:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/obama-congressional-leaders-said-to-focus-on-spending-cuts-in-debt-talks.html
President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders are pushing ahead with deficit-reduction
talks as some lawmakers in both parties express skepticism about
a fallback plan by Senator  Mitch McConnell  to raise the debt
ceiling.  The bipartisan negotiating group, meeting for the fourth
straight day at the White House, is focusing on a narrow group
of spending cuts -- identified during seven weeks of talks led
by Vice President  Joe Biden  -- in an attempt to work out at
least a $2 trillion debt-cutting plan, said a Republican aide
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  The slow progress, as the Aug. 2 date when the government
is projected to exhaust its borrowing authority inches closer,
prompted McConnell, a  Kentucky  Republican, to propose yesterday
a “last-choice” plan that would give Obama unilateral power to
raise the national debt ceiling.  “If everything else fails and everybody’s great ideas
don’t come to pass, and it’s the day before Aug. 2, something
has to be done,” said Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the chamber’s
second-ranking Republican. “Somebody has to have a plan for
that eventuality, and that’s what Senator McConnell has put out
there.”  Kyl held two fingers a centimeter apart when asked today
how much the two parties’ proposed spending cuts overlap. The
White House has warned for months that a default resulting from
a failure to raise the $14.3 trillion debt limit would be a
catastrophe for the economy.  Possible Downgrade  In a sign of concern within the financial community, the
U.S. had its Aaa bond rating placed on review for possible
downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the “rising
possibility” that the debt limit won’t be upped on a timely
basis.  “There is a small but rising risk of a short-lived
default,” Moody’s said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said today
that “what happens if the debt limit is not increased is a
‘crapshoot’ -- no one knows, and we don’t want to find out,”
according to his spokesman, Michael Steel,  Default “destroys your brand and would give the president
an opportunity to blame Republicans for a bad economy,”
McConnell, of Kentucky, told radio host Laura Ingraham today. He
also predicted that with the two sides at an impasse on how best
to reduce the deficit, there would be no Republican support in
the House or Senate for raising the debt ceiling. “I’ll bet
there won’t be a single Republican vote” for it, he said.  Three-Step Plan  McConnell’s proposal would let the president increase the
limit in three steps unless Congress disapproved by a two-thirds
majority -- a near impossibility, given the number of Democrats
in both the House and Senate -- while Obama would also be
required to offer spending reductions. It would let the
president raise the debt limit while putting the onus on him and
congressional Democrats to cut spending.  Obama “owns the economy” after nearly three years in
office, said McConnell, “and we refuse to let him entice us
into co-ownership of a bad economy.”  The increases would come in amounts of $700 billion, $900
billion and $900 billion, McConnell said. They would occur over
the remainder of Obama’s presidential term, in keeping with the
president’s call for an increase in the debt limit that would
carry through the 2012 elections.  Lawmaker Opposition  While the proposal gave some market analysts confidence
that the U.S. will avert default, Republicans including Senator
 Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma and Democrats including Senator  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota  rejected it as a political hoax that
fails to address the debt.  Leaders from both parties in the House and Senate either
offered cautious praise or held back from publicly criticizing
the plan.  “It would make it much easier to raise the debt limit,
which should reassure markets,”  Gus Faucher , director of
macroeconomics at Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said in response to an e-mail today.  Conrad, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, called the
McConnell plan “one of the worst ideas I have ever heard.” Any
plan that extends the debt limit without doing anything about
the debt “is an abdication of responsibility that is
stunning,” he said.  ‘Don’t Hunt’  “That dog don’t hunt,” said Representative Allen West, a
freshman Republican from  Florida . “Seems like an acquiescence
to me.”  The proposal’s chances of passing the Republican-controlled
House are unclear because of objections from Tea Party-backed
freshman Republicans such as West. Still,  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics, said markets are comforted, at
least to a degree, because the plan suggests that lawmakers
recognize the gravity of a default.  “As soon as I heard that, I thought, well, that’s
positive,” Zandi said in an interview.  Ethan Siegal, who tracks Washington policy for
institutional investors, said McConnell’s plan adds to “the
market’s already decided certainty” that there will be some
resolution that prevents a default of government obligations.  “Investors firmly believe it’s going to get done,” said
Siegal, who is president of the Washington Exchange.  ‘Thoughtful,’ ‘Unique’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
described McConnell’s proposal as “thoughtful and unique,”
even as he called on both sides to pull together on a more
ambitious deal. House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, said the plan by McConnell has some “merit” because
it recognizes the debt ceiling must be lifted.  A Senate Democratic aide said party leaders see the
proposal as a possible vehicle for caps on discretionary
spending for the next two years and to create a joint committee
that would draft a plan to cut the debt.  The absence of an agreement after several days of talks
among congressional leaders and the president suggests a
possible breakdown, said analyst Chris Krueger.  Even with McConnell’s alternative, “we are no closer to a
deal, votes, or a raise in the debt ceiling with the sand
continuing to run out of the hourglass,” Krueger, an analyst at
MF Global Washington Research Group, told clients in a note. He
said the odds are 40 percent that Congress won’t pass a debt-
ceiling bill before the Treasury’s stated Aug. 2 deadline for
raising the borrowing limit to avert a U.S. default.  A newsletter to clients from FBR Capital Markets today
stated “roughly, a 25 percent probability that a final deal
will not be reached by the Aug. 2 deadline.”  Bernanke’s View  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress
today that a failure by Congress to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt limit would lead to a “major crisis” and throw
“shock waves” through the financial system. Bernanke responded
to a question at a House Financial Services Committee hearing.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today that the
McConnell plan “is not the preferred option,” although the
administration doesn’t reject it out of hand. The White House
would prefer a more comprehensive plan, he said.  “Bigger is better,” Carney told reporters.  The White House is holding out hope the president can reach
a deficit-reduction deal of $2.5 trillion or larger that
includes revenue increases, and they expect other backup
proposals between now and Aug. 2, said a Democrat familiar with
the negotiations.  Even as politicians haggle over the debt ceiling,
government bond yields are at about the lowest this year. The
yield on 10-year Treasuries was 2.88 percent as of 5:07 p.m. in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader, after falling to a
low this year of 2.81 percent on July 12. That compares with an
average of 7 percent during the past four decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  