-- 
Officials Defend Policies for Letting Iraqi Refugees Into U.S.

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m
-- 
2011-07-13T23:29:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/officials-defend-policies-for-letting-iraqi-refugees-into-u-s-.html
Obama administration officials
defended policies for admitting Iraqi refugees into the U.S. at
a Senate hearing on preventing terrorists from entering the
country.  Programs such as granting special immigrant visas for
Iraqis working on behalf of the U.S. government were intended to
fulfill a “special responsibility” to these people, Janice
Jacobs, assistant secretary of state for consular affairs, told
the Senate Homeland Security Committee.  Officials make “every effort to streamline” the visa
process while ensuring that those who receive them “do not pose
a threat to the security of the  United States ,” Jacobs said.  Concerns about the program were underscored by the May
arrests in  Kentucky  of two Iraqis who had entered the U.S.
through the resettlement program and were charged with
conspiring to provide weapons, money and other support to al-
Qaeda in Iraq.  Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, urged tougher
controls in granting the special immigrant visas. He said he
didn’t fault the government for “missing the needle in the
haystack, but you need to make the haystack smaller. It’s hard
to know who your friends are and who your foes are.”  About 58,000 Iraqi refugees have come to the U.S. since
2007, with about 30,000 still in  Iraq  who have been approved for
resettlement, said Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican and
her party’s ranking member on the committee.  Screening Process  The State Department has been working with Department of
Homeland Security officials for the last six months to improve
the security screening process for visa program, Jacobs said.
Those efforts have intensified following the arrests, she said.  Rand Beers, a Department of Homeland Security
undersecretary, said monitoring of visa holders has made
improvements that include use of biometric identification, data
sharing among agencies and streamlining the review process for
those who overstay visas that don’t allow permanent resettlement
in the U.S.  Homeland security officials also are analyzing options for
tracking visa holders once they are in the U.S., and the study’s
findings will be released later this month, Beers said.  “This is a program which we’ve instituted that is both
backward looking and forward looking,” he said.  The hearing was the latest in a series by the committee
looking into improvements in domestic security as the 10th
anniversary approaches of the Sept. 11th attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Pelham in  Washington  at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 