-- 
Oil Drops From Three-Day High on Rising U.S. Crude Supplies, Europe Crisis

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-07-13T04:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/oil-drops-from-three-day-high-on-rising-u-s-crude-supplies-europe-crisis.html
Oil declined from a three-day high
in  New York  as investors bet that increasing U.S. crude supplies
and  Europe ’s spreading debt crisis signaled demand for raw
materials may falter.  Futures fell as much as 0.9 percent after the  American
Petroleum Institute  said crude inventories rose for the first
time in six weeks. An Energy Department report today may show
supplies shrank. Prices also dropped after Ireland joined
 Portugal  and Greece as the third euro-area nation to have its
 credit rating  reduced to below investment grade.  “There’s still concern around the euro-zone,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Melbourne, who predicts oil in New York will
average $113 a barrel in the third quarter. “The crude market
hasn’t improved much in terms of those supply dynamics. Demand
is still pretty sluggish.”  Crude for August delivery slipped as much as 90 cents to
$96.53 in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $97.16 at 11:35 a.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday climbed $2.28, or 2.4 percent, to $97.43, the
highest since July 7.  Prices also slid after the  China  Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said oil-processing volumes shrank 0.7 percent from a
year earlier to 35.5 million metric tons in June. That’s down
from May’s 38.47 million tons, the third-highest on record.  China Processing  Brent oil for August settlement fell 45 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $117.30 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London . That took the European benchmark contract to a
premium of $20.14 a barrel above U.S. futures, compared with
$20.32 yesterday and the record close of $22.29 on June 15.  China’s gross domestic product for the second quarter
climbed 9.5 percent, the country’s statistics bureau said. That
was down from 9.7 percent in the first quarter.  “The weaker data on GDP and oil processing are not very
promising,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at consultants
Purvin & Gertz in  Singapore . “If we continue to see lackluster
growth, that limits gains in oil. We have to wait for the DOE
numbers but the API’s showed sort of a large gain so it’s
unexpected.”  U.S. crude inventories climbed 2.3 million barrels last
week to 359.4 million, the industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute report showed yesterday. The Energy Department today
may say supplies dropped 1.5 million barrels, according to the
median of 15 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Ireland Rating  Oil-supply totals from the American Petroleum Institute and
the Energy Department have moved in the same direction 71
percent of the time over the past year. The API collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland to Ba1 from Baa3,
citing the probability that the country will need additional
official financing and for investors to share in losses before
it can return to the private market to borrow.  The euro fell to a four-month low yesterday against the
dollar as European finance ministers failed to present a
solution to the financial contagion that’s threatening to spread
to  Italy  from  Greece , Ireland and Portugal.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries projected
that world oil demand will average about 88.1 million barrels a
day this year, up 1.4 million from last year. It also said
consumption would grow at a slower pace for a second year in
2012 as usage falls in Europe and other industrialized nations.  World Demand  Global oil consumption will average 89.5 million barrels a
day in 2012, OPEC’s Vienna-based secretariat said yesterday in
its monthly report, giving its first forecast for next year.
That’s up 1.5 percent from the 2011 estimate.  New York crude futures have averaged $98.34 a barrel this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from
$79.61 in 2010.   The Energy Department reduced its forecast for
prices in 2011 to an average $98.43 a barrel from $101.91 in
its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook, released yesterday. The
department also cut its forecast for global consumption for this
year to 88.16 million barrels a day from 88.43 million estimated
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  