-- 
Hong Kong’s Mass-Market Home Sales May Fall, Jones Lang Says

-- B y   V i n c e n t   J i a n g
-- 
2011-07-13T10:19:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/hong-kong-s-mass-market-home-sales-may-fall-jones-lang-says.html
     July 13 (Bloomberg) ---  Hong Kong ’s mass-market residential
sales may fall in the second half from the first six months
because of government curbs, said Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  Prices of mass-market homes will stay flat because of the
lack of supply, Joseph Tsang, a Hong Kong-based managing
director at Jones Lang LaSalle, told reporters in a briefing in
the city today.  The Hong Kong government on June 10 raised down payments
for some home purchases and for foreign buyers, the fourth set
of restrictions imposed since October 2009 to curb surging
residential values. The number of housing transactions in Hong
Kong fell for the sixth straight month in June.  “The government curbs, especially higher down-payments,
will only have an impact on those who need bigger apartments in
the mass market,” Tsang said.  Home prices  in the city have risen more than 70 percent
since the beginning of 2009 on record-low mortgage rates and an
influx of buyers from  China .  Hong Kong’s luxury home prices may increase at least 5
percent in the second half “due to lack of supply in high-end
houses,” he said.  Higher Luxury Prices  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said last week
that home prices will remain stable as low  interest rates  and
the threat of asset inflation mitigate fear that government
curbs on real estate values may damp demand. Barclays Capital
Plc earlier predicted prices may fall as much as 30 percent by
2013 as an increase in  mortgage rates  will reduce buyers’
abilities to afford monthly payments.  Hong Kong banks have been raising mortgage rates since the
fourth quarter as liquidity dried up.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks seven of the
city’s biggest developers, has fallen 7.4 percent this year,
compared with a 4.8 percent decline in the benchmark Hang Sang
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Jiang in Hong Kong at 
 vjiang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tan Hwee Ann in Hong Kong at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  