-- 
ONGC Plans to Start Production at Two India Gas Fields This Year

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-07-13T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ongc-plans-to-start-production-at-two-india-gas-fields-this-year.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, plans to start production at two
offshore fields this year in a bid to maintain output from
deposits that are more than three decades old.  The GS15 area off India’s east coast may start producing
gas by the end of this month, Sudhir Vasudeva, director of
offshore operations, said in an interview in his office in  New
Delhi  yesterday. The North Tapti gas deposit off the west coast
will begin output after the monsoon, he said.  “The GS15 field was to start in April 2006 but got delayed
all these years because of some problems we faced with the
contractors,” Vasudeva said. “The next big jump in production
will be in 2013-14, when on a net basis, output will rise by 3.5
million tons.”  India’s second-biggest company by market value is spending
money to flush out reserves and maintain pressure at its aging
fields including Bombay High, the nation’s biggest oil deposit.
ONGC has bought assets in countries from  Venezuela  to  Vietnam 
and is seeking additional deposits overseas to help increase
output.  “ONGC still needs to discover a big field in India as that
would really give them that boost,” said Rina Sanghavi, a
Kolkata-based research analyst at SPA Securities Ltd., who
recommends investors buy the stock. “The big growth area for
them will be overseas. That’s the big opportunity.”  Production at GS15 was delayed after a dispute over a
$215.4 million contract given to Australian company Clough
Engineering Ltd. for drilling production wells.  “We settled all issues with Clough in 2010 and then
developed the field” with another contractor, Vasudeva said.  Production Target  The New Delhi-based explorer plans to spend 300 billion
rupees ($6.7 billion) and produce 27.5 million tons of oil from
its Indian fields in the year ending March 31, Vasudeva said.
Output increased 3 percent to 27.3 million tons in the year
ended March 31, according to a May 30 statement.  ONGC rose 1.9 percent to 286.95 rupees in  Mumbai  yesterday,
giving the state-owned company a market value of $55 billion.
The stock has dropped 11 percent this year, compared with a 9
percent decline in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Output from the B22, B193 and B46 deposits will start in
the next financial year, Vasudeva said. The G1 deposit, which is
adjacent to the GS15 field, may start in April, he said.  The explorer will prepare a plan to develop a deepwater gas
field off the east coast with an initial expenditure of about
$7.7 billion, he said.  “We are working on that field,” he said. “Things are
very initial and preliminary at the moment.”  The explorer is in talks with companies including  Eni SpA (ENI) 
to sell a stake in the field, known as KG-DWN-98/2, which is
near India’s biggest gas deposit, operated by Reliance
Industries Ltd., ONGC Chairman A.K. Hazarika said June 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  