-- 
Top-Chef Talbot Botches $26 Steak, Shrimp at Mondrian: Review

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/top-chef-sam-talbot-butchers-shrimp-steak-at-soho-mondrian-ryan-sutton.html
Sam Talbot isn’t a very reliable
chef.  That’s the impression I got after several meals at the
disaster that is Imperial No. Nine, a pretty restaurant filled
with pretty people eating pretty lousy seafood.  Also true: This hip hangout at the  SoHo Mondrian  doesn’t
hire very good help.  The host politely asks if you’d like to see a menu -- when
you’re already seated. Was I supposed to have memorized the
offerings?  Pick your perch wisely; if a table has four chairs, two
will have padding, the others will not. They’re orthopedically
mismatched.  Imperial specializes in gin and tonics; it offers 5
varieties. Watch in amazement as the bartender dumps a half-
empty bottle of flat tonic into your Hendricks gin.  Order a glass of bright  Taittinger  champagne ($31); the
beverage might arrive after you’ve started on a plate of
oysters. The bivalves are garnished, unintendedly, I hope, with
tiny pieces of shell.  This hipster-slacker approach to the hospitality industry
was the running joke at Talbot’s Surf Lodge, where they might
run out of ketchup on a given night.  The ominously-named Imperial is a continuation of the
bloopers reel. Talbot, a North Carolina native, is best known
for competing on Bravo TV’s “ Top Chef ,” and for his active
membership in the country’s pantheon of “ hottest ” chefs.  His cooking feels more part-time.  Tuna Surprise  I tried Imperial’s raw tuna on two visits. The flesh
should be firm; Talbot’s catch is spongy, mushy, as if fetched
from the same back corner of a refrigerator where the dodgy milk
sits. Bands of sinew thread the fish, causing you to chew and
chew. Promised flavors of mustard oil are overwhelmed by an
ocean’s worth of salt.  Poached shrimp ($4 each), buried in a pile of ice, were
rubbery, the heads soggy. Have the crustaceans turned brown?
Hard to tell in the artfully dim light. Fried oysters, in a
stunning feat of molecular gastronomy, lacked any salinity.  A slab of bone marrow is fine. Problem is, it obliterates
the flavor of the accompanying mussels. Chicken isn’t fine. The
bird tastes like cardboard. It’s paired with panzanella, a
humble Italian dish that involves softening day old bread with
tomatoes or vinegar. Talbot instead places two stale croutons on
your plate and calls it cuisine.  Steak Out  For its steak offering, Talbot phones in a few slices of
beef culotte. The meat sports not the mineral finish of a dry-
aged cut, but rather the tang of liver or kidneys gone bad. I
told my companions to stop eating.  Beware the rhubarb pie. It contains no pie. The menu
doesn’t fully warn diners of the deconstructed plating, whereby
the fruit sits next to room temperature crumbs.  A mug of root beer was supposed to be paired with cocoa nib
ice cream; we couldn’t find much evidence of the frozen treat.  Imperial is nice to look at. The garden room is accented
with decorative glassware -- glued down to avoid breakage.
Chandeliers hang here and there. And it’s possible, if a
challenge, to work up a fine meal out of Talbot’s fare.  Flukey Fish  Ask for the cauliflower fritters, little bar bites that
balance creamy ricotta against a gentle vegetal chew. Raw fluke
gets coconut for aroma, chili water for heat. Crisped branzino,
lovely on its own, sits in a pool of dashi, with clear flavors
of salt and umami. Halibut practically flakes itself into a pile
of bulgur wheat and tart tomatoes.  One warning to the hungry: Carbohydrates are in limited
quantity at this model-friendly pit stop. Avoid the lumpy shrimp
and grits; order Israeli couscous instead, if only for the
accompanying mushroom salad.  Better yet, ask for bread to sate your grumbling stomach.
At the moment, it carries a $4 fee. Or sometimes you get lucky.  “The tuna comes with bread, so I won’t charge you,” said
a bartender. How generous. I ate it -- and pushed away the fish.  Rating: 1/2 *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: 75-80 decibels. Could be worse.  Date place: No.  Inside Tip: Avoid the $14-$15 gin and tonic selection.  Special Feature: Caramel corn ice cream for dessert.  Will I be back? No.  Imperial No. Nine is at the Mondrian SoHo at 9 Crosby St.
Information: +1-212-389-0000;  http://www.mondriansoho.com/ .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 