-- 
Camp Urges Careful Look at Mortgage Deduction in Tax Overhaul

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-13T16:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/top-house-democratic-tax-writer-says-debt-fight-poisons-reform.html
Congress should look carefully at
the mortgage interest deduction as part of an overhaul of the
U.S.  tax code , House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp 
said.  Curtailing or eliminating the deduction, which costs the
government $93.8 billion in foregone revenue this fiscal year,
would help Camp achieve his goal of lowering tax rates. Changes
to the deduction would also affect millions of homeowners and
the real estate and construction industries.  “It is a very big part of the tax code,” Camp, a Michigan
Republican, told reporters in  Washington  today. “And it’s
certainly a big part of people’s investment decisions, and I
think needs to be treated as importantly and carefully as a
major provision of long-standing duration in the code should be
treated.”  He spoke after the first joint  tax policy  hearing of the
Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee since
1940. The committees discussed the tax code’s treatment of
corporate and household debt as they prepare for a broad rewrite
of the tax system.  Critics of the mortgage interest deduction say it
encourages homeowners to take on excess debt. Camp, who hasn’t
set a schedule for introducing a tax overhaul bill, said he
doesn’t know how or whether he plans to propose changing the
treatment of debt and equity financing.  “There’s enough evidence there that we need to certainly
take it into account as we pursue fundamental tax reform,” he
said.  In his opening comments, Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, noted the tensions in exploring the
tax treatment of debt.  Borrowing Essential  “We clearly do not want to encourage households and
businesses to assume too much debt,” he said. “Yet ensuring
businesses can borrow at modest  interest rates  is an essential
step on the road to economic recovery.”  Companies can deduct interest costs but not costs related
to equity investments, such as dividend payouts. Some of the
witnesses at the hearing said that distortion can encourage
companies to accumulate debt.  Lawmakers considered a range of proposals offered by the
witnesses, some of which focused on leverage at financial
institutions.  Simon Johnson , an economist and a professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , suggested taxing
“excessive” leverage at financial institutions and dedicating
the proceeds to reduce taxes on non-financial companies that
suffer during financial crises.  ‘Form of Pollution’  “That’s what generates the big negative externalities,”
said Johnson, who is also a Bloomberg View columnist. “It’s a
form of pollution.”  Pamela Olson, former assistant secretary of tax policy at
the Treasury Department, said defining excessive leverage would
be difficult.  Lowering the corporate tax rate would decrease the
incentives to seek extra leverage, said  Mihir Desai , a professor
at  Harvard Business School  and  Harvard Law School .  “Reducing that rate ends up taking away that distortion to
some degree,” he said.  Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the Ways and Means
Committee’s top Democrat, said the ideological fight over
raising the country’s debt ceiling is hurting Congress’s ability
to overhaul the tax code.  In his opening statement, Levin criticized Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, for saying the
country couldn’t achieve a real solution to its budget problems
as long as Barack Obama is president.  ‘Washed Away’  “My fear is that any insights that we gain in the process
today will be washed away if the debt ceiling is not raised and
we suffer the momentous consequences that will result from
destroying the full faith and credit of the  United States ,”
said Levin, of Michigan.  Congressional leaders and Obama had discussed using the
debt-ceiling debate to propel a broader rewrite of the tax code.
That effort fizzled amid disagreement of the parameters.  “If anything, I think it’s been helpful that the White
House and Congress have raised the profile of fundamental  tax
reform ,” said Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican.
“It really has become an issue we know we have to tackle and
solve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  