-- 
Opti Canada Files for Bankruptcy Protection From Creditors as Cash Drops

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-07-13T20:23:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/opti-canada-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-from-creditors-as-cash-drops.html
Opti Canada Inc. (OPC) , the oil producer
whose shares have declined 82 percent this year, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in  Alberta  as the company runs out of cash
to fund its oil-sands operations.  Bankruptcy-protection proceedings began today under
 Canada ’s Companies Creditors Arrangement Act, the company said
in a statement. Opti has obtained C$375 million ($391 million)
of new financing and backing from financial partners to
restructure its debt, according to the statement.  Opti said in June it would miss an interest payment on its
second-lien debt. The company, based in Calgary, has been
selling debt to cover a shortfall in its operating budget as
production at the Long Lake oil-sands site in northeastern
Alberta, operated by partner  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , fails to meet targets.  “This is an unfortunate lesson that oil-sands projects are
not for start-ups,”  James Cole , who oversees about C$800
million as a  money manager  at Portland Investment Counsel Inc.
in Calgary and doesn’t own the shares, said today in a telephone
interview. The bankruptcy proceedings likely won’t have a
“material impact” on the Long Lake project or on Nexen, he
said.  Long Lake is one of dozens of projects that have attracted
more than $200 billion in energy investments to Alberta to tap
the largest  oil deposits  outside the  Middle East . The project
employs a technology that injects steam underground to release
fossil fuels embedded in sand.  Trading Stopped  Trading of Opti’s shares was suspended before the open of
the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock closed yesterday at 12
cents, valuing the company at C$33.8 million.  As part of the debt restructuring, secured notes will be
converted into new shares, Opti said. The company has the
backing of creditors holding more than half the value of its
notes and aims to complete the reorganization by Dec. 1.  “The recapitalization of our balance sheet will provide us
with cash resources to continue to advance operations at Long
Lake, as well as to begin development at Kinosis, with our
operating partner Nexen,” Opti Chief Executive Officer Chris Slubicki said in the statement.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term
 credit rating  on Opti to ‘D’, the lowest level, from ‘SD’
following the company’s announcement to file for bankruptcy
protection. Opti has C$2.47 billion of outstanding bonds
maturing through 2014, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Potential Implications’  “Although the existing interest reserve account remains in
our view sufficient to fund the first-lien debt interest
payments until maturity, our ratings criteria place greater
emphasis on the potential implications of insolvency
proceedings,” S&P analysts Michelle Dathorne and Aniki Saha-
Yannopoulos said in a note.  Franklin Advisers Inc., Fidelity Management & Research and
Franklin Mutual Advisers Inc. are among investment funds that
hold or have held Opti notes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nexen, based in Calgary, boosted its stake in the Long Lake
project to almost two-thirds in 2008 with Opti maintaining a 35
percent stake in the operation. Brittney Price, a Nexen
spokeswoman, didn’t respond to telephone messages seeking
comment.  Opti and Nexen had taken longer than they planned to inject
enough steam underground to heat up reserves of bitumen to make
it flow into pipes at Long Lake. The companies are using more
steam than they planned, which has raised costs and restrained
production, Nexen said in February.  Ernst & Young Inc. has been appointed to monitor the
bankruptcy proceedings and Opti is being advised by Lazard
Freres & Co. and Macleod Dixon LLP. Holders of Opti notes are
being advised by Canaccord Genuity Corp. and Bennett Jones LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 