-- 
Hormone Drugs May Boost Life Expectancy for Prostate Cancer Patients

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-07-13T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/hormone-drugs-may-boost-life-expectancy-for-prostate-cancer-patients.html
Some prostate cancer patients may
improve their long-term survival chances by receiving hormone
suppression drugs such as  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Lupron and
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Zoladex with radiation therapy, a study
showed.  The research found that men who received radiation and the
drugs, called androgen deprivation therapy, increased their
survival rates a decade later to 62 percent compared with 57
percent for those who didn’t get the medicines. The risk of
death from prostate cancer declined to 4 percent for patients
with the combination treatment from 8 percent for those
receiving radiation alone, according to the  report  released
today by the  New England Journal of Medicine .  While androgen deprivation therapy has been used since the
1990s with radiation, doctors didn’t know if it benefited all
patients. The study found that four months of the medicines
before and during radiation helped men with medium-risk cancer
the most, said  Christopher Jones , the lead author of the study.  “If you block the male hormones, you can slow the growth
of prostate cells and prostate cancer cells,” Jones, a
radiation oncologist with Radiological Associates in Sacramento,
 California , said in a telephone interview.  Previous studies have shown hormone suppression causes side
effects such as enlarged breasts, decreased muscle mass, reduced
sexual drive, depression and high cholesterol.  FDA Review  Last year, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said it
would review published studies about the safety of prescription
medicines used for androgen deprivation therapy, which may
increase the risk of diabetes, heart attack or death. The agency
cited Zoladex from London-based AstraZeneca; Lupron from Abbott
Park, Illinois-based Abbott, and its generic equivalents,
Trelstar from  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  in Corona, California,
and Vantas from  Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. (ENDP)  in Chadds
Ford,  Pennsylvania .  Prostate cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer death
in men, according to the  American Cancer Society . More than
240,000 men will be diagnosed with the disease this year, and it
will lead to about 33,730 deaths, the organization said.  Today’s study from the  National Cancer Institute  followed
about 2,000 prostate cancer patients for an average of 9.1
years.  The benefit from the hormone drugs and radiation “was
mainly confined to the intermediate-risk patients,” Jones said.
“We found that if you didn’t get the androgen deprivation
therapy, you had a 2 1/2-times higher risk of dying from
prostate cancer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 