-- 
Hot Coffee, Cold Cash and Torts: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T04:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/hot-coffee-cold-cash-and-the-tort-reform-con-margaret-carlson.html
(Corrects seventh paragraph in July 13 column to indicate
damages caps only apply to medical malpractice suits.)  The story of Stella Liebeck came to
stand for all that is moronic about our legal system and
culture. Liebeck sued McDonald’s in 1994 after spilling a 49-
cent cup of coffee in her lap as she was wheeling away from a
drive-thru window in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico . She hit the
liability jackpot, winning a $2.86 million jury award as
compensation for this minor nuisance.  Of course, coffee is hot. Of course, drinking and driving
can be perilous. Of course, you shouldn’t be using the legal
system to get rich quick, exploiting a deep-pocketed company
like McDonald’s Corp. to pay for your stupidity while forcing
the rest of us to pay more for our Happy Meals in order to cover
the liability costs.  The Liebeck case, which is the focus of the documentary
“ Hot Coffee ” airing on  HBO  this month, went viral before there
was such a thing. Every network news division covered it, with
ABC calling it “the poster child of excessive lawsuits.” The
corporate-funded group Citizens Against Lawsuit Abuse mounted
billboards advertising: “SPILL HOT COFFEE, WIN MILLIONS: PLAY
LAWSUIT LOTTO.”  David Letterman  featured it on a Top Ten list.
It even figured in an episode of “Seinfeld” in which Kramer
blisters his manhood sneaking a cup of coffee into a movie
theater inside his pants. Like the old lady in the news, he
threatens to sue.  This story might be amusing, or outrageous, if true. It’s
not. In fact, Liebeck wasn’t driving, her grandson was, and they
were parked when the accident occurred. The coffee wasn’t just
hot, it was scalding at more than 180 degrees; anything more
than 140 degrees is a burn hazard. Liebeck was hospitalized for
eight days in critical condition with third-degree burns. She
endured skin grafts over 6 percent of her body, including
sensitive areas. Rather than rush to court, Liebeck asked
McDonald’s to provide $20,000 toward her substantial medical
expenses. McDonald’s offered $800. And Liebeck didn’t receive
$2.86 million. A trial judge reduced the award to $640,000.
Liebeck eventually settled for an even lower, undisclosed sum.  The facts didn’t have to square for the Liebeck case to
become the poster child of the tort-reform movement. That
movement requires a narrative powered by a steady supply of
fresh, unworthy plaintiffs and greedy  trial lawyers  all getting
rich while the rest of us pay for their avarice. Off with their
heads. And out with the facts.  Republican political consultant  Karl Rove  was among the
first to see the power of this narrative back in the 1990s in
Texas, where trial lawyers seemed to pull the strings of the
state judiciary. Rove turned once-sleepy judicial elections into
referendums, financed by corporate treasuries, on lawyers lining
their pockets at the expense of upstanding citizens and maligned
companies.  With help from Rove, and from then-Governor  George W. Bush ,
the pendulum swung too far in reverse. The state now caps
noneconomic damages in a medical malpractice lawsuit at $250,000
($500,000 for wrongful death, adjusted annually for inflation),
and the liability cap is enshrined in the  Texas  constitution.
For plaintiffs, the Texas legal system has become such a
crapshoot that the faint of heart needn’t apply. If you lose
your suit, it is deemed frivolous and you pay the defendant’s
legal fees. If you win your case -- but receive an award of less
than 80 percent of any prior settlement offer -- you still pay
the defendant’s legal fees.  Determined to bar the courthouse door, many states have
approved  mandatory arbitration clauses  that companies bury in
the fine print of an invoice, an employment contract or a health
insurance plan. Purchase any of these products or services -- a
Verizon phone, for example -- and you’ve inadvertently agreed to
forgo your day in court. Instead, you accept an arbitration
process inherently skewed toward corporate power. (The
corporation generally chooses the arbitrator and the venue.) A
steep filing fee is often required, and discovery -- the process
of gaining access to information relevant to the case -- and
judicial review of decisions are limited.  Many tort-reform efforts apply an ax to problems better
suited to a scalpel. Consider what happened to a middle-class
family in  Nebraska , which like more than half the states has
enacted liability caps. Colin Gourley was born with severe  brain
damage  after an obstetrician failed to perform a routine
ultrasound even after his mother had reported that one of the
twins she was carrying was moving less than the other.  The ultrasound wasn’t done until two days later, after
which Colin was delivered by an emergency C-section. Colin will
never ride a bike, go to school or function on his own. A jury
awarded the family $5.65 million, a conservative amount given
the lifetime of care that Colin will require. That sum was
reduced to $1.25 million due to the state-mandated cap.  Those who supported tort reform to keep pesky plaintiffs
like the Gourleys at bay should note that the financial impact
may be precisely the opposite of what reformers intended. In the
Gourleys’ case, the hospital and doctor don’t have to pay for
Colin’s continuing care, and neither do their insurance
companies. Who does? The rest of us. Facing an unmanageable
financial burden, the Gourleys were forced to turn to Medicaid.  It is no cheaper to see a doctor in Texas, with its
stringent liability caps, than in  Illinois , which has no caps at
all. In fact, according to the  Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care ,
Texas is among the nation’s biggest spenders on health care
while achieving some of the lowest-quality care.  A little bit of tort reform probably would’ve been a good
thing. But lawsuits are one of the few ways to hold powerful
people and institutions accountable. Doctors inevitably resist
oversight, just as corporations resist regulation. Judges are a
lot better at throwing out frivolous suits than the “hot
coffee” horror stories would have you believe. Likewise, the
costs of litigation are far lower. A 2009 Congressional Budget
Office  report  estimated that a typical package of national tort
reforms would reduce total U.S. health care spending by about
0.5 percent.  In practice, tort reform has proved to be just another
corporate protection racket. Today, with  House Republicans  eager
to vote for nationwide liability caps, consider this: Do we want
a system in which a jury can send a man to death but is
prohibited from awarding Colin Gourley the care he needs to have
a decent life?  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer on this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 