-- 
Motorola Solutions Makes Returning Cash to Owners a Priority

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-13T20:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/motorola-solutions-chief-brown-makes-returning-cash-to-owners-a-priority.html
Motorola Solutions Inc., the maker
of bar-code scanners, plans to make returning cash to investors
a priority after selling its networks unit and shoring up its
balance sheet, Chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  said.  “We prioritized the establishment of investment-grade
rating with all three agencies, we’ve done that; we prioritized
the completion of the networks business, we’ve done that,”
Brown, 50, said in an interview this week. “The next priority
is the opportunity to return capital to shareholders.”  Motorola Solutions, which spun off its mobile-phone unit in
January, says it cut its debt by $540 million this year and
generated $975 million from the sale of the networks business to
Nokia Siemens Networks, completed in April. Brown said he is now
weighing how to best use the company’s $3.55 billion in net
cash, whether it’s giving money back to shareholders through a
dividend or share buyback or buying companies.  “We’ll always look at that balance between returning
capital to shareholders or acquiring,” he said. Returning cash
to shareholders “is both a priority and an opportunity. We’re
making the final determination now and stay tuned.”  Motorola Solutions, based in the Chicago suburb of
Schaumburg,  Illinois , has $3.57 billion in outstanding bonds and
loans, including $600 million in bonds that come due in
November, according to Bloomberg data.  Outperforming  Mobile Phones   Brown said that the January spinoff of Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc., run by his former co-CEO Sanjay Jha, has given
investors the chance to recognize the more focused nature of the
new business: building walkie-talkies and other communications
equipment for emergency workers and radio-powered bar-code
scanners for companies.  The stock has outperformed the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index
since the Jan. 4 split, rising 11 percent to the S&P’s 3.7
percent gain. In that time, Motorola Mobility dropped 35
percent. Motorola Solutions rose 73 cents to $44.23 at 4:02 p.m.
on the New York Stock Exchange.  “I’m really pleased that the investment community has
understood the Motorola Solutions story,” said Brown, who
joined Motorola in 2003. “We’ve had a great six months, but
that’s just one inning.”  Motorola Solutions’ sales to businesses jumped 14 percent
to $695 million last quarter while sales of communications gear
to government authorities climbed 5 percent to $1.2 billion.  Android Product Coming  To focus on the faster-growing enterprise market, Motorola
Solutions plans to sell a device that runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software, part of a bid to help retailers such as Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. get more merchandise into consumers’ hands. The
“enterprise mobile-computing product” will likely start
selling by the end of this year or early 2012, Brown said.  “In the retail segment often times the consumers are more
informed than the store-operations people” because of their
ability to locate product and pricing information faster on
their smartphones, and Motorola wants to rectify that, he said.  The move reflects the growing popularity of Android in
wireless computing, and signals the software’s expansion to
enterprises from the consumer market. Motorola Solutions devices
and the developers who build applications for them are currently
“100 percent” dependent on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows software,
Brown said. The Motorola Mobility spinoff has revived sales by
building a new range of Android smartphones like the Droid that
resonate with consumers.  “If there are hardware or software combinations that allow
us to expand and reach a dimension or segment of the market we
don’t serve today, we’ll certainly entertain doing that,” Brown
said.  Android Investments  Motorola Solutions is spending $1 billion or more a year on
research and development for new products it can sell to
government agencies, freight delivery customers like FedEx
Corp., and retailers like Wal-Mart and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)   “There’s a lot of move towards the Android operating
system,” Gene Delaney, executive vice president, product and
business operations, said in a separate interview. While
Motorola’s approach is to be operating-system “agnostic,” the
company is making “early software investments internally” to
prepare for Android, he said. He declined to say how much money
or resources Motorola is putting into that.  Consumers with Android phones can tap more than 200,000
different applications available in the Android market that
allow them to buy music, games and browse online shopping
catalogs. Android’s share of global smartphone sales more than
tripled in the first quarter to 36 percent, the fastest growth
of any smartphone platform, according to Gartner Inc.  Delaney said improving the ability of store clerks to get
shoppers the merchandise they need has room for improvement.  “We’ve not even scratched the surface in the enterprise
space of connecting to the consumer,” he said. “More and more
of them have smartphones and are coming into stores much smarter
because they’ve done research on their smartphones. Clearly
there’s an opportunity for enterprises to connect in a much
closer relationship with consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  