-- 
Tottenham Hints at Luka Modric Exit With Bid for Granero: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-13T10:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/tottenham-hints-at-luka-modric-exit-with-bid-for-granero-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Tottenham Bid  Tottenham has hinted it’s prepared to sell Luka Modric by
bidding 12.3 million pounds ($19.6 million) for Real Madrid
midfielder Esteban Granero, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Spurs Chairman Daniel Levy says Modric won’t join Chelsea,
but the bid for Granero raises doubts over that stance as he’s
seen as a “ready-made replacement” for the Croat, the Mail
added.  Hijacker Jose?  Real Madrid manager  Jose Mourinho  may try to “hijack”
Corinthians’ bid for Carlos Tevez, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Mourinho wants to sign the Manchester City striker after
the Brazilian team made a 37 million-pound offer this week, the
newspaper added.  Blackburn Target  Blackburn is set to sign Mariano Pavone, who was at River
Plate on loan from Real Betis last season,  the Sun  reported.  In June, the 29-year-old Argentine striker had a penalty
saved in a match that saw the club relegated from his country’s
top division for the first time.  Wilshere’s Plea  Jack Wilshere  urged Cesc Fabregas to stay at Arsenal for at
least another season, amid speculation the Spaniard is set to
join Barcelona, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Wilshere said loyalty in football is a measure of whether
someone is “a real man,” the Telegraph added.  Near and Far  Chelsea’s pre-season tour, which includes Malaysia and
 Thailand , will clock up more than 19,000 miles, the most of any
Premier League club,  the Independent  said. Newcomer Swansea will
travel just 19 miles, with matches at Neath and Port Talbot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 