-- 
Owning Calvin Klein With Lowest Margins Points to Warnaco Merger: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-07-13T20:24:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/owning-calvin-klein-with-lowest-margins-points-to-warnaco-merger-real-m-a.html
PVH Corp., owner of the  Calvin Klein 
and Tommy Hilfiger labels, may find a takeover of  Warnaco Group
Inc. (WRC)  the cheapest way to boost operating margins that lag behind
all of its biggest competitors.  PVH will “aggressively” look for acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer Emanuel Chirico said in a Bloomberg Television
interview this month. The New York-based company earns less than
9 cents in operating income per dollar of sales, the lowest
among its rivals including  VF Corp. (VFC)  and  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Warnaco, which has
controlled the license to sell Calvin Klein jeans since 1997, is
less expensive than 93 percent of U.S. apparel companies versus
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Chirico, who is using acquisitions to try and turn PVH into
the world’s largest apparel company, may target Warnaco after
purchasing  Tommy Hilfiger  in its biggest deal, according to Penn
Capital Management Co. Warnaco, which began as a maker of
corsets more than a century ago, would help PVH increase sales
in faster-growing markets outside the U.S. and cost at least $3
billion,  Wells Fargo & Co . said. That would rival the amount
that PVH spent to acquire Tommy Hilfiger, the second-biggest
U.S. apparel takeover in history, the data show.  “It makes a lot of sense,” said Kevin Roche, a
Philadelphia-based  fund manager  at Penn Capital, which oversees
$6.5 billion including 65,000 PVH shares and 200,000 Warnaco
shares. “PVH is looking for more international exposure. PVH
can definitely do something in the market and seems to be
looking to. Warnaco is cheap right now.”  Shoe Company  Daniel Gagnier, a spokesman for PVH, declined to comment.
Deborah Abraham, a spokeswoman at New York-based Warnaco, didn’t
respond to an e-mail or telephone message requesting comment.  PVH gained 3.7 percent to $70.40 today in New York. Warnaco
advanced 2.5 percent to $54.06.  PVH, which traces its roots to a shoe company founded in
1876, currently trails rival apparel retailers VF and Polo in
sales. PVH owns brands such as Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, Van
Heusen and Izod, and holds licenses to sell brands such as
Geoffrey Beene and Kenneth Cole New York.  Formerly known as  Phillips-Van Heusen Corp. (PVH) , PVH has grown
through acquisitions, including G.H. Bass & Co. in 1987, Izod in
1995, Calvin Klein in 2003 and Tommy Hilfiger last year.  While the $3.1 billion takeover of Tommy Hilfiger was the
biggest in PVH’s history, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, Chirico, 54, is looking to make more deals.  ‘On the Table’  “Acquisitions will be back on the table,” he said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” July 1. “We will start aggressively looking for
acquisitions beginning in the fourth quarter of this year.”  While PVH rose 84 percent since Chirico was named CEO in
February 2006 through yesterday, the stock still underperformed
VF and Polo, which have both more than doubled, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Since completing the purchase of
Tommy Hilfiger in May 2010, shares have fallen behind even more.  PVH generated an operating margin of 8.5 percent in the
past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s less
than the average of 13.6 percent for its four most comparable
U.S. rivals. VF, the world’s largest apparel maker, had a 13.6
percent margin, while New York-based Polo had operating income
equal to 15 percent of sales, the data show.  By acquiring Warnaco, PVH would narrow the gap to
Greensboro, North Carolina-based VF, which agreed this year to
buy Timberland Co., Evren Kopelman, a New York-based analyst at
Wells Fargo, wrote in a report to clients dated July 11.  Luxury Brands  Warnaco makes sense as a target because PVH already sells
Calvin Klein apparel and Warnaco controls the licenses for the
brand’s jeans, underwear and swimwear lines, according to Penn
Capital’s Roche. PVH bought the Calvin Klein label in 2003 for
$430 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  PVH may want to take advantage of bigger markups in  Europe 
and  Asia  to boost profitability since both Tommy Hilfiger and
Calvin Klein are considered “luxury” brands outside the U.S.,
according to John Kernan, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New York.  A pair of Calvin Klein jeans that cost $70 in the U.S. may
sell for about $120 in Europe, a 71 percent increase, he said.  “PVH is focused on growing overseas,” said Scott Tuhy, a
New York-based credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.
“The example of that is Tommy Hilfiger.”  Adding “higher-end” apparel brands are also attractive
because they can help clothing companies combat an increase in
production costs, which make up a smaller portion of the sale if
the product is more expensive, Tuhy said.  Speedo Swimsuits  Revenue at Warnaco has increased at a faster pace than PVH
in the past five years, after stripping out PVH’s sales from
Tommy Hilfiger, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In 2010,
Warnaco generated more than half of its revenue internationally,
while PVH relied on the U.S. for 67 percent of its sales.  Prior to acquiring Tommy Hilfiger, the U.S. accounted for
almost 90 percent of PVH’s revenue, the data show.  A deal for Warnaco, which also makes Speedo swimsuits, as
well as bras and underwear, would let PVH cut overlapping
expenses, said  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based
manager at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $360
billion. They include expenses for cotton and leather, as well
as costs to transport and distribute their products, he said.  Relative Value  Warnaco is currently valued at about 7.8 times its Ebitda
in the past 12 months, less than 93 percent of comparable
companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. At a price of $70 a
share that Wells Fargo’s Kopelman says Warnaco could command in
an acquisition, the company is still valued at 8 times next
year’s projected Ebitda of $383 million, the data show.  “Clearly it would benefit PVH because the multiple is lower
and they won’t have to pay up for it,” said Matt Spitznagle, an
analyst at Sentinel Investments in Montpelier,  Vermont , which
oversees $9.5 billion, including PVH shares. “With the addition
of Warnaco, they would be right up there with one of the larger
apparel companies in the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 