-- 
Toy Lead Limits Cut by Consumer Safety Panel

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-07-13T16:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/toy-lead-limits-cut-by-consumer-safety-panel.html
The U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission voted to lower limits on lead content in children’s
goods, starting next month, while raising concerns about the
costs to retailers who may have to dispose of inventory.  Today’s 3-2 vote comes four years after the discovery of
lead paint in toys from  China  that prompted legislation
expanding the safety agency’s powers. The commission followed
its staff’s recommendation today to lower the maximum acceptable
lead content to 100 parts per million, from 300 parts per
million.  The new limits will take effect on Aug. 14, CPSC Chairman
 Inez Tenenbaum  said.  “The scientific literature is abundant and has established
there is no safe limit for lead,” Tenenbaum said.
“Technologically feasible does not mean economically
feasible.”  The 2008 Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act required
the agency to adopt the 100 parts per million limit for
children’s products unless it could establish it wasn’t
technologically possible for manufacturers to reach that level.
Even some Democrats who voted for the tougher limits said
Congress should have given the agency more flexibility to apply
the standard only on new products, rather than on items already
in store inventories.  The commission’s two Republicans, in comments before the
vote, accused its three Democrats of regulatory overkill,
adopting a policy that will add costs to businesses without a
commensurate safety benefit.  Commissioner Nancy Nord, the senior Republican, said there
will be higher costs, fewer choices for consumers and closings
of small businesses.  “Just because it’s out there somewhere on the planet
doesn’t mean it’s commercially available,” Nord said. “Just
because a material is out there for a jet plane doesn’t mean
it’s appropriate for a toy plane.”  The agency was criticized by lawmakers of both parties as
failing to protect consumers in 2007, after toys from China such
as Barbie accessories made by El Segundo, California-based
 Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the world’s largest toymaker, and RC2 Corp.’s
Thomas the Tank Engine trains were recalled for containing high
levels of lead paint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  