-- 
Toyota Earnings at Stake as Camry Loses Drivers to Sonata: Cars

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-07-13T23:15:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/toyota-earnings-at-stake-as-camry-loses-drivers-to-sonata-cars.html
Toyota Motor Corp., to make its
earnings target this year, needs the new Camry to wrest back
market share from  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Sonata sedan.  The Camry, the best-selling car in the U.S., has lost
ground to the Sonata, with Seoul-based Hyundai raising its U.S.
output and surpassing the Camry in May for the first time.  “Sonata became a very honorable contender in the market,”
said Yoshimi Inaba, Toyota’s North American chairman, in a July
12 interview. “We do have good respect for the model, and the
sales figures show it’s increasing quite a bit.”  U.S. sales of Camry last year dropped 31 percent to 327,804
compared with deliveries in 2007, Toyota’s best-ever year, while
Honda Motor Corp.’s Accord sales also dropped 28 percent to
282,530 in the period, as both models approached the end of
their product cycles. Sales of the Sonata, revamped in January
2010, surged 35 percent to 196,623.  The 2011 Sonata’s overall design quality is rated “among
the best” by J.D. Power & Associates and earned a “Top Safety
Pick” award from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.  ‘Paying Attention’  Until a few years ago, Toyota’s Camry and Honda’s Accord
“defined” the midsize segment in the U.S. for at least a
decade, said  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer of auto
researcher Edmunds.com in  Santa Monica ,  California . “But
Hyundai has really stepped up their game, and Toyota’s been
paying attention.”  The next version of the Camry will have a more contemporary
design and improved performance and handling, President  Akio Toyoda  told U.S. dealers on June 29 in  Las Vegas . The new model
will go on sale in the latter part of the year.  Toyota’s current Camry, last refreshed in March 2006, gets
up to 32 miles per gallon in highway driving in the U.S.,
compared with the Sonata’s 35 mpg and Honda’s 34 mpg. With
Hyundai’s improvements in design and fuel efficiency, sales of
the Sonata have jumped 29 percent to 115,014 units this year
through June, while the Camry has dropped 4.4 percent to 147,469
in the U.S. Restricted production after the March 11 earthquake
in  Japan  has also contributed to the decline.  Camry vs Sonata  Hyundai didn’t have to slow production after the quake as
its Japan-based suppliers’ plants aren’t located in the affected
areas, according to the company. As a result, Sonata outsold
Camry in May for the first time, according to Edmunds.com.  While both the Sonata and Camry sold in the U.S. are built
locally, the weak Korean currency relative to the dollar
benefits Hyundai when it repatriates profit. The yen, on the
other hand, has hurt Toyota by gaining about 10 percent over the
past year. The Japanese currency on July 13 climbed to as high
as 78.50 yen per dollar, the strongest since March 17.  The 2011 Camry is currently priced from $20,195, compared
with the Sonata’s $19,395 starting price tag.  Camry -- which is the Anglicized spelling of “kanmuri,”
meaning “crown” in Japanese -- accounted for about a fifth of
U.S. sales at Toyota last year.  ‘Ambitious’ Rivals  Defending its lead will be more difficult given stiffer
competition from Hyundai, Ford Motor Co., and an “ambitious”
Volkswagen AG, said Tadashi Usui, an analyst at Moody’s K.K. in
 Tokyo .  Sales of Ford’s Fusion sedan have jumped 18 percent this
year through June, outselling the Accord. Volkswagen, aiming to
topple Toyota as the world’s biggest carmaker by 2018, will
start selling a Tennessee-built Passat sedan as early as
September.  “I’m not necessarily optimistic that the new Camry will
help Toyota regain market share,” Usui said.  With a drop in demand for pick-up trucks, Toyota is more
dependent now on its best-selling Camry, along with Lexus luxury
models to boost earnings, he said.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its debt rating on Toyota
on June 28, taking it below Japan’s sovereign grade for the
first time, citing weaker ability to recover previous levels of
profitability. Toyota expects to earn 280 billion yen ($3.52
billion) in net income this fiscal year, compared with 1.7
trillion yen in the year ended March 2008.  Market Share  Helped by the new Camry, Toyota’s market share will rise to
15 percent in the six months ending in December, from 12.8
percent in the first half of the year, according to consulting
company IHS Automotive, based in Englewood,  Colorado . Still,
Toyota’s share will stagnate at that level over the next three
years because of strong competition, said IHS analyst Masatoshi Nishimoto in Tokyo.  “Toyota will not recover its 16-17 percent market share
from before the financial crisis,” he said.  Honda, which will likely introduce its updated Accord sedan
next year, will also remain at about 11 percent market share
through 2014, slightly up from 10.6 percent last year, according
to IHS. Hyundai, including affiliate Kia Motors Corp., will rise
to at least 8.5 percent in the period, from 7.7 percent in 2010.  “We recognize that the Korean models are very competitive
because of their good quality and affordable price,” said
Keitaro Yamamoto, a spokesman for Honda in Tokyo. “Before, it
was Accord versus Camry, but it’s definitely becoming Accord
versus Camry versus Sonata.”  ‘Dependability’  While analysts cite Hyundai’s improvements in styling as a
factor for its growth, design may not be as important as
performance. “People buying a Camry aren’t looking to make a
statement,” Anwyl said. “They’re looking for dependability.”  The new Camry is Toyota’s first major full-model change
since last year’s recalls of more than 10 million vehicles for
flaws linked to unintended acceleration.  Following the recalls, Toyoda formed a global quality
committee to tackle defects. In the U.S., the carmaker hired
additional engineers at its technical center in  Ann Arbor ,
 Michigan , as the facility plays a bigger role in developing
models for the American market.  “If there are any lingering concerns on Toyota’s vehicle
safety, this is a good opportunity to close that chapter,”
Anwyl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  