-- 
Toyota to Merge Auto Units in Japan to Reduce Costs as Yen Strengthens

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-07-13T08:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/toyota-to-merge-auto-units-in-japan-to-reduce-costs-as-yen-strengthens.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , grappling with a
profit-sapping yen, said it will combine its car-making units in
northern  Japan  to boost efficiency.  Japan’s biggest automaker and subsidiaries Toyota Auto Body
Co. and Kanto Auto Works Ltd. have agreed to convert the two
units to wholly owned subsidiaries through share exchanges in
January 2012, the automaker said in a  statement . Toyota will pay
0.45 share for each of Toyota Auto Body and 0.25 share for each
of Kanto Auto, and may integrate the units with two others by
July 2012, it said.  Toyota, which built 43 percent of its vehicles in Japan
last year compared with less than 30 percent at both Honda Motor
Co. and Nissan Motor Co., is aiming to improve the profitability
of its domestic operations. The yen’s strength cuts the value of
repatriated earnings from exports.  “The merger is a necessary move,” said  Satoru Takada , an
analyst at TIW Inc. in Tokyo. “The yen is trading below 80 yen,
yet Toyota has kept its domestic output ratio high compared to
its Japanese competitors.”  Kanto Auto, Central Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Tohoku Corp.
will begin discussions on integrating into Toyota Motor by July
2012, the automaker said.  Toyota has three production hubs in Japan -- Aichi
prefecture, where its headquarters are based, Kyushu in southern
Japan, and in northern Japan.  No Jobs Affected  Toyota said no jobs will be affected by the merging of its
car-making units in northern Japan, according to Executive Vice
President Atsushi Niimi in Nagoya, central Japan. The automaker
will eventually scrap some antiquated factory lines, though the
timing or how many will be shut is unclear at this point, he
said.  The carmaker is pushing the merger to help maintain 3
million units of output in Japan, said Niimi, who is in charge
of global production. The company is aiming to be profitable at
an exchange rate of 80 yen to the dollar and prefers the 85 yen
level as a manageable break-even point, he said. The yen climbed
to as high as 78.50 yen per dollar today, the strongest since
March 17.  “The manufacturing situation is difficult in Japan, but I
decided we have to do what we can to secure our future,” said
Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  at a press conference in Nagoya.
“We are clenching our teeth in trying to protect manufacturing
in Japan.”  While Toyoda has said he aims to protect jobs by keeping at
least 3 million units of annual production in Japan, Chief
Financial Officer Satoshi Ozawa said in May the carmaker needs
to revise the balance of domestic and overseas output.  Toyota built 3.004 million units in Japan last year.
Including truckmaker  Hino Motors Ltd. (7205)  and minicar maker Daihatsu
Motor Co., the company produced 3.7 million units.  Toyota shares gained 0.3 percent to 3,365 yen as of the 3
p.m. close of trading in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net 
7203 JT <Equity> CN 