-- 
BofA, Toyota, LuxAlpha-Madoff, Tetragon, EBay in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-13T11:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/toyota-luxalpha-madoff-viacom-tetragon-financial-ebay-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed
$8.5 billion settlement over mortgage-securitization trusts is
being probed by  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who
is seeking client information from more than 20 companies,
Bloomberg News’ Karen Freifeld reports.  Schneiderman’s office sent letters dated July 7 to the
companies, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
and TCW Group Inc., regarding their participation in Bank of
America’s proposed deal. He is asking for the information by
tomorrow.  The information was requested in connection with an
investigation by the office “into certain matters related to
securitization of residential mortgages,” according to the
letters.  Investment managers were asked to identify clients
affiliated with New York state government entities and public
authorities, as well as nonprofit or charitable corporations
that invested in the 530 residential mortgage-securitization
trusts established from 2004 to 2008, according to copies of the
letters obtained by Bloomberg News. The letters also request the
total par amount and current market value of all securities
issued by the trusts covered in the settlement agreement for
each client that meets the criteria.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , as trustee of the 530
trusts, filed a petition June 29 in New York state Supreme Court
in  Manhattan  seeking approval of the settlement. Investors have
claimed that units of Countrywide Financial Corp. failed to
honor contracts saying they needed to repurchase loans that
never matched their promised quality. Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The settlement was supported by a group of 22 bondholders,
including Goldman Sachs and BlackRock, both based in New York,
and Societe Generale SA’s TCW.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara R. Kapnick in
Manhattan set a hearing on the settlement for Nov. 17.  Walnut Place LLC and a group of public pension funds have
sought to intervene in the deal. Bank of New York Mellon, as a
trustee and a party to the deal, has conflicts of interest
“that raise serious doubts about its motives in negotiating the
settlement,” Walnut Place said in a court filing. Bank of New
York Mellon negotiated an indemnity from Bank of America that
protects the trustee from potential liabilities in excess of
earlier agreements, Walnut Place said.  “It defies all reason and common sense to suggest that 22
separate institutions -- each of which independently evaluated
and chose to support the settlement -- would set aside their own
financial interests to benefit Bank of America,” the investors
said in their filing.  “Equally implausible is the suggestion that the
institutional investors who act as fiduciary investment advisers
would abandon the interests of their pension fund, mutual fund
and individual investor clients in favor of Bank of America’s,”
the investors said.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, and
Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon, declined
to comment.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman,
declined to comment yesterday. BlackRock spokeswoman Bobbie
Collins and Ed Canaday, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
immediately comment. Peter Viles, a spokesman for TCW Group,
also declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  EBay Says Win in Delaware Craigslist Case Bars New Claims  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  shouldn’t have to face fraud and negligence
claims by Craigslist Inc. in California because a similar case
it won in Delaware upheld its minority investment rights in the
online classified-ad provider, a company lawyer said.  The Delaware court’s ruling last year, which supported
EBay’s right to compete with Craigslist, precludes Craigslist
from proceeding with an unfair competition and fraud lawsuit in
California that seeks to strip EBay of its Craigslist shares,
EBay attorney Michael Rhodes told a state court judge yesterday
in San Francisco.  The Delaware court threw out Craigslist’s poison-pill plan,
which EBay alleged was an attempt to punish the online
auctioneer for starting a competing, online classified-ad
service.  “They want you to undo what we just got” in Delaware,
Rhodes told Superior Court Judge Richard Kramer.  The day after losing the case in September, Craigslist
amended its 2008 California lawsuit, which had been put on hold,
to revive claims it lost in the earlier case, he said.  Jason Yurasek, Craigslist’s attorney, said the Delaware
case was about issues of corporate governance that the judge
recognized as separate from claims in the California case. Both
companies agreed years ago that any dispute over EBay’s
investment should be resolved in state court in San Francisco,
he said. Craigslist says the California case is about whether
EBay lied about its intent to compete with Craigslist and try to
increase its holding and take the company over, he said.  “This dispute was not over when he ruled,” Yurasek said,
citing comments by the Delaware judge that whether his ruling
was the “proverbial stone in Craigslist’s sling that will slay
the giant EBay” remained to be seen.  Kramer said he would rule today on what effect, if any, the
Delaware ruling has on the California lawsuit, filed by closely
held Craigslist over claims that EBay used confidential
information obtained during negotiations about its minority
stake to start a competing classified service.  The case is Craigslist v. EBay, 475276, Superior Court of
California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Toyota Wins Dismissal of 26 of 33 Claims in Investor Lawsuit  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM)  won dismissal of 26 of 33 claims in a
stockholder lawsuit over alleged sudden unintended-acceleration
problems leading to a 20 percent drop in the carmaker’s shares
in January and February of last year.  The suit raised claims under Japanese securities law, over
which the U.S. court didn’t have original jurisdiction, U.S.
District Judge Dale Fischer in  Los Angeles  ruled in an 11-page
memorandum dated July 7. Those claims involve investors who
purchased their stock on foreign exchanges, Fischer said.  Respect for foreign law “would be completely subverted if
foreign claims were allowed to be piggybacked into virtually
every American securities fraud case,” the judge wrote.  The investors, led by the Maryland State Retirement and
Pension System, said in their complaint that internal documents
show the Toyota City, Japan-based company, Asia’s largest
carmaker, deliberately hid the acceleration problems and knew
about defects as early as 2000.  “We are pleased that the court has granted Toyota’s motion
to dismiss most of the claims in the federal securities case,”
 Celeste Migliore , a Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The
company believes it’s important that the judge rejected the
shareholders “attempted end-run around” a Supreme Court
decision to pursue claims under Japanese law, she said.  The judge allowed the case to proceed on seven of the 33
misrepresentations Toyota is alleged to have made to investors
about the sudden-acceleration problems.  “We respect the judge’s decision, but we plan to move
forward and collect significant damages,” David Paulson, a
spokesman for Maryland Attorney General Douglas F. Gansler, who
represents the retirement system, said in a telephone interview.  The case is In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Securities Litigation,
10-00922, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles)  LuxAlpha Seeks to Move Madoff Suit to U.S. District Court  Access International Advisors LLC’s LuxAlpha Sicav asked a
U.S. district judge to review a lawsuit by the liquidator of
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm, saying it was joining in a similar
request by UBS AG.  UBS last week was joined by Access International, the heir
of its late Chief Executive Officer Thierry Magon de La
Villehuchet and Groupement Financier Ltd.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice, demanding $2.6
billion and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided Madoff’s fraud
by setting up so-called feeder funds such as LuxAlpha that put
money with the con man. U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon , who
is handling Picard’s $19 billion suit against  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , said the UBS case is related and she will review it if the
bank keeps to the schedule already set for JPMorgan.  The LuxAlpha funds, named in the UBS suits, said they
should be included too.  “It is certainly within the interests of judicial
efficiency to keep these complex cases before the same court,”
they said in a court filing July 11.  The UBS case is Picard v.  UBS AG (UBSN) , 10-ap-4285, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Viacom Must Face Suit Over Nickelodeon Deal With Marriott  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) , the owner of cable networks, must face a
lawsuit accusing it of violating its contract with Family Suites
Resort LLC by licensing the Nickelodeon brand to Marriott
International Inc.  New York Supreme Court Judge Barbara A. Kapnick in
Manhattan denied Viacom’s request to dismiss the suit, in which
Family Suites accuses Viacom of improperly entering a
“Nickelodeon Getaway” branding deal with Marriott for hotels
in Florida.  The lawsuit, seeking as much as $180 million in damages, is
based on breach-of-contract and fraud claims, as well as claims
for legal expenses. Kapnick dismissed the fraud claim, ruling it
duplicates the contract claim. The first and third claims of the
complaint -- the breach-of-contract and legal-expenses claims --
are “severed and continued,” Kapnick ruled.  MTV Networks, a unit of Viacom and a defendant in the suit,
“has not shown conclusively that its interpretation of the
agreement is the only reasonable one,” Kapnick wrote, referring
to the breach-of-contract claim and denying Viacom’s motion to
dismiss it.  The judge ordered New York-based Viacom to respond to the
remaining claims within 20 days of her July 7 order.  David Bittler, a spokesman for Nickelodeon, didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment
after regular business hours July 11.  The case is Family Suites Resort LLC v. Viacom
International Inc., 650489/2010, Supreme Court of the State of
New York, New York County (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Tetragon Financial Shareholder Sues Directors Over Fees  A  Tetragon Financial Group Ltd. (TFG)  shareholder sued a group of
company officers and directors, the firm’s investment manager
and Polygon Investment Partners LLP, an investment firm,
claiming “an ongoing abusive scheme” by the directors to
profit at Tetragon’s expense.  Daniel Silverstein sued on behalf of the company, which is
based on Guernsey in the Channel Islands, on July 11 in
Manhattan federal court.  The defendants “have awarded the investment manager (and
themselves) $205 million in performance fees even though TFG’s
investments have failed to make up their prior losses since the
third quarter of 2008,” Silverstein claimed in the complaint.  “TFG and its board of directors believe that the action is
factually and legally without merit and intend to seek to have
the action dismissed as quickly as possible,” Tetragon said in
a statement.  The investor claims unspecified damages and seeks a court
order requiring the board to end the alleged diversion of assets
to the defendants.  The case is Silverstein v. Knief, 11-CV-4776, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Immucor Shareholder Sues to Block TPG’s $1.97 Billion Buyout  An  Immucor Inc. (BLUD)  shareholder sued to block a $1.97 billion
takeover of the company by private-equity firm TPG Capital,
calling the offer “woefully inadequate” in a Georgia state-
court complaint.  The offer of $27 a share for Immucor, the leading maker of
tests to screen blood before transfusions, is 30 percent more
than the closing price on July 1, the last trading day before
the deal was announced July 5. Norcross, Georgia-based Immucor
said that it may seek higher bids through Aug. 15.  In a lawsuit filed yesterday in Fulton County Superior
Court in Atlanta, shareholder Hilary Kramer said the stock had
been trading at “depressed levels” when Fort Worth, Texas-
based TPG made the offer.  Kramer, who is seeking to proceed on behalf of all Immucor
shareholders, said the stock price had been driven down in part
by federal antitrust investigations.  The U.S. Justice Department closed a criminal probe into
blood reagent pricing without filing charges, Immucor and
Johnson & Johnson, the No. 2 blood-screening company, said in
filings in January and November.  Michael Freitag, a spokesman for Immucor, had no immediate
comment. Lisa Baker, a spokeswoman for TPG, also declined to
comment.  The case is Kramer v. Immucor Inc., 2011-cv-203124,
Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia (Atlanta).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Madoff Trustee’s First Payments to Customers Approved by Judge  The first payments to customers of con man Bernard Madoff
out of funds collected by a trustee for his firm won approval
from a bankruptcy judge, more than 2 1/2 years after the Ponzi
scheme collapsed.  Trustee Irving Picard said in May he would initially pay
$272 million to customers with approved claims, out of a $2.6
billion fund set up for Madoff investors. Yesterday’s order
approving the payouts was issued by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton
Lifland  in Manhattan.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking money
for Madoff investors, said May 4 that he had recovered $7.6
billion. In June, he estimated the principal lost by all Madoff
investors was $19 billion. He and his law firm, Baker &
Hostetler LLP, have collected about $179 million in fees for
their efforts.  Because of court challenges, most of the money recovered
isn’t available to put in the customer fund or distribute,
Picard said in May. Investors are challenging his share of a $5
billion settlement with the estate of Jeffry Picower.  Picard’s lawsuits have targeted banks as well as
individuals who invested large sums with Madoff. JPMorgan Chase
& Co., sued for $19 billion for allegedly assisting the fraud,
and HSBC Holdings Plc, sued together with so-called feeder funds
for $9 billion, have challenged the trustee’s right to make such
fraud claims, or sue on behalf of customers.  Two U.S. District Court judges in Manhattan are reviewing
Picard’s right to sue banks and investors for damages.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  EBay May Be Liable in L’Oreal Trademark Suit, EU Court Says  EBay Inc. may be held liable for trademark breaches on its
auction site if it has knowledge of the infringing data, the
European Union’s highest court said in a dispute involving
cosmetics maker  L’Oreal SA. (OR)   The  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled yesterday that
national courts can order an online marketplace like EBay to
stop infringements if it “played an active role” that would
“give it knowledge of or control over the data relating to the
offers for sale.”  “EBay isn’t doing enough,” said Dominic Batchelor, a
partner with Ashurst LLP in  London . “It’s going to be up to
member states to work out on a case-by-case basis what is the
right sort of remedy.”  The EU court was called in at the request of U.K. judges,
who sought guidance in 2009 after a local tribunal found EBay
wasn’t liable for trademark breaches by users. A French court
ordered the two companies into mediation in 2009 after saying
EBay’s efforts to block sales of counterfeits showed its good-
faith, and in 2008 a Belgian case rejected similar claims by
L’Oreal, the world’s largest cosmetics company.  “The judgment provides some clarity on certain issues, and
ensures that all brands can be traded online in  Europe ,” said
Stefan Krawczyk, EBay’s European government-relations director.
“A lot of cases will still have to be assessed by the national
courts. We’ve moved on -- we fulfill most of these conditions
now anyways.”  The EU court decision “is in line with the position
L’Oreal has taken for several years and is applicable in courts
throughout the European Union,” said Laurence Balmayer, a
L’Oreal spokeswoman. “National courts must be able to order
companies operating Internet marketplaces to take measures to
prevent the sales” of fakes, products outside their original
packaging, not-for-sale items and goods imported without the
rights-owner’s consent.  The case is C-324/09, L’Oreal SA, Lancome parfums et beaute
& Cie SNC, Laboratoire Garnier & Cie, L’Oreal (UK) Limited v.
EBay International AG, eBay Europe SARL, eBay (UK) Limited.  For more, click here.  Philip Morris Wins Wrongful Dismissal Lawsuit in Singapore  Philip Morris International Ltd. won a lawsuit in Singapore
against a former employee who claimed she was wrongly fired
after raising questions about alleged unlawful marketing
activities.  Chan Miu Yin sued the Singapore unit of the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, accusing Philip Morris of
trying to “silence her as she had highlighted several unlawful
activities” the firm was allegedly involved in, according to a
 Singapore High Court ruling  made publicly available yesterday.  “I found the claim to be inescapably and fundamentally
flawed,” assistant registrar Shaun Leong said in his decision,
calling Chan’s claims “frivolous, vexatious and an abuse of
proceedings.”  “We are satisfied with the ruling of the High Court, which
concluded that there was no wrongdoing by Philip Morris
Singapore Pte. Ltd.,” Anne Edwards, a company spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Chan Miu Yin v Philip Morris Singapore Pte
S152/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Labaton Sucharow Hires Former SEC Attorney Jordan Thomas  Labaton Sucharow LLP hired former U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission attorney Jordan A. Thomas to start the New
York-based law firm’s whistle-blower representation practice.  Thomas was assistant director and assistant chief
litigation counsel in the SEC’s Division of Enforcement for the
past eight years and helped to develop the agency’s whistle-
blower program, Labaton said yesterday in a statement. Thomas
will head Labaton’s practice focused exclusively on representing
individuals who report fraud to the SEC.  “After working on the whistle-blower and cooperation
initiatives, I have come to believe that these new partnerships
between government and private individuals will revolutionize
the enforcement of the federal securities laws,” Thomas said in
the statement.  The SEC’s whistle-blower program, part of the agency’s
rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, will let corporate tipsters
collect as much as 30 percent of penalties when they report
financial wrongdoing. The program expands a bounty system that
was previously limited to insider-trading cases.  Labaton’s whistle-blower practice will include an in-house
team of investigators, financial analysts and forensic
accountants with federal and state law enforcement experience,
the firm said.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 