-- 
Pakistan to Approve $1 Billion Boost for Wind Energy Production

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-07-13T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/pakistan-set-to-approve-1-billion-plan-to-boost-wind-energy-production.html
Pakistan is ready to approve a
Norwegian company’s request to build a 150-megawatt wind farm,
the first part of a $1 billion plan that could boost by a third
the announced capacity for clean-energy  power plants .  Pakistan is seeking to diversify its energy supplies away
from oil and gas and boost electricity production. The nation
has a power deficit of 3.6 gigawatts a day, or more than the
output of two nuclear reactors, triggering 12-hour blackouts
that cause riots and close factories in cities nationwide.  The Alternative Energy Development Board is willing to
allow a project proposed by NBT AS, a Lysaker-based clean energy
company that plans to build the facility in the Sindh province
“wind corridor” north of Karachi, according to Said Arif
Alauddin, chief executive of the government agency.  “They came to us saying they have got the money and
relationship with the Chinese and they want to invest,”
Alauddin said from the port city of Karachi. “As soon as they
pay the fee, we will issue that letter to them. We will be able
to give them the land if we can see they can deliver.”  Pakistan  has almost 1 gigawatt of projects under
construction or with financing agreed and 498.5 megawatts more
of wind programs announced, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance data. Only 6 megawatts of wind energy facilities are
operating in the nation. It’s the ninth-poorest in the Asia-
Pacific region with a 2009 gross domestic product per capita of
$2,609, according to Bloomberg data.  Chinese Financing  NBT Chief Executive Officer Joar Viken said he plans to tap
financing for his project from one of three Chinese turbine
makers that his company is talking with about supplying
machinery for the facilities.  “We think Pakistan is a very good environment and has a
very good framework,” Viken said in a phone interview from  New
York . “Because we get everything in U.S. dollars, we don’t have
a huge  currency risk .”  Viken said NBT would issue a tender to Goldwind Science &
Technology Co., Sinovel Wind Group Co. and  China Energine
International Holdings Ltd. (1185)  to supply the turbines. Each of the
companies have credit lines with the  China  Development Bank
Corp., a state-owned lender.  “Goldwind now is actively seeking more cooperation
opportunities with domestic as well as foreign wind farm
developers to expand Goldwind’s presence in overseas markets,”
Thomas Yao, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.
“Norway’s NBT AS is among the international opportunities we
are currently considering.”  A spokesman for China Energine, who asked not to be named
in line with company policy, said he doesn’t know about the
talks and can’t comment. Officials at Sinovel couldn’t be
reached.  Financing ‘Feasible’  The financing arrangements are “feasible” because the
Chinese turbine makers would not develop the projects
themselves, said Eduardo Tabbush, an industry analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London .  “This is something we’ve seen happening more and more,”
Tabbush said.  NBT envisions developing as much as 650 megawatts of wind
power in Pakistan over the next few years. It already has
purchased land suitable for 50 megawatts in Sindh province and
is seeking a partnership with Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of
Science and Technology, a university in Karachi, for land for
the other 100 megawatts, Alauddin said.  Support Mechanism  Alauddin said NBT has proposed to install as much as 250
megawatts of capacity over the next two years. He said the
government board is working “very hard” to provide the
Norwegian company with an “upfront tariff” that would help
guarantee a price for power sold from the wind farms.  The last tariff it approved was worth about 13 U.S. cents a
kilowatt-hour, he said.  The board could approve an additional 500-megawatt project
if NBT is able to line up funding from a Chinese partner where
it has existing wind developments.  NBT already has two wind power projects working in China
with AEI China Power Ltd. and China Datang Corp. Renewable Power
Co., Viken said. Another is under construction, and further
developments are planned.  Pakistan is seeking to derive at least 5 percent of its
energy from renewable sources by 2030, the development board
said in March. Last year, 53 percent came from natural gas, 30
percent from oil and the rest from coal, nuclear and hydropower,
according to data from BP Plc. The London-based  oil company 
didn’t measure any sources of renewable energy there.  The country’s electricity shortfall reaches as much as
3,628 megawatts per day, according to demand-supply data
available on the ministry of power and water website.  To contact the reporters on this story: 
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  