-- 
PBOC Cuts Yuan Intervention as Slower Economy Curbs Inflows: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-13T02:43:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/pboc-cuts-yuan-intervention-as-slower-economy-curbs-inflows-china-credit.html
China ’s central bank bought the
fewest dollars in four months to stem gains in the yuan in June
as slowing growth in  Asia ’s biggest economy damped capital
inflows and reduced pressure for the currency to appreciate.  The People’s Bank of China’s purchases of foreign exchange
from the nation’s lenders totaled 277.3 billion yuan ($42.8
billion), 26 percent less than in May, according to data
released yesterday. Foreign reserves rose $152.8 billion in the
second quarter, the least in a year, and government data today
showed gross domestic product increased at the slowest pace
since 2009.  Expansion is cooling after policy makers raised  interest
rates  three times this year and lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios on six occasions, seeking to tame the fastest inflation
since 2008. Forward contracts show investors are the least
bullish on yuan gains since a dollar peg ended in June 2010,
even after the currency trailed advances in both  Brazil ’s real
and the Russian ruble this year. The average yield on yuan bonds
in Hong Kong jumped 62 basis points, or 0.62 percentage point,
since May, based on an HSBC Holdings Plc index.  “Rising hard-landing risks are dimming the allure of yuan-
denominated assets, resulting in fewer hot money inflows,” said
 Liu Dongliang , a senior analyst in Shenzhen at China Merchants
Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-largest lender. “Inflows may
decline further in the second half, lessening the need for the
central bank to raise reserve ratios. The PBOC is likely to
raise ratios no more than once before the end of 2011.”  Yuan Policy  Major lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios were raised to a
record 21.5 percent on June 20, three percentage points higher
than at the start of the year. Increases help drain cash from
the financial system as the PBOC issues yuan for dollars pouring
into the country, a policy designed to limit currency gains.  The yuan has strengthened 2.1 percent against the dollar
this year, trailing a 7.9 percent advance in  Russia ’s ruble and
5.1 percent appreciation for Brazil’s real, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  India ’s rupee was little changed.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards for the yuan
strengthened 0.15 percent to 6.4131 per dollar, a 1 percent
premium to the spot rate, as of 10:30 a.m. in Hong Kong. The gap
ended yesterday at a 13-month low of 0.9 percent. The yuan
gained 0.04 percent to 6.4699 in Shanghai today, having weakened
in the last two days as concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
will worsen bolstered demand for dollars as a refuge.  ‘Nice Problem’  China should keep the yuan’s exchange rate flexible to some
extent, the China Securities Journal reported July 11, citing
central bank adviser Xia Bin. Policy makers should continue
using open-market operations and increases in reserve-
requirement ratios to drain “unreasonable” additional cash
from the economy, the report said.  “Slowing inflows is a nice problem to have because it will
afford the central bank room and time to control the pace of
tightening rates and reserve ratios,”  Paul Chan , chief
investment officer in  Hong Kong  at Invesco Asia Ltd., a unit of
Atlanta-based Invesco Ltd., which manages $654 billion of assets,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “I still think they are a
little bit behind the curve, but which problem would you rather
have: inflation or a sovereign-debt crisis?”  Consumer prices climbed 6.4 percent in June from a year
earlier, the most in three years, the government reported July 9.
Gross domestic product rose 9.5 percent in the second quarter
following a 9.7 percent gain in the previous three months,
according to data released today. Growth exceeded the median
estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Swap Rate Falls  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to curb price increases and
prevent “big fluctuations” in economic growth, according to a
statement on the State Council’s website yesterday.  China’s one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose three basis
points to 3.77 percent in  Shanghai , climbing from a two-week low,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The repo rate, which
measures interbank funding availability, fell 1.16 percentage
points to a five-week low of 3.68 percent, based on a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The yield on 10-year government bonds was little changed at
3.89 percent yesterday, according to the Interbank Funding
Center prices. It reached 4.00 percent on June 15, the highest
level since February.  Yield to Decline  “The central bank may not raise interest rates or lift
reserve-requirement ratios in the second half because of the
slowing economy,” said  Jiang Chao , a bond analyst in Shanghai
at Guotai Junan Securities Co., the nation’s biggest brokerage
by revenue. “This round of tightening is probably approaching
its end. The yield on 10-year  government bonds  may decline to
3.5 percent by the end of this year.”  Growth is likely to ease to 8.4 percent and 7.8 percent in
the third and fourth quarters, Jiang said.  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on the nation’s
bonds were unchanged at 93 basis points yesterday, according to
data provider CMA which compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts insure debt against
non-payment, and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality .
An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  