-- 
PC Shipments Miss Second-Quarter Forecasts, Researchers Say

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-07-13T22:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/pc-shipments-rise-2-6-percent-just-shy-of-forecasts-researcher-idc-says.html
Global personal-computer shipments
rose less than forecast amid a sluggish economy and consumer
preference for smartphones and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad media tablet,
according to two market-research firms.  Shipments climbed 2.6 percent, IDC said, just shy of the
2.9 percent increase the researcher had forecast. Gartner Inc.
said PC sales rose 2.3 percent from a year earlier, compared
with the 6.7 percent gain the firm predicted.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  remained the industry’s top PC seller,
accounting for 18.1 percent of the global market, according to
IDC.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  was second with 12.9 percent, and  Lenovo Group
Ltd. (992)  moved up to third with 12.2 percent, IDC said.  “These preliminary results continue to reflect pressure
from competing consumer and business products as well as
cautious spending,” Jay Chou, a senior research analyst at
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC, said in a statement.  PC sales in the U.S. slipped 4.2 percent, hurt by falling
sales for low-cost laptops and weaker demand among corporate
buyers, IDC said. The comparison with 12 percent growth in last
year’s second quarter made the drop seem especially steep, IDC
said. Lack of purchases by budget-strapped government agencies
also contributed to the decline in the U.S., Gartner said.
Gartner pegged the U.S. shipment decrease at 5.6 percent.  Apple’s Gains  One exception to the slump was Apple, whose Mac sales have
benefited from the popularity of its iPhone and iPad mobile
devices. The Cupertino, California-based company saw shipments
grow almost 15 percent in the U.S., making it the country’s
third-largest PC vendor with 10.7 percent of the market, IDC
said.  Apple, which introduced a new iMac line of desktop
computers, jumped from fifth to third place, overtaking  Acer
Inc. (2353)  and Toshiba Corp., according to Gartner’s report.  Worldwide PC shipments  totaled 84.4 million, according to
IDC, while Gartner said global unit sales were 85.2 million for
the quarter. Lenovo’s sales growth in the U.S. and  Japan  helped
it overtake Acer in global shipments, making Acer the fourth-
largest PC seller, IDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  