-- 
Peter Chernin Purchases Stake in Hong Kong’s Legend Fighting Championship

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-13T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/peter-chernin-purchases-stake-in-hong-kong-s-legend-fighting-championship.html
Peter Chernin, News Corp.’s former
chief operating officer, is investing in the Hong Kong-based
mixed martial arts promoter Legend Fighting Championship.  CA Media LP, the Asian division of Chernin Group, and
Diamond Ridge Ventures LLC are making the investment, the
companies said in an e-mailed statement. Terms weren’t provided.  Legend will vie for fans with Ultimate Fighting
Championship and  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. (WWE) , which also
hold events in Asia. WWE and UFC are weighing whether to start
their own U.S. TV channels. Their matches draw some of the
biggest audiences on cable TV and pay-per-view.  “We are committed to helping Legend develop its high-
quality MMA offering into the leading and most exciting martial
arts franchise coming out of Asia, the original home of martial
arts, and onto the world stage,” Chernin said in the release.  Founded in 2009, Legend will host its fifth  championship  on
July 16 at  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) ’s City of Dreams
casino in  Macau . The event, with tickets priced as high as HK
$1,280 ($164), will feature events with welterweight champion
Rod MacSwain of New Zealand and Chinese title holder Yao
Honggang. Bouts are carried on television networks including
 Kix , owned by Haim Saban and  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   Legend, co-founded by managing directors Michael Haskamp
and Chris Pollak, marks Chernin’s first Asian investment. CA
Media Chief Executive Officer Paul Aiello, former CEO of News
Corp.’s Star TV service, and Josh Swartz, managing director of
Newport Beach, California-based Diamond Ridge, are joining
Legend’s board, the companies said.  Chernin, 60, founded Chernin Entertainment and Chernin
Group, both based in Santa Monica, California, after leaving
News Corp. in July 2009. Chernin Entertainment makes TV shows
and films, while the Chernin Group manages, operates and invests
in media, entertainment and technology companies.  Hong Kong-based CA Media in November was created to oversee
investments in  India ,  China  and other parts of Asia. Diamond
Ridge Ventures is a music, consulting and sports management
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  