-- 
Philippine Builders Advance on REIT Approval, Spending Outlook

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T04:30:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/philippine-builders-advance-on-reit-approval-spending-outlook.html
Philippine developers including
 Ayala Land Inc. (ALI)  and  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH)  climbed on
speculation that the introduction of real estate investment
trusts in the country will boost valuations.  Ayala Land, the nation’s biggest developer, increased as
much as 2.8 percent to 16.04 pesos and traded at 15.70 pesos at
11:55 a.m. in Manila. SM Prime, the largest shopping mall
operator, advanced 1.4 percent to 11.66 pesos, halting a two-day
slide.  Robinsons Land Corp. (RLC) , the second-biggest mall builder,
jumped 1.9 percent to 12.84 pesos.  “Some investors are beginning to realize these stocks are
undervalued considering the strength of the  property market ,”
said Alex Pomento, Manila-based strategist at Macquarie Group
Ltd. “Some are also positioning on these stocks on expectations
that valuations will rise if these developers proceed with their
plan to establish property trusts.”  The Philippine government has approved rules on taxation of
the trusts, paving the way for REIT trading, the nation’s stock
exchange President Hans Sicat said yesterday in an interview.
The government decided to impose value-added tax on properties
that will be transferred to REITs and require minimum public
ownership of 40 percent, which will be expanded to 67 percent in
three years, he said.  REITs are trusts that hold properties and typically
distribute rental income to investors in dividends.  Sales ‘Good’  Real-estate sales continue “to be good” even after the
central bank’s monetary tightening,  Ayala Land  President
Antonino Aquino said in an interview yesterday. SM Prime Chief
Financial Officer Jeffrey Lim said  consumer spending  was
“stable” and “there are no indications that it’s been
weakened” by higher fuel costs.  The central bank raised banks’ reserve requirement to 20
percent in June after increasing the rate it pays banks for
overnight deposits twice this year to 4.5 percent.  Ayala Land and rivals including SM Prime and Robinsons Land
in the past year indicated they are interested in spinning off
assets into REITs to unlock value and raise funds for expansion.  Sicat said yesterday that the government has approved the
new regulations and that “it will be published as early as this
week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  