-- 
Philippine Bonds Decline as Debt Exchange Ends; Peso Advances

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-07-13T08:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/philippine-bonds-decline-as-debt-exchange-ends-peso-advances.html
Philippine bonds fell for a third
day before the scheduled end of a government debt swap offer
today, reducing demand for securities that can be exchanged at
favorable terms. The peso rallied the most in three weeks.  The  Philippines  received 256.7 billion pesos ($6 billion)
of bids for bonds due January 2022 and July 2031, which are
being offered in exchange for shorter-maturity notes, First
Metro Investment Corp. President Roberto Juanchito Dispo said in
a mobile phone message today. First Metro is one of six
arrangers of the debt swap. The yield on five-year bonds hit a
two-week high as central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo
said policy makers may tighten monetary policy further.  “Yields started to correct when demand for swap-eligible
bonds dried up,” said Dave Estacio, a senior fixed-income
trader at First Metro in Manila. “Most players are already
positioned” for the swap, he said.  The yield on the 7 percent bonds due January 2016 climbed
10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 4.90 percent as of
4:15 p.m. in  Manila , according to Tradition Financial Services.
That was the highest level since June 29.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said
on July 11 authorities were prepared to use monetary tools to
fight inflation.  The peso rose 0.4 percent to 43.055 per dollar, according
to prices from Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched 43.235
yesterday, the weakest level since July 1.  “Fundamentals on the domestic front are positive despite
what is happening abroad,” Estacio said. The peso fell 0.7
percent yesterday, the most in eight months, as concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis will worsen spurred demand for dollars.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 