-- 
Gross Boosts Treasuries, Non-U.S. Debt, Cuts Cash Holdings

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-13T14:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/pimco-s-gross-raised-total-return-s-treasury-holdings-in-june-pared-cash.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest debt fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
increased holdings of Treasuries and bonds outside the U.S. last
month while cutting money-market securities.  Gross boosted his $243 billion Total Return Fund’s
investment in U.S. government securities to 8 percent of assets
in June from 5 percent in May, according to  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco’s  website . Bonds in developed markets
outside the U.S. rose to 13 percent of holdings from 10 percent.
Cash and equivalents dropped to 29 percent from 35 percent.  Pimco, which has been criticized for missing this year’s
rally in Treasuries, revised how it listed asset holdings last
month to show that its flagship fund held  U.S. government debt .
Gross has said that U.S. yields are too low given the outlook
for inflation. In an interview on CNBC today, Gross said he
bought 2- to 3-year notes since U.S. bills are returning close
to zero and the purchases shouldn’t be viewed as endorsement of
the Treasury market.  Holdings in the category now classified as government-
Treasury were previously known as government and government-
related debt. The category of swaps and liquid rates added last
month was unchanged at minus 9 percent. Mortgages held at 21
percent, while emerging-market holdings climbed to 11 percent
from 10 percent.  The Total Return fund continued to favor Canadian, German
and Brazilian debt, which has outperformed Treasuries and helped
the fund beat its peers, Gross said on CNBC.  Treasury Rally  Treasuries returned 3.56 percent this year, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  U.S. government securities advanced yesterday as Moody’s
Investors Service cut Ireland’s credit rating to junk status,
adding to concern the European sovereign-debt crisis will spread
and damp investor appetite for higher-risk assets.  The 10-year yield dropped as low as 2.81 percent, the least
since December. Three-month bills, which are more sensitive to
the Fed’s target for overnight lending because of their short
maturity, yield 0.02 percent.  The Fed has kept the target for its benchmark, the so-
called federal funds rate, in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since 2008 to support the  U.S. economy .  The Total Return Fund handed investors a 6.61 percent gain
in the past year, beating 71 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-month return is 0.34
percent, outpacing 66 percent of its competitors.  Inflation Risk  Gross, the billionaire founder and co-chief investment
officer of Pimco, has said for months that Treasuries are
unattractive because yields don’t offer enough compensation for
the risk of inflation will hurt investors.  U.S. 10-year yields, the benchmark for consumer and company
borrowing costs, rose 2 basis points to 2.9 percent at 9:58 a.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  After accounting for costs in the economy, the so-called
real yield was negative 71 basis points.  The new government-Treasury category includes holdings of
U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and inflation-protected
securities. The swaps and liquid rates sector includes U.S.
dollar-denominated interest-rate swaps, swaptions, options, and
other derivatives. A negative number in a category indicates a
bet against U.S. government debt.  Derivatives are financial obligations whose value is
derived from an underlying asset such as debt, stocks or
commodities. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
later specific price and date.  Pimco is a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE . The
company had $1.28 trillion under management as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  