-- 
Poland’s Inflation Slowdown Eases Pressure on Central Bank to Raise Rate

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-07-14T09:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/poland-s-inflation-slowdown-eases-pressure-on-centrak-bank-to-raise-rates.html
Poland ’s central bank will probably
extend its pause in interest-rate increases after inflation
slowed more than economists estimated in June, driving two-year
bond yields to their biggest one-day drop in more than a year.  Inflation slowed to 4.2 percent in the 12 months through
June, from May’s 5 percent, the highest in almost a decade, the
 Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw said yesterday. The median
estimate of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.8 percent.
Prices fell 0.4 percent in the month.  The figures underpinned the central bank’s forecast that
the inflation rate will fall to its 2.5 percent target by 2013
without further interest-rate increases. The first slowdown in
consumer-price growth in seven months prompted derivative
traders to pare rate bets, which no longer price in another
quarter percentage-point increase this year.  “The key is that there are no signs of underlying price
pressures in the Polish economy,” said  Neil Shearing , an
emerging-markets economist at  Capital Economics  in  London . “My
feeling is that rates are going to stay on hold for a very long
period of time.”  The yield on Poland’s two-year bonds tumbled 11 basis
points to 4.73 percent after the inflation report, the steepest
one-day decline since May 10, 2010, according to generic prices
compiled by Bloomberg. It rose to 4.76 percent at 10:42 a.m. in
Warsaw today.  Inflation ‘Relief’  Six-month forward-rate agreements are trading 21 basis
points above the three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate, 11
basis points less than on July 12. The spread on three-month
contracts narrowed to 13 basis points from 20.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  said after its July 6 decision to
leave rates unchanged at 4.5 percent that it wouldn’t rule out
further monetary tightening if prospects for meeting its
inflation target worsened.  June inflation was a “relief,” said Halina Wasilewska- Trenkner, an adviser to central bank Governor Marek Belka,
yesterday on TVN CNBC. “We’re not under the kind of pressure
now that would force the council to take sharp measures.”  Food prices rose 6.4 percent in June from a year earlier,
down from 8.8 percent in May. The slowdown is probably due to
the Russian ban on vegetable imports from the European Union and
a decline in demand after the E. Coli outbreak in  Germany , Piotr Bujak, an economist at Bank Zachodni WBK, said by phone.  Czech, Hungarian Prices  The neighboring  Czech Republic  and  Hungary  both reported
slower-than-expected inflation on July 12. Czech consumer prices
rose 1.8 percent, against estimates of 2.1 percent, and
Hungary’s inflation rate declined for a second month to 3.5
percent, compared with the 3.8 percent forecast.  “We have always expected that food inflation will fall
sharply in the region but this slowdown seems to have come
early,” Shearing said.  The gap between yields on Poland’s five-year government
bonds and inflation-linked notes, a measure of inflation
expectations, narrowed to 2.92 percentage points yesterday from
3.1 percentage points July 12. Two-year interest-rate swaps,
used to lock in borrowing costs, fell to 5.01 percent.  The annual inflation rate will drop close to the central
bank’s target in mid-2012, Monetary Policy Council member
Elzbieta Chojna-Duch told the PAP news service yesterday. It’s
correct to refrain from further rate increases, she said.  ECB Monitoring Inflation  Crude-oil prices fell 7.2 percent in June, paring their 12-
month gain to 26 percent. Energy costs may drop further after
the German newspaper Die Welt said this week that the  European
Central Bank  wants to expand assistance to  Italy , heightening
speculation Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will curb economic
growth and demand for commodities.  Another increase in rates is possible after the European
Central Bank suggested this month that it may raise borrowing
costs further, according to Raffaella Tenconi, an economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. The ECB raised its
benchmark to 1.5 percent this week, its second increase since
April.  “If the ECB carries on raising and global growth stays on
track, then another hike remains on the cards in the coming
months,” she said by e-mail today.  Inflation will stay at “an elevated level” in the coming
months, slowing to 4 percent at the end of the year, Poland’s
central bank said in a report published July 11. It forecasts
the inflation rate at 2.7 percent next year and 2.4 percent in
2013 as economic growth lags behind earlier predictions.  The inflation report “was such a big surprise it even
surprised policy makers,” said Simon Quijano-Evans, chief
economist for emerging  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  at ING in
London. “It certainly supports the doves. But headline
inflation is volatile, so they won’t rock the boat too much.
They will stick with a steady message.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  