-- 
Polish Inflation Slows From Decade High, Easing Pressure to Increase Rates

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-07-13T14:50:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/polish-inflation-slows-from-decade-high-easing-pressure-to-increase-rates.html
Polish inflation slowed more than
economists estimated in June, easing pressure on the central
bank to raise  interest rates  for a fifth time this year.  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 5 percent in May, the fastest in almost a decade,
the  Central Statistical Office  said in Warsaw. The rate compares
with the 4.8 percent median estimate of 29 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Prices fell 0.4 percent in a month.  The figures support the central bank’s forecast that four
interest rate increases earlier this year will be enough to slow
consumer-price growth to policy makers’ 2.5 percent target. The
 Narodowy Bank Polski  last week left its benchmark interest rate
at 4.5 percent, saying it wouldn’t rule out monetary tightening
if prospects for meeting the goal worsen.  “It’s definitely a relief for my colleagues that we’re not
under the kind of pressure now that would force the council to
take sharp measures,” Halina Wasilewska-Trenkner, an adviser to
central bank Governor Marek Belka, said in an interview on TVN
CNBC.  Neighboring  Czech Republic  and  Hungary  both reported
slower-than-expected inflation yesterday. Czech consumer prices
rose 1.8 percent, against expectations of 2.1 percent, while the
Hungarian inflation rate declined for a second month to 3.5
percent, the lowest rate since April 2009, compared with the 3.8
percent median estimate of 18 economists.  Inflation Expectations  The gap between yields on  Poland ’s five-year government
bonds and inflation-linked notes, a measure of expectations for
consumer-price increases, dropped to 2.92 percent today from 3.1
percent yesterday, while two-year interest-rate swaps, which
investors use to lock in borrowing costs, fell to 5.01 percent.  Food-price inflation slowed to 6.4 percent from 8.8 percent
in May. The rate probably fell more than expected because of the
Russian ban on European vegetable exports and a general decline
in demand after the E. Coli outbreak in  Germany , Piotr Bujak, an
economist at Bank Zachodni WBK, said by phone.  “We won’t be seeing another rate hike until October or
November, if there’s one at all,” he said.  The annual inflation rate will fall close to the target in
mid-2012, monetary-policy maker Elzbieta Chojna-Duch told the
PAP news service today.  Yields Drop  The zloty strengthened to 4.0302 per euro at 3:28 p.m. in
Warsaw from 4.0589 before the release. The yield on the five-
year Treasury bond maturing April 2016 dropped 14 basis points
on the day to 5.32 percent.  Crude-oil prices fell 7.2 percent in June, paring their 12-
month gain to 26 percent. Energy costs may drop further after
the German newspaper Die Welt said this week that the  European
Central Bank  wants to expand assistance to  Italy , heightening
speculation  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will curb economic
growth and demand for commodities.  Inflation will stay at “an elevated level” in the coming
months, slowing to 4 percent at the end of the year, Poland’s
central bank said in a report published July 11. It predicts the
inflation rate at 2.7 percent next year and 2.4 percent in 2013
as economic growth lags behind earlier predictions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  