-- 
Quarterbacks Brady, Brees, Manning Say ‘It Is Time’ for NFL Labor Contract

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-13T16:02:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/quarterbacks-brady-brees-manning-say-it-is-time-for-nfl-labor-contract.html
Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees  say it’s time for National
Football League owners and players to reach a labor agreement
and end the four-month lockout that has shut down the U.S.’s
most-popular sport.  “We believe the overall proposal made by the players is
fair for both sides and it is time to get this deal done,” the
three lead plaintiffs in a players’ antitrust suit against the
league said in a statement sent by the  NFL Players Association .  The statement came as representatives of owners and players
gathered in  New York  City for the latest talks aimed at reaching
a deal on how to divide about $9.3 billion in revenue, the most
of any sports league.  Time is running out for the league to avoid disrupting its
preseason schedule. The Chicago Bears and St. Louis Rams are
scheduled to open training camp July 22, in preparation for the
 opening preseason game  in Canton,  Ohio , on Aug. 7.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said the league agrees with the
quarterbacks’ statement.  “We share the view that now is the time to reach an
agreement so we can all get back to football and a full 2011
season,’ he said in an e-mail. “We are working hard with the
players’ negotiating team every day to complete an agreement as
soon as possible.”  The NFL in March locked out players, who sued in federal
court charging antitrust violations and wage fixing. Two people
familiar with the talks last week said the sides were close to
agreement on the revenue split and were discussing a wage scale
for rookies.  Owners Meet  U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan, a court-appointed
mediator, is on vacation this week and ordered both sides to
speak with him in  Minneapolis  on July 19. NFL owners have
scheduled a special meeting for July 21 in Atlanta, where they
could vote to ratify a new deal.  “This is the time of year we as players turn our attention
to the game on the field,” Brady, Manning and Brees said. “We
hope the owners feel the same way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 