-- 
Rand Erases Gain, Slips 4th Day as Europe Debt Concern Curbs Risk Appetite

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-13T13:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/rand-gains-1st-day-in-four-as-china-growth-overshadows-europe-debt-concern.html
The rand declined for a fourth day,
reversing an earlier gain, as importers bought dollars, betting
 South Africa ’s currency will weaken as Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis damps demand for riskier assets.  The rand weakened as much as 0.6 percent to 6.9181 per
dollar and traded 0.3 percent down at 6.9020 as of 3:01 p.m. in
Johannesburg, bringing its retreat in the past four trading days
to 3.3 percent. It slid 0.7 percent to 9.6965 per euro.  Ireland yesterday became the third euro-area nation after
Portugal and Greece to have its  credit rating  cut to below
investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s rating
to Ba1 from Baa3, saying the nation will likely need more rescue
financing. The downgrade came two days after the  European
Central Bank  said a European bailout fund may have to be doubled
to cover a crisis in  Italy , and euro-region finance ministers
failed to agree on a solution to Greece’s debt problems.  “The crisis is certainly not over, as shown by the latest
rating downgrade of Ireland to junk status, and we should expect
continued volatility,  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a
research note. ‘‘Trying to navigate these markets will be as
dangerous as crossing a road in Rome.’’  Earlier, the rand gained as much as 0.9 percent, snapping a
three-day decline, after China reported economic growth and
industrial output increased more than analysts’ estimates,
driving commodity prices higher. Importers took advantage of the
rally to buy dollars, said William van Rijn, a currency trader
at Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)   Risk-Premium Increase  ‘‘We saw fairly sustained dollar buying from importers’’
after the rand’s early gain, Van Rijn said by phone. ‘‘There is
still nervousness in the market, we’re just waiting for the next
bout of bad news.”  The premium of three-month options contracts granting the
right to sell the rand versus the dollar over those to buy rand
rose 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 3.85
percentage points, the highest on a closing basis since Jan. 6.
The so-called risk-reversal premium indicated options traders
believe the rand is more likely to weaken than strengthen
against the dollar in coming weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  