-- 
Transcept Insomnia Drug Fails to Win Approval

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/transcept-insomnia-drug-fails-to-win-approval.html
Transcept Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TSPT)  said
it failed to win U.S. clearance for the first drug specifically
designed to help people get back to sleep after waking up in the
middle of the night.  Transcept expects the  Food and Drug Administration  to issue
a complete response letter asking for more information about the
medicine, called Intermezzo, the Port Richmond, California-based
company said yesterday in a statement. The treatment contains a
low-dose of the active ingredient in Paris-based Sanofi’s
sleeping pill Ambien and is given as a tablet that dissolves
under the tongue.  Intermezzo is the first product for Transcept, a developer
of neuroscience drugs. The company signed a licensing agreement
with closely held Purdue Pharma LP in 2009. The product has been
delayed since then because of the FDA concerns about dosing and
safety, including whether patients’ driving ability is affected
the next day.  “The FDA expressed continued concerns about the safety
profile of Intermezzo” during a conference call yesterday,
Transcept said in its statement. The company has “limited
information about the full extent of the FDA concerns.”  The agency’s action date for a decision on the drug is
tomorrow. The company said it would release further information
and its plans for Intermezzo when it receives the FDA’s letter.  Transcept would get royalties of a percentage of U.S. sales
from the mid-teens to mid-twenties under its agreement with
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Purdue, the maker of the pain pill
OxyContin, according to Transcept’s annual report.  Sales Estimate  U.S. sales may reach $315 million in 2020, according to
Christopher S. James, an analyst at McNicoll Lewis Vlak in  New
York . He recommended buying Transcept shares yesterday in a note
to clients and predicted the stock will more than double to $20.  The company gained 35 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $8.59 at 4
p.m. New York time yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading before its announcement. Transcept’s shares have fallen
22 percent this month, the biggest loss among 391 members of the
Russell 3000 Health Care Index.  Intermezzo is designed to be absorbed rapidly by the body
to help people get back to sleep quickly, while not knocking
them out for as long as a typical sleeping pill would.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 