-- 
Treasury to Stop Selling Paper Savings Bonds in January After 76 Years

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-07-13T22:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/treasury-to-stop-selling-paper-savings-bonds.html
The Treasury Department will halt
sales of paper U.S. savings bonds as of January through banks
and other financial institutions to reduce costs by about $70
million during the next five years.  The end of paper savings bonds, which were introduced in
1935, continues the Treasury’s goal of becoming entirely
electronic. Series EE and I savings bonds will remain available
through the  TreasuryDirect  website, which has been in operation
since 2002, the Bureau of the Public Debt said in a statement.  “They are a part of American history and culture. We get
that,” wrote Joyce Harris, director of public and legislative
affairs at the Bureau of the Public Debt, in an e-mail. “But
when you look at the numbers - decline in sales over the years
and the costs to store bond stock, print and mail bonds - and
you consider the push to find savings and efficiencies in
government, particularly as of late, this was the right
decision.”  Electronic sales accounted for 11 percent of the $1.2
billion savings bonds purchased from October 1, 2010, through
June 30. Online purchases made up just 4 percent of sales in
fiscal year 2003, the first year electronic sales were offered,
according to Harris. The number of savings bonds sold has
decreased by 53 percent since 2001, she said.  Outstanding Bonds  As of June 30, there were 672 million outstanding paper
savings bonds worth $181 billion. About 45 million are matured,
unredeemed savings bonds worth about $16.2 billion, according to
Harris.  Investors holding paper savings bonds can still redeem them
at banks. Bonds that have not matured, but were lost, stolen or
destroyed, can be reissued in paper or electronic form. Sale of
paper bonds through traditional payroll plans ended Dec. 31.  The Treasury expects to save $120 million during the next
five years through reduced printing, mailing, storing bond stock
and fees paid to financial institutions for processing bond
applications for both payroll plans and sales to individuals.  The interest rate on I bonds, which are sold at face value,
is 4.6 percent through October, according to TreasuryDirect.gov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  