-- 
Treasury’s Miller Warns Against ‘Scaling Back’ Major Parts of Dodd-Frank

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-07-13T18:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/treasury-s-miller-warns-against-efforts-to-change-dodd-frank-act.html
Mary Miller , the U.S. Treasury
Department’s assistant secretary for financial markets, warned
today against curtailing the Dodd-Frank law.  “Scaling back or repealing major parts of the Dodd-Frank
Act, or not providing regulators with the funds they need to
implement the act, will leave our economy exposed to a cycle of
collapses and crises, with potentially devastating
repercussions,” Miller said in remarks prepared for a speech in
 New York  today.  Miller was speaking at a conference held by the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, Wall Street’s
biggest lobbying group, to mark the one-year anniversary of
Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010.  House Republicans , swept into power in the November 2010
elections, are pushing bills to revise, delay or repeal parts of
the law affecting areas including the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, derivatives rules and registration
requirements for private-equity advisers. Regulators are still
working to write hundreds of rules mandated by the law.  “We can’t allow loopholes, gaps and weaknesses to
undermine the fundamental strength of our reform,” Miller said.
“The leaders of the major U.S. financial institutions should be
champions, not opponents, of ensuring that regulators have
sufficient resources to achieve their objectives.”  It’s essential that regulators “have the critical
resources necessary to do their jobs effectively,” Miller said.
“If resources are not adequate, we simply will not be able to
bring the care and judgment to the process that will allow the
new rules to work.”  Miller was nominated by President  Barack Obama  on July 1 to
be promoted to Treasury undersecretary for domestic finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  