-- 
Treasuries Drop Before Auction as Bernanke Leaves Debt-Purchase Door Open

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-13T15:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/treasuries-snap-three-day-gain-as-yields-deter-investors-before-debt-sale.html
Treasuries fell, snapping a three-
day advance, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  left
open the possibility of more debt purchases to spur the economy
and the U.S. prepared to sell $21 billion of 10-year notes.  Ten-year yields climbed after falling to 2.81 percent
yesterday, the lowest level this year, as Treasuries rallied
amid concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis was spreading.
Yields rose earlier after higher-than-forecast economic growth
in China reduced demand for government debt as a refuge.  “Treasuries are weaker as the market has to accommodate
long-end supply and as investors are taking more risk,” said
Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy in New York at
Barclays Plc, one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“Bernanke has been adamant that he believes in the recovery,
but is leaving the door open to more stimulus, which is good for
risk assets.”  Yields on the 10-year note increased seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 2.94 percent at 11:19 a.m. in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield’s low
yesterday was the least since Dec. 1. The 3.125 percent note
maturing in May 2021 dropped 18/32 today, or $5.63 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 17/32.  Two-year note yields advanced one basis point to 0.36
percent after falling to 0.33 percent yesterday, the lowest
level since June 27.  Yield Gap  The extra yield investors demand to own U.S. 10-year debt
instead of two-year securities widened, ending a six-day slide
that was the longest streak of decreases since May. The yield
gap between 10- and two-year notes increased to 2.58 percentage
points, from as low as 2.48 percentage points yesterday.  Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advancing
1.3 percent, as Bernanke said the central bank is ready to move
to spur the economy if necessary.  “The possibility remains that the recent economic weakness
may prove more persistent than expected and that deflationary
risks might reemerge, implying a need for additional policy
support,” Bernanke said in testimony to the House Financial
Services Committee today. “The  Federal Reserve  remains prepared
to respond should economic developments indicate that an
adjustment of monetary policy would be appropriate.”  One option, the Fed chief said, would be a third round of
government bond purchases. Another would be to pledge to hold
rates at record lows and the Fed’s balance sheet at a record
high of almost $3 trillion for a longer period of time.  Second Round  The comments were Bernanke’s first since a report on July 8
showed the economy added 18,000 jobs in June, fewer than the
most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The Fed’s
second round of quantitative easing, $600 billion of Treasury
purchases, ended on schedule June 30.  The 10-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 2.935
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.967 percent the
last time the notes were sold on June 8. Investors bid for 3.23
times the amount of debt offered last month, up from 3 times at
the May sale and an average of 3.11 for the past 10 auctions.  The 10-year note auction “will also serve as a litmus test
for post-QE2 investor demand,” wrote  George Goncalves , head of
interest rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York,
which as a primary dealer is obliged to bid at  U.S. debt  sales.  The U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year debt yesterday in
the first note auction since the Federal Reserve’s $600 billion
of Treasury purchases ended on June 30. The bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing bids with the amount offered,
was 3.22, versus an average of 3.14 for the prior 10 sales.  30-Year Auction  The government plans to conclude this week’s sales with a
$13 billion auction of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest debt fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., increased holdings of
Treasuries and bonds outside the U.S. last month, while cutting
money-market securities.  Gross boosted his $243 billion Total Return Fund’s
investment in  U.S. government debt  to 8 percent of assets in
June from 5 percent in May, according to  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco’s website. Bonds from non-U.S. developed
markets rose to 13 percent of Pimco’s holdings from 10 percent.
Cash and equivalents dropped to 29 percent from 35 percent.  U.S. debt has returned 3.6 percent in 2011, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Treasury Master index. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 6.1 percent.  European Crisis  Treasuries rallied yesterday as Moody’s Investors Service
cut Ireland’s credit rating to junk.  Greece  is struggling to
avert a default, and investors concerned at borrowing levels in
Italy and  Spain  sent yields on 10-year securities in those
nations to the highest in more than a decade.  Bonds reversed course today as data showed  China ’s gross
domestic product rose 9.5 percent in the second quarter, beating
estimates and fueling optimism the world’s second-largest
economy is maintaining momentum.  Ten-year yields will advance to 3.53 percent in the U.S. by
Dec. 31 as the Fed keeps its benchmark interest rate unchanged,
according to Bloomberg surveys of banks and securities companies
with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  