-- 
Treasuries Erase Losses on Federal Debt-Limit Concern, Demand at Auction

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-07-13T21:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/treasuries-pare-losses-after-21-billion-auction-of-u-s-10-year-notes.html
Treasuries erased losses amid
concern Congress will fail to raise the federal debt limit and
after government debt’s refuge appeal bolstered demand at a U.S.
auction of $21 billion in 10-year notes.  The notes yielded 2.918 percent, compared with the average
forecast of 2.951 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of
the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.17, versus an average of 3.11 for the
past 10 sales. Treasuries fell before the sale as Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  left the door open to more stimulus. They rose
yesterday on concern Europe’s debt crisis was worsening.  “It was a great auction,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed
income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc. As one
of the 20 primary dealers, the firm is obligated to bid in
Treasury offerings. “It shows real demand at these levels below
3 percent. People are concerned about  Europe  and the economy.”  The 10-year yield was little changed at 2.88 percent at
5:31 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices, after increasing earlier as much as eight basis points
to 2.96 percent. The yield dropped to 2.81 percent yesterday,
the lowest since Dec. 1. The price of the 3.125 percent security
due in May 2021 declined 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 102 2/32.  Thirty-year bond yields traded at 4.17 percent before the
U.S. sells $13 billion of the debt tomorrow.  Rates on Treasury three- and one-month bills fell below
zero for the first time since July 7. Both dropped to negative
0.0051 percent. An offering of $5 billion in 14-day Treasury
cash management bills drew a yield of zero, the lowest level
since Dec. 30, 2009.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. Aaa bond rating on
review for possible downgrade, citing the “rising possibility”
the debt limit won’t be raised on a timely basis.  “It will put a lot of pressure on the long-end going into
the 30-year auction tomorrow,” said  Anthony Cronin , a Treasury
trader at the primary dealer Societe Generale SA in New York.
“If the  credit rating  is deteriorating, even if it’s temporary,
it puts a reminder in the market that our situation is not that
different from Greece, Italy or  Portugal . Buying 30-year paper
at 4.2 percent may not be the best investment.”  U.S. stocks trimmed an advance amid concern lawmakers won’t
increase the debt limit, causing a default by the world’s
biggest economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.3
percent after earlier climbing 1.4 percent on Bernanke’s
comments.  Boehner on Default  House Speaker  John Boehner  said no one wants to see the
nation go into government default as the White House and
lawmakers work to find a deal to avoid that,  Associated Press 
reported.  “Nobody wants to go there, because nobody knows what’s
going to happen,” the news service quoted Boehner as saying.  At today’s auction, indirect bidders, an investor class
that includes foreign central banks, bought 42 percent of the
notes, compared with 50.6 percent at the June sale. The average
for the past 10 auctions is 51.5 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 13.9 percent,
the most since May 2010, compared with 8.3 percent at last
month’s sale and the 10-auction average of 7.6 percent.  “Rates backed up, which was supportive of the auction,”
said  Scott Sherman , an interest-rate strategist at the primary
dealer Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. “In this
environment, people want to be long Treasuries given the events
that are going on overseas.” A long position is a bet a
security will rise.  Fitch Downgrades  Greece   Fitch downgraded Greece to CCC from B. The company cited in
a statement the lack of a credible support program for the debt-
laden nation, uncertainties on the role of private investors in
funding and the growth outlook.  The U.S. auctioned $32 billion of three-year notes
yesterday at a yield of 0.670 percent, compared with 0.680
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 primary dealers. The
offering was the first note sale since the Fed’s $600 billion of
Treasury purchases ended on June 30.  Bernanke told a congressional committee the central bank
must “keep all options on the table” to stimulate the economy
if necessary.  Bernanke Options  One option, the Fed chief said in testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee in  Washington , would be a third
round of government bond purchases. Another would be to pledge
to hold rates at record lows and the Fed’s balance sheet at a
record high of almost $3 trillion for a longer period of time.
The Fed also could reduce the interest rate it pays banks on
excess reserves parked at the central bank.  The comments were Bernanke’s first since a report on July 8
showed the economy added 18,000 jobs in June, fewer than the
most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The Fed’s
second round of quantitative easing, $600 billion of Treasury
purchases, ended on schedule June 30.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest debt fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., increased holdings of
Treasuries and bonds outside the U.S. last month, while cutting
money-market securities.  Gross boosted his $243 billion Total Return Fund’s
investment in  U.S. government debt  to 8 percent of assets in
June from 5 percent in May, according to  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco’s website. Bonds from non-U.S. developed
markets rose to 13 percent of Pimco’s holdings from 10 percent.
Cash and equivalents dropped to 29 percent from 35 percent.  ‘Fiscal Reckoning’  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said central bank
efforts to boost the economy have reached their limits and the
U.S. faces a “fiscal reckoning” that only lawmakers can
resolve.  “The Federal Reserve has already pressed the limits of
monetary policy,” Fisher said today in remarks to the Dallas
Rotary Club. Adding more liquidity “is not the answer,” and
Congress needs to “develop an entirely new structure of
incentives for private businesses and investors,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  