-- 
Record Interest-Rate Futures Trade on Europe Contagion: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-14T04:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/record-interest-rate-futures-trade-on-europe-contagion-australia-credit.html
Investors are trading a record
amount of Australian interest-rate futures as the nation’s debt
becomes a haven from  Europe ’s crisis and on bets the central
bank will cut the developed world’s highest borrowing costs.  Transactions in the 30-day cash rate, the 90-day bank bill
and three- and 10-year bond futures climbed in June to a daily
average of 525,536 contracts, ASX Group said July 6. Australian
government debt has gained 2.5 percent since June 1, including
reinvested interest, the most among 20 developed markets tracked
by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. That compares with 0.6
percent for the U.S. and 1.7 percent for  Germany .  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has pledged to return the
budget to surplus by 2013 after borrowing increased by more than
60 percent since the end of 2009. The Australian dollar has
appreciated 9 percent in the past 12 months, second to the Swiss
franc, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as
investors sought alternatives to the U.S. and Europe, which are
struggling to reduce their debt loads.  “The diversification flow into  Australia  is very clear,”
said Jarrod Kerr, director of Australia rates strategy at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  Singapore . “The wilder it gets the more
futures take over, since the good thing about the futures market
is that it’s incredibly liquid.”  Shrinking Debt  Portuguese bonds are the worst performers since June 1,
according to the Merrill Lynch indexes, on concern Europe will
be unable to contain the region’s debt woes. The Iberian
nation’s debt generated a 16.8 percent loss for investors,
followed by Ireland’s 14.9 percent drop and  Italy ’s 4.4 percent
decline.  About 73 percent of Australian government debt is held by
overseas investors, up from 63 percent in December 2009,
according to data from the central bank and statistics bureau.  The  International Monetary Fund   forecasts  Australia’s gross
government borrowings will shrink to 21.8 percent of the economy
in 2015 from 22.3 percent last year, giving it the second-
smallest debt burden among developed nations, after Estonia’s
5.2 percent. The U.S.’s obligations will swell to 109 percent of
GDP from 92 percent, and Germany’s will be at 74 percent.  Ireland joined Portugal and  Greece  this week as the third
euro-area nation to have its credit rating reduced to below
investment grade after Moody’s Investors Service cut it to Ba1
from Baa3. Ireland will probably need additional official
financing and for investors to share in losses before it can
return to the private market to borrow, Moody’s said.  ‘Good Finances’  Moody’s yesterday raised the pressure on U.S. lawmakers to
increase the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit by placing
the nation’s credit rating under review for a downgrade.  The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was put on review for the
first time since 1995 on concern the debt threshold will not be
raised in time to prevent a missed payment of interest or
principal on outstanding bonds and notes even though the risk
remains low, Moody’s said in a statement yesterday.  Australian sovereign securities hold the top credit ratings
from  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s.  “The Australian sovereign has very small net debt and a
very small  budget deficit , so if you give your money to the
sovereign there’s almost no chance that you’re going to lose
it,” said  Matthew Johnson , an interest-rate strategist at UBS
AG in Sydney. “The strong currencies, such as the Swiss franc
and Australian dollar, are the ones where the governments have
very good finances.”  The  U.S. dollar  is an exception, given its status as the
world’s primary reserve currency, Johnson said.  Currency Gains  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has gained 21 percent against the greenback and 8.8
percent against the euro in the past 12 months.  The so-called Aussie traded at $1.0738 as of 2:38 p.m. in
Sydney. It will trade at $1.04 at the end of 2011, according to
the median forecast of strategists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
currency climbed to $1.1012 on May 2, the strongest since
exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond yield fell to 4.91
percent yesterday, the least since Sept. 8, from this year’s
high of 5.84 percent on Feb. 8. It was at 4.93 percent today.  Similar maturity Treasuries yielded 2.88 percent, or 2.05
percentage points less than Australia’s debt, down from 2.34
percentage points on June 1.  Two-year Australian yields dropped to 4.41 percent from
4.74 percent on June 30, headed for a third monthly decline.  Futures Trading  Trading in 30-day cash rate futures rose to 885,640
contracts, a record monthly volume that was 8 percent higher
than the previous peak set in May 2011. Transactions in 90-day
bank bill futures climbed to 2,879,948 contracts for the month,
7 percent more than the previous high in August 2007, according
to the ASX, which operates the  Sydney Futures Exchange  and the
Australian Stock Exchange.  Futures volumes were lifted last month by a record A$31.1
billion ($33.4 billion) of Australian-dollar bonds that matured
in June, said Brad Gibson, head of rates strategies at ING
Investment Management in Sydney.  Federal and state governments repaid A$20.2 billion of
local-currency debt, while A$10.9 billion of supranational,
financial and company notes matured, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Investors exposed to those securities would have to
adjust their holdings, and often that happens first through the
futures market,” said Gibson, who helps oversee about A$14
billion in fixed-income funds. “Driven by concerns about Europe
we’ve seen a lot of volatility in  interest rates .”  Rising Volatility  Volatility in shorter-maturity debt spurred trading amid
changing expectations for the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s next
policy move, the Sydney-based ASX said July 6.  Traders are betting that RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will
cut the benchmark rate to 4.42 percent by December from 4.75
percent. As recently as June 15, they were wagering on a 44
percent chance on an increase in the key rate to 5 percent.  The central bank left rates unchanged on July 5 for a
seventh meeting and said the nation’s growth may be weaker than
forecast. Stevens said in a statement the decision reflected
slower global growth and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Australian  consumer confidence  fell by the most since
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008, according to a
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200
consumers taken July 4-9 and released yesterday.  Home Prices  Homeowners are more pessimistic about the housing market as
falling prices and slowing rental growth reel in growth
expectations, according to a  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey
released today.  Home prices fell 2 percent in the second quarter and rental
growth slowed to 1.3 percent, the largest lender said. Prices
are expected to decline 1.4 percent over the next year, compared
with growth of 0.5 percent predicted in a March quarter survey.  Consumer prices in Australia may rise an annual 2.81
percent in the next 10 years, according to the spread between
yields on government notes and inflation-indexed securities. The
RBA forecast in May that consumer prices will climb 3.25 percent
this year.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell one basis point to
120.3 basis points in  New York  yesterday, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. It was little
changed at 121.5 today, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  