-- 
Mumbai’s Biggest Terrorist Attack Since 2008 Leaves 21 Dead

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p ,   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-07-14T00:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/three-bomb-blasts-hit-mumbai-city.html
Three bomb blasts hit Mumbai,
killing at least 21 people, in the biggest attack on  India ’s
financial capital since a November 2008 terrorist rampage.  The explosions injured 141 people, the Home Ministry said
in a statement. The bombings occurred around 7 p.m. yesterday in
the Dadar, Zaveri Bazar and Opera House neighborhoods, Home
Minister P. Chidambaram said at a briefing in New Delhi.  The attack was the latest in a series of blasts that have
struck Mumbai and other Indian cities over the past decade, with
some attributed to Pakistan-based groups and others to domestic
operatives. With past incidents failing to stop India becoming
the second-fastest growing major economy, investor reaction may
be “moderate,” said Seth Freeman, chief executive officer at
EM Capital Management LLC in  San Francisco .  “Attacks of this magnitude do not deter foreign investors
or have any lasting economic impact,” said Seema Desai, an
analyst with the New York-based risk consultant Eurasia Group.
“Most investors know that terror attacks can and do happen but
these do not impact the functioning of the economy.”  India’s two largest stock exchanges, based in Mumbai, will
open today as normal at 9:15 a.m., according to National Stock
Exchange of India Ltd. spokeswoman Diyva Malik Lahiri and BSE
Ltd. Deputy Chief Executive Office Ashishkumar Chauhan.  The city of more than 18 million people is also home to
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which runs the world’s largest
refinery complex, and Tata Sons Ltd., which controls the
nation’s biggest business group by value.  Yesterday’s attack is the first in the city since Pakistani
gunmen killed about 160 people in 2008.  Car Bomb  The first and most powerful bomb exploded around 6:50 p.m.,
said Jayesh Labdhi, a resident in the Opera House area. The
blast damaged cars and motorcycles parked along the street. The
bomb that exploded in Dadar in central Mumbai was planted in a
gray-colored Maruti Suzuki car, Times Now television said,
citing eyewitnesses.  India’s home ministry confirmed that the blasts were terror
attacks, according to U.K. Bansal, secretary for internal
security. Officials didn’t say who might have carried them out
and no one has yet claimed responsibility.  The low-intensity and remote-controlled nature of
yesterday’s bombings pointed toward local militants such as the
Indian Mujahedeen group, which claimed attacks in the cities of
New Delhi, Jaipur and Ahmedabad three years ago, the U.S.
political risk assessment firm Stratfor said in an e-mailed
statement. Still, “India tends to point the finger at Pakistan
whenever attacks like this occur,” it said.  Leader Condemnations  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  condemned the blasts and
asked the residents of Mumbai to stay calm and united.
Pakistan’s President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  also issued a condemnation, in an e-mailed statement
from the government.  The raid on Mumbai by terrorists of the Pakistani Lashkar-
e-Taiba group in 2008 collapsed five years of peace talks
between the arch rivals, who have fought three wars against each
other since independence from Britain in 1947. Ties have since
begun to recover, with the foreign ministers of the two agreeing
last month to discuss ways to boost trade and travel across the
border in divided Kashmir.  The injured from last evening’s attack were taken to King
Edward Memorial Hospital, Saifee Hospital, Hinduja Hospital and
J.J. Hospital. At least 21 people were bought to J.J., with two
in critical condition, said S. Lahane, dean at the hospital.  Hospitals Mobilize  “We have made arrangements with extra beds, medicines and
blood bottles,” said Ajay Jagdale, the doctor in charge at King
George Hospital. At least 37 people were bought to the hospital
with critical injuries, he said.  Mumbai and major Indian cities including  New Delhi ,
Hyderabad in the south and Ahmedabad in western Gujarat state
have been hit by blasts over the past two decades.  Two bombs killed 52 people in the financial capital in
2003, an attack for which three people were eventually sentenced
to death, including a married couple. Ten years earlier, serial
bombings killed 257 people in the city.  In July 2006, explosions on commuter trains in the city
killed 187 people and injured more than 800. In the November
2008 attack, 10 gunmen targeted luxury hotels including Taj
Mahal Palace & Tower and Oberoi, a  railway station  and a Jewish
center in a 60-hour raid.  Anti-Terror Units  India built more hubs for anti-terrorist commandos around
the country in the aftermath of the 2008 disaster, and stepped
up efforts to recruit more police. Still, local forces and
intelligence agencies must be strengthened before terrorist
attacks can be checked, said Ajai Sahni, executive director of
New Delhi’s Institute for Conflict Management.  While India has blamed militant groups in  Pakistan  or home-
grown Islamic outfits for most of the attacks, investigators
have charged Hindu activists for their involvement in the 2007
bombing of a Pakistan-bound train service that killed 68 people,
an attack earlier blamed on Muslim extremists.  Yesterday’s bombings come at a sensitive time in  South Asia 
as the U.S. is trying to accelerate its withdrawal from
 Afghanistan  and needs the cooperation of Pakistan to do so,
Stratfor said in its report yesterday. “The last thing the
United States needs is a crisis between India and Pakistan that
could complicate that process.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  offered “support to India’s
efforts to bring the perpetrators of these terrible crimes to
justice,” in a statement read by White House press secretary
 Jay Carney . Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said she will
visit the Indian cities of New Delhi and  Chennai  next week as
previously planned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  