-- 
Ringgit Advances on Speculation Losses Overdone, Rate Outlook

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-07-13T08:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ringgit-advances-on-speculation-losses-overdone-rate-outlook.html
Malaysia’s ringgit gained on
speculation the currency’s two-day loss was excessive given
prospects that the central bank will raise  interest rates  to
damp inflation when next meets in September.  Bank Negara  Malaysia said in a July 7 statement it would
consider further normalizing interest rates to safeguard  price
stability  if domestic growth momentum is sustained.  China  today
reported that its economy grew 9.5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, faster than the 9.3 percent predicted by
Bloomberg News survey.  The ringgit rose 0.4 percent to 3.0205 per dollar as of
4:41 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped 1.3 percent over the last two days.
The ringgit rebounded from a two-week low even as concerns
Europe’s debt crisis will spread linger.  “The currency fell too much in the past two days,” said
Akira Banno, a treasury adviser in Kuala Lumpur at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. While  Europe ’s debt crisis may cap the
ringgit’s rise in the near term, expectations that Bank Negara
may raise rates “sooner or later will ensure that the Malaysian
currency doesn’t fall too much,” he said.  Ireland joined Portugal and Greece as the third euro-area
nation to have its  credit rating  cut to junk status by Moody’s
Investors Service. The rating company cut Ireland to Ba1 from
Baa3 yesterday, citing the probability that the country will
need additional official financing.  Malaysia will raise its benchmark rate to 3.5 percent by
year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of eight economists.
The Southeast Asian nation kept its policy rate unchanged at 3
percent on July 7.  Bonds were little changed. The yield on the 4.262 percent
securities held at 3.51 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  The treasury auctioned 4 billion ringgit ($1.3 billion)
notes due September 2016 today at an average yield of 3.518
percent. Demand exceeded the amount on offer by 2.1 times,
slightly less than the 2.2 times in a March sale of the same
notes.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 