-- 
Clemens Lied for Chance at Hall of Fame, U.S. Says as Perjury Trial Starts

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-13T21:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/roger-clemens-perjury-trial-opening-arguments-begin-in-washington-court.html
Roger Clemens lied to Congress about
using steroids and human growth hormone to protect his chances
of election to the Hall of Fame, a U.S. prosecutor told jurors
as the ex-pitcher’s perjury trial began in Washington.  Clemens, who pitched for the New York Yankees,  Boston Red
Sox ,  Houston Astros  and  Toronto Blue Jays  during a 24-year
career, used the drugs to remain competitive as he aged,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham said in opening statements
today in Washington. Admitting to it would have had a “negative
influence” on his reputation, Durham said.  “For a witness to go before Congress, take that oath and
to say things they know not to be true, these are very serious
federal crimes,” Durham told the jurors. “There are 15
statements we alleged to be false and misleading. We must prove
at least one of them. We intend to prove them all,” Durham
said.  Clemens, 48, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury in connection with a congressional probe of the use of
performance-enhancing drugs by ballplayers. He has pleaded not
guilty.  Witness List  Durham said during his hour-long opening that the
government plans to call about 45 witnesses, including four who
in a 2007 report were named as users of performance-enhancing
drugs while playing for  Major League Baseball . The evidence will
include a needle and cotton ball containing Clemens’s DNA that
tested positive for anabolic steroids, he said. They were
obtained from Clemens’s former trainer, Brian McNamee, he said.  Defense lawyer  Rusty Hardin  told the jury there was a
“rush to judgment on Roger Clemens that it made impossible for
him to be fairly heard until we got here.”  Hardin put up a map of  North America  that he said displayed
the resources expended by the government since Congress
recommended his prosecution for perjury to prove Clemens used
steroids and human growth hormone. The effort involved 103 law
enforcement officers, five attorneys, more than 200
investigation reports and 72 investigative locations, according
to Hardin.  In the end, the only evidence connecting Clemens to the
drugs is McNamee, he said.  ‘Poor Judgment’  “ Roger Clemens ’s only crime was having the poor judgment
to stay connected to Brian McNamee,” Hardin said. “Evidence
that this guy used steroids and HGH is so inconsistent with his
career in the league that there is no way he would have done
it.”  Asked whether he had any thoughts on today’s openings,
Clemens said he couldn’t talk about it.  In August, U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  issued a gag
order covering Clemens, attorneys for both sides and potential
witnesses, warning them not to make prejudicial comments about
the case in public.  Clemens has denied drug use since former Senator  George Mitchell  released a report on steroids in Major League Baseball
on Dec. 13, 2007. Mitchell named Clemens in the report as having
used drugs on 16 occasions between 1998 and 2001.  The criminal charges stem from statements Clemens made to
the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in
February 2008 in a private interview with committee staff and
later in a public hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever
using anabolic steroids or human growth hormone, according to
the indictment.  McNamee’s Testimony  During the public hearing on Feb. 13, Clemens testified
while standing a few feet away from McNamee, who said he
injected Clemens with both drugs while Clemens was pitching for
the  Blue Jays  and the Yankees.  McNamee is a chief witness for the government.  Walton stopped Durham during his opening statement as the
prosecutor told jurors that former  New York Yankees  teammates of
Clemens --  Andy Pettitte , Chuck Knoblauch, and Mike Stanton --
would be called as witnesses to explain how they used human
growth hormone, or HGH. Walton ordered jurors to disregard the
reference to the other players.  In an earlier hearing, Walton said he may not allow the
jury to hear from former teammates about injections they
received from McNamee.  Pettitte’s Friendship  Pettitte will testify about his close relationship with
Clemens and how Clemens told him in 1999 or 2000 that he had
used HGH, Durham said. Clemens told Congress that Pettitte
“misremembered” the conversation.  “Mr. Clemens says he doesn’t remember that conversation at
all,” Durham said. “Mr. Pettitte does and he’ll tell you about
it.”  Durham, who told jurors that this was not a drug trial,
said the government will prove that Clemens used both anabolic
steroids and HGH, and will provide jurors with the “dates,
times, places, locations and sources” for the drugs.  One of those sources was Kirk Radomski, a former clubhouse
assistant for the  New York Mets , who will testify that he sent
HGH to Clemens home in Houston in 2003, Durham said.  The false testimony includes lying about not being present
in 2003 when McNamee injected Clemens’s wife, Debbie, with HGH,
Durham said.  Clemens’s Approval  “Mr. Clemens was there,” Durham said. “Mr. Clemens
directed it and Mr. Clemens approved of it.”  Hardin told jurors that Debbie Clemens will testify and
“one thing will be certain, either Debbie Clemens is lying or
 Brian McNamee  is lying.” He said there are no plans to attack
the credibility of Pettitte.  The Mitchell report’s allegations of drug use by Clemens,
Hardin said, was based “solely” on what McNamee said to the
commission.  “What’s unique about this case is that the government cut
a deal” in which a “dope dealer” was told he could avoid
prosecution in exchange for being interviewed by a private
group, the Mitchell Commission, Hardin said. “They knew that
even if Roger Clemens was never charged with a crime connected
to steroids, his reputation would be ruined forever.”  The first witness called by the government was Charles
Johnson, the former parliamentarian for the  House of
Representatives . Johnson said that Congress has the authority to
gather information through hearings and depositions on topics
that could form the “potential basis for legislative action,”
even if no legislation is eventually drafted.  ‘Seriously Deficient’  A House staffer, Phil Barnett, also testified today that
leaders on the House panel were concerned that “baseball was
seriously deficient” with coming up with a policy to address
steroid use.  Clemens’s lawyers have argued that Congress was not seeking
legislation when it invited Clemens to testify in 2008.  After Clemens walked through security this morning at the
entrance of the courthouse, he was approached by two men seeking
his autograph, one of them holding a baseball. Clemens said
“maybe afterward” and told them he would be in the cafeteria
during the lunch break.  The trial, before a jury of 10 women and two men, is likely
to last four to six weeks, according to Walton. If convicted on
all charges, Clemens faces as long as 30 years in prison and a
$1.5 million fine.  Walton said jurors will be allowed to submit questions for
witnesses that will be considered by the judge and the lawyers
and could then be asked.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at 
   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  