-- 
Rory McIlroy Favored at British Open as American Golfers Seek Elusive Win

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-14T08:28:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/rory-mcilroy-favored-at-british-open-as-american-golfers-seek-elusive-win.html
Rory McIlroy is the bookmakers’
favorite to take the British Open as American golfers look to
end their longest winless run in major tournament history.  McIlroy won last month’s  U.S. Open  by eight strokes,
setting 12 tournament records, including his score of 16-under-
par, the lowest in the event’s 111-year history. He’ll be vying
for his second straight major title at golf’s oldest
championship, which began today when Jerry Kelly struck the
first tee shot at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich, England.  McIlroy made bogey on his opening hole after his second
shot rolled off the back of the green. He’s returning to
competitive play for the first time since his win at
Congressional Golf Club outside  Washington  on June 19. Since
then he’s had to deal with a whirlwind of publicity.  “I didn’t realize how much fuss it would create or how
much of a buzz,” McIlroy, a 22-year-old Northern Irishman, said
at a news conference two days ago. “I’ve got to forget about
what happened three weeks ago and just come in here and try to
win another  golf tournament .”  American  Ryan Moore , Denmark’s  Thomas Bjorn  and  Spain ’s
Alvaro Quiros are the leaders at 2-under par. All three have
played seven holes.  U.K. bookmaker William Hill lists McIlroy as the 10-1
favorite, meaning a successful $1 bet returns $10 plus the
original stake. England’s Luke Donald and  Lee Westwood , the top
two in the  Official World Golf Ranking , are next at 12-1 and 14-
1, followed by U.S. PGA champion  Martin Kaymer  of  Germany  at 28-
1.  Steve Stricker  and  Nick Watney  have the best odds among
players from the U.S. at 35-1. McIlroy’s win at Congressional
was the fifth straight at a major by a non-American.  Good Players  “I’m not worried about American golf,”  Phil Mickelson , a
four-time major champion who is 50-1 to win his first British
Open, said at a news conference. “It’s not as though we don’t
have good young players coming up to represent America because I
think we do. I think the overall level of play throughout the
world internationally is what’s sparked that.”  Wind could be a major factor at the links course 75 miles
(120 kilometers) southeast of London. Play started in a light
breeze with the forecast calling for gusts of up to 30 miles per
hour. Organizers said yesterday they may move up some tee
positions if the winds blow.  “With this wind, you’re going to have to keep the ball
low,” McIlroy said.  With Tiger Woods winless since 2009 and missing his second
straight major with knee and back injuries, golf is seeking its
next superstar.  Woods’s Shadow  McIlroy’s U.S. Open performance has led to comparisons with
Woods, who caught the public’s imagination with his 12-shot
victory as a 21-year-old at the 1997  Masters Tournament  and has
since added 13 more major titles. The success makes McIlroy
attractive to fans and sponsors.  “Some of the features are common, clearly the public loves
a young and upcoming personality,” Tom Cannon, a professor and
sports finance expert at the University of Liverpool Management
School in  England , said in an interview. “You can see already
an awful lot of sponsor interest in him.”  Chubby Chandler, McIlroy’s agent, said he has been fielding
calls from potential sponsors the past three weeks. One thing is
on their minds.  “They’re all people that want a young connection with
their brands,” Chandler said in an interview, declining to say
just where the calls are coming from. “All worldwide, some
massive companies.”  Like Woods, McIlroy received attention as a youngster. He
appeared on a local television show in Ireland to show off his
golfing prowess as a 9-year-old, took part in international
youth competitions and has a demeanor that puts him at ease
under the spotlight.  Honest, Open  “A terrific golfer and a likeable individual,” Peter Dawson, chief executive officer of the Royal and Ancient Golf
Club of  St. Andrews , said in an interview. He’s “very
charismatic, very good with the media, very open, very honest.”  Nine-time major champion Gary Player said it’s still too
early to anoint McIlroy as Woods’s successor.  “He’s not there yet,” Player said in a telephone
interview. “I think you need to win at least six majors before
you are a true superstar, but he has everything. He’s a
wonderful young man, he’s long and he has a beautiful golf
swing.”  Being the focus of attention is nothing new for McIlroy.  “I’m the sort of person that likes to have people
watching,” he said. “I’ve got used to it over the last few
years and it’s something I enjoy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  