-- 
Fed’s Rosengren Sees ‘Very Slow Improvement’ for Economy

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-07-13T15:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/rosengren-sees-very-slow-economic-improvement-need-for-accommodation.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the outlook for the  U.S. economy 
is for “very slow improvement,” and monetary accommodation is
still needed to help spur growth.  Rosengren forecast that economic growth will climb to a
range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent in the second half of the year
from about 2 percent in the first six months of 2011.  “While this represents an improvement from the first half,
it is still quite slow given the amount of slack in the economy
and slower than I had expected at the beginning of the year,”
Rosengren said in the text of remarks given in Worcester,
 Massachusetts , today. “With fiscal austerity slowing down
economies both here and abroad, it will in my view be important
to maintain sufficiently accommodative U.S. monetary policy so
that national labor market conditions can improve.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  is divided
on whether additional monetary stimulus may be needed, or
whether economic conditions may warrant a withdrawal of
accommodative policy “sooner than currently anticipated,”
according to the minutes from their June meeting, released
yesterday. Rosengren said he expects inflation to remain low in
the “medium-term,” giving “monetary policy the leeway to
remain accommodative.”  Policy makers cut their forecasts before a July 8
government report showed that employers added 18,000 jobs in
June, the fewest since September 2010. The  unemployment rate 
rose to 9.2 percent, the third consecutive monthly increase.  Equipment, Software  “While we are seeing some positive economic signs such as
equipment and software spending, and growth in exports, the
employment report issued last Friday was dismal,” Rosengren
said. “Net job growth was very weak over the last two months.”  It may not be “quite right” to consider the slowdown so
far this year a “slow patch” because that “suggests strong
growth that has been temporarily interrupted by some sort of
headwind or shock,” Rosengren said. “The only quarter of
strong economic growth so far in this recovery has been the one
containing the holiday season at the end of last year.”  U.S. growth slowed to a 1.9 percent annual pace in the
first quarter from 3.1 percent in the last three months of 2010.  “I would instead describe the past two years as a
consistently weak recovery, interrupted by a period of stronger
growth,” Rosengren said.  Rosengren, 54, joined the Boston Fed as an economist in
1985 and became its president in 2007. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Rosengren next voting in 2013.
At the Fed’s December 2007 meeting, he became the only currently
serving policy maker to dissent from an FOMC decision in favor
of more accommodative policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  