-- 
RTS Stock-Index Futures Fall on European Sovereign Debt Crisis

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-13T22:03:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/rts-stock-index-futures-fall-on-european-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
dropped amid speculation the debt crisis in Europe, which buys
almost half of the world’s largest oil producer’s exports, is
worsening, spurring investors to avoid the country’s assets.  After the close of trading, Moody’s Investors Service put
the U.S. under review for a credit rating downgrade as talks to
raise the country’s $14.3 trillion debt limit stall.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September fell 0.5 percent to 192,300 yesterday, snapping a two-
day advance. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil
producer, dropped 0.3 percent and those for OAO Lukoil, Russia’s
second-biggest oil producer, fell 0.7 percent. Futures on OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, retreated 0.4
percent.  Italian lawmakers were set to approve most of a 40 billion-
euro ($57 billion) austerity plan this week in the latest
country to become embroiled in  Europe ’s debt crisis. Opposition
parties have agreed to ease the passage of the measures in the
legislature.  “Investors are on the sidelines waiting to hear on  Italy ,
which has gotten a lot of people nervous,”  Luis Saenz , chief
executive officer of the U.S. unit of Otkritie Financial Corp. -
- a brokerage partly owned by Russia’s second-largest bank, VTB
Group -- said by mobile phone yesterday. “Investors won’t make
significant decisions to increase or cut their positions until
there’s more clarity.”  European Union member nations bought 48.9 percent of
Russia’s exports in the first five months of this year,
according to customs service data.  Oil Climbs  Crude for August delivery advanced 0.6 percent to settle at
$98.05 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after a U.S.
Energy Department report showed a bigger-than-expected decline
in inventories. U.S. gasoline supplies fell 840,000 barrels to
211.7 million last week, the report showed. A 500,000-barrel
increase was projected, according to the median of 15 analyst
responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  The dollar fell the most in six months versus the euro as
Bernanke said central bank is prepared to take additional
action, including buying more  government bonds , if the economy
appears to be in danger of stalling.  U.S. stocks pared their advance, almost erasing an intraday
gain of 164 points in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , amid
concern U.S. lawmakers will fail to agree to raise the country’s
debt limit. The U.S., rated  Aaa since 1917, was put on review
for the first time since 1995. Even a temporary default by the
U.S. would likely have “large systemic effects” on the economy
and Treasury finances by disrupting money funds, the repurchase-
agreement market and foreign investor willingness buy the
government’s debt, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report.  Russia’s 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 0.5 percent to 1,714.19
in Moscow yesterday, the highest close this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  