-- 
Rubber in Tokyo Rebounds From Two-Week Low as Yen’s Retreat Spurs Buying

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-07-13T02:44:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/rubber-in-tokyo-rebounds-from-two-week-low-as-yen-s-retreat-spurs-buying.html
Rubber increased, snapping a four-
day losing streak, as investors bought back yen-based contracts
after the Japanese currency retreated from a four-month high
against the dollar amid speculation over intervention.  The December-delivery contract advanced as much as 2.8
percent to 373.2 yen a kilogram ($4,702 a metric ton) before
trading at 371.8 yen on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange at 10:42
a.m. Earlier it slid to 362 yen, the lowest level since July 1.  The yen retreated from its strongest level since the last
time policy makers jointly intervened in foreign-exchange
markets amid speculation Japan will sell its currency to support
exporters. Rubber futures also increased after minutes of last
month’s meeting by Federal Reserve policy makers stoked
speculation that they may consider additional stimulus to
sustain the U.S. economic recovery, said  Kazuhiko Saito , an
analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo.  “The market drew support from the  currency market  and
speculation about U.S. stimulus,” he said today by phone.  Federal Reserve policy makers disagreed on whether
additional monetary stimulus will be needed even if the outlook
for economic growth remains weak.  “A few members noted that, depending on how economic
conditions evolve, the committee might have to consider
providing additional monetary stimulus, especially if economic
growth remained too slow to meaningfully reduce the  unemployment
rate  in the medium run,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
in the minutes of its June 21-22 meeting, released yesterday.  Forecasts Cut  Policy makers cut their forecasts for growth this year
before a July 8 government report showed employers added jobs at
the slowest pace in nine months in June. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 22 growth will pick up as energy prices
subside and disruptions to part supplies from Japanese factories
ease, while also leaving the door open to additional stimulus.  The yen retreated after reaching 78.50 per dollar today,
the strongest since March 17, as concern about Europe’s debt
crisis boosted demand for the currency as a refuge.  Group of Seven nations intervened on March 18 after  Japan ’s
currency reached a postwar record of 76.25 per dollar,
threatening the nation’s recovery from the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami. Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today
yen moves have been a bit one-sided and he is watching markets
carefully.  The physical price of Thai rubber dropped 0.7 percent to
141.75 baht ($4.65) a kilogram yesterday, according to the
Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.  Thai Weather  Thai producers increased stockpile sales on expectation
prices may fall further after weather conditions improved,
easing latex tapping in the country’s southern provinces, the
group said yesterday on its website.  In Shanghai, January-delivery rubber gained as much as 2
percent to 34,505 yuan ($5,343) a ton before trading at 34,270
yuan at 9:55 a.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  