-- 
Ruble Gains Most Since May Versus Dollar on Oil, U.S. Stimulus

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-07-13T15:47:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/ruble-gains-most-since-may-versus-dollar-on-oil-u-s-stimulus.html
The ruble rose the most in more than
a month against the dollar as oil rallied and U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s prepared to provide
more stimulus, boosting appetite for riskier assets.  Russia’s currency was 1 percent stronger at 28.045 per
dollar at the 7 p.m. close in Moscow, the biggest gain since May
26. The ruble was 0.5 percent weaker at 39.735 per euro, leaving
it 0.2 percent stronger at 33.3055 versus the central bank’s
target dollar-euro basket.  Crude for August delivery climbed as much as $1.26 a
barrel, and last traded up 0.9 percent at $98.27 a barrel after
a report showed U.S. supplies fell more than expected in the
week ended July 8. Stocks rallied globally after Bernanke told
lawmakers that the central bank is prepared to take additional
action, including buying more government bonds, if the economy
appears in danger of stalling.  “We have the combination of  oil prices  moving and a short-
term risk-on backdrop for now,”  Benoit Anne , the London-based
head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA, said
in response to e-mailed questions. “This is supportive for the
ruble. Overall, the ruble has been particularly resilient to the
spike in  risk aversion  over the past few days.”  Oil prices were also supported by a report showing Chinese
gross domestic product grew a faster-than-expected 9.5 percent
in the second quarter from the same period a year earlier.  The dollar-ruble rate “is in the process of correcting”
after the last three days of losses, Johannesburg, South Africa-
based Tradition Analytics wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
earlier today. “There is scope for the Russian bourses to
retain a positive bias.”  Russian  government bonds  rose for the first day in three,
pushing the yield on the ruble Eurobond due in 2018 down four
basis points to 6.901 percent. Non-deliverable forwards, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and allow
companies to hedge against them, show the ruble at 28.322 per
dollar in three months, compared with 28.7056 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  