-- 
Russian Stocks Advance as China Growth, U.S. Supplies Spur Oil

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-07-13T17:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/russia-stocks-gain-as-oil-metals-rise-on-china-economic-growth.html
Russian equities climbed for a
second day as faster-than-expected Chinese economic growth and a
bigger-than-expected fall in U.S. crude inventories spurred a
rally in oil,  Russia ’s chief export earner.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks gained 0.5 percent to 1,714.19
at the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, the strongest advance since
July 7. Oil producer OAO Gazprom Neft rose 0.8 percent while OAO
Transneft, the oil pipeline operator, added 0.3 percent. OAO
Raspadskaya, a Russian coal producer, jumped 1.1 percent after
Interfax reported yesterday that state-run VEB bank may pay $5.3
billion for an 80 percent stake. The dollar-denominated RTS
Index rose 1 percent to 1,936.42.  Crude for August delivery climbed as much as $1.65 a
barrel, and last traded up 1.2 percent at $98.60 a barrel after
a report showed U.S. supplies fell more than expected in the
week ended July 8. Stocks rallied globally after U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers that the central
bank is prepared to take additional action, including buying
more  government bonds , if the economy appears in danger of
stalling.  Oil prices  were also supported by a report showing Chinese
gross domestic product grew a faster-than-expected 9.5 percent
in the second quarter from the same period a year earlier.  China  is the “last bastion of growth” and is far from
losing its “enviable status,” Slava Smolyaninov, deputy head
of research at UralSib Financial Corp., wrote in an e-mailed
report. “Should that trend sustain, the Russian equity market
will continue to outperform its peers over the short term,” she
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  