-- 
Stocks, Treasuries, Oil Decline as Bernanke Damps Economic-Stimulus Bets

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-14T20:44:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/s-p-500-futures-decline-euro-gains-as-moody-s-reviews-u-s-credit-rating.html
Stocks fell, dragging the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to the lowest level of the month, and oil
slumped after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s
not prepared to take immediate action to stimulate the economy.
Gold and silver rallied, while U.S. Treasuries dropped.  The S&P 500 slumped 0.7 percent to 1,308.87 at 4 p.m. in
New York, the weakest close since June 29. The MSCI All-Country
World Index lost 0.7 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields climbed
seven basis points to 2.96 percent amid concern political
gridlock will cause the U.S. to lose its top  credit rating .
Crude slid 2.4 percent to $95.69 a barrel, while gold touched a
record $1,594.90 and ounce and silver jumped as much as 3.3
percent to a nine-week high of $39.395 an ounce.  Bernanke’s remarks damped investor speculation that the Fed
may launch a third round of quantitative easing, nicknamed
“QE3” by investors, and snuffed out an early rally in stocks
triggered by better-than-forecast earnings at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and improving economic data. Treasuries slid after Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday it may cut the U.S.
government’s Aaa rating after negotiations to increase the debt
limit stalled in Congress.  “Bernanke may have spooked markets, but the markets better
get used to no QE3,”  Brian Belski , chief investment strategist
at Oppenheimer & Co., said in a telephone interview. “All eyes
are on  Washington  in terms of the budget. We’re in this classic
tug-of-war between micro and macro because of the earnings
season, which is still very early. It’s still too soon to put a
defining word on earnings.”  Gain Erased  The S&P 500 erased yesterday’s 0.3 percent gain, which
snapped a three-day slump that dragged it down 2.9 percent.
Yesterday’s advance was triggered by Bernanke’s testimony to the
Senate Banking Committee that the central bank is prepared to
take additional action to spur growth, including buying more
 government bonds , if the economy appears in danger of stalling.  Stocks erased gains today as Bernanke told Congress that
policy makers were not prepared “at this point” to embark on
the third round of bond-buying.  Industrial, technology and raw-material companies fell the
most among the 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500 today. 3M
Co., Oracle Corp. and DuPont Co. paced losses with declines of
at least 1.3 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co. rallied 1.8 percent
for the biggest gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after
investment-banking and trading bolstered earnings.  Earnings Season  JPMorgan was the first major U.S. bank to report second-
quarter earnings. Google Inc., the biggest Internet search
company, rallied 11 percent in extended trading after reporting
sales and profit that topped analysts’ estimates following the
close of trading. Earnings grew 18 percent and surpassed
analysts’ estimates by 5.5 percent for the eight companies in
the  S&P 500  that have released results since Alcoa Inc. started
the reporting season on July 11, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “The market is being driven by macro events such as the
U.S. and European debt crises,”  Giri Cherukuri , who helps
manage $2.6 billion as  money manager  and head trader at Oakbrook
Investments in Lisle,  Illinois , said in a telephone interview.
“But we’re heading into the heart of earnings season, and
people are getting ready for a change toward a market that’ll be
focused on the earnings reports of major companies.”  Economic Data  Early gains in stocks were also spurred by government
reports that showed initial jobless claims fell by 22,000 to
405,000 last week and retail sales unexpectedly increased 0.1
percent in June. Other data showed U.S. wholesale costs dropped
more than forecast in June.  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, was little changed at 75.265 after slumping for two days.  The dollar weakened 0.4 percent versus the  New Zealand
dollar , which strengthened against all 16 major peers monitored
by Bloomberg after a report showed manufacturing and farming led
the fastest quarterly growth in more than a year, spurring
speculation the central bank will raise  interest rates .  The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond climbed seven basis
points to 4.25 percent.  The Treasury attracted higher-than average-demand for a
third consecutive sale at today’s auction of 30-year bonds as
investors downplayed Moody’s warning that the nation’s rating
may be downgraded. The bid-to-cover ratio on the $13 billion in
bonds, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount offered, was 2.80, versus a 2.64 average at the past 10
sales. The auction followed three- and 10-year note sales that
were the first since the  Federal Reserve  ended its bond
purchases under quantitative easing on June 30.  Moody’s put the Aaa credit rating on review for a downgrade
for the first time since 1996 yesterday on concern officials
won’t raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit in time to
prevent a missed payment. The rating would probably be reduced
to the Aa range, Moody’s said in a statement yesterday.  Default Swaps Rise  Credit-default swaps insuring  U.S. debt  climbed 5.22 basis
points to 55.72 as of 3:31 p.m. in New York, the highest since
February 2010, according to CMA.  Italian government bonds declined, sending the 10-year
yield up nine basis points to 5.62 percent, as borrowing costs
rose to a three-year high at a sale of five-year debt today even
as the nation’s Senate voted for budget cuts.  The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond rose six basis points
to 5.84 percent, driving the premium investors demand to hold
the debt instead of benchmark German bunds five basis points
higher to 312 basis points.  More than six shares fell for every one that advanced in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which slid 0.8 percent. Software AG,
 Germany ’s second-biggest maker of  business software , plunged 16
percent after reporting a decline in sales. Daily Mail & General
Trust Plc lost 4.1 percent as the publisher of the Daily Mail
newspaper said advertising revenue fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  