-- 
Scene Last Night: Leslie Wexner, Lady Susie Sainsbury, Buckeyes

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-13T14:53:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/scene-last-night-leslie-wexner-lady-sainsbury-sir-bland-many-buckeyes.html
Like the address of an exclusive new
bar, the Royal Shakespeare Company performance of “Romeo and
Juliet” last night at the Park Avenue Armory was unlisted.  To get in, you had to be a Buckeye (a graduate of  Ohio 
State University) or a high-powered Brit or know one.  Leslie Wexner, chief executive officer of Limited Brands
and chairman of OSU, made the cut, as did Lady Susie Sainsbury,
whose fortune derives from the Sainsbury’s chain of supermarkets
in  England . Sir Christopher Bland, chairman of the RSC, jumped
across the pond for the evening.  Also present were Marty Murrer, co-founder and managing
director of Sagent Advisors; Michael Schoen, a managing director
in debt capital markets at Credit Suisse Group; and Lawrence
Hilsheimer, president and chief operating officer of Nationwide
Direct and Customer Solutions at Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co.  Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio, is the RSC’s U.S.
partner in its education program, Stand Up for Shakespeare.
Wexner, a benefactor of both institutions, forged the
partnership.  Three years ago, teachers from rural Ohio began training in
the program at both the Columbus campus and Stratford-upon-Avon.
So far 38 teachers have implemented the program to their
classrooms, reaching 3,500 students, said retired  Ohio State
University  English professor David Frantz, who manages the
partnership. Several teachers and students attended the
performance last night.  “We want to give children the most engaging version of
Shakespeare we can,” said RSC director of education Jacqui
O’Hanlon. That includes a troupe that performs short versions of
the plays, such as a 70-minute “Hamlet.”  Getting the Jokes  “Kids get the language and they get the jokes,” said
Bland, who’d like to see the program spread around the world.  Ohio State used the performance last night to raise money
for the education program. The university dubbed the event
“Scarlet & Gray Shakespeare,” after the university’s colors.
The stage that the company performs on in the Armory, a replica
of its home stage, is not coincidentally called the Scarlet &
Gray stage, in honor of the university’s financial support to
build it.  At an early buffet supper for a small group of donors, the
RSC’s artistic director,  Michael Boyd , spoke of the “happy
marriage” between the U.S. Midwest and the U.K. West Midlands,
where the company is located.  Boyd also prepared guests for a “brave, passionate reading
of ‘Romeo and Juliet,’ noteworthy for its portrait of arrogance
and righteousness and pure passion,” he said.  Disco Lights  The performance, which had Romeo and Juliet in jeans and
hoodies on a balcony framed in disco lights, certainly fit
Boyd’s description.  Afterward, there was another reception. Donors picked up
chocolate caramel tarts, and actors filled their plates with
salad and pasta.  “I’ve had two Romeos today,” said an apparently sated
Mariah Gale, who plays Juliet. (Gale’s usual Romeo, Sam
Troughton, had injured his knee midway through the matinee
performance; his understudy, Dyfan Dwyfor, filled in.)  “I’ve seen ‘Romeo and Juliet’ five times, and I have to
tell you, you’re the best Juliet,” said Ohio State trustee
Algenon Marbley, a federal judge for the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of Ohio.  Lady Sainsbury, who is chairman of RSC America, sat on a
couch next to a Shakespeare doll wearing a “Go Bucks” pin.
Wexner and his son Harry -- a high-school junior who said he
hasn’t decided if he wants to go to Ohio State -- wore “Team
Capulet” pins. Wexner’s wife, Abigail, wore a “Team Montague”
pin.  “That was an accident,” she said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 