-- 
SEC Probes Fletcher Asset Hedge Fund, Wall Street Journal Says

-- B y   J o s h   F r i e d m a n
-- 
2011-07-13T01:39:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/sec-probes-fletcher-asset-hedge-fund-wall-street-journal-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission opened a probe into New York hedge fund Fletcher
Asset Management as three  Louisiana  pension systems raised
questions about its liquidity, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing a person familiar with the matter.  The public pension funds are assembling a team to examine
Fletcher Asset Management’s books and financial statements after
redemptions requests were met with promissory notes instead of
cash, the newspaper said today, citing a statement from the
pension systems.  The firm, founded in 1991 by Alphonse Fletcher, received
investments of $100 million from the pension funds in 2008 after
promising a minimum return of 12 percent a year, the Journal
reported. Two of the funds sought to cash out some of the
profits by withdrawing $32 million in March, according to the
statement, which was signed by pension officials and posted on
the newspaper’s website.  “The distribution of a promissory note in lieu of
immediate cash has raised concerns with each of the systems’
respective boards,” the officials said in the statement. The
note “gives rise to questions regarding the liquidity” of the
FIA Leveraged Fund that held the investments, “and the accuracy
of the financial statements” issued by auditors, the officials
said.  The statement was signed by executive directors of the
Municipal Employees’ Retirement System of Louisiana, the
Firefighters’ Retirement System of Louisiana and the New Orleans
Firefighters’ Retirement System.  Voice messages left after regular business hours for
Fletcher Asset Management and for the three pensions weren’t
immediately answered. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josh Friedman in  Los Angeles  at 
 jfriedman25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  