-- 
Security Council Clears Way for South Sudan’s UN Membership

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-13T15:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/security-council-clears-way-for-south-sudan-s-un-membership-1-.html
 The  United Nations   Security Council 
voted by acclamation today to recommend the admission of the
oil-rich Republic of South Sudan as the world body’s 193rd
member government.  The General Assembly is scheduled to vote tomorrow to make
the accession official. The flag of the new African nation would
then be raised at UN headquarters, joining those that fly daily
along First Avenue in  Manhattan  between East 42nd Street and
East 48th Street.  “South Sudan will be a responsible member of the
international community and will respect its obligations under
international law,” South Sudan Vice President Riek Machar told
the  Security Council .  South Sudan’s independence follows a year that has been the
most violent in the region since the end of a two-decade civil
war in  Sudan  in 2005. Rebel attacks and ethnic violence have
killed 2,368 civilians, compared with 940 last year, according
to the UN. As many as nine militia groups operate mainly along
the border with the North.  “We are all Sudanese, in the North and the South,” Daffa-
Alla Elhag Ali Osman, Sudan’s ambassador to the UN said. “We
have left behind us now the story of the history of war and
bitterness that was part of the past and we now look towards the
future where we will cooperate together in order to bear witness
to our common heritage and history.”  Peacekeeping Troops  The UN has established two peacekeeping missions in the
region in the past month, one in the disputed border area of
Abyei and the other in South Sudan. The latter will include as
many as 7,000 soldiers and 900 civilian police to provide
security and aid the new nation’s development.  “Like any newborn, South Sudan needs help,” UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon said. “Institutions of government are weak.
There are tremendous challenges on every front: social services,
health, education. On the day of its birth, South Sudan ranks at
the bottom of almost all human development indicators.”  South Sudan gained control of about 75 percent of Sudan’s
daily oil production of 490,000 barrels when it became
independent. The crude, pumped mainly by China National
Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and  India ’s
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. day, is exported through a pipeline that
runs to  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea .  Oil earnings accounted for about 98 percent of South
Sudan’s 2010 budget.  Sudan will be the first new UN member since Montenegro in
2006. East Timor and  Switzerland  were admitted in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  