-- 
Sen. Jay Rockefeller Seeks U.S. Agency Probes of News Corp. Phone Hacking

-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 
2011-07-13T00:53:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/sen-jay-rockefeller-seeks-u-s-agency-probes-of-news-corp-phone-hacking.html
Senator  Jay Rockefeller  called for
U.S. agencies to investigate whether alleged phone hacking at
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. newspapers targeted American victims of the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  “I am concerned that the admitted phone hacking in London
by the News Corp. may have extended to 9/11 victims or other
Americans,” Rockefeller, a Democrat from West Virginia, said
today in a statement posted on the  website  of the Senate
Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which he chairs.
“If they did, the consequences will be severe.”  Reporters at the now-defunct News of the World tabloid are
alleged to have hacked into hundreds of mobile-phone voice
mails, including those of murder and terror victims, and bribed
police for confidential information. The scandal prompted
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  to close the
168-year-old tabloid.  According to a  report  in the Daily Mirror, a competitor to
News of the World and other News Corp. publications, an unnamed
private investigator and former New York City police officer
alleged reporters at the newspaper offered to pay him to
retrieve private phone records of victims of the 9/11 attacks.  The private investigator turned down the assignment, the
Mirror said, citing an unnamed source.  The hacking allegations represent an “offensive and
serious breach of journalistic ethics” that raises questions
about whether New York broke U.S. law,’’ Rockefeller said in his
statement.  Politicians from Britain’s three major parties, including
Prime Minister  David Cameron , have called on News Corp. to drop
its bid to purchase all of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
as authorities investigate the phone-hacking and bribery
allegations.  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.,
didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  