-- 
Demands Mount in U.S. Congress for News Corp. Hacking Probes

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-14T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/senators-boxer-rockefeller-call-for-u-s-probes-of-news-corp-.html
Outrage over alleged bribery and
phone hacking at a  News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloid in  London  mounted in
Washington as lawmakers demanded probes of whether the company
violated anti-corruption laws and Sept. 11 victims’ privacy.  The scandal will be raised at a House hearing today on
Internet privacy, said Ken Johnson, a spokesman for
Representative Mary Bono Mack. The California Republican’s staff
contacted News Corp. several times yesterday to seek
“assurances that this is a uniquely U.K. problem,” Johnson
said in an interview yesterday.  “We want to make sure the contagion is not spreading,” he
said.  Employees of the now-defunct News of the World are accused
of hacking hundreds of mobile-phone voicemails, including those
of murder and terrorism victims, and bribing police for
confidential information. The scandal led New York-based News
Corp. yesterday to drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion)
bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   At least six U.S. lawmakers yesterday urged government
agencies including the Justice Department and Securities and
Exchange Commission to investigate possible violations of U.S.
law. Among them were Democratic Senators Jay Rockefeller of West
Virginia,  Barbara Boxer  of California, and  Frank Lautenberg  and
 Robert Menendez  of New Jersey.  “The reported allegations against News Corporation are
very serious, indicate a pattern of illegal activity, and
involve thousands of potential victims,” Boxer and Rockefeller
said in a joint  statement . “It is important to ensure that no
United States laws were broken and no United States citizens
were victimized.”  Anti-Corruption Law  Rockefeller, Boxer and Lautenberg wrote to Attorney General
Eric Holder and SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro asking their agencies
to examine whether News Corp. violated the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act following allegations that employees of the News
of the World had bribed U.K. police.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is reviewing the lawmakers’
letters, agency spokeswoman  Laura Sweeney  said, declining to
comment further. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration
is aware of the situation and referred questions about the
scandal to the Justice Department and SEC.  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes
with News Corp. units in providing financial news and
information.  Tabloid Closed  News Corp.’s U.S. holdings include the Fox television
networks, the Wall Street Journal newspaper and the Dow Jones
newswire. The phone-hacking and bribery allegations at News of
the World prompted News Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch  to close the 168-year-old tabloid, which
published its last edition on July 10.  Boxer, Rockefeller, and Menendez cited accusations that
News Corp. employees had hacked into the phones of Sept. 11
victims and requested an investigation of whether the privacy of
any U.S. citizen was violated. Two New York Representatives,
Republican  Peter King  and Democrat Louise Slaughter, also called
for probes into whether 9/11 victims were targeted.  King, who chairs the House Homeland Security Committee,
asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation to investigate reports
that News of the World reporters attempted to get a New York
police officer to help hack into the voicemails of Sept. 11
victims and their families.  “It is revolting to imagine that members of the media
would seek to compromise the integrity of a public official for
financial gain in the pursuit of yellow journalism,” King wrote
in a letter to FBI Director Robert Mueller.  Privacy Concerns  Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican who chairs
the House Judiciary Committee, stopped short of calling for an
investigation by the Justice Department.  “It is clear that British officials are taking these
allegations seriously,” Smith said in an e-mail. “I am
confident that the Justice Department is following this issue
closely and will take necessary actions if they believe U.S.
laws were violated.”  Bono Mack has expressed concern about privacy in the wake
of the phone-hacking scandal and said July 12 she is asking
companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  about the
security of mobile devices.  Witnesses for today’s hearing will include Federal
Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  and
officials from the Commerce Department and Federal Trade
Commission.  The FCC won’t involve itself in the U.K. probe of the News
of the World scandal, Genachowski said July 12 in Washington.  “Obviously there is a process going on in the U.K., and
that is a U.K. process, and I don’t expect we will be involved
with that,” Genachowski told reporters after an unrelated FCC
meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  