-- 
Senators Raise Objections to Pentagon on U.S. Detainee Policy

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-13T19:55:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/senators-raise-objections-to-pentagon-on-u-s-detainee-policy.html
Senior Republican senators said they
are “very concerned” about a Pentagon decision to transfer a
suspected Somali terrorist captured abroad to the U.S. for
trial, saying the lack of a clear policy for such cases has
become “an intolerable situation.”  In a July 12 letter to Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , 23
senators registered their objections to a decision they said
risks releasing a terrorist in the U.S. who might be acquitted
in a trial.  The Somali man, Ahmed Abdulkadir Warsame, was captured by
the U.S. military in the Arabian Peninsula in April and
interrogated aboard a Navy ship for more than two months. He was
brought to  New York  for trial last week and accused of providing
material support to terrorist groups.  “We are very concerned that this policy appears to be a
circumvention of the clear intent of many in Congress that
terrorists captured abroad under the Authorization for Use of
Military Force should not be brought into the  United States  for
trial,” wrote the senators, led by  John McCain  of Arizona, the
ranking Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, and
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, the Senate Republican leader.  Senator Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, an independent,
and Senator Jim Webb of Virginia, a Democrat, were the only non-
Republicans to sign the letter.  The senators raised concern about recent testimony from
Vice Admiral William McRaven of the U.S. Special Operations
Command, who said detentions of terrorists captured outside
Afghanistan and Iraq are handled on a case-by-case basis.  ‘Intolerable Situation’  “We believe this is an intolerable situation,” the
senators wrote.  Colonel Dave Lapan, a Pentagon spokesman, declined to
comment on the letter. He said the department will respond to
the senators privately and won’t release copies of its
correspondence with Congress.  The senators asked Panetta to answer a series of questions
on detainee policy, including whether some such as Warsame could
be transferred to the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.  Warsame was identified by U.S. prosecutors as a leader of
al-Shabaab, which has been designated by the U.S. as a foreign
terrorist organization. Warsame allegedly worked to broker a
weapons deal with al-Qaeda and taught others how to make
explosives and weapons of mass destruction, according to the
indictment unsealed last week.  The U.S. “has been able to obtain very valuable
intelligence” as a result of the interrogations of Warsame,
White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 