-- 
Seven-Month Wait for Aluminum Drives LME to Review Rules

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n ,   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-13T09:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/seven-month-wait-for-aluminum-from-detroit-drives-lme-to-review-warehouses.html
When the London Metal Exchange was
founded in the days of steamships, contracts were priced three
months out to reflect the time it took to get tin from  Southeast
Asia  or copper from  Chile . These days, it can take twice as long
to get aluminum out of an LME-approved warehouse in Detroit.  The waiting lines are spurring complaints from consumers
about a business that’s now part of  Wall Street , with storage
owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  While
global aluminum inventories reached a record in May, buyers in
the U.S. Midwest were paying the biggest premium in more than a
decade for immediate supply. The LME’s board meets tomorrow to
review rules on delivery rates from the largest stockpiles.  “The supply-chain risks are not what should be happening
in  North America  when there is adequate metal floating around,”
said Nick Madden, chief procurement officer at Atlanta-based
Novelis Inc., which turns aluminum into products for Coca-Cola
Co. and Ford Motor Co.  The LME, founded in 1877, is reviewing its rules to adapt
to a business that expanded more than fourfold after a decade-
long  bull market  in commodities. The bourse handled $11.6
trillion of contracts last year, compared with $2.5 trillion in
1999, while inventory of the exchange’s six main metals in
warehouses jumped to 6.2 million tons from 2.1 million tons,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Seven-Month Wait  Withdrawing aluminum from  Detroit  warehouses can take as
long as seven months,  Harbor Intelligence , a Laredo, Texas-based
researcher, estimated this month. The Midwest premium paid on
the LME’s cash contract reached 9.5 cents a pound ($210 a metric
ton) in May, compared with an average of about 5.2 cents in the
previous decade, according to data from Metal Bulletin.  The increases “definitely impact our prices” and higher
costs are passed on to customers, said Matt Lanzer, director of
finance at Prince George, Virginia-based Service Center Metals,
whose customers include Reliance Steel & Aluminum Co. and
Ryerson Holding Corp.  The LME, which collects 1.1 percent of the daily rental
fees for metal stored, has approved more than 600 warehouses and
compounds worldwide, at least 24 of which are in Detroit,
according to the exchange’s tally of listed facilities. The
depots are selected based on such  criteria  as access to highways
and their ability to meet minimum daily deliveries to clients,
known as the load-out rate. Stockpile data is collated daily and
used by traders to gauge changes in demand.  Global Recession  Demand for metals dropped in 2008 and 2009 as the global
economy endured its worst recession since World War II. Combined
inventories rose from 1.32 million tons at the end of 2007 to
5.95 million tons two years later, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Almost 3.7 million tons of that expansion came from
aluminum. Today, LME-monitored stockpiles of the metal stood at
4.42 million tons, 25 percent of it in Detroit.  The LME’s three-month aluminum contract advanced 25 percent
in the past 12 months, and traded at $2,494.50 per ton at 9:35
a.m. in  London . Prices fell as low as $1,279 in February 2009.  The bourse got 18 complaints about warehousing from March
2009 to August 2010, eight of them relating to the U.S.,
according to a report from Europe Economics, a London-based
research company commissioned by the LME to study the issue.
Novelis, which buys about 3 million tons of aluminum annually,
including from scrap, complained in May this year, Madden said.  Sliding Scale  Current rules oblige warehouses to deliver metal on a
sliding scale up to 1,500 tons a day depending on the capacity
that a company has at any given location, LME Chief Executive
Officer Martin Abbott said in a note to members on May 27.  The minimum load-out rate may be raised to 3,000 tons per
day for a company with more than 900,000 tons in a single
location, according to Abbott’s statement. The LME also said it
was recommending that the rules be linked to the amount of metal
in storage rather than capacity.  The LME’s board approved on June 16 a proposal to raise the
minimum load-out rates for stockpiles of 300,000 to 900,000 tons
from April 2012. Rules for inventories of less than 300,000 tons
are unchanged and the board didn’t take a decision on those
exceeding 900,000 tons.  “We have no interest in ensuring that metal is locked up
in warehouses,” said Chris Evans, business development head at
the LME. Consumers have complained as they “feel that metal
should be available to them at lower prices, but the market
doesn’t work like that,” he said.  Higher load-out rates for aluminum stockpiles may cut
operators’ income by as much as 50 percent and also lower U.S.
premiums,  Daniel Brebner  and Xiao Fu, analysts at Deutsche Bank
AG in London, wrote in a report June 2.  Metro’s Charges  Detroit is the only single location with stockpiles above
900,000 tons. At least 19 of LME-approved warehouses in the city
belong to Metro International Trade Services LLC, which charges
41 cents a day to store a ton of aluminum, according to data on
the LME’s website. The company was acquired by New York-based
Goldman Sachs last year.  “We have an open mind with regard to making adjustments
that will benefit the marketplace without having unintended
consequences,” said Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman
in  New York . “We follow LME requirements in terms of storing
and releasing metals.”  The average daily withdrawal from Detroit’s warehouses in
the past 12 months was 1,526 tons, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from LME figures. At that pace it would take more than
two years to withdraw all the current stockpiles. Novelis’s
Madden said that the load-out rate for Detroit should be raised
to 9,000 tons, with the change introduced immediately.  Warehouse Takeovers  Three of the four largest warehouse operators were bought
by Goldman, JPMorgan and Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore
International Plc in 2010.  Metro International added at least 17 warehouses since it
was bought by Goldman in February 2010, according to LME data.
JPMorgan took control of Henry Bath & Son Ltd. in July 2010 as
part its $1.7 billion acquisition of units of RBS Sempra
Commodities.  Glencore, the largest listed commodity trader, said it
agreed to buy Pacorini Metals in August 2010 and Hong Kong-based
 Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  acquired Delivery Network International LLC the
following month. Trafigura Beheer BV, based in Amsterdam, said
it bought North European Marine Services Ltd. in March 2010.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan, and  Simon Buerk ,
a spokesman for Glencore, declined to comment. Brad Smolar, a
spokesman for Noble, didn’t return an e-mail and two calls
seeking comment. Neil Cameron, a spokesman for Trafigura, said
that company wasn’t immediately able to comment.  Financing Deals  Waiting times at warehouses may not be the only reason
premiums are rising. As much as 70 percent of aluminum inventory
may be tied up in financing deals that mean it’s unavailable to
consumers,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA estimates.  “The system is under pressure as a result of some
extraordinary factors,” LME CEO Abbott said in the May 27
notice to members. “It should be noted that this issue
currently is specific to aluminum and to one location; the LME
does not have a systemic issue with its warehouse network.”  A “significant portion” of stockpiled aluminum is tied to
financing, according to Gordon Hamilton, vice president of metal
management, sales and marketing at the Montreal-based Alcan unit
of Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest producer. The
higher premiums are reflecting those deals, as well as higher
transport costs and lower imports, he said.  Warehousing issues also pre-date the acquisitions by
Goldman, JPMorgan, Glencore, Noble and Trafigura. The LME got 30
complaints from consumers about warehouses in the first half of
2001, including grievances about the speed of deliveries,
according to a report on the subsequent investigation in 2002.  General Motors Co. (GM) , based in Detroit, is “watching it
closely as we are a significant user of aluminum,” Kelly
Cusinato, a spokeswoman for the carmaker, said in an e-mail.  While the jump in aluminum prices hasn’t hurt  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
profit, it is “a watch item,” said John Byrne, head of
materials and structures at the commercial-airplanes unit of the
Chicago-based company. Rising premiums at a time of near-record
stockpiles “doesn’t make sense,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  