-- 
Home Loan Banks Move to Take Role in Bank of America Mortgage Settlement

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/six-federal-home-loan-banks-seek-to-intervene-in-bofa-mortgage-accord.html
Six federal home loan banks moved to
join a case in which a New York judge will rule on an $8.5
billion settlement by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  with  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK)  over mortgage-securitization trusts.  “The FHLBs have not made decisions whether to oppose the
settlement,” the Federal Home Loan Banks of  Boston , Chicago,
Indianapolis, Pittsburgh,  San Francisco  and  Seattle  said in a
filing yesterday in New York state court in Manhattan.  The banks said they’re seeking to intervene because the
procedures that BNY Mellon has established for approval of the
proposed settlement won’t provide enough information “to make
careful and informed decisions.”  Earlier yesterday, TM1 Investors asked to join in the case
and a group of investors operating under the name Walnut Place
pursued an earlier bid to intervene. Public pension funds
including the Policemen’s Annuity & Benefit Fund of  Chicago , the
Westmoreland County Employee Retirement System, City of Grand
Rapids General Retirement System and City of Grand Rapids Police
& Fire Retirement System have also sought to intervene.  BNY Mellon, as trustee of the 530 trusts, filed a petition
June 29 seeking approval of the settlement. The agreement
requires Bank of America, its Countrywide Financial unit or both
to pay $8.5 billion.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon,
declined to comment. Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of
America, declined to comment.  New York Probe  The request by the home loan banks comes a day after it was
revealed that New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is
seeking client information from more than 20 companies as part
of a state probe of the proposed accord. Schneiderman’s office
sent letters dated July 7 to companies including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and TCW Group Inc. regarding their
participation in the deal.  The information was requested in connection with an
investigation “into certain matters related to securitization
of residential mortgages,” according to the letters. Investment
managers were asked to identify clients affiliated with New York
state government entities and public authorities, as well as
nonprofit or charitable corporations under New York law that
invested in the 530 residential mortgage-securitization trusts
established from 2004 to 2008, according to copies of the
letters obtained by Bloomberg News.  Investors claimed that units of Countrywide failed to honor
contracts, saying they needed to repurchase loans that never
matched their promised quality. Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  Bondholder Support  The settlement was supported by a group of 22 bondholders,
including Goldman Sachs and BlackRock, both based in  New York ,
and Societe Generale SA’s TCW. Also among the 22 is the Federal
Home Loan Bank of Atlanta.  BNY Mellon is required to give notice of the proposed deal
to investors, mortgage companies, ratings companies, bond
insurers and underwriters.  New York State  Supreme Court  Justice Barbara R. Kapnick set
a hearing on the settlement for Nov. 17.  The home loan banks said in their filing yesterday that
Countrywide and Bank of America face liabilities to repurchase
defective loans that are far greater than the amount of the
proposed settlement.  “The banks need disclosure to understand why BNYM decided
to accept the proposed settlement amount and to decide whether
to object to that amount,” they said in court papers.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York state Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York State Supreme Court
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  