-- 
South African Mine Nationalization Threat Scaring Investors, Cutifani Says

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-07-13T09:16:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/south-african-mine-nationalization-threat-scares-investors-cutifani-says.html
South  Africa  is scaring investors
and threatening  job creation  with escalating arguments over
calls for nationalization of the  mining industry ,  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said.  “The nationalization issue is troubling, given the
polarizing nature of the discourse, which is having a divisive
effect on our society as we scream and talk past each other,”
he said. “The nature of the debate is frightening domestic and
international investors, threatening an important resource of
funds needed to deliver on our 5-million jobs target.”  Young people were justified in seeking “social change,”
Cutifani wrote in a commentary in Johannesburg’s  Business Day 
today, and the industry could have done better in implementing
the 2004 Mining Charter, aimed at increasing black ownership.
Still, companies had made progress in trying to redress the
impoverishment of black workers in the last century, he said.  “Some would say the industry colluded, for a period, in
the creation and development of segregation and then
apartheid,” said Cutifani, also vice president of the Chamber
of Mines industry lobby. “This history does not, however, mean
that the route to prosperity for all lies in state ownership.”  The ruling  African National Congress  agreed in September to
study nationalization, responding to a call by  Julius Malema ,
leader of the party’s Youth League. The league has demanded the
state take over mines, banks and land to help bring down youth
unemployment, poverty and inequality in the biggest economy in
Africa. The country, which has a 25 percent unemployment rate,
has declared a goal of creating 5 million jobs by 2020.  Destroying Stability  The government would destroy fiscal stability should it buy
back private assets, while taking resources without paying for
them would break the finances of many South Africans invested in
mine operators and cause a “global backlash,” Cutifani wrote.  The industry brought on a debate about nationalizing mines
itself after failing to sufficiently increase black ownership,
Department of Mineral Resources Director-General Sandile Nogxina
said in a Business Day report last month. A failure to address
economic imbalances in the country could lead to a “situation
like  Zimbabwe ,” Bridgette Radebe, chairman of Mmakau Mining and
wife of the justice minister, told a conference on June 22.  Under a new Zimbabwean law, foreign-owned miners must cede
or sell 51 percent of their shares to black citizens or state-
approved agencies. The law, known as the Indigenization and
Empowerment Act, doesn’t allow white Zimbabweans or foreigners
to own businesses with assets of more than $1 million.  Soured Deals  Cutifani said some suggested the call for nationalization
had been driven by the souring of deals aimed at raising black
ownership following the global financial crisis. While there was
a limit to what could be done, AngloGold had restructured its
deals to benefit workers, investors and the company, he said.  Another suggested motivation was “a widespread view that
mining is neither contributing adequately to the country’s
economic development, nor its benefits being fairly shared.”  Both of these are rooted in  South Africa ’s history of
disadvantaging black workers and their communities, Cutifani
added, under the apartheid system that ended 17 years ago.  “Dealing with the second set of concerns is more complex
and solutions are less easy to come by,” he wrote. “Destroying
the foundations of South Africa’s most important industry
doesn’t look like the best place to start.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in  Cape Town  at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  