-- 
South Korea’s Military Fund May Sell Biggest Overseas Holding, CIO Says

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-07-13T03:23:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/south-korea-s-military-fund-may-sell-biggest-overseas-holding-cio-says.html
South Korea ’s  Military Mutual Aid
Association , the defense ministry’s $7.6 billion fund, may sell
its biggest overseas holding after five years to seek out ports
and other infrastructure assets.  The military welfare-fund, which bought 6.9 percent of
Thames Water Utilities Ltd. for 300 billion won ($281 million)
through a fund managed by Macquarie Group Ltd. in December 2006,
plans to tap investor interest by the end of this year, Chief
Investment Officer Jin Yeong Ho, said in an interview yesterday.  “I hope to make an exit as we expect to post a gain from
the investment,” Jin, 53, said at his Seoul office. “We may
use the money to re-invest in a similar kind of funds focusing
on social overhead capital such as ports.”  Military Mutual is among a growing a number of funds
scouting for infrastructure assets. Alberta Investment
Management Corp., a Canadian pension-fund manager, expects to
make six deals in areas such as real estate and infrastructure
this year to increase returns, Chief Executive Officer Leo de Bever said this month.  China  Investment Corp., the country’s
$300 billion sovereign wealth fund, is targeting mining, real
estate and infrastructure investments in the Americas, Felix Chee, the fund’s representative in  Canada , said in June.  Jin declined to say how much the stake in the privately
held company is worth today or the gain it expects from the
divestment. The MSCI Europe Utility index has fallen 29 percent
since the start of December 2006, when Military Mutual first
made the investment.  Military Spending  The Korean military fund was set up in 1984 to look after
the welfare of military personnel and currently has 164,751
subscribers. South Korea’s defense spending to gross domestic
product was about 2.8 percent in 2009, compared with 0.9 percent
in  Japan  and 1.6 percent in China, according to a Defense White
Paper. South Korea, which remains technically at war with  North
Korea  since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire, has
about 650,000 troops.  Thames Water Utilities, formerly Thames Water Plc, is the
U.K.’s largest water and sewerage company, serving 14 million
customers across  London  and the Thames Valley, according to the
company  website . In 2006, Thames Water was sold by RWE AG to
Kemble Water Ltd., a group led by  Macquarie Bank , for 4.8
billion pounds.  “We’re interested in social infrastructure because those
assets generate consistent returns in the medium- and long-
term,” Jin said. “We’ve come to pay more attention on
stability of assets since the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ”  Boosting Overseas Investments  The Military Mutual plans to increase its overseas
investments to 15 percent of assets in three years, from 9
percent now to boost returns, Jin said. The fund plans to invest
in bonds from emerging economies such as  India , as well as
overseas exchange-traded funds and “promising” companies in
China and other Asian nations, he said.  In the second half, the Korean military fund is considering
investing in  oil fields  in the U.S. and Vietnam, held by state-
owned Korea National Oil Corp., Jin said. It also may invest in
mineral projects owned by Korea Resources Corp., he said.  The fund spent 30 billion won in December in private equity
funds that invested in gas and oil fields projects in  Europe ,
Jin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Sangim Han in Seoul at   sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  