-- 
South Africa to Delay Interest Rate Increase to 2012, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-07-13T08:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/south-africa-to-delay-interest-rate-increase-to-2012-morgan-stanley-says.html
South Africa ’s central bank will
probably delay its first interest rate increase since June 2008
to the first quarter of 2012 as a strong rand and lower  oil
prices  curb price pressures, Morgan Stanley said.  Inflation will likely reach the 6 percent upper end of the
inflation target by December, compared with an earlier forecast
of September, Michael Kafe and Andrea Masia, economists at
Morgan Stanley in Johannesburg, wrote in a report e-mailed
today. They previously forecast the next interest rate increase
would be in September.  The Reserve Bank, led by Governor  Gill Marcus , has left its
benchmark rate unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this
year to support the recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy. On May
12, the bank predicted that inflation would breach the 3 percent
to 6 percent target band in the first quarter temporarily. Since
then, the rand has gained 2.5 percent against the dollar while
oil prices have dropped 2.4 percent in  New York .  The central bank “is likely to consider policy
normalization only if future inflation forecasts point to a
worse trajectory” than projected in May, the economists said in
the report. “Our improved inflation profile therefore allows
the Reserve Bank to ‘kick the can down the road,’ at least until
the first quarter.”  Morgan Stanley expects the central bank to raise the key
rate four times to 7.5 percent by September 2012. The  Reserve
Bank  will make its next interest rate decision on July 21.  The rand will probably end the year at 7 to the dollar,
compared with a previous estimate of 7.50, Morgan Stanley said.
Inflation is likely to peak at 6.1 percent in February and ease
to 5.7 percent by the end of 2012. Previously, Morgan Stanley
had expected a peak of 6.3 percent and an end-year inflation
rate of 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  