-- 
Stress Test Near-Failures Face Scrutiny, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-07-13T13:23:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/stress-test-near-failures-face-scrutiny-morgan-stanley-says.html
Lenders that scrape through the
European stress tests with low marks will be examined
“intensely” by investors, according to Morgan Stanley.  The bank expects market participants to “scrutinize
intensely those which pass by less than 1 percent,” according
to a report by Morgan Stanley analysts led by Huw Van Steenis in
 London .  The banks will be expected to maintain a core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios to pass according to the criteria published by the
 European Banking Authority , the agency carrying out the tests.  This year’s exams, which will be published on July 15, will
include a review of how lenders would handle a 0.5 percent
economic contraction in the euro area in 2011, a 15 percent drop
in European equity markets as well as possible trading losses on
sovereign debt.  “Our conclusion from last year’s test was to focus on the
cuspy names for capital raising,” said the report, dated July
12. “Nineteen of the 22 listed banks that passed by less than
2.25 percent have since raised capital,”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said.  Analysts have criticized last year’s exams for not being
tough enough. Lenders in the 27-nation region were shown by
regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros ($4.9 billion) of new
capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.  Disclosure  Lenders this year will be made to disclose capital levels,
estimates for profitability in 2011 and 2012 as well as the size
and maturity of their holdings of sovereign debt, the EBA said
this month.  The risks to financial stability from analysts using
European Union stress-test data to conduct their own exams on
banks “should not be underestimated,” according to a
confidential document prepared by EU officials.  There is an expectation the results will be “challenged by
market tests” aiming to address “the perceived weaknesses in
the design,” according to the draft document obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The Morgan Stanley analysts said that they “see the stress
tests as helpful additional disclosures of bank strength but not
as game changers for banks or sovereigns.”  “In contrast to U.S. stress tests, we do not expect a
clear coordinated prompt for capital raising to enhance market
confidence,” the analysts said in their note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  