-- 
Struggling U.S. Capitals Seek More From Tax-Exempt Landowners

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/struggling-u-s-capitals-seek-more-from-tax-exempt-landowners.html
The gilded dome of  New Jersey ’s
State House looks down upon an idled $87 million park project
and graffiti spray-painted on a parking garage: “GHOST TOWN @
FIVE,” a dig at thousands of suburb-dwelling government workers
who pay no taxes to the city of Trenton.  From New Jersey to Nebraska, capital cities are crying
poverty as states close $103 billion in budget deficits, partly
by slashing local aid. Governments own much of those cities’
real estate and pay only a fraction of the revenue that would be
due if the land were in private hands.  In Trenton, half of the property is state-owned, limiting
the city’s ability to generate revenue. After a 23 percent aid
cut in fiscal 2011, the former industrial hub with the slogan
“Trenton Makes, The World Takes” was expecting to receive
$24 million, or 13 percent of its revenue, from the state in
2012. It may not get any after Governor  Chris Christie , a first-
term Republican, slashed funding for a program that helps
distressed cities to $10 million from $149 million.  “Cities like Trenton can’t survive enormous budget cuts
when the biggest property owner in the city is exempt from
paying taxes,” Assemblywoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, a Trenton
Democrat, said in a June 10 statement.  Trenton, where almost a quarter of the 83,200 residents
live in poverty, is preparing for the worst. It plans to fire
more than 100 police officers and some civilian staff, and
increase property taxes 21 percent, said David Rousseau, a
financial consultant to Mayor Tony Mack who was state treasurer
for Christie’s predecessor, Democrat  Jon Corzine .  Under Review  The credit ratings of Trenton and five other New Jersey
cities were put under review yesterday for possible downgrade by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited Christie’s latest aid
cut. The company lowered Trenton to A3, the fourth-lowest
investment grade, in May 2010, after Christie’s initial
reduction. Towns and cities in New Jersey, the second-wealthiest
U.S. state, led the country in downgrades last year.  Trenton’s rating “incorporates the city’s high debt burden
and moderately sized tax base, nearly half of which remains
nontaxable as the state’s capital,” Moody’s said in a January
report that assigned a negative outlook to the debt, which means
the rating could be lowered again.  It’s doubtful whether towns will ever receive the level of
help from states they once did, said Alan Schankel, director of
fixed-income research at the financial services firm Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “It’s not just the state capitals, but obviously they’re
the ones in the headlights,” Schankel said in a July 7 phone
interview. “I don’t think it’s coming back.”  Jobs Cut  Lawmakers in Lincoln,  Nebraska , this year eliminated $1.8
million for the capital city, “nothing real drastic,” city
Finance Director Don Herz said, although painful enough.  “We’ve cut about 160 positions in the past three years,”
Herz said in a June 23 telephone interview. “We don’t trim our
trees as much as we did. We reduced some library hours. Pools
aren’t open quite as much.”  Not every capital is in such poor shape.  North Dakota , the
third-least-populous state, with 672,600 residents, had a $1
billion two-year  budget surplus  in 2010 because of an economic
boom tied to oil drilling. Bismarck, the capital, and its
surrounding region have the lowest U.S. unemployment rate: 2.9
percent in May, compared with 9.1 percent nationally. Last year
the city’s property-tax base grew 3.86 percent, and the budget
accommodated street resurfacing, water-plant upgrades and health
programs, according to a financial report.  Police and Roads  Since 2001, New Jersey lawmakers representing Trenton have
unsuccessfully sponsored legislation calling on the state to
make payments in lieu of taxes to help cover the cost of
services such as police and road maintenance.  Some cities, rather than begging state government, are
chasing private money. In May, California Governor  Jerry Brown 
proposed selling 42 blocks of state-owned land, an urban renewal
project with about 75 commercial and mixed-income residential
buildings in downtown  Sacramento , the capital. The state would
collect proceeds from any sale and the city would increase its
tax base. Sacramento hasn’t estimated any potential financial
impact, Leyne Milstein, director of finance, said in an e-mail.  Other cities are seeking new or higher payments in lieu of
taxes from hospitals, universities and cultural institutions. In
April,  Boston  sent requests to about 40 such nonprofit groups.  Paying Up  Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center has voluntarily paid
the city $167,000 a year on property that, if privately owned,
would raise $23 million in taxes, according to a December 2010
report by a mayoral  task force . Under a new formula based in
part on property value, it agreed to pay $753,000 in 2012 and
$3.1 million within five years.  “No one is enthusiastic about paying anything that
remotely resembles a tax,” Eric Buehrens, interim president and
chief executive officer of the hospital, said in a July 8
telephone interview. Each dollar contributed to the city, “is a
dollar not going to something else,” he said.  Providence,  Rhode Island , is looking at the Boston model to
raise more money from institutions such as Brown and Johnson &
Wales universities and Rhode Island Hospital, whose expansions
into the decaying Jewelry District created private jobs,
encouraged retail and restaurants, and also took swaths of
potentially revenue-producing land off the tax rolls.  Bankruptcy Danger  Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , in danger of bankruptcy after
nearly defaulting on bond payments related to a failed
incinerator project, was told by financial consultants this
month to sell assets, cut jobs and seek more money from
nonprofits, which together with state government own about half
the property in the city.  Trenton has no four-year college campuses, major research
hospitals or large company headquarters that often bring
nonresidents into cities to spend money. The state and city
identify New Jersey government as the largest employer in
Trenton, although it’s not clear how many work there. A 1992
study by the city and Thomas Edison State College said 23,400
state employees worked in the capital, and 15 percent were city
residents subject to its taxes. New Jersey Department of Labor
and Workforce Development data from 2009 -- prior to state
layoffs -- put the figure at 39,100 workers, including those in
hospital and correctional institutions in suburban Trenton.  ‘Center of Business’  The 1992 study, commissioned to identify how the state’s
presence helped and harmed Trenton, urged the state to help
create “festive shopping centers,” increase aid and underwrite
the fire and police departments. Few of those recommendations
came to pass. Christie’s administration last year halted work on
an urban park behind the State House that was pitched by
planners as a tourism draw, citing a lack of funds.  Mack, who took office last year, on July 6 announced a
renewed effort to make Trenton “a center of business, culture,
education, heritage-building and a prosperous, livable
community,” according to a  statement . In a June 10  editorial  in
the Trentonian newspaper, he called on the state to pay its
“fair share for the burdens placed on city resources.”  In the near term, Trenton and other cities need help beyond
the $10 million of state aid they must now share, Rousseau,
Mack’s consultant, said in a July 1 phone interview.  “Armageddon is that it goes down to basically nothing,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  