-- 
Swiss Exporters Mull Euro Wages to Ease Franc Gain

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-07-26T08:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/swiss-exporters-mull-euro-wages-to-ease-brutal-impact-from-franc-s-gains.html
(Corrects company name in seventh paragraph in story
published on July 14.)  Swiss companies are taking matters
into their own hands as the central bank shows little
willingness to weaken the franc after it surged to a record.  Lonza Group AG (LONN) , a Swiss chemicals maker, is extending work
hours without additional pay, while the country’s Labor Union
Federation representing about 380,000 workers said it’s in talks
with companies about taking steps such as paying wages in euros
and pegging salaries to exchange-rate moves.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the
world’s largest maker of power-transmission gear, is weighing
whether to buy more parts from the euro region to lower costs.  “The franc has a brutal impact on exporters,” said Hans Hess, president of Swissmem, the largest lobby group for
manufacturers, in a telephone interview from Zurich. “It’s as
if Formula One driver Sebastian Vettel had to start behind his
opponents. To win under these conditions is very difficult.”  The  Swiss National Bank  signaled it’s up to exporters to
deal with the appreciation after attempts to weaken the franc
through currency purchases in the 15 months through mid-June
2010 sparked a record loss for the central bank. That has
prompted lawmakers to call for SNB President Philipp Hildebrand
to resign for failing to protect the economy.  The currency, considered a haven in times of turmoil, has
appreciated 8.3 percent against the euro this year, reaching a
record 1.1495 today, as investors were concerned that the
region’s debt crisis may undermine  Europe ’s stability. It traded
at 1.1546 at 7:34 a.m. in Zurich. The franc has gained 15
percent versus the dollar in 2011.  Half of GDP  Exports account for half of  Switzerland ’s gross domestic
product and companies have weathered three periods of a marked
franc appreciation in the past two decades. The current surge is
the most severe, according to the KOF Swiss Economic Institute
in Zurich, with the so-called real franc exchange rate
increasing 20 percent in two years.  VonRoll Infratec AG , the maker of piping systems and
casting solutions, is considering pegging some salaries to the
euro. The company based in Zug is already paying workers
commuting into Switzerland from neighboring nations in euros.  Banks, including  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  EFG International AG (EFGN) , are also
seeking to lower costs as the franc hurts profit margins. Lonza
agreed with unions this month to increase weekly work hours for
2,700 employees by about two hours for 18 months. The Basel-
based company forecast last month that the currency’s “massive
strength” will reduce 2011 earnings by as much as 70 million
francs ($84 million).  ‘Senseless Speculation’  With companies under pressure, the economic recovery is
showing signs of cooling. Manufacturing grew at the slowest pace
in almost two years in June and the government lowered its 2012
growth forecast last month to 1.5 percent from 1.9 percent,
calling the franc a “burden.”  Swiss stocks are trailing their counterparts in western
Europe. The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  has fallen 6.3 percent
this year, compared with the 0.6 percent drop of  France ’s CAC 40
Index and the 4.4 percent gain of  Germany ’s DAX Index.  Lawmakers, gearing up for October elections, have toughened
their tone on the SNB. Christoph Blocher, vice president of the
 Swiss People’s Party , has said Hildebrand should resign, calling
the bank’s currency interventions “senseless speculation.”
Susanne Leutenegger Oberholzer of the  Social Democrats  told Der
Sonntag newspaper this month that it’s up to Hildebrand and
Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann to act or step down.  ‘Very Concerned’  The government pledged July 6 to support exporters should
the franc continue to strengthen. It also said the SNB has the
“sole” responsibility for currency policy.  Hildebrand has refused to be drawn on whether policy makers
would consider intervening again. The central bank, which kept
borrowing costs near zero last month, lost $21 billion in 2010
because of its intervention attempts.  SNB Vice President Thomas Jordan said late yesterday in
Zurich that policy makers are “monitoring the euro-franc
 exchange rate  very closely” and are “very concerned” about
the recent development. He declined to say whether the central
bank would consider intervening in  currency markets  again.  It “wouldn’t be much use” if the SNB tried to weaken the
franc through renewed currency purchases, said  Alexander Koch ,
an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “A lot of investors
are using Switzerland as the only European haven. The SNB can’t
do anything because market forces are too powerful.”  Union Talks  In an  SNB survey  of 210 companies published last month, 48
percent of respondents said they were “experiencing negative
effects” from the franc’s gain. Companies in the chemicals,
metals and machinery industries were among the worst hit and a
“large majority” have responded by cutting jobs and wages,
moving production abroad and raising prices, the SNB said.  As companies battle to protect profits, Ewald Ackermann, a
spokesman for the Bern-based Labor Union Federation, the largest
 umbrella organization  representing 16 unions, said he expects
the number of firms seeking talks on measures such as longer
work hours to increase in the coming months. “We’re trying to
prevent these measures, but there’s a certain resistance,” he
said. “They should have never let the franc appreciate that
much. The largest part of this problem will be dealt with on the
backs of workers.”  Swissmem’s Hess, who is also chairman of Flamatt,
Switzerland-based  Comet Holding AG (COTN) , the world’s largest maker of
X-ray machines, said things will get worse before improving.  “The franc has become the pawn of speculators in an
extremely volatile environment and we’ll only see in a year how
many companies went bankrupt,” he said. “Still, it’s not the
first time we’re facing a difficult passage. We’ll have to find
a way to cope.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  