-- 
Most Swiss Stocks Climb After Three-Day Drop; UBS, Credit Suisse Advance

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-07-13T16:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/swiss-stocks-rise-snapping-three-day-slide-credit-suisse-ubs-lead-gains.html
Most stocks in Switzerland climbed,
halting three days of losses for the  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , as
 Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
is prepared to take additional action to support the economy.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s biggest
banks, gained at least 0.9 percent.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s
largest maker of power-transmission gear, increased 2.2 percent.
 Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the biggest maker of computer mice,
dropped to its lowest level in nine years.  The SMI, a measure of the largest and most actively traded
companies, rose 0.2 percent to 6,025.23 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Zurich as almost three stocks advanced for each that fell.
The gauge has tumbled 10 percent since its February high as U.S.
manufacturing and job reports missed forecasts and concern grew
that the European debt crisis is spreading. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also increased 0.2 percent today.  “We are seeing a bit of a recovery after two days of heavy
losses, but investors still seem hesitant to re-enter the market
even though there are some good opportunities around,” Marc Hofmann, a sales trader at Kepler Capital Markets SA, said.
“The market will experience another setback as there are no
signs yet of a good solution for the debt crisis.”  Bernanke told Congress that the U.S. central bank is
prepared to take additional action, including buying more
 government bonds , if the economy appears to be in danger of
stalling.  ‘Prepared to Respond’  “The possibility remains that the recent economic weakness
may prove more persistent than expected and that deflationary
risks might reemerge, implying a need for additional policy
support,” Bernanke said in prepared testimony before the House
Financial Services Committee in Washington. “The Federal
Reserve remains prepared to respond should economic developments
indicate that an adjustment of monetary policy would be
appropriate.”  China’s economy and industrial output expanded more than
analysts had predicted. The country’s gross domestic product
rose 9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said in Beijing today. The median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists called for GDP to climb
9.3 percent. Industrial output advanced 15.1 percent in June,
its largest gain since May 2010.  Ireland joined Portugal and  Greece  as the third euro-area
nation to have its  credit rating  reduced to below investment
grade as European Union finance ministers struggled to contain
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Ireland Debt Downgrade  Moody’s cut Ireland to Ba1 from Baa3 late yesterday, saying
that Ireland may need additional financing from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund . The ratings firm also said that
investors may have to share in losses before Ireland can return
to the private market to borrow.  UBS climbed 0.9 percent to 14.12 Swiss francs after Morgan
Stanley analysts including Huw van Steenis named the lender as
one of their most preferred banks. Credit Suisse gained 1.2
percent to 30.93 francs.  ABB increased 2.2 percent to 21.58 francs. A gauge of
European industrial goods and services companies was among the
best performers of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index today, rising 1.7 percent.  Kuehne + Nagel International AG, the world’s largest sea-
freight forwarder, gained 1.4 percent to 119.70 francs.  Adecco
SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest supplier of temporary workers, rose 1.6
percent to 52.65 francs, the most in almost two weeks.  Logitech dropped 2.9 percent to 8.46 francs, the stock’s
lowest price since October 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  