-- 
U.K. Long-Term Finances ‘Unsustainable’ Without Action, Budget Office Says

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-13T15:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-k-long-term-finances-unsustainable-without-action-budget-office-says.html
Britain’s long-term public finances
are on an unsustainable path without tax increases or spending
cuts as an ageing population boosts expenditure on health, care
and pensions, the government’s fiscal watchdog said.  Governments will need to tighten fiscal policy after March
2017 by 3 percent of gross domestic product, the  Office for
Budget Responsibility  said. Chairman  Robert Chote  said the
report doesn’t require a policy response from the current
government.  “Nothing we say today should be construed as a call for a
bigger fiscal tightening over the next four years,” Chote told
reporters in London today. “But an ageing population does have
fiscal costs.”  The absence of tighter policy would push Britain’s net debt
above 100 percent of economic output by about 2058 from
66 percent this year, the OBR said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s program of
cuts won’t be enough to keep the deficit from increasing again
after 2015, with health-care costs projected to increase to 9.8
percent of economic output by 2061 from 7.4 percent in 2016, the
OBR said.  Long-term care for the elderly will increase to 2 percent
of GDP from 1.3 percent in 2016 and state-pension costs will
rise to 7.9 percent from 5.5 percent, it projected.  Spending on education will remain at about 5 percent
of GDP during that same period while spending on pensions for
public-sector workers will drop to 1.4 percent of output from 2
percent in 2016. The government says it is reducing those
pensions because they have become unaffordable.  Pension Liabilities  The Treasury today published figures showing that Britain’s
public-sector pension liabilities reached 1.1 trillion pounds
($1.75 trillion) last year.  The estimates, which aim to replicate accounting standards
used by large publicly traded companies, show that pension
liabilities of the public workforce reached about 80 percent of
gross domestic product in the fiscal year that ended in March
2010. Existing accounting methods put that liability at 770
billion pounds in the 2008 fiscal year.  “Almost 260 billion of this increase had nothing to do
with the prospective size of public-service pension payments,”
Chote said. “Instead, it reflected a fall in the so-called
discount rate used to convert the flow of future payments into
an upfront sum. Next year the discount rate will rise, pushing
the liability back down again.”  The new accounts also show that Britain has liabilities of
40 billion pounds from private finance initiative projects.
Previous accounts showed that liability was 5 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  