-- 
Pound Declines as Jobless Claims Soar, Denting Prospects for U.K. Recovery

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-13T16:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-k-pound-declines-against-higher-yielding-counterparts-as-stocks-rebound.html
The pound fell against the euro as a
report showed the number of Britons filing jobless-benefit
claims increased at the fastest pace in more than two years,
fueling concern that the economic recovery is stalling.  Sterling snapped three days of gains versus the 17-nation
currency. Jobless claims rose by 24,500 last month, the biggest
increase since May 2009, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in London. The median forecast of 21 economists in a
Bloomberg News Survey was for a gain of 15,000. The pound surged
against the dollar after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said policy makers will provide stimulus if needed.  “The overall theme is that we are going through a lean
period where unemployment is going to stay relatively high,”
said Shant Movsesian, a strategist in London at 4Cast Ltd., a
research company that counts central banks among its
subscribers. “Sterling will take a hit on broader  risk aversion 
and its own local problems.”  The pound weakened 0.2 percent to 87.96 pence per euro as
of 4:35 p.m. in  London , halting gains that pushed it yesterday
to the strongest level since June 16. It was 1.2 percent
stronger at $1.6104, after weakening yesterday to $1.5781, the
lowest level since Jan. 26.  Sterling has dropped 6.5 percent in the past year against
nine developed-market peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, the second biggest decline after the
dollar.  U.K. government bonds fell, with the 10-year yield rising
three basis points to 3.12 percent. The yield fell to 2.93
percent yesterday, the least since October 26. The two-year gilt
yield was at 0.71 percent.  Interest-Rate Bets  The pound declined and gilts rose this year amid
speculation that slowing economic growth will limit the  Bank of
England ’s ability to raise rates, while the  Federal Reserve  ends
its bond-purchase stimulus program and the  European Central Bank 
tightens monetary policy.  Reports yesterday showed inflation unexpectedly slowed and
retail sales slid in June, prompting investors to reduce bets
that the bank of England will increase  interest rates  from a
record low, even as inflation runs at more than twice its 2
percent target. Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent from a year
earlier, the Statistics office said.  Inflation “should fall back towards the target during the
next two years,” Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  wrote in
a foreword to the central bank’s annual report released in
London on July 11. The British economy probably grew just 0.1
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months,
the National Institute for Economic and Social Research said
last week.  ‘Bearishness Peaked’  “The degree of bearishness on the U.K. has somewhat peaked
a little bit,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior currency
strategist at  Societe Generale  in London. “People have
underestimated the propensity of the dollar to weaken.”  Gilts have returned investors 1.9 percent since the end of
June, compared with a 3.7 percent decline by Italian bonds,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have
handed investors a 2 percent loss, the indexes show.  Short-sterling futures rose today, pushing the implied
yield on the September futures contract down three basis points
to 0.89 percent, a sign that investors are reducing wagers on
higher borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  