-- 
U.K. Offshore Drilling Falls to Nine-Year Low, Deloitte Says

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-07-14T15:32:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-k-s-north-sea-drilling-falls-to-nine-year-low-deloitte-says.html
Oil companies  operating in the U.K.
 North Sea  drilled 43 percent fewer wells in the first half, in
part because of a tax increase,  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  said.  Operators drilled 20 exploration and appraisal wells in the
period, down from 35 a year earlier, Deloitte said today in its
North West Europe Review compiled by the consultant’s  Petroleum
Services Group . That’s the lowest rate since 2002.  “The reduction in activity is concerning,” Graham Sadler,
a managing partner at Deloitte, said in an e-mailed statement,
attributing the decline to a “lack of business confidence” and
the U.K.’s “shifting fiscal regime.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised taxes on
oil-production profits to 62 percent from 50 percent in this
year’s budget to pay for a lower duty on gasoline.  BP Plc (BP/)  and  BG
Group Plc (BG/)  were among producers who said the increase would curb
future investment in U.K. oil and gas fields.  The latest business survey “showed a 20 percent drop in
confidence across the exploration, production and supply chain
sectors,” Mike Tholen, economics and commercial director at  Oil
& Gas U.K. , an industry lobby group, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “It is imperative that the economics of less
attractive projects are quickly aided by changes to the tax
regime” and exploration is encouraged.  This month, the government increased tax allowances for
some North Sea project investment, prompting Norwegian producer
 Statoil ASA (STL)  to resume work on the Mariner field development.  “The negative trend is not reflected everywhere in the
continental shelf, with Norway recording a 10 percent increase
on their second-quarter average for the last decade,” Deloitte
said. “The Netherlands also reported consistent drilling levels
for the year to date compared to 2010.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  