-- 
Moody’s Places U.S. on Review for Downgrade As Debt Talks Stall

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-13T22:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-s-rating-placed-on-review-for-downgrade-by-moody-s-as-debt-talks-stall.html
Moody’s Investors Service put the
U.S. under review for a credit rating downgrade as talks to
raise the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit stall, adding
to concern that political gridlock will lead to a default.  The Aaa ratings of financial institutions directly linked
to the U.S. government, including  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac , the
 Federal Home Loan Banks , and the Federal Farm Credit Banks, were
also put on review for cuts, Moody’s said in a statement today.  The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was put on review for the
first time since 1995 on concern the debt limit will not be
raised in time to prevent a missed payment of interest or
principal on outstanding bonds and notes even though the risk
remains low, Moody’s said. The rating would likely be reduced to
the Aa range and there is no assurance that Moody’s would return
its top rating even if a default is quickly cured.  “It certainly underscores the importance of passing the
debt ceiling and not putting us in default status, and making
sure there’s a longer term fiscal plan to contain spending and
the deficit we’ve been running up over the last few years,”
said  Anthony Cronin , a Treasury bond trader at Societe General
SA in New York, one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with
the  Federal Reserve . “Maybe it’s the impetus to say we’ll need
more of a concession.”  Dollar, Bonds  The dollar weakened and Treasuries were little changed
after the Moody’s statement. IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s
Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the currencies
of six U.S. trading partners, including the euro, yen and pound,
slid for a second day, shedding 1.1 percent.  The 10-year note yield was little changed at 2.88 percent
at 5:31 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices, after increasing earlier as much as eight basis points
to 2.96 percent. The yield dropped to 2.81 percent yesterday,
the lowest since Dec. 1. The price of the 3.125 percent security
due in May 2021 declined 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 102 2/32.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he has taken
steps to prevent a federal default until Aug. 2, using
accounting measures that involve two retirement funds. The U.S.
reached its borrowing limit on May 16.  The Moody’s announcement is a “timely reminder” and that
Congress must “move quickly” to avoid default, the Treasury said
in a statement today.  Debt Talks  “What we’re looking for is a raising of the limit. It
doesn’t matter the process that they get there,”  Steven Hess ,
the senior credit officer at Moody’s in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  “The rating outlook will be determined by
the longer-term debt trajectory.”  Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell proposed a “last
choice option” yesterday that effectively would grant President
Barack Obama power to raise the debt limit in installments.
McConnell’s plan would let the president raise the limit in
three stages unless Congress disapproves by a two-thirds
majority, while Obama would also be required to propose
offsetting spending cuts. The spending reductions would be
advisory, and the debt-ceiling increase would occur regardless
of whether lawmakers enact the cuts.  “I think it reflects what we all know -- that this is a
serious time and serious discussions and we can’t continue to
have people not contribute to solving this problem,” said
Senator  Patty Murray  of  Washington , the No. 4 Democratic leader
in the chamber.  Boehner Reaction  “As Speaker Boehner has warned for months, if the White
House does not take action soon to address our nation’s debt
crisis by reining in spending, the markets may do it for us,”
said  Michael Steel , spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner ,
Republican of  Ohio . “This action by Moody’s today reinforces
the Speaker’s warning.”  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. government on notice on
April 18 that it risks losing its AAA credit rating unless
policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits
and the national debt. The firm said at the time that there’s a
one-in-three chance that the rating might be cut within two
years and that its “baseline assumption” is that Congress and
the Obama administration will come to terms on a plan to reduce
record deficits.  S&P would lower its sovereign top-level AAA ranking to D,
the last rung on its scale if the U.S. can’t pay its payments
because of a failure to raise the debt ceiling, John Chambers,
chairman of the company’s sovereign rating committee, said June
30. Moody’s said it would probably assign a position in the Aa
range, or within three steps of its highest level.  The U.S. is among 17 countries, from  Australia  to  Canada  to
Switzerland, rated Aaa by Moody’s. S&P gives 18 countries its
top ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  