-- 
U.S. Stocks Pare Advance on Concern Debt-Ceiling Deal Will Fail

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-13T21:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-google-amazon-netflix-advance-on-china.html
U.S. stocks pared gains, almost
erasing a 164-point rally in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
after the Associated Press reported that House Speaker  John
Boehner  said it’s a “crapshoot” whether the federal debt limit
will be boosted if an agreement isn’t reached by Aug. 2.  AP later updated its story, quoting Boehner as saying
“it’s a crapshoot” to determine what would happen if the limit
isn’t increased. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.3
percent to 1,317.72 at 4 p.m. in New York. Earlier, it climbed
1.4 percent after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
he’s prepared to provide more stimulus if needed and China’s
economic growth beat estimates. The Dow rose 44.73 points, or
0.4 percent, to 12,491.61.  “The market took the reported information for what it is
worth and traded off sharply on it,” said  Philip Orlando , the
New York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which oversees $354.9 billion.  Stock-index futures indicated the market could erase
today’s gains when trading resumes tomorrow.  S&P 500  futures
expiring in September dropped 0.7 percent to 1,303.40 at 5:39
p.m. in New York after Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut
the American government’s Aaa credit rating. Moody’s began a
review as talks to raise the government’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit stall, adding to concern that political gridlock will lead
to a default.  Regular Session  During the regular trading session, materials producers in
the S&P 500 added 0.8 percent after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke said he’s prepared to provide more stimulus if
needed and China’s economic growth beat estimates.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  climbed at least 0.8 percent as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended buying the shares.  The S&P 500 snapped a three-day slide of 2.9 percent, which
was the biggest in more than five weeks. The slump was fueled by
concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread and American lawmakers
will fail to boost the debt limit. The gauge had climbed 5.9
percent over the previous two weeks, the biggest gain since
October 2009.  Stocks jumped early today after Bernanke told Congress the
central bank is prepared to take additional action, including
buying more government bonds, if the economy appears to be in
danger of stalling. The Fed last month completed a program to
buy $600 billion of Treasury bonds that aimed to stimulate the
economy by reducing borrowing costs, boosting stock prices and
spurring  consumer spending .  ‘Ready to Respond’  “The Fed stands ready to respond,” said  Stephen Wood , the
New York-based chief market strategist for Russell Investments,
which manages about $161 billion. “The market is assessing that
the Fed has a few more monetary bullets left in the gun and that
would mean a more positive environment for equities because it’s
creating liquidity and a lower interest rate environment.”  Gauges of materials and energy producers rose the most
among 10 groups in the S&P 500, climbing 0.8 percent and 0.7
percent, respectively, as companies most-dependent on economic
growth led gains in the index. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index
of manufacturers, commodity producers and transportation stocks
increased 0.8 percent.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  advanced 1.6 percent to
$108.64.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  