-- 
Nuclear Plants Need Stronger Disaster Safeguards, Panel Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T19:19:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-s-nuclear-plants-should-upgrade-safety-task-force.html
Nuclear-power plant owners need to
upgrade protections against earthquakes, floods and power
losses, according to recommendations from a U.S. panel studying
lessons learned from  Japan ’s reactor crisis.  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  should require owners to
have at least eight hours of backup power at reactors, provide
emergency systems to spray water into pools holding spent fuel
and install more reliable venting for reactors similar to those
that failed in Japan in March, the advisory group said in its
report yesterday.  “The task force believes that voluntary industry
initiatives should not serve as a substitute for regulatory
requirements,” the panel of NRC staff members said in the 92-
page report.  The commission appointed the task force to review U.S.
safety after the disaster at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant north of the Japanese capital. The
station suffered three reactor meltdowns after a 9-magnitude
earthquake and tsunami on March 11 knocked out power and backup
generators, crippling its cooling systems and triggering the
worst nuclear catastrophe since Chernobyl in 1986.  The panel’s recommendations would replace the “patchwork
of regulatory requirements” developed “piece-by-piece over the
decades” with a “logical, systematic and coherent regulatory
framework,” according to the report.  Dry Casks  The panel didn’t urge the NRC to require that spent fuel be
moved to so-called dry casks after being stored in cooling
pools, a measure backed by environmental groups such as the
 Union of Concerned Scientists  and some U.S. lawmakers. Casks
would be the costliest step among potential plant-safety changes
that may total more than $10 billion, according to a Bloomberg
Government Briefing in April.  “More needs to be done to fully address safety concerns,
such as moving spent fuel to dry-cask storage,” Senator  Barbara Boxer , a  California  Democrat and chairman of the Environment and
Public Works Committee, said today in a statement. Boxer has
urged the commission to review safety at the San Onofre plant,
owned by  Edison International (EIX)  of Rosemead, California, and the
Diablo Canyon plant, owned by  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  of  San Francisco . Both
facilities are located near seismic fault lines in California.  While the report didn’t attach a price tag to its
recommendations, a Republican senator said it may lead to costly
and unnecessary burdens on energy providers.  “I am concerned that it will become another weapon in the
Obama administration’s attack on affordable energy, or an excuse
to unleash a regulatory agenda that will only harm our
economy,” Senator James Inhofe of  Oklahoma , the top Republican
on the Environment and Public Works Committee, said in a
statement.  Public Hearing  Commissioners plan to discuss the safety report at a
meeting July 19, and the  task force  scheduled a public meeting
for July 28. The NRC intends to issue an in-depth report in
about six months.  The panel recommended that nuclear plant operators be
required to bolster back-up power systems to continue cooling
the reactor core and spent fuel during prolonged power outages.
Plants would be required to be able to generate emergency power
for eight hours -- double the current minimum -- supplemented by
equipment such as diesel generators that would be trucked in to
withstand a 72-hour outage.  Maintaining power is critical to ensuring that control-room
dials don’t go dark, a failure that made it impossible for
Fukushima workers to detect rising water temperatures in spent-
fuel ponds, the task force said.  The panel recommended that plants be equipped with a pump
system capable of withstanding earthquakes to supply water.  Back-Up Power  U.S. operators aren’t required to maintain back-up power
when a reactor is shut and emptied of fuel, even though heat
loads in cooling ponds are greatest soon after the fuel has been
transferred from a reactor. That was the case at Fukushima Dai-
Ichi Unit 4, which suffered a hydrogen explosion after spent
fuel assemblies melted down.  The nuclear industry should have removed much of the waste
from cooling pools as a safety measure after the 9/11 terrorist
attacks in 2001, according to Jim Riccio, a nuclear-policy
analyst in Washington with the environmentalist group
Greenpeace.  “We’ve had 10 years to get the waste out of the pools, and
we haven’t done it,” he said in an interview today.  About 65,000 metric tons of spent nuclear fuel is stored in
the U.S., with about 4,000 tons in dry casks and the remainder
in pools,  Hugh Wynne , senior vice president and senior research
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , said in a May
13 research note.  Exelon Cost  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , which owns the largest nuclear fleet in the
U.S., would have to pay as much as $1 billion to move its spent
fuel to dry-cask storage, according to Wynne.  “We will continue to identify and incorporate lessons
learned from the Japan events and we constantly look for
opportunities to further improve the safety of our plants,”
Marshall Murphy, a spokesman for Exelon, said in a statement.
“We are looking forward to participating with the NRC as they
evaluate the report and the proposed recommendations.”  U.S. nuclear plants “do not pose an imminent risk to the
public health and safety,” the task force said.  The advisory panel said a sequence of events similar to the
Japan disaster is “unlikely to occur” in the U.S. because
reactor owners already have in place safety measures “reducing
the likelihood of core damage and radiological releases.”  The Fukushima disaster displaced 50,000 households in the
evacuation zone around the plant, about 135 miles (217
kilometers) north of Tokyo, because of radiation leaks into the
air, soil and sea.  Regulatory Changes  NRC commissioners have said they expect the Japanese crisis
to lead to regulatory changes. Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said in
June that government inspectors and U.S. companies had
underestimated the dangers of natural disasters.  Requirements for plant owners may be adopted through
rulemaking, which may take several years, or more rapidly
through agency orders.  The task force recommended that the agency order plant
owners to re-evaluate reactors’ protection against floods and
earthquakes and update them “if necessary.” The commission
should also take swift action to ensure that reactors similar to
the  General Electric Co. (GE)  models that failed at Fukushima have
“reliable hardened vent designs” and that all plant owners
have sufficient electrical power and cooling sprays for their
spent-fuel pools, according to the panel.  “What Fukushima shows is the cost of not doing some of the
upgrades,”  David Lochbaum , director of the Nuclear Safety
Project for the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental
group based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said today on a
conference call with reporters.  Regional Centers  The U.S. nuclear-power industry separately is considering a
network of regional centers stocked with portable pumps and
generators, radiation-monitoring equipment, spare batteries,
flashlights and anti-contamination clothing that would be
delivered to reactors within 24 hours of an emergency.  The plan may cost the industry an average of $8 million to
$10 million for each of the 104 commercial U.S. reactors in the
next 10 years, or about $1 billion, Adrian Heymer, director of
strategic programs at the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a
Washington-based group, said in a July 6 interview.  The U.S. nuclear-power industry spent more than $2 billion
on additional security following the 9/11 attacks, Heymer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  