-- 
Moody’s Downgrade Warning Adds Pressure on U.S. Debt Deal

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-14T14:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-s-debt-rating-placed-on-review-for-downgrade-by-moody-s-as-talks-stall.html
Moody’s Investors Service raised the
pressure on U.S. lawmakers to increase the government’s $14.3
trillion debt limit by placing the nation’s credit rating under
review for a downgrade.  The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was put on review for the
first time since 1996 on concern the debt threshold won’t be
raised in time to prevent a missed interest or principal payment
on outstanding bonds and notes, even though the risk remains
low, Moody’s said in a statement yesterday. The rating may be
reduced to the Aa range, and there is no assurance Moody’s would
restore its top rating, even if a default is quickly “cured.”  President  Barack Obama  is considering summoning
congressional leaders to Camp David this weekend to work on a
plan to raise the debt ceiling after yesterday’s negotiations on
a deficit-cutting plan of at least $2 trillion stalled,
according to two people familiar with the matter. A default
resulting from a failure to raise the debt limit may lead to
slower economic growth and another financial crisis. Stocks
gained, while the dollar weakened and Treasuries fell.  “It’s obviously very serious in so many different ways,”
said James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Morgan
Stanley in New York, one of 20 primary dealers that trade bonds
with the  Federal Reserve . “Most people still believe there will
be some type of an agreement struck to avoid all this stuff, and
that’s what the market’s banking on.”  Market Reaction  Government bonds yields are at about the lowest this year.
Ten-year yields remain below 3 percent, compared with an average
of 7 percent during the past four decades.  U.S. stock gained as investors looked past the warning to
government data that showed retail sales unexpectedly increased
and jobless claims fell more than economists estimated,
bolstering confidence in the economy. The  Standard & Poor’s  500
Index increased 0.3 percent as of 10:43 a.m. in New York.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, including the euro, yen and pound, slid for a third
day, dropping 0.2 percent.  The 10-year Treasury yield rose three basis points to 2.92
percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of
the 3.125 percent security due in May 2021 declined 1/4, or
$2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 25/32.  The cost of insuring Treasuries rose five basis points to
54.5 basis points, according to CMA prices for credit-default
swaps.  Other Ratings  The Aaa ratings of financial institutions directly linked
to the U.S. government, including  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac , the
 Federal Home Loan Banks , and the Federal Farm Credit Banks, were
also put on review for cuts, Moody’s said. It also placed 7,000
municipal ratings on review for possible downgrade.  “What we’re looking for is a raising of the limit. It
doesn’t matter the process that they get there,”  Steven Hess ,
the senior credit officer at Moody’s in New York, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell proposed a “last
choice option” on July 12 that effectively would grant Obama
power to raise the debt limit in installments. McConnell’s plan
would let the president raise the limit in three stages unless
Congress disapproves by a two-thirds majority, while Obama would
also be required to propose offsetting spending cuts.  The spending reductions would be advisory, and the debt-
ceiling increase would occur regardless of whether lawmakers
enact the cuts.  Obama’s Exit  Obama “abruptly” walked out of yesterday’s White House
meeting with legislative leaders on the federal deficit, House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Republican from Virginia, told
reporters.  “This report underscores the warning I outlined months
ago,” House Speaker  John Boehner , Republican of Ohio, said in a
statement yesterday. “If the White House does not take action
soon to address our nation’s debt crisis by reining in spending,
the markets may do it for us.”  “I think it reflects what we all know -- that this is a
serious time and serious discussions and we can’t continue to
have people not contribute to solving this problem,” Senator
Patty Murray of  Washington , the No. 4 Democratic leader in the
chamber, said in an interview in Washington yesterday.  Reaching a Deal  Standard & Poor’s put the U.S. government on notice on
April 18 that it risks losing its AAA credit rating unless
policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits
and the national debt. The firm said at the time that there’s a
one-in-three chance that the rating might be cut within two
years and that its “baseline assumption” is that Congress and
the Obama administration will come to terms on a plan to reduce
record deficits.  S&P would lower its sovereign top-level AAA ranking to D,
the last rung on its scale, if the U.S. can’t make its payments
because of a failure to raise the debt ceiling, John Chambers,
chairman of the sovereign rating committee, said June 30.  The U.S. is among 17 countries, from  Australia  to  Canada  to
 Switzerland , rated Aaa by Moody’s. S&P gives 18 countries its
top ranking.  It’s likely that the debt ceiling will be raised without a
credible plan for debt reduction, pushing yields higher for
longer-term securities, according to Bank of America Corp.  Debt Trajectory  A debt-ceiling increase before Aug. 2 would lead yields on
30-year Treasury bonds to rise faster than five-year notes,
reflecting increased concern that the long-term fiscal situation
will worsen, wrote analysts led by  Priya Misra , head of U.S.
rates strategy in  New York  at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “The rating outlook will be determined by the longer-term
debt trajectory,” Hess said yesterday of the Moody’s rating.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he has taken
steps to prevent a federal default until Aug. 2, using
accounting measures that involve two retirement funds. The U.S.
reached its borrowing limit on May 16.  The Moody’s announcement is a “timely reminder” that
Congress must “move quickly” to avoid default, the Treasury
said in a statement.  The risk of a default is causing concern in  Asia . China is
the biggest foreign holder of Treasuries and  Japan  ranks No. 2.  Dagong Global Credit Rating Co., a Chinese company, said
today that it was putting its A+ rating for the U.S., the fifth-
highest level, on “negative watch,” citing the nation’s
deteriorating ability to repay debt.  Chinese Perspective  China  needs to “seriously assess the risks” of its
holdings as the U.S. faces a “worrisome” economic outlook, Yu Bin, a senior government researcher, told reporters at a
briefing in Beijing today.  The nation hopes the U.S. will adopt “responsible policy
to ensure investors’ interests,” Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said at a separate briefing.  Demand has been higher than average this week at the
Treasury’s auctions of three- and 10-year notes this week as
investors continue to seek a U.S. refuge from  Europe ’s worsening
sovereign-debt crisis.  While yields remain low, investors remain concerned they
will increase as the borrowing deadline approaches.  Yields on 10-year notes would rise about 37 basis points if
the U.S. government temporarily misses a debt payment while
promising to make bondholders whole as soon as the debt limit
was raised, according to the average estimate of 45 JPMorgan
Chase & Co. clients that were surveyed by the firm. Foreign
investors forecast yields would rise 55 basis points.  An increase in Treasury yields of 50 basis points would
reduce U.S. economic growth by about 0.4 percentage points,
JPMorgan said in a report, citing Fed research and data.  “It certainly underscores the importance of passing the
debt ceiling and not putting us in default status, and making
sure there’s a longer-term fiscal plan to contain spending and
the deficit we’ve been running up over the last few years,”
Anthony Cronin, a trader at primary dealer Societe Generale SA
in New York, said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  