-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Advances to All-Time High

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-13T12:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-advances-to-all-time-high.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Advances to a Record as Debt, Growth Concerns Spur Demand  Gold climbed to a record as concern about  Europe ’s debt
woes and a lower dollar boosted demand for the precious metal as
an alternative currency.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  International Mining Machinery Said to Get Takeover Approach  International Mining Machinery Holdings Ltd., the Chinese
maker of coal-mining equipment that suspended its shares from
trading yesterday, has been approached by a U.S. company about a
takeover, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Power Finance May Raise 20 Billion Rupees in Bonds by September  Power Finance Corp.,  India ’s largest lender to utilities,
may raise as much as 20 billion rupees ($319 million) by
September through domestic bond sales.  Seven-Month Wait for Aluminum Drives LME to Review Rules (2)  When the London Metal Exchange was founded in the days of
steamships, contracts were priced three months out to reflect
the time it took to get tin from  Southeast Asia  or copper from
 Chile . These days, it can take twice as long to get aluminum out
of an LME-approved warehouse in  Detroit .  Corn Imports by  China  Seen More Than Doubling to Cap Prices (1)  China, the second-largest corn user, may more than double
purchases to a record as it seeks to boost stockpiles and cool
the fastest inflation in three years.  JSW Adds Fourth Furnace, Aiming to Become India’s Top Steelmaker  JSW Steel Ltd. fired up a fourth blast furnace at its
factory in southern India, aiming to expand capacity by 47
percent and become the nation’s largest producer of the alloy.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Aluminum Stockpiles Climb 1.4% to Nine-Month High in  Japan  (1)  Aluminum stockpiles in Japan gained 1.4 percent in June
from a month earlier to the highest level in nine months,
trading company Marubeni Corp. said today.  Copper Rises for Second Day as Chinese Growth Exceeds Estimates  Copper rose for a second day in London after economic
growth topped estimates in China, the world’s largest consumer
of the metal.  China’s Copper, Aluminum Production Gain to Records in June (2)  Copper and aluminum production in China climbed to records
in June as high prices, ample raw materials and power supplies
prompted smelters to raise output.  MINING:  Rio’s Rossing Uranium Mine Halted by Pay Strike, Namibian Says  Production at Rio Tinto Plc’s Rossing uranium mine in
 Namibia  was halted yesterday after 500 workers stopped work to
demand performance bonuses, the Namibian reported, citing Ismael
Kasuto, chairman of the mine’s branch of the Mineworkers Union
of Namibia, a labor union.  Zimbabwe  Rejects Black Empowerment Plan From New Dawn Mining (1)  New Dawn Mining Corp., operator of four producing gold
mines in Zimbabwe, became the first foreign miner to have its
proposals on black empowerment rejected by the government.  South African Mining Debate Scaring Investors, Cutifani Says (1)  South Africa  is scaring investors and threatening  job
creation  with escalating arguments over calls for
nationalization of the mining industry, AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Indian Gold Investment Seen Extending to Record on Incomes (1)  Record investment demand for gold in India will keep
climbing as higher incomes spur buying even with the metal
trading near an all-time high, according to Reliance Capital
Asset Management Ltd.  China June Base Metals, Precious Metals Production (Table)  The following table lists China’s production of copper,
other non-ferrous metals, and precious metals in June, as well
as for the first half of this year.  Buy Gold ETF Options Amid Distrust of Currencies, Jefferies Says  Investors should trade options on a fund tracking gold
because distrust of currencies will drive up the metal’s price,
Jefferies Group Inc. said.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Gains as Lower U.S. Soybean Inventory May Boost Demand  Palm oil climbed the most in more than two months on
speculation that a decline in U.S. soybean stockpiles may boost
demand for the tropical cooking oil.  Coffee Rises as Vietnamese Supplies May Be Limited; Cocoa Gains  Coffee rose for the first time this week in  London  on
concerns over limited supplies from  Vietnam , the world’s largest
producer of robusta beans. Cocoa jumped.  Ukraine Harvested 6.4 Million Tons of Grain, Deputy PM Says  Ukraine harvested more than 6.4 million metric tons of
grain so far, First Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klyuev told a
government meeting in Kiev.  Corn Imports by China Seen More Than Doubling to Cool Inflation  China, the second-largest corn user, may more than double
purchases to a record as it seeks to boost stockpiles and cool
the fastest inflation in three years.  SHIPPING:  Oil-Tanker Surplus Shrinks in Persian Gulf, According to Survey  The supply of oil tankers seeking 2 million-barrel cargoes
of crude from Middle East ports shrank in the past week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of shipbrokers and owners.  Russia Recovers 100th Body After Sinking of Tour Boat Bulgaria  Russian rescue workers recovered the 100th body from the
July 10 sinking of an unlicensed tourist boat in the Volga
River, the Emergency Ministry said.  ECONOMIES:  Dollar, Franc Weaken on China Growth, Fed Minutes; Euro Rises  The dollar and the Swiss franc weakened against most of
their major peers monitored by Bloomberg as Asian stocks rose
and Treasuries declined amid renewed demand for assets perceived
to be higher risk.  China’s Stocks Rebound After Economic Growth Exceeds Estimates  China’s stocks rebounded from the biggest drop in seven
weeks after the economy expanded more than estimated last
quarter, easing concerns the central bank’s policy tightening
measures are curbing growth.  China June Home Sales Rise 31%, Boosted by Sales in Small Cities  China’s June housing transactions rose 31 percent from May
as homebuyers defied government curbs and developers posted
gains from sales in smaller cities.  Yuan Intervention Eases as Slowdown Curbs Inflows: China Credit  China’s central bank bought the fewest dollars in four
months to stem gains in the yuan in June as slowing growth in
 Asia ’s biggest economy damped capital inflows and reduced
pressure for the currency to appreciate.  China Economy Grows 9.5%, Exceeding Economists’ Estimates (2)  China’s economy  and industrial output expanded more than
analysts predicted, driving up stocks across Asia as the nation
maintains momentum after monetary tightening to cool inflation.  ECB Bond-Buying Halt Tested as Italy Plans Auction: Euro Credit  The  European Central Bank ’s resolve in staying out of the
 bond market  since March is being tested as soaring interest
rates endanger the funding programs of Europe’s most indebted
nations.  Spain May Need Deeper Spending Cuts in 2012, Salgado Says (1)  Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said the nation
might need to endure even deeper spending cuts next year than
those approved by Parliament yesterday as it battles to stave
off Europe’s debt crisis.  Christchurch ‘War Zone’ Forces Out Locals as Areas Condemned (1)  Paul Ward imagined retiring in his “dream home” on
Christchurch’s landmark river, the Avon, where he watched his
two children grow up. Instead he’s selling his five-bedroom
house to the government so it can be demolished along with half
the suburb.  OTHER MARKETS:  Emerging Stocks, U.S. Futures Rise on China; Italian Bonds Gain  Emerging-market stocks rose for the first time in four days
and U.S. index futures gained after China’s economic growth beat
estimates. The euro rallied and Italian bonds advanced, while
gold approached a record.  Dollar, Franc Weaken on China Growth, Fed Minutes; Euro Rises  The dollar and the Swiss franc weakened against the euro
for the first time in four days as Asian stocks rose and
Treasuries declined amid renewed demand for higher-yielding
assets.  European Stocks Snap Three-Day Drop; Carmakers, Burberry Gain  European stocks were little changed, after three days of
losses for the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as China posted
economic growth that beat forecasts and Ireland’s debt was
downgraded to junk. U.S. index futures and Asian shares climbed.  Oil Trades Near Three-Day High on China Economic Growth, Output  Oil traded near a three-day high on speculation demand for
crude will increase after China’s economy grew at a faster pace
than expected in the second quarter and as the  International
Energy Agency  forecast rising consumption.  SPORTS:  Tottenham Hints at Modric Exit With Bid for Granero: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Berlusconi Committed to Milan, Not Planning to Dilute Stake  Italy’s soccer champion AC Milan says its owner, Italian
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, is committed to keeping the
club and speculation about plans to dilute his stake are
inaccurate.  Newcastle’s Barton Barred From U.S. Tour Because of Crime Record  Newcastle soccer player Joey Barton’s criminal record
prevented him joining his teammates on the club’s pre-season
U.S. tour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  