-- 
U.S. to Face Japan in Bid for Record Third Women’s World Cup Soccer Title

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-07-13T23:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-s-defeats-france-3-1-to-advance-to-women-s-soccer-world-cup-final-game.html
The U.S. will seek a record third
Women’s  World Cup  soccer title against first-time finalist  Japan 
after both reached the championship game with 3-1 wins.  The U.S. and Japan took control of yesterday’s semifinals
with a pair of second-half goals in quick succession. The U.S.
beat  France  and Japan ousted  Sweden  to reach the July 17 final
in  Frankfurt .  The U.S. last played for the title when it won its second
World Cup in 1999 on a penalty shootout against  China . Japan
joins China as the only Asian nations to reach the final of the
quadrennial  tournament .  “At this point, it’s all about who wants it more,” said
U.S. striker Abby Wambach. “I just have a belief in this team
and everybody feels it.”  Wambach and Alex Morgan scored within three second-half
minutes of each other yesterday after Lauren Cheney opened the
scoring for the U.S. in the ninth minute at Moenchengladbach,
 Germany .  Japan, which upset two-time defending champion and host
Germany in the quarterfinals, similarly took control against
2003 runner-up Sweden with two goals in four minutes midway
through the second half in Frankfurt.  Wambach headed in a 79th-minute goal to put the U.S. 2-1 up
and Morgan chipped over the goalkeeper to complete the scoring.
France’s Sonia Bompastor scored on a long shot in the 55th
minute after Cheney got the opening goal by directing in Heather O’Reilly’s cross.  One Shot, One Goal  France controlled the midfield for much of the first half
while being limited to three shots from distance and the U.S.
scored with its only effort on goal.  The Americans have now beaten France 12 of the 14 times
they’ve played.  The U.S. reached the final four after having a player sent
off against  Brazil  in the quarterfinals and scoring a goal with
seconds remaining in extra time to tie the game and force a
penalty shootout, which it won 5-3.  In addition to its 1999 World Cup triumph, the U.S. won the
inaugural tournament in 1991 and finished third in 1995, 2003,
and 2007.  Japan rallied in front of a near-capacity crowd of 45,434
at Commerzbank Arena in the second semifinal to hand Sweden its
only loss at the 16-nation tournament.  “Our focus is on good passes and ball control,” Japan
coach Norio Sasaki told reporters. “The players did what we
practiced. They moved very well, were very focused and showed a
high level of concentration.”  Sweden Leads  Josefine Oqvist put Sweden ahead with a shot from about 11
yards (10 meters) into the top right corner of the goal.  Japan tied it nine minutes later when Nahomi Kawasumi rose
to head in Aya Miyama’s cross.  After Shinobu Ohno struck the crossbar with a dipping shot
from about 25 yards in the first minute of the second half,
teammate Homare Sawa made it 2-1 with a 60th-minute header. It
was Sawa’s fourth World Cup goal after scoring a hat trick
against  Mexico  in the group stage and put her in a tie for the
 tournament lead  with Brazil’s Marta.  Japan doubled its lead four minutes later when Kawasumi
chipped into an empty net from about 35 yards. Swedish
goalkeeper Hedvig Lindahl had become stranded after rushing out
to the edge of the penalty area to block a shot.  The U.S., which lost 2-1 to Sweden in the group stage, may
struggle to beat Japan in the final, Lindahl said.  “We didn’t perform at our best and we met one of the best
teams in the world,” the Swedish goalie said. “There is no one
who can beat them on passes and technique.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  