-- 
U.S. Mortgage Applications Declined by 5.1% Last Week on Refinancing

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-13T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-s-mortgage-applications-declined-by-5-1-last-week-on-refinancing.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
dropped for a fourth straight week, led by a decline in
refinancing even as borrowing costs dropped.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index fell 5.1 percent
in the period ended July 8 from the prior week, the Washington-
based group reported today. The group’s purchase gauge decreased
2.6 percent, while the refinancing measure dropped 6.2 percent.  Smaller job gains and a tight credit landscape may be
keeping consumers from entering the housing market, preventing a
sustained recovery. At the same time, a surplus of distressed
properties driving prices down could be making it harder for
home owners to refinance current mortgages.  “Without stronger job growth it’s not possible for
consumers to purchase more homes,” Celia Chen, a housing
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. “The other thing
constraining the housing market is that there’s not much
financing available for buyers unless they have excellent
credit. Many folks who would want to buy a house just can’t get
a loan to do that.”  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan fell to
65.6 percent last week from 66.4 percent the prior week.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan fell to 4.55
percent from 4.69 percent the prior week, the biggest drop in
three months. The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage
decreased to 3.68 percent from 3.79 percent, the report showed.  Falling Prices  Other recent data suggests that the industry that helped
fuel the last recession is struggling to improve. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 4 percent
from April 2010, the group reported on June 28. Purchases of
previously owned homes fell in May to the slowest annual rate in
six months, the National Association of Realtors said June 21.  Weak employment gains may be weighing on consumers’ ability
to buy a home. U.S. employers added 18,000 jobs in June, the
fewest in nine months, as the  unemployment rate  climbed to 9.2
percent, the Labor Department reported last week.  Consumer
confidence  dropped in early July from its highest level in 10
weeks, according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  Lagging consumer confidence and stringent loan requirements
are keeping Americans’ from entering the housing market, said
 Stuart Miller , chief executive officer of  Lennar Corp. (LEN)   “Sales remain constrained by available financing and
confidence,” Miller said on a June 23 conference call with
analysts. “Today’s ultra-conservative home finance environment
has been a limiting factor in the normalization of demand and
confidence for both new and existing homes.”  Miami-based Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, reported second-quarter profits that beat analysts’
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  