-- 
U.S., Europeans Blocked Anew at UN Over Syrian Nuclear Plant

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-13T18:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-s-europeans-blocked-anew-at-un-over-syrian-nuclear-plant-1-.html
The U.S. and its European allies at
the  United Nations  are facing the same opposition to punishing
 Syria ’s secret construction of a nuclear facility that has
blocked their efforts to condemn government repression of
protesters.  The Board of Governors of the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  voted on June 9 to report Syria’s violation of non-
proliferation accords to the UN  Security Council . Neville
Whiting, the IAEA’s director of nuclear safeguards for the
 Middle East , is scheduled to brief the council tomorrow on
Syria’s failure to report the facility and refusal to cooperate
with an investigation by the Vienna-based nuclear agency.  Russia is leading opposition in  New York  that will likely
make the briefing and a subsequent private discussion the
 Security Council ’s only involvement in the issue. Recognizing
the division in the 15-member council, the U.S., Britain,
 France , Germany and Portugal haven’t sought a statement or
threatened sanctions against Syria.  The Security Council should play “no role” in the matter,
Russia’s Deputy Ambassador Alexander Pankin said.  “In a crime investigation, if you don’t have a corpse you
don’t have a case,” Pankin said, referring to the fact that
Israel destroyed the then-suspected nuclear reactor in 2007.
“There is nothing there. We are not an investigation team, we
are the Security Council. We deal with imminent or coming
threats.”  ‘Won’t Fly’  Ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri of India, a Security Council
member, said that while he heard that a draft statement might be
circulated to the panel, “it won’t fly.”  Russia  and  China ,
which voted against the IAEA resolution, would block any
proposed statement on the nuclear facility, he said.  Susan Rice, the U.S. ambassador to the UN, acknowledged the
division in the Security Council today by telling reporters that
“there are several members of the council, including some veto-
wielding members, who did not support the referral and who are
unlikely to support a council product.”  India has joined Russia, China and Security Council members
Brazil and  South Africa  in opposing a draft resolution
condemning the repression in Syria. It’s been blocked since late
May.  Asked Brazil’s view of how the Security Council should
handle the Syrian nuclear issue, Ambassador Maria Viotti said
there were “no grounds for doing anything.”  The UN nuclear agency concluded on May 24 that Syria was
probably building a surreptitious nuclear reactor. The
government in Damascus stymied IAEA inspections and limited
access to the bombed site for more than three years.
Investigators reported finding traces of modified uranium
particles at the bombed Dair Alzour site that they said may have
been residue from a reactor.  Syria’s Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari said the Security
Council shouldn’t be discussing the issue. It’s the “IAEA’s
business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  