-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for July 8 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-07-13T14:43:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-july-8-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.2 million barrels per
day during the week ending July 8, 97 thousand barrels per day
below the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at 88.0
percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production decreased last week, averaging nearly 8.9 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging almost 4.5 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 9.0 million barrels per day last
week, down by 854 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
9.2 million barrels per day, 352 thousand barrels per day below
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 752 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 109 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 3.1 million barrels
from the previous week. At 355.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
0.8 million barrels last week and are in the lower limit of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories decreased while
blending components inventories increased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories increased by 3.0 million barrels last week and
are in the upper limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 3.1 million
barrels last week and are below the lower limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 4.3
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 18.9 million barrels per day, down by 1.5 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged 9.2 million
barrels per day, down by 0.9 percent from the same period last
year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged 3.5 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 5.2 percent
from the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 1.4
percent higher over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  