-- 
Mumbai Bombs Kill 21 in Worst India Terrorist Strike Since 2008

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p ,   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-07-13T22:07:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/mumbai-bombs-kill-21-in-worst-india-terrorist-strike-since-2008.html
Three bombs in crowded neighborhoods
of Mumbai,  India ’s financial capital, killed 21 people in the
country’s deadliest terrorist strike since 2008, when a siege by
10 gunmen derailed peace talks with Pakistan.  The blasts in a 20-minute period during the city’s evening
rush hour yesterday also injured 141 people, the home ministry
said in a statement. Mumbai, home to India’s biggest companies,
stock and currency markets and the scene of bombings in 2003 and
2006, remains a “prime target,”  Prithviraj Chavan , chief
minister of Maharashtra state, of which the city is the capital,
said in televised comments.  “Terrorists will obviously attack where it hurts most,”
he said.  Indian officials did not say who may have carried out the
bombings, and there was no claim of responsibility.  The government in  New Delhi  blamed the three-day rampage in
Mumbai in 2008 on Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistan-based group that
has fought Indian forces in disputed Kashmir. That attack, which
targeted international business travelers at luxury hotels as
well as local commuters at the biggest railway station, killed
166 people and led to the snapping of a five-year peace effort
between India and Pakistan that is only now being rebuilt.  The low-intensity and remote-controlled nature of
yesterday’s bombings pointed toward local militants such as the
Indian Mujahedeen group, which claimed attacks in the cities of
New Delhi, Jaipur and Ahmedabad three years ago, the U.S.
political risk assessment firm Stratfor said in an e-mailed
statement. Still, “India tends to point the finger at  Pakistan 
whenever attacks like this occur,” it said.  U.S., Pakistan Condemn Attack  Pakistan’s President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister
 Yousuf Raza Gilani  condemned yesterday’s blasts, according to an
e-mailed statement from the government. U.S. President  Barack Obama  offered “support to India’s efforts to bring the
perpetrators of these terrible crimes to justice,” in a
statement read by White House press secretary  Jay Carney .  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said she will visit
the Indian cities of New Delhi and  Chennai  next week as
previously planned.  “It is more important than ever that we stand with
India,” she said in a statement.  The blasts ripped through the Dadar, Zaveri Bazar and Opera
House areas of the port city of 18 million people, said Home
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, who took charge of internal
security in the aftermath of the 2008 raid. He met with key
security officials in New Delhi and will fly to  Mumbai , the NDTV
channel reported.  Critically Injured  The first and most powerful bomb exploded around 6:50 p.m.,
Jayesh Labdhi, a resident in the Opera House area, said. The
blast damaged cars and motorcycles parked along the street. The
bomb that detonated in Dadar in central Mumbai was planted in a
gray Maruti Suzuki car, Times Now television said, citing
witnesses.  The wounded were taken to city hospitals. “We have made
arrangements with extra beds, medicines and blood bottles,”
said Ajay Jagdale, the doctor in charge at King George Hospital,
which was treating at least 37 people with critical injuries.  India’s two largest stock exchanges that are based in
Mumbai will function as normal today.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
which runs the world’s largest refinery complex, and Tata Sons
Ltd. which controls the nation’s biggest business group by
value, are both based in the city.  “Attacks of this magnitude do not deter foreign investors
or have any lasting economic impact,” said Seema Desai, an
analyst with the New York-based risk consultant Eurasia Group.
“Most investors know that terror attacks can and do happen but
these do not impact the functioning of the economy.”  ‘Lashkar Link’  Indian Mujahedeen claimed responsibility for bombings in
major Indian cities in 2008 that killed hundreds of people,
following which security officials said they arrested several of
its leading members. Christine Fair, a strategic affairs analyst
at  Georgetown University  in Washington D.C., has written that
the group may have links with Lashkar.  The bombings come at a sensitive time in  South Asia  as the
U.S. is trying to accelerate its withdrawal from  Afghanistan  and
needs the cooperation of Pakistan to do so, Stratfor said in its
statement. “The last thing the United States needs is a crisis
between India and Pakistan that could complicate that process,”
it said.  In earlier attacks in Mumbai, two bombs killed 52 people in
2003, an attack for which three people were eventually sentenced
to death, including a married couple. That attack came 10 years
after 1993 serial blasts that killed 257 people in the city.  Hotels Targeted  Three years later, in July 2006, bombings on commuter
trains in the city killed 187 people and injured more than 800.
In the November 2008 attack, 10 gunmen targeted luxury hotels
including the Taj Mahal Palace & Tower and the Oberoi, a  railway
station  and a Jewish center in a 60-hour raid.  In its wake, India built more hubs for anti-terrorist
commandos around the country and stepped up efforts to recruit
more police. Still, local forces and intelligence agencies must
be strengthened before terrorist attacks can be checked, Ajai Sahni, executive director of New Delhi’s Institute for Conflict
Management, said in a phone interview.  While India has blamed Islamic militant groups -- either
home-grown or based in Pakistan -- for most of the attacks,
investigators this year charged Hindu activists for their
involvement in the 2007 bombing of a Pakistan-bound train
service that killed 68 people, an attack earlier blamed on
Muslim extremists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  