-- 
UN Says Peacekeeping Force in South Sudan Has Stronger Mandate

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-07-13T10:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/un-says-peacekeeping-force-in-south-sudan-has-stronger-mandate.html
United Nations  peacekeepers in South
 Sudan  will have a stronger mandate to protect civilians than
before the oil-rich south’s independence on July 9, said the
head of the mission, Hilde F. Johnson.  Johnson, a former Norwegian international development
minister, said the mission will have a Chapter 7 mandate, which
gives peacekeepers the authority to take action when civilians
are under imminent threat. The previous force, the  UN Mission in
Sudan , was deployed under a Chapter 6 mandate.  The mission of 7,000 soldiers and 900 police was approved
by the  Security Council  on July 8.  This year has been the most violent in South Sudan since
the end of a two-decade civil war in 2005, with 2,368 civilians
dying in rebel attacks and ethnic violence, including cattle
raids, compared with 940 last year, according to the UN. As many
as nine militia groups operate mainly along the border with the
north.  The new UN force won’t be able to intervene in the northern
border state of Southern Kordofan, where clashes between
Sudanese government forces and troops loyal to South Sudan’s
army have forced more than 73,000 people to flee their homes
since June 5, according to the UN.  Aerial bombardment and gunfire were reported in several
parts of Sudan’s only oil-producing state from July 6 to July
11, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
said yesterday.  A separate UN-backed force of 4,200 Ethiopian troops is
being sent to the disputed border region of  Abyei . The Sudanese
army seized the main town in the area on May 21, driving more
than 100,000 people from their homes, according to the UN.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Richmond  in Juba, Sudan via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 sguazzin@bloomberg.net ; 