-- 
Union Carbide $322 Million Asbestos Verdict Put on Hold

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T20:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/union-carbide-322-million-mississippi-asbestos-verdict-held-up-by-court.html
A $322 million jury verdict against
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Union Carbide unit and Chevron Phillips
Chemical Co. was put on hold while the Mississippi Supreme Court
considers whether the trial judge should be disqualified.  Union Carbide claims Circuit Court Judge Eddie Bowen, who
presided in the Raleigh, Mississippi, trial over a former oil
worker’s claim he was sickened by asbestos, should have bowed
out of the case because the judge’s father suffered from
asbestosis, a disease caused by the mineral.  Union Carbide said the companies were denied a fair trial.
Bowen might be biased, the company said in its petition to the
state high court, citing his father’s illness, “improper
comments on the evidence,” and rulings during the trial.  The May 4 award is the largest ever made to a single
asbestos case plaintiff, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A state punitive-damages cap would erase at least
$260 million.  The  Mississippi  court stopped proceedings in the case in an
order signed by Chief Justice William L. Waller Jr. The ruling
means the award won’t be enforced until the allegations are
resolved.  “If there’s a disqualification, you would have to retry it
with a different judge,” said  Carl Tobias , a University of
Richmond law professor in  Virginia . “That’s the way most courts
would handle it.” The state Supreme Court might reject the
motion to disqualify the judge, he said..  Oil Worker  The plaintiff,  Thomas Brown , developed asbestosis after
being exposed to the toxic fibers while mixing drilling mud on
oil rigs in the  Gulf of Mexico . He said Union Carbide and
Chevron Phillips Chemical knew asbestos is toxic and didn’t warn
him. Brown is on oxygen 24 hours a day, said his attorney,  D.
Allen Hossley .  Chevron Phillips Chemical is a  joint venture  of Chevron
Corp. and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   The jury verdict included $300 million in punitive damages,
awarded equally against Union Carbide and Chevron Phillips
Chemical. Mississippi law would limit the punitive award to
$40 million, or $20 million per defendant.  The judge didn’t respond immediately to a message left in
his chambers.  Bowen’s father settled claims with asbestos defendants,
including Union Carbide, the company’s filing said.  “If this is not an appearance of impropriety, I don’t know
what an appearance of impropriety is,”  W.G. Watkins , a Union
Carbide lawyer, said in an interview.  ‘Fair Trial’  While the judge’s father was involved in asbestos
litigation, “it happened 20 years ago and neither defendant was
ever sued,” Hossley, Brown’s attorney, said today in a phone
interview. “Everybody got a fair trial.”  Watkins said company lawyers are investigating whether the
judge had other possible conflicts. Yesterday’s ruling is a
“statement that the  Supreme Court  takes the recusal
seriously,” he said.  The case is Brown v. Phillips Co., 2006-196, Circuit Court,
Smith County, Mississippi (Raleigh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta
at   lviele@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 