-- 
Unrest in Syria Tests Turkey’s Role as Regional Power: Vali Nasr

-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 
2011-07-13T19:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/unrest-in-syria-tests-turkey-s-role-as-regional-power-vali-nasr.html
Turkey was quick to cheer the Arab
Spring, when hopeful protest seemed to promise a democratic
 Middle East  in Turkey’s own image. But the momentum for reform
has stalled, and if developments in Libya, Yemen and  Syria  are
any indication, the Arab world is headed for protracted conflict
and instability. That worries Turkey.  However, it is in the interest of both Turkey and the world
that the government in Ankara plays an engaged and constructive
role during this trying period.  It was only a decade ago that Turkey, denied immediate
 membership  in the European Union, turned its attention to the
Mideast. In an effort to increase its influence in the world, it
used its image as a prospering Muslim democracy to offer the
region a bridge to the West. Since 2002, Turkey has expanded
economic ties from  Libya  to the  Persian Gulf , normalized
relations with Syria and mediated between warring factions to
help stifle the insurgency in  Iraq .  To the consternation of many in the West, it also moved
closer to  Iran  and bickered with Israel. The U.S. was piqued
last year, for instance, when officials in Ankara fanned the
controversy over the Israeli military’s ill-fated attack on a
Turkish ship, which intended to break Israel’s blockade in order
to bring humanitarian supplies to the  Gaza Strip . The U.S.
government was again displeased when Turkey joined  Brazil  to
negotiate a nuclear-fuel swap with Iran, a deal that the U.S.
considered overly generous to the regime in Tehran.  A Viable Pillar  Since then, the Arab Spring has brought Turkey and America
closer. The U.S. has encouraged Turkish involvement in diplomacy
on crises in  Bahrain , Libya and, most importantly,  Syria . The
U.S. has held up Turkey as a model to Arab protesters, as a
success story to emulate, a Muslim country that practices
capitalism and democracy. With  Egypt  preoccupied by the demands
of rebuilding itself and U.S.-Saudi relations strained by
American support for democracy in the Mideast, Turkey is the
most viable pillar for  U.S. foreign policy  in the region.  At the same time, Turkey is made vulnerable by instability
in the Mideast, especially the violence in neighboring Syria.
Protests have weakened the regime of President Bashar al-Assad
but are far from bending its will. The conflict is in a
stalemate with no sign of ending soon.  Expected Trade Losses  Syria’s troubles have already affected the Turkish economy.
Turkish officials expect trade with Syria to drop sharply this
year. The cross-border commerce -- formal and informal --
benefits largely the restless  Kurdish  corner of the country, in
southeast  Turkey . A revenue decline could upset the fragile lull
in hostilities there.  Turkey will have even more reason to worry if the army in
Syria resorts to attacking civilians on the scale witnessed in
Libya. The ensuing humanitarian crisis could send hundreds of
thousands of refugees fleeing into Turkey. To date, mostly
Syrian Arabs have sought refuge there, but growing violence may
compel many more Syrian Kurds to run. The cost would be a burden
on the Turkish economy. More importantly, the separatist
Kurdistan Workers’ Party, which is known as the PKK and has deep
ties with Syria’s Kurds, could take advantage of any chaos at
the usually well-guarded border by moving into Syria and then
infiltrating Turkey.  Precedents for Exploitation  Twice before, in 1988 and 1991, after hundreds of thousands
of Iraqi Kurds fled to Turkey to escape butchery at the hands of
 Saddam Hussein ’s regime, the PKK used the ensuing disorder to
escalate attacks on Turkey. Fearing a repeat, the government in
Ankara has warned officials in Damascus that it won’t tolerate a
mass inrush of Kurds. If the Syrian army creates a Kurdish-
refugee crisis, Turkey has said it would establish a safe zone
for refugees inside Syria. That may explain why the Syrian army
has so far stayed away from Kurdish towns and villages.  The Kurdish issue is a Gordian knot for Turkey -- the last
big hurdle facing Turkish democracy. The government has promised
to address Kurdish grievances as part of its proposed
constitutional reforms. That would be a difficult undertaking at
the best of times and almost impossible should more violence or
the unraveling of the Assad regime precipitate a Kurdish crisis
in Syria.  Possible Civil War  The unrest in Syria is only likely to grow. If protests
escalate and the Assad regime responds with increasing violence,
Syrian state institutions may collapse. The situation might
devolve into a civil war between  Sunni Muslims , who are a
majority in Syria, and minority Alawites, who control the
regime. The Turkish government is hoping that officials in
Damascus will avert this outcome by accommodating the protesters
through reforms, but so far Turkey’s ability to affect Syria’s
byzantine politics has been limited. Still, the dialogue between
the two countries is an asset to the international community
that the Turks should continue to use in order to press for
reform in Syria.  Equally important, before Syrian unrest leads to a Kurdish-
refugee crisis, the government in Ankara should take meaningful
steps to resolve its own festering Kurdish issue. Many Turks are
hesitant to make the concessions necessary to mollify the
country’s Kurds, for instance direct talks with the PKK and an
amnesty for its fighters, including those in custody. But given
the Syrian crisis, Turkey can’t afford complacency. Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  should take advantage of the
impressive mandate he won at the polls on June 12 to tackle this
difficult matter. Doing so would strengthen Turkish democracy
and protect Turkey from any fallout from next door.  Coordination Needed  The U.S., too, has high stakes in Syria, given the
ramifications of developments there on neighboring  Israel  and
Jordan, both important U.S. allies. Yet the government in
 Washington  has little leverage to influence events in Syria.
American foreign policy will be more effective if the U.S.
closely coordinates with Turkey on its reaction to Syrian
developments. The U.S. is also invested in Turkey’s stability
and success. Accordingly, officials in Washington should
encourage Erdogan to take the tough decisions necessary to
resolve Turkey’s longstanding Kurdish problem, and if he does,
support him strongly.  Turkey is a rising regional power. How great a power will
be determined by how it responds to the challenges of the newly
unstable Middle East.  (Vali Nasr, an international politics professor at Tufts
University’s Fletcher School and the author of “Forces of
Fortune: The Rise of a New Muslim Middle Class and What It Means
for Our World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.  The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vali.nasr@tufts.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 