-- 
Murdoch’s News International Says Legal Manager Crone Has Left Company

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-13T13:08:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/murdoch-s-news-international-says-legal-manager-crone-has-left-company.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. newspaper unit
legal manager Tom Crone has left the company following the phone
hacking scandal at the News of the World tabloid.  Crone, who was involved in editorial matters at both the
News of the World and The Sun newspaper, left today, said News
International spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  via phone.  At a parliamentary hearing in July 2009, Crone said he
advised News International to pay a 700,000-pound ($1.1 million)
settlement to phone hacking victim and soccer executive Gordon Taylor. Dunlop said today Crone wasn’t available for comment.  News Corp., based in New York, faces a vote later today by
U.K. lawmakers demanding its bid for pay-TV broadcaster  British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  be scrapped after accusations that
News of the World journalists hacked into the phones of a
murdered schoolgirl and paid police for stories.  The former News of the World Editor Colin Myler told a
committee of lawmakers that he and Crone advised James Murdoch
to make the payment to Taylor, CEO of the Professional
Footballers Association, in 2008 in return for a non-disclosure
agreement. The three agreed to settle the case out of court.
Only James Murdoch now remains with the company. He is the son
of News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , 80.  James, 38, is deputy chief operating officer of News Corp.
and since 2007 has overseen News International, the unit
operating the U.K. newspapers.  In a note to employees to announce the closure of the News
of the World,  James Murdoch  said he didn’t “have a complete
picture” before approving the settlement to Taylor. “That was
wrong and is a matter of serious regret.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  