-- 
Utilities ‘Shot Themselves in the Foot’ Over Early Carbon Sales, UBS Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-07-13T13:36:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/utilities-shot-themselves-in-the-foot-over-early-carbon-sales-ubs-says.html
European utilities pushed down the
prices for carbon and power as well as the value of their shares
when they sought early supply of hundreds of millions of tons of
emission permits for the phase starting in 2013, said  UBS AG. (UBSN)   “The utilities have shot themselves in the foot,” Per Lekander, an analyst at the bank in Paris, said yesterday in a
phone interview. “The lobbyists delivered the results just when
they didn’t need it.”  The European Commission has said it might supply about 420
million tons of post-2012 allowances through next year in sales
that may start as early as this year.  That potential supply has helped drive permits down to
their lowest level in more than two years this week, Lekander
said. The drop has helped reduce power prices, as well as the
shares of utility groups, he said.  Eurelectric, the Brussels utility lobby group,  argued  in
 November 2009  that utilities would need as much as 1.4 billion
tons of carbon allowances by the end of 2012 for power hedging
for later years.  The generators need from 400 million tons to 600 million
tons in early auctions, Nicola Rega, an adviser in Eurelectric’s
environment and sustainable development policy unit, said today
by phone.  Lekander’s comment is not fair, Rega said. “Because of the
financial crisis, hedging is becoming more short term,” he
said. Utility hedging of power sales, including the purchasing
of carbon allowances, still takes place more than a year ahead,
he said.  ‘No Regret’  “There is no regret from any of our companies,” Rega
said. “That analysis was correct at that point in time.” The
early sales volumes have not been the main reason why carbon has
fallen, he said. “The fall occurred due to many aspects,
including the bloc presenting its energy efficiency plan.” The
EU cap-and-trade system started in 2005 with a three-year
trading period, is now in a second phase that ends in 2012 and
will enter a third stage from 2013 through 2020. Permits from
the second phase can be carried over to the next.  Today, EU nations are scheduled to discuss potential limits
to proposed volumes of phase-three permits to be sold before the
phase starts. Utilities have argued they need early volumes to
match hedges of forward power sales to limit price shocks as the
bloc gradually cuts the portion of allowances granted for free.  National governments are scheduled to debate the EU
executive arm’s proposal to sell another 120 million tons of
permits when they meet today in Brussels. They may also vote on
the proposal, according to the European Commission.  ‘Price Tension’  The nations may delay supply of allowances for the phase
that starts in 2013, IdeaCarbon said. “The commission needs to
maintain price tension by cutting or delaying volume, because
the market is already morbidly oversupplied,” Matthew Gray, an
analyst at IdeaCarbon in  London , said yesterday. “The easiest
way to do this is to delay implementation.”  Delaying the sale of carbon permits would be “a knee-jerk
reaction to the current low prices” and a “bad idea,” said
Jonathan Grant, a sustainability and climate-change specialist
in London at PwC, the management consultants.  “Any mechanism to intervene in the EU carbon market should
be transparent and consistent,” for instance a reserve price in
auctions, Grant said today by e-mail. “This would send a
clearer long-term signal about carbon prices compared with
periodic adjustments of the cap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  