-- 
Vale’s Metorex Bid Withdrawal Spurs Bond Rally: Brazil Credit

-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   B r y a n   G i b e l
-- 
2011-07-13T12:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/vale-s-metorex-bid-withdrawal-spurs-bond-rally-brazil-credit.html
Vale SA (VALE3) ’s borrowing costs are
falling to an eight-month low after the Brazilian iron-ore
producer scrapped a $1.1 billion bid for  Metorex Ltd. (MTX) , fueling
speculation the company is trying to avoid increasing its debt.  The yield on Vale’s dollar bonds due in 2020 slid to 4.41
percent yesterday, the lowest level since Nov. 12, after the
world’s largest iron-ore producer said on July 11 that it agreed
to terminate its proposed acquisition of Metorex. Yields on the
notes sank 31 basis points since July 4, the day before  China ’s
Jinchuan Group Co. bid $1.36 billion for Johannesburg-based
Metorex. The yield on bonds sold by global metals, mining and
steel companies fell 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point,
during the same period.  Vale  showed control after acquiring 10 companies over the
past two years, according to Roy Yackulic, a corporate debt
analyst at Bank of America Corp. The company, seeking to boost
copper output almost fivefold to 1 million metric tons in 2015,
had until July 15 to counter Jinchuan’s bid for Metorex, which
controls almost 5 million tons of African copper resources and
produced 26,358 tons in the second half of 2010.  “Vale showed restraint, and that they wouldn’t get into a
bidding war for assets, and that’s a positive reflection on
management,” Yackulic said in a telephone interview.  “It’s
positive that they aren’t overbidding for assets.”  The Rio de Janeiro-based company’s bonds yield 89 basis
points more than Brazilian government notes due in 2019, down
from 126 in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vale Rating  The yield on Vale’s bonds has tumbled 49 basis points since
April 4, when Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira replaced
 Roger Agnelli  after the Brazilian government criticized the
company’s strategy and sought a bigger role in its management.
Vale has a record $24 billion spending plan for this year.  Vale is committed to maintaining “low leverage and a sound
balance sheet in order to maintain and upgrade its ratings,”
the company said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Vale, which had total debt of $26.8 billion at the end of
the first quarter, is rated BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , the
third-lowest investment grade.  Metorex is Vale’s second unsuccessful attempt to acquire
copper assets in less than a year. In September,  Paranapanema
SA (PMAM3) , a copper smelter in Dias D’Avila,  Brazil , rejected a
proposal from Vale. The company announced a $1.4 billion offer
to buy all the shares of a fertilizers unit that it didn’t
already own in June, and bought palm oil producer Biopalma da
Amazonia SA Reflorestamento Industria & Comercio for $173.5
million in February.  ‘Prudence’  “Vale is very acquisitive, and by withdrawing from
Metorex, it’s an example of a level of prudence,” Ernie Lalonde, vice-president of mining at Toronto-based credit rating
company DBRS Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “It’s not
expansion at all costs.”  Vale’s bonds are also benefitting from a rally in iron-ore
prices, DBRS’s Lalonde said.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to
the Chinese port of Tianjin has climbed for eight days to
$173.10 a metric ton, Steel Business Briefing Commodities
Research data show. It is up 47 percent in the past year.  The prospect of government intervention in Vale is a
concern to investors, said Joe Bormann, a managing director at
 Fitch Ratings .  The administrations of President  Dilma Rousseff  and her
predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , have criticized Vale’s
management over the past two years for not spending more on
domestic steel to generate jobs and boost the country’s trade
balance. The government holds direct and indirect stakes in
Vale.  Yield Spread  “With the new CEO, people are monitoring the company
closely to determine whether or not the government’s influence
will increase in Vale, or its interference,” Bormann said in a
telephone interview.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar debt instead of Treasuries fell five basis
points to 168 basis points at 7:55 a.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose one basis point to 116, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real rose 0.4 percent to 1.5729 per dollar.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2012 were unchanged at 12.48 percent.  ‘Pleased’  Vale’s shares rose 0.2 percent yesterday to 45.72 reais.  The company reported net income of $6.83 billion for the
first-quarter on May 5 as China-led demand boosted the price of
minerals and metals.  “From a bondholders perspective, one looks at Vale’s
operating cash flow and is pleased at that,” DBRS’s Lalonde
said. “They want to make sure debt doesn’t grow out of
proportion to equity, and that they don’t overextend themselves
in a period of rapid expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Gibel in New York at 
 bgibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  