-- 
Validus Offers $3.5 Billion for Transatlantic, Seeks to Derail Allied Deal

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-07-13T13:42:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/validus-offers-3-5-billion-for-transatlantic-seeks-to-derail-allied-deal.html
Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR) , the reinsurer
that acquired IPC Holdings Ltd. in 2009, offered $55.95 a share
to acquire  Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH)  and derail a planned
merger with Allied World Assurance Company Holdings AG.  Transatlantic holders would receive 1.5564 Validus common
shares and $8 in cash for each share they hold, Bermuda-based
Validus said yesterday in a statement. That values the offer at
about $3.5 billion, based on New York-based Transatlantic’s 62.4
million shares outstanding as of March 31.  Transatlantic agreed last month to merge with Allied in a
stock transaction valued at $51.10 a share, or about $3.2
billion. Transatlantic’s biggest shareholder, Davis Selected
Advisers LP, said on June 14 it may oppose the deal and approach
other companies about alternatives.  “While Validus prefers to work cooperatively with the
Transatlantic board of directors to complete a consensual
transaction, it is prepared to take the proposal directly to
Transatlantic stockholders” and urge them to vote against an
Allied deal, Validus said in a regulatory filing today.  Validus’s bid of $55.95 a share is 14 percent higher than
the $49.02 closing price for Transatlantic yesterday in  New York 
Stock Exchange trading.  ‘In Due Course’  Transatlantic’s board will “consider and evaluate the
Validus proposal in due course and will inform Transatlantic
stockholders of its position,” the company said in a statement
today. “Transatlantic advises stockholders to not take any
action at this time and to await the board’s recommendation.”  Transatlantic climbed $2.50, or 5.1 percent, to $51.52 at
9:35 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Allied
World advanced $1.33, or 2.3 percent, to $58.05. Validus dropped
$2.51, or 8.2 percent, to $28.30. Faye Cook, a spokesperson for
Allied, didn’t return phone calls for comment.  Validus said its offer would create the world’s sixth-
largest reinsurer, and the second-biggest in  North America 
behind  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Reinsurance is
coverage for primary carriers.  Validus focuses on property coverage, including protection
against catastrophes. Transatlantic provides medical-malpractice
protection and guards corporate officers against lawsuits
through so-called directors-and-officers coverage. Zug,
Switzerland-based Allied offers professional-liability coverage.  ‘Early Innings’  “With Validus’s predominant property book diversifying
nicely with Transatlantic’s mostly casualty book, it appears
Validus has a strong case to make” with firms that advise
investors on shareholder votes, said  Paul Howard , director of
research at Solstice Investment Research in Glastonbury,
 Connecticut . “But I do expect a counter-offer from Allied as
this soap opera is in the early innings.”  Transatlantic would have to pay a breakup fee of $115
million if it backs out of the Allied deal, it said last month
in a conference call. Transatlantic was previously owned by
American International Group Inc., which divested its stake to
help repay its 2008 U.S. bailout.  Reinsurers with less than $4 billion in market value have
been combining to gain scale and diversify their business mix.
Clients and investors prefer carriers with larger capital bases,
W. Marston Becker, chief executive officer of Alterra Capital
Holdings Ltd., has said. Alterra was formed in 2010 by the
merger of Max Capital Ltd. and Harbor Point Ltd.  “Reinsurance is a scale business,” Validus Chief
Executive Officer Ed Noonan said on a  conference call today.
“The combined company will have the product reach, geographic
scope and size to be a leader in any class that we find
attractive.”  ‘Serious Concerns’  Davis Selected Advisers, holder of more than 23 percent of
Transatlantic shares outstanding, said it had “serious
concerns” about the Allied deal, according to a filing last
month from the Tucson, Arizona-based firm. Laura Berger, a
spokesperson for Davis, said the company doesn’t comment on
individual holdings.  Tweedy Browne Co., another Transatlantic investor, said the
price offered by Allied was too low. Tweedy Browne held more
than 2 percent of Transatlantic’s shares as of March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is really puzzling to us why they would want to sell
the company at a 20 percent discount from book value,” said Tom Shrager, one of four managing directors at Tweedy Browne, in a
phone interview on June 15. “Simply doing it for size is not a
good enough reason to sell at this big discount.”  Validus said its offer is structured so that Transatlantic
shareholders avoid a tax penalty by being paid in stock. The
Allied deal would be “fully taxable,” Validus said.  Tax Efficiency  Allied has said that its deal would produce tax benefits,
too. Jack Sennott, Allied’s chief corporate strategy officer,
said in an interview last month that the combined company will
have a “Swiss domicile that we’ll be able to utilize for some
tax efficiency.”  Validus got financial advice from Greenhill & Co. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and legal counsel from Skadden, Arps, Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Moelis & Co. were financial
advisers to Transatlantic on the Allied deal, and Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP and Lenz & Staehelin acted as U.S. and Swiss legal
counsel.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  acted as financial adviser to Allied,
and Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided
U.S. and Swiss legal counsel.  Validus has broken up a planned merger of rivals before. It
won the right to buy IPC after breaking up an agreement with Max
Capital in 2009. Later that year, Validus won a bidding war with
Flagstone Reinsurance Holdings Ltd. and agreed to acquire IPC
for about $1.7 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  