-- 
Validus Chief Noonan Says ‘Size Does Matter’ for Reinsurers

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-07-13T21:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/validus-ceo-noonan-says-size-does-matter-for-reinsurers-as-he-seeks-deal.html
Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR)  Chief
Executive Officer Ed Noonan, who bid $3.5 billion for
 Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH) , said increased scale benefits
reinsurers as they seek to attract clients.  “Size does matter in terms of your ability to take on risk
and manage risk,” Noonan said in an interview today. “Size and
scale is an asset to the reinsurance business and it seems like
increasingly more so with the passage of time.”  Validus offered $55.95 a share to buy Transatlantic and
derail a planned $3.2 billion merger with Allied World Assurance
Company Holdings AG. Bermuda-based Validus said its offer would
create the world’s sixth-largest reinsurer and the second-
biggest in  North America , behind  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Reinsurers back primary carriers against some of
the costliest risks, including natural disasters.  Transatlantic, which was previously owned by  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , is among reinsurers that have sought
mergers to gain scale. Validus acquired IPC Holdings Ltd. in
2009 after it broke up a merger agreement with Max Capital Ltd.
Bermuda-based Max Capital joined with Harbor Point Ltd. last
year to form Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd.  Validus was formed in 2005 amid demand for catastrophe
reinsurance after hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The company was
backed by Aquiline Capital Partners LLC, run by Jeffrey Greenberg, the former Marsh & McLennan Cos. CEO who is on the
Validus board.  Breakup Fee  Transatlantic would have to pay a breakup fee of $115
million if it backs out of the Allied deal, it said last month
in a conference call. Transatlantic’s biggest shareholder, Davis
Selected Advisers LP, said in June it may oppose the Allied deal
and approach other companies about alternatives.  “A lot of Transatlantic shareholders feel the same way,”
Noonan said, without naming investors. “We’re getting calls
from lots of them today. You have a general awareness that the
Allied World bid perhaps undervalued the company.”  Transatlantic’s board will “consider and evaluate the
Validus proposal in due course and will inform Transatlantic
stockholders of its position,” the New York-based company said
in a statement today. “Transatlantic advises stockholders to not
take any action at this time and to await the board’s
recommendation.”  A spokeswoman for Allied had no immediate comment.  Transatlantic gained $2.52, or 5.1 percent, to $51.54 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Zug,
Switzerland-based Allied climbed 51 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
$57.23. Validus dropped $2.79, or 9.1 percent, to $28.02.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  