-- 
VW Sees Passat Picking Up Jetta’s U.S. Success

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/vw-sees-passat-picking-up-where-jetta-is-in-u-s-market-cars.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , set to unveil its new
Passat midsize sedan in the U.S. in mid-September, is looking to
repeat the unexpected success of the Jetta compact.  VW cut $1,700 off the $17,700 starting price of the new
Jetta compact sedan to compete with perennial top-sellers such
as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Corolla. U.S. sales rose 77 percent in
the first half of the year. The cheaper offer lured shoppers who
then bought sedans with goodies like sunroofs and leather seats.
The average sales prices stayed about the same, and the higher
deliveries meant more profit.  Jonathan Browning , who runs the American operations, will
follow the same strategy when the new Passat midsize sedan goes
on sale, betting the brand can again record sales gains without
destroying its premium pricing. The automaker is counting on
reaching 1 million U.S. sales to make it the world’s largest and
most profitable automaker by 2018. Jetta and Passat sedans
accounted for almost half of the brand’s U.S. sales last year.  “When you look at how the Jetta has done it would be
pretty hard to say you’re not optimistic about how the Passat is
going to do,” said Will Trafton, a VW dealer from Rochester,
 New York , and head of the brand’s U.S. dealer council. “It’s
exactly the same playbook.”  Browning says the redone Jetta, which came out in September
and has a longer wheelbase allowing for more space inside the
car and added legroom, is getting twice as many new customers to
VW from competing brands as the older model did.  Off Radar  Browning, 52, faces a tall task to almost triple
Volkswagen’s sales in the U.S., where the company says it hasn’t
earned a profit since 2002. Jetta and Passat are challenging
four cars -- Toyota’s Corolla and Camry and Honda Motor Co.’s
Civic and Accord -- that all sold in greater number in the
market last year than the entire VW brand.  “Right now, Volkswagen is not on anybody’s radar when it
comes to midsize cars,” said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953
Analytics, a consulting firm in Birmingham,  Michigan . Reaching 1
million U.S. sales will require years of “continuous
marketing,” he said, and “the inadvertent help of some
competitors,” such as Toyota’s recalls in 2009 and 2010 and the
earthquake that struck Japan in March.  VW’s goal is to surpass Toyota, which sold 8.42 million
vehicles last year, as the world’s largest automaker no later
than 2018. VW global sales exceeded 4 million during first six
months of the year, the company said this week without revising
its full-year forecast of almost 7.6 million vehicle deliveries.
 General Motors Co. (GM)  last year sold 8.39 million cars and trucks.  3.1 Percent  Including Audi, Lamborghini and Bentley, Volkswagen sold
360,179 last year, or 3.1 percent of the U.S. light-vehicle
market, according to Autodata Corp., a researcher based in
 Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  To generate such increases -- particularly in high-volume
sedan segments -- Volkswagen has decided that it must make
bigger cars and charge less for them, as it did with the Jetta
and plans to do with the upcoming Passat, which will be priced
$8,000 below the previous model.  Early results are promising, Browning said. VW’s U.S. sales
of the Jetta sedan rose to 76,498 during the first six months of
the year, helping boost the brand’s sales 22 percent in that
time period, the company said in a July 1 statement.  “The Jetta is an unqualified success in the market,”
Browning said last week in a telephone interview. “The Jetta
momentum is tremendous.”  Price ‘Hurdle’  Some U.S. buyers have thought the VW brand was too
expensive, Browning said. With a lower starting price, “the
hurdle is reduced” and that has been a “key part” of the
Jetta’s sales increase, he said.  The lower price gets more people into the showroom to look
at the Jetta, said Trafton, the head of the brand’s dealer
council.  “We’re seeing a lot of customers for the car that never
looked at the old one,” he said in a telephone interview. “The
car is more accessible from a pricing perspective.”  While the starting price of the Jetta was lowered, the
average transaction price has remained the same compared with
the previous model, Browning said.  The average transaction price of the Jetta was $21,488 last
month -- almost $1,000 more than the segment’s average,
according to  Edmunds.com,  a website that tracks automotive
marketing.  Passat’s Role  The redesigned Passat, which is being built at a new
assembly plant in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , will be cheaper than
the previous version because it is a simpler design and because
the U.S. workers will be paid less than German counterparts.  Keeping transaction prices up on the new Passat may be a
bigger challenge because the price cut is so much steeper. VW’s
ability sell Jetta sedans for the same average price as before
“certainly allows them to make more money on the vehicle,”
said  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst from IHS Automotive.
“That’s always a positive.”  The Jetta, besides the new pricing strategy, has also
benefited from good timing, given the short supply of Honda
Civics and other competing models after the March earthquake and
tsunami shut some parts plants in  Japan .  “Some of it is luck and some of it is genius,” she said.  The Jetta and other new small cars, such as GM’s Chevrolet
Cruze, also have been helped this year by gasoline prices that
approached $4 a gallon in the U.S., said Jessica Caldwell, an
industry analyst with Edmunds.  “Despite the fact the car got, what’d I say, very much
panned when people saw the new design, it’s seems, in terms of
performance, it’s doing quite well,” she said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  