-- 
Wall Street Lost $221 Miilion on Proprietary Trading Since 2006, GAO Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-13T20:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/wall-street-lost-221-million-on-proprietary-trading-since-2006-gao-says.html
The six largest U.S. banks had a net
loss of about $221 million from standalone proprietary trading
from June 2006 through the end of 2010, according to the
 Government Accountability Office .  The business of betting money for banks’ own accounts
produced positive net revenue in 13 of the 18 quarters examined,
totaling $15.6 billion, and generated losses of $15.8 billion in
the other five quarters, the Washington-based GAO said today in
a  report .  Congress called for the study to help regulators draft
policies needed to enforce the so-called Volcker rule, which
bans proprietary trading and limits banks’ investments in
private equity and hedge funds. The Volcker rule passed last
year as part of the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul.  “Compared to these firms’ overall revenues, their
standalone proprietary trading generally produced small revenues
in most quarters and some larger losses during the financial
crisis,” the GAO wrote in the report.  The standalone proprietary-trading groups at the six
companies --  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Morgan Stanley -- lost money in the last two quarters of 2007,
as well as the first, third and fourth quarters of 2008, the
report said.  Banks including JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley
have shut down or made plans to spin off standalone proprietary-
trading groups to prepare for the Volcker rule.  Other Businesses  The study didn’t address proprietary trading done in other
areas of the banks. The GAO said regulators will need more data
from the firms to ensure companies don’t take proprietary
positions in their client-trading businesses.  “The GAO study is a major disappointment,” Democratic
Senators Jeff Merkley of  Oregon  and  Carl Levin  of Michigan said
in a statement. “GAO has examined in detail only proprietary
trading which occurs on distinct ‘standalone’ proprietary-
trading desks and gave only passing consideration to the risks
and conflicts of interest associated with proprietary trading
more broadly.  ‘‘Just a fraction of all proprietary trading occurs on
stand-alone desks, as the Financial Stability Oversight Council
noted in January and as GAO itself acknowledges,’’ the lawmakers
said.  One Firm’s Losses  A single firm that the GAO didn’t identify accounted for
the largest quarterly revenue from proprietary-trading groups,
with $1.2 billion, the report said. That same firm had the two
largest quarterly losses of $8.7 billion and $1.9 billion,
according to the report.  Excluding that one firm, the other five banks generated
revenue of $9.4 billion over the 4 1/2-year period, according to
the report. Of the five other banks, the largest quarterly
revenue for one firm was $957 million, and the largest loss was
$1 billion, the GAO said.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  posted its first quarterly loss as a public
company in the fourth quarter of 2007, as it wrote down
subprime-related holdings by $9.4 billion, with then-CEO  John
Mack  saying ‘‘virtually all writedowns this quarter were the
result of trading by a single desk in our mortgage business.”
Morgan Stanley later shut down the desk.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on whether the New York-based company was the firm
referred to by the GAO report.  Trading Revenue  Standalone proprietary trading accounted for as much as
12.4 percent of trading revenue at the six banks in a quarter,
and as much as 3.1 percent of total revenue, according to the
report. In the fourth quarters of 2007 and 2008, the groups
accounted for about 66 percent and 80 percent of total trading
losses, according to the report.  Standalone proprietary trading produced $4.8 million in
quarterly revenue for every $1 million in value-at-risk, a
measure of how much the bank could lose in a single day,
according to the report. That’s less than a quarter of the
revenue-per-VaR of the banks’ total trading operations, which
was $21.9 million per $1 million of VaR, the GAO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  