-- 
WaMu Faces Hundreds of Objections as Hearing Starts on Bankruptcy Exit

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-13T17:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/wamu-faces-hundreds-of-objections-as-bankruptcy-hearing-starts.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , former owner
of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, began a court hearing today to
end its bankruptcy facing a shareholder claim that it enabled
 hedge funds  to profit from  insider trading .  During a three-day hearing, shareholders will try to show
that WaMu’s reorganization plan is tainted by the hedge funds’
alleged use of confidential information to trade in the bank
holding company’s debt.  WaMu “fed four of these hedge funds, known as the
‘settlement note holders,’ confidential inside information about
the debtors and about settlement negotiations and then turned a
blind eye to trading that the settlement note holders were
conducting based on this information,” a committee of
shareholders said in court documents unsealed yesterday.  Shareholders would get nothing under a reorganization plan
that was negotiated with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the four hedge
funds and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Mary Walrath has already approved the main settlement that
plan is based on and is now being asked to approve the plan
itself, which would distribute more than $7 billion to WaMu’s
creditors.  The hedge funds, Aurelius Capital Management LP,
Centerbridge Partners LP, Appaloosa Management LP and Owl Creek
Asset Management LP, all deny that they engaged in insider
trading. They have argued in court papers and in hearings that
the information they used to buy and sell WaMu’s debt was either
publicly available or wasn’t “material,” and therefore its use
was legal.  Biggest Failure  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to JPMorgan for $1.9 billion. WaMu’s
Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in U.S.
history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  The hearing this morning focused on whether the reinsurance
company that would be the only piece of WaMu to survive
bankruptcy could use past losses to avoid taxes on future
profits. The dispute over the insider-trading allegations will
be the final issue in the hearing, WaMu bankruptcy attorney
Brian Rosen told Walrath.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 