-- 
World’s Soundest Banks in Canada Go It Alone on Bid for TMX

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-13T20:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/world-s-soundest-banks-in-canada-go-it-alone-with-bid-for-tmx.html
Canada ’s banks, whose independence
and caution shielded them from the worst losses of the credit
crisis, are refusing to risk that reputation in the battle for
the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Canada’s banks and pension funds, which thwarted a bid for
 TMX Group Inc. (X)  from  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  last month,
prefer the exchange to go it alone rather than join the global
wave of takeovers that has seen Deutsche Boerse AG agree to buy
NYSE Euronext.  “It was a unique example where Canadian interests stepped
up to put their money where their concern is,” said Janet Ecker, president of the  Toronto Financial Services Alliance , a
lobby group for  North America ’s third-largest financial center.
“In this case, there was angst about that happening and other
Canadian players stepped up.”  Maintaining Canadian control of financial markets was one
of the drivers behind the Maple Group Acquisition Corp. banking
group’s C$3.73 billion ($3.86 billion) bid, which is being
reviewed by TMX Group’s board. Opponents such as investor  Thomas Caldwell  say the all-Canada bid by Maple would threaten TMX’s
global growth potential.  “These are very sophisticated organizations that have come
together -- many of them are competitors in a whole variety of
areas -- doing what they believed was in the interests of
financial services in Canada,” Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said in a June 29 telephone interview.  Exchange Deals  Concerned about how consolidation abroad has hurt some
 stock exchanges , Maple claimed that  London ’s takeover would cost
Canadian jobs and surrender control of part of the country’s
securities industry to foreigners. The London bourse dropped its
friendly bid last month after failing to get enough shareholder
support, leaving Maple as the lone suitor. The group’s
unsolicited bid expires Aug. 8.  TMX rose 0.6 percent to C$44.05 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.  After the global financial crisis, Canadian banks were in a
position of strength and had reason to question foreign
regulators that failed to protect banks from the financial
collapse of 2008. Canadian lenders took a fraction of the $2
trillion in writedowns suffered by financial firms such as
Citigroup Inc. in the U.S. or Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
which was rescued by the U.K. government.  More Capital  During the crisis, Canada’s financial-services regulator
required domestic banks to hold more capital than their global
peers and the lenders didn’t require government bailouts. As a
result, the country’s financial system has been ranked the
soundest in the world for three straight years by the  World
Economic Forum . Five Canadian banks were among the world’s 20
strongest in a Bloomberg Markets Magazine ranking in May.  “I hate to say that we’ve figured it all out, but I must
say that we can do things that others have trouble doing,” said
Leo de Bever, chief executive officer of Alberta Investment
Management Corp., one of the pension funds leading the bid for
TMX. Other nations “have trouble doing that for all sorts of
reasons: politics, lack of decision-making, lack of talent in
the organization.”  Maple Group has said its takeover bid “preserves the
regulatory structure that has served our market so well,”  Luc Bertrand , Maple’s main spokesman, said in a June 28 speech.  “We think we can do better” than the London Stock
Exchange’s bid,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  CEO  Edmund Clark  said in
March, before Maple Group was formed. “I think the TMX is a
great institution; we just think you can go further with it.”  IPO Decline  Bertrand, a vice chairman at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  and
former deputy CEO at Toronto-based TMX, has pointed to  Borsa
Italiana , which had a 54 percent drop in the daily value of
trades after it was acquired by the LSE in 2007. The Italian
exchange also had a 44 percent decline in initial public
offerings since the sale, according to Maple Group estimates.  Cross-border stock exchange combinations don’t always bring
anticipated “meaningful economies of scale,” said Andre Cappon, president of  The CBM Group Inc. , a New York-based
consulting firm that specializes in the financial-services
industry.  The  New York  Stock Exchange completed its purchase of
 Europe ’s Euronext NV in June 2007. By the fourth quarter of
2008, the company took a $1.59 billion writedown resulting
partly from an accounting rule change, leading to a quarterly
loss of $1.34 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NYSE Euronext has since agreed to be taken over by  Deutsche
Boerse  to create the world’s biggest bourse operator.  ‘Biggest Risks’  TMX faces risks in going it alone instead of being part of
the latest round of exchange consolidation, said  Ed Ditmire , an
exchange analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in New York.  “The biggest risks in my mind are that eventually much
larger exchanges with much better resources try to take your
business,” Ditmire said. Another risk would be that “they try
to acquire you in a way that gives you little say in the future
of the organization.”  TMX Group CEO  Thomas Kloet  said June 29 that the company’s
board will “now take the time to evaluate the opportunities in
front of us” including the Maple offer. TMX spokeswoman Carolyn Quick declined to comment when asked today whether the board had
met to discuss Maple. Maple is pursuing regulatory backing for
its offer, including approval from Canada’s Competition Bureau
and provincial securities commissions in Ontario and  Quebec .  Staying Independent  The bid’s “transaction risk” can’t be ignored, and the
TMX may remain independent as a result, according to RBC Capital
Markets analyst Geoffrey Kwan, who published a note on TMX
yesterday.  Maple Group’s C$50-a-share offer will be followed by an
acquisition of Alpha Group, a bank-owned operator of an
alternative trading system that competes with the Toronto Stock
Exchange, and CDS Inc., a Canadian securities clearing house,
according to the Maple proposal. Combined, TMX and Alpha control
almost 90 percent of equity trading in Canada.  Maple’s banking and pension fund members have a vested
interest in driving down pricing for trades, so “they should
not be in charge of the mechanism for determining it,” said
Caldwell, chairman and CEO of Caldwell Securities Ltd. in
Toronto, which owns TMX shares and supported the LSE bid. “The
conflict is huge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  