-- 
Yen Retreats From Almost Four-Month High Amid Prospects Japan to Intervene

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-13T07:32:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/yen-retreats-from-almost-four-month-high-amid-prospects-japan-to-intervene.html
The yen weakened from its strongest
level since policy makers jointly intervened in foreign-exchange
markets in March amid speculation  Japan  will sell its currency
again to support exporters.  The yen fell versus all its major counterparts after
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said its moves have been “a bit
one-sided.” The currency earlier climbed to 78.50 per dollar,
the strongest since March 17, as concern Europe’s debt crisis is
spreading boosted demand for refuge assets. The Australian and
New Zealand dollars rose after data showed China’s economic
growth expanded by more than analysts predicted.  “The market is cautious about a possible intervention,”
said  Daisaku Ueno , Tokyo-based president of Gaitame.com Research
Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest online currency
broker. “The yen was sold off in the early morning in Asia
while the market was thin. That reminds me of how the March
intervention happened.”  Japan’s currency fell to 79.35 per dollar as of 8:13 a.m.
in London from 79.24 in  New York  yesterday, after gaining 2.5
percent in the previous three days. The yen dropped to 111.36
per euro from 110.74 per euro. It rose to 109.58 yesterday, the
strongest since March 17. The euro was at $1.4028 from $1.3976
yesterday, when it touched $1.3837, the weakest since March 11.  Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yukio Edano  echoed Noda’s
comments, saying rapid foreign-exchange moves were not
“desirable.” Group of Seven nations jointly sold Japan’s
currency on March 18 after the yen surged to a postwar record of
76.25 per dollar the previous day, threatening the nation’s
recovery from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  ‘Not Helpful’  “What they’re concerned about is their export
competitiveness much like the rest of  Asia ,” said Douglas Borthwick, head of foreign-exchange trading at Stamford,
Connecticut-based Faros Trading. “Obviously a stronger yen
isn’t helpful toward that.”  Borthwick predicted Japan would be prompted to sell yen if
the currency gained about 1 percent more against China’s yuan
and 5 percent versus the South Korean won.  The yen’s relative strength index against the euro climbed
above 70 yesterday, a level some traders see as a sign an
asset’s price has risen too fast and is poised to reverse
direction.  Japan’s currency tends to strengthen during economic and
financial turmoil because the nation’s trade surplus makes it
less reliant on foreign capital.  Aussie, Kiwi Gain  Australia’s dollar rose for the first time in four days
against the yen and the greenback after  China ’s economic data
pushed up stocks across Asia.  China’s gross domestic product increased 9.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
in Beijing. The median estimate was 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. Industrial output advanced 15.1
percent in June, the most since May 2010.  Today’s economic data “does break the recent string
towards disappointment from numbers out of China,” said  Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10 currency strategy for Asia ex-Japan
at Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore . “It could help to ease some of
the downward pressure on the Aussie and kiwi.”  Australia’s dollar strengthened 0.5 percent to $1.0655, and
gained 0.8 percent to 84.63 yen. The New Zealand currency
advanced 0.7 percent to 82.38 U.S. cents.  Europe  Concern  Gains in the euro were tempered on concern the region’s
debt crisis will spread after Ireland yesterday became the third
euro-area nation to have its  credit rating  cut to below
investment grade.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Ireland to Ba1 from Baa3
yesterday, citing the probability the country will require
additional official financing. The outlook remains “negative,”
Moody’s said in a statement.  The Italian Treasury is scheduled to sell as much as 5
billion euros of bonds tomorrow amid concern it will be drawn
into the turmoil that’s forced Greece, Ireland and Portugal to
seek bailouts.  “The euro is a sell on rallies at the moment as I can’t
see any light yet out of Europe,” said  Matthew Brady , executive
director for foreign exchange at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney.
“Italy is a big concern and it’s the whole contagion trade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 