-- 
Hynix, Toshiba Form Alliance to Develop New Memory Chip for Mobile Devices

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 
2011-07-13T07:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/hynix-toshiba-form-alliance-to-develop-new-memory-chip-for-mobile-devices.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) , the world’s second-largest makers of computer-memory and
flash-memory chips respectively, agreed to collaborate on
developing next-generation  storage devices .  The companies will set up a joint venture to produce a new
type of memory chips called Spin-Transfer Torque
Magnetoresistance Random Access Memory, or STT-MRAM, they said
in a statement today. While the companies didn’t disclose the
size of investment, Hynix said the partnership will be its
biggest alliance since a joint project with STMicroelectronics
NV to build a $2 billion plant in  China .  The devices, capable of storing information without the use
of electricity and processing data at “ultra-high speed,” will
first be used in mobile devices that require low power
consumption, the companies said. High production costs for the
chips, which alleviate the shortcomings of DRAM and NAND flash,
mean it may take years before they become mainstream, said Seo Won Seok, an analyst at NH Securities Co. in  Seoul .  “There are many limitations to mass production,” Seo said
by telephone. In the short term, “they can’t match the
economics and efficiency of DRAM and NAND flash,” he said.  DRAM, widely used in personal computers to help run
multiple programs at the same time, stores data only when there
is power. While NAND flash, used in such portable gadgets as MP3
players and digital cameras, can save data without power, it
operates more slowly than DRAM.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  