-- 
Zimbabwe Rejects Black Empowerment Proposal From New Dawn Mining of Canada

-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 
2011-07-13T09:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-13/zimbabwe-rejects-a-black-investors-proposal-from-new-dawn-mining-of-canada.html
New Dawn Mining Corp. (ND) , operator of
four producing gold mines in Zimbabwe, became the first foreign
miner to have its proposals on black empowerment rejected by the
government.  “We’ve rejected their proposals because they bypassed
regulatory authorities when they bought  Falcon Gold Ltd. (FALGOLD)  and
Olympus Mine without approval from the Competition Commission,”
 Saviour Kasukuwere , indigenization and economic empowerment
minister, said today by phone from the capital of Harare.
“These mines were bought outside Zimbabwe, but later merged
here, which is unacceptable.”  Zimbabwe is the holder of the world’s second-largest
reserves of platinum and ferrochrome after South Africa. The
empowerment law, which forces foreign operators to cede or sell
51 percent of their local assets, affects miners including  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) , Rio Tinto Group, RioZim Ltd. and  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)   The law, known as the Indigenization and Empowerment Act,
doesn’t allow white Zimbabweans or foreigners to own businesses
with assets in excess of $1 million. No approvals have so far
been granted.  Plans by mining companies to sell majority stakes to locals
“fall short” of government expectations, Kasukuwere told state-
owned television on July 6. The government will take steps to
“take over those assets,” he said at the time.  About 173 mining companies, many of them closely held,
submitted their plans to the southern African nation’s
government explaining how they will dilute their foreign or
white shareholdings.  New Dawn, which is listed in Toronto, didn’t answer calls
to its switchboard today outside of office hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 