-- A Kindle Fire Amazon-Lovers Can Love: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-09-12T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/a-kindle-fire-amazon-lovers-can-love-rich-jaroslovsky.html
I wasn’t a big fan of the original
Kindle Fire, the bargain-priced seven-inch color tablet
 Amazon.com (AMZN)  introduced late last year. It was sluggish and
cumbersome, redeemed mostly by its easy access to the world of
Amazon content.  The new Kindle Fire HD, which arrives Friday, is better
across the board. It’s thinner, lighter and faster, adds
Bluetooth and a front-facing camera (though still no GPS) and
has a much better screen. Plus, it introduces some neat new
software tricks.  Above all, the device maintains its predecessor’s rock-
bottom price tag: $199 for the base model, which comes with 16
gigabytes of storage and requires a Wi-Fi connection. An updated
version of the previous Fire is now $159, while Amazon is
promising another version of the HD, with a bigger screen aimed
at taking on Apple’s iPad, for late November.  I’ve been using the seven-inch model for several days, and,
despite finding a few shortcomings, I generally like it a lot,
at least as long as I’m consuming videos, books and music
acquired from Amazon.  The Fire HD is somewhat stubbier and, at 13.9 ounces, about
two ounces heavier than its main competition among small
tablets,  Google (GOOG) ’s Nexus 7. On the other hand, the Google tablet
comes with only eight gigabytes of storage, and its Google Play
store can’t match Amazon’s selection of books and videos.  Invisible Android  Like the Nexus 7, the Fire HD runs a version of Google’s
Android operating system -- in this case, the year-old “Ice
Cream Sandwich” release -- but you wouldn’t know it.  In place of the Android look and feel, Amazon has installed
its own interface, featuring a scrolling carousel for displaying
content resident on the device or available for download-on-
demand from the Amazon Cloud. You can also pin favorite apps to
the carousel.  The software has also been tweaked to take specific
advantage of Amazon content. The X-Ray feature, for example,
lets you summon cast, crew and other information from the
Amazon-owned  IMDb  while you’re watching a movie.  And if you buy certain e-books, for a few dollars more you
can also buy an audio version from its  Audible.com  operation
that will know where you are in your reading and sync up
automatically. That way, you can flip back and forth, depending
on whether you want to read or listen.  Seamless Switching  I tested the feature with one of the titles Amazon
suggested -- Chester Himes’s “A Rage in Harlem” -- and was
able to move seamlessly between the two versions, as well as
have Samuel L. Jackson read along with me. Amazon is offering
the feature with about 15,000 titles at launch, but says the
number will grow. It’s a terrific idea, and one that’s made
possible because you’re being kept entirely inside the Amazon
ecosystem.  But being locked in has downsides, too. Have an extensive
collection of music from Apple’s iTunes store? Getting it onto
the Fire is an involved process, and some songs won’t even make
it. Want a big selection of third-party apps? The Fire doesn’t
have access to the Google Play store for Android apps.  There are Kindle-specific versions of some major apps --
 Facebook (FB) , Skype,  Netflix (NFLX) , Angry Birds -- but this is a much more
closed environment than even the iPad. Embracing the Fire HD
means lashing yourself to Amazon for pretty much everything you
do.  Better Battery  As with any device, battery life depends on how you use it.
Still, I found the battery much improved over last year’s Kindle
Fire. I was able to get more than a full day’s use, which
included leaving the wireless on at all times, watching videos,
and downloading books and music from Amazon.  In general, the Fire HD feels considerably more responsive
than last year’s model, but some things remain balky.  There’s still a noticeable lag when you touch some icons.
It’s also slower than either the Nexus 7 or the iPad to reorient
the screen when you turn it. And the Audible app sometimes
thought it didn’t have an Internet connection when it did.  I couldn’t see the benefits of Amazon’s claimed
enhancements to the Fire’s Wi-Fi capabilities and Silk web
browser. In head-to-head tests on different networks, the iPad
was consistently faster at displaying Web pages.  Then there are the ads. Amazon pioneered the idea of what
it euphemistically calls “special offers” on its monochrome
Kindle e-readers, giving buyers a choice between a more-
expensive ad-free version and a less-expensive one with ads.  The Fire HD comes in just one version, with ads that appear
on the lock screen whenever you wake up the tablet. I found them
tolerable, but some people will be offended at the notion of
paying $200 to be advertised to. Amazon says it will offer a way
for buyers to opt out of the ads for an extra $15.  The Fire still has a long way to go to match the iPad’s
smoothness and vast collection of apps, and the competition is
about to get tougher if the reports are right that Apple is on
the verge of announcing its own seven-inch tablet.  Still, for $199, those willing to commit all-in to the
Amazon universe are likely to find themselves well-rewarded.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining  and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 