-- About Those Policies That Got Us Into This Mess
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-09-12T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/about-those-policies-that-got-us-into-this-mess-caroline-baum.html
“They want us to go back to the
same old policies that got us into this mess in the first
place.”  Was the speaker President  Barack Obama ? Bill Clinton?  Rahm
Emanuel ?  Debbie Wasserman Schultz ?  All of the above -- and many more of the luminaries who
graced the stage at last week’s Democratic National Convention
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . This has become a standard, stump-
speech line, yet no one bothers to spell out exactly what those
policies are.  Before we get to causality, we have to define the “mess”
they all talk about. I assume it refers to the 2008 financial
crisis, which rocked the U.S. and global economy to its
foundation, threatened to bring down the banks and left a
landscape of  foreclosed homes  in its wake.  Fair interpretation? Let’s move on. We have one more
prerequisite before we can get to our analysis of the policies.
What was at the root of the mess? In other words, what single
element precipitated the crisis?  Answer: bad loans. The same thing that historically has
gotten  banks into trouble . (No, it wasn’t proprietary trading.)  This time around, it was  subprime  and substandard mortgages
that were bundled, packaged into securities, sliced, diced and
sometimes squared, and sold to investors as AAA-rated
securities.  Time Warp  So what policies were responsible? I doubt the Bush tax
cuts of 2001 and 2003, which lowered marginal tax rates and
those on  capital gains  and dividends, had anything to do with
the  housing bubble . On the other hand, the government’s
unwritten, and underwritten, policy on housing did.  Start with housing’s taxed-advantaged status. Mortgage
interest and real-estate taxes are deductible. The first
$250,000 of capital gains ($500,000 for a married couple) from
the sale of a home is exempt from taxation as long as you have
lived in it for two years. The tax laws on capital gains were
relaxed in 1997, when Clinton was in the White House.  Why is housing tax-advantaged? Because the folks who write
the laws -- or, more correctly, those who influence the folks
who write the laws -- decided it should be. The government
enacted laws to  encourage lending  to minorities and low-income
households. (Lenders might say “encourage” understates the
thrust of the law.) It established  affordable-housing goals  for
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . And it closed its eyes to financial
chicanery at the two government-sponsored, public-private
enterprises, which are now wards of the state.  And while we’re on the subject of Clinton, I almost fell
off my chair when I saw his recent  ad endorsing Obama .  “The Republican plan is to cut more taxes on upper income
people and go back to deregulation,” Clinton says. “That’s
what got us in trouble in the first place.”  Deregulation? As in the repeal of Glass-Steagall in 1999?
Didn’t some Obama campaign official vet the ad before the
president gave it his imprimatur?  The Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, better
known at Gramm-Leach-Bliley, removed the barriers among banks,
investment banks and insurance companies. Banks got bigger and
more leveraged. Pretty soon, they were too big to fail.  Next came the  Commodity Futures Modernization Act , which
exempted over-the-counter swaps and derivatives from regulation.
It was signed into law in 2000 by… Bill Clinton . Leading the
deregulatory charge during his administration were Treasury
Secretary  Robert Rubin  -- who subsequently landed a  plum job 
with no line responsibility at Citigroup, which had already
merged with Travelers before Glass-Steagall was repealed -- and
his No. 2,  Larry Summers . The idea was to distribute risk; the
effect was to magnify it.  Homeownership Pursuit  Financial deregulation, which started in 1980 under
President  Jimmy Carter , didn’t cause the crisis. It did serve as
an accelerator, allowing Wall Street to manufacture newfangled
securities that were only as good as the mortgages from which
they were derived.  Government policy had a role to play in the misallocation
of capital into housing. But that in no way exculpates the other
actors in this saga: lenders, who had no incentive to perform
due diligence since they sold the loans as soon as the ink was
dry; compliant rating companies that failed to understand that
over-collateralized junk is still junk;  Wall Street  investment
banks, which were only too happy to satisfy investor demand by
feeding them high-yielding, AAA-rated securities; the  Federal
Reserve , which kept  interest rates  too low for too long;
regulators, who were asleep at the wheel; and yes, even
homebuyers, who heard there was a free lunch and wanted a bite
of it.  All were to blame. Yet the pursuit of homeownership through
legislation, incentives and relaxed loan standards was the
driving force. And it succeeded. The  homeownership rate  soared
to a record 69.2 percent in 2004 from 64 percent a decade
earlier.  The government is still trying to find ways to make it
easier for  underwater homeowners  to refinance their mortgages
and stay in their homes. For many of these people, especially
the unemployed, a home is no longer a castle but an albatross,
preventing them from moving to areas of the country where
businesses are hiring.  Maybe it’s time to take the goal of homeownership down from
its lofty perch. It really doesn’t belong in the category with
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Ben Bernanke should
confront his critics  and why  Chicago’s teachers union is wrong ;
 Michael Kinsley  on the  similarities between politics and the
Olympics ; Jonathan Mahler on  John Henry’s fall from grace ; Cass
R. Sunstein on the triumph of  cost-benefit analysis ; Stephen
Starr on why  Syrian rebels  are losing popular support.  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  