-- Ace to Buy Fianzas for $285 Million to Expand in Mexico
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-12T17:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/ace-to-buy-fianzas-for-285-million-to-expand-in-mexico.html
Ace Ltd. (ACE) , the Swiss insurer with
operations in more than 50 nations, agreed to buy Fianzas
Monterrey from New York Life Insurance Co. for $285 million in
cash to expand in Mexico.  Fianzas Monterrey is Mexico’s second-largest surety lines
company, Zurich-based Ace said today in a statement. Surety
insurers provide guarantees on construction and industrial
projects.  Ace Chief Executive Officer Evan Greenberg has been
expanding through acquisitions to grow in businesses such as
U.S. crop insurance and build market share in  emerging markets 
like Malaysia. He agreed in 2010 to buy New York Life units in
Hong Kong and  South Korea .  “Surety is a growth area for Ace, and Mexico is an
attractive market with a strong economic outlook,” Greenberg
said in the statement.  New York  Life CEO Ted Mathas has been narrowing the
company’s focus to life insurance and investments in the U.S.
and Mexico. His company obtained Fianzas Monterrey in 2000 when
it purchased life insurer Seguros Monterrey from Aetna Inc. and
Grupo Financiero Bancomer SA.  “While Fianzas Monterrey is an extremely well run and
profitable business it is non-core for New York Life and outside
of our primary focus,” Mathas said in a separate statement.  Regional Offices  Fianzas Monterrey has three regional offices and 25 branch
offices and distributes its products through a network of almost
600 independent agents and brokers, Ace said. The Mexico City-
based unit was established in 1943.  Ace advanced 0.6 percent to $75.57 at 1:46 p.m. in New York
trading. Greenberg’s firm has climbed about 7.8 percent this
year, compared with the 15 percent gain in the 75-company
 Bloomberg World Insurance Index. (BWINSU)  New York life is owned by its
policyholders.  New York Life’s bank on the deal was  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , and in the insurer got legal advice from Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP. Ace was advised by Willis Group Holdings Plc and
Mayer Brown LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  