-- Aetos to Raise $1 Billion to Invest in Japan, China Assets
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-09-12T03:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/aetos-to-raise-1-billion-to-invest-in-japan-china-properties.html
Aetos Capital LLC, which has
acquired $10 billion of assets in  Japan  and  China , plans to
raise $1 billion to invest in the two countries as it bets on
distressed opportunities in Japan and housing demand in China.  New York-based Aetos plans to buy distressed debt and
assets including office, residential and retail properties in
Japan from banks that are seeking to recover their loan value,
Managing Director Scott Kelley said in an interview in  Tokyo .
The fund will also develop apartments in second-tier cities in
China, he said.  Aetos and its competitor  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ,
which is also raising a fund to buy real estate debt, are
seeking bargains in Japan’s property market following a record
amount of defaulted debt from lending extended prior to the 2008
global financial crisis. As much as 700 billion yen ($9 billion)
of commercial buildings are set to be sold over the next three
years, according to an estimate by Moody’s Investors Service.  “Because there are so many over-levered properties, our
best value purchases are going to be in the distressed area,”
Kelley said. “We really think the bulk of this distressed
activity is going to happen in the next couple of years.”  About 364.6 billion yen worth of properties will be offered
by next year with the rest sold through 2014 as special
servicers that oversee properties tied to defaulted loans sell
buildings to repay lenders, according to Moody’s.  Rate of Return  The investment management company has acquired 15 billion
yen of office and residential properties over the past six
months in Japan, he said.  Aetos may also invest in other countries in north  Asia ,
Kelley said. The fund will target an internal rate of return of
about 20 percent and has an investing period of eight years, he
said.  China’s new home prices rose for a third month in August,
SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real estate website
owner, said in a statement based on a survey of 100 cities.  “There is a systemic under supply of residential housing
in an urbanizing China,” said Kelley. “That’s really what we
are trying to take the advantage of.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  