-- ThaiBev, Charoen Offers S$9 Billion for Fraser & Neave
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-09-13T07:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/thaibev-charoen-offers-s-9-billion-for-fraser-neave.html
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi made a S$9 billion ($7.3 billion) bid for the
70 percent of  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN)  he does not control,
potentially blocking  Heineken NV (HEIA)  from buying the company’s beer
business.  TCC Assets Ltd., linked to Charoen’s  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) ,
offered S$8.88 a share for F&N, TCC said in a filing today. The
bid is 4.3 percent more than F&N’s closing price yesterday and
values the company at $10.3 billion.  Charoen, 68, set off a scramble for F&N and its assets when
he agreed to buy a stake in the company in July. Heineken
countered with a bid for F&N’s 40 percent stake in Tiger beer
maker  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  which the Dutch brewer already
partially owns. Charoen’s latest bid is ahead of a Sept. 28
meeting where  F&N (FNH)  shareholders will vote on Heineken’s proposal.  “The fact that they are making an offer at this stage
seems to suggest that they want a bigger say in the vote,” said
Goh Han Peng, analyst at DMG & Partners Research Pte in
Singapore. “They could scuttle the deal if they want to hold on
to APB.”  Fraser & Neave shares rose as much as 5.1 percent to
S$8.94, after a trading halt was removed at 2:30 p.m. local
time, topping the offer price in a sign some investors expect
other bids.  “One drastic alternative if Heineken doesn’t want to work
with Thai Bev is to make a counter offer for F&N either by
themselves or with a partner,” said Goh.  Thai Bev shares added as much as 4.4 percent. Heineken
shares fell 77 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 42.19 euros at 9:02
a.m. in Amsterdam.  Thai Influence  Charoen’s bid is the largest announced by a Thai company in
at least 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Purchasing F&N would widen his influence in  Asia . His
brewer, which is F&N’s largest shareholder with a 29 percent
stake, got almost all its revenue from  Thailand  in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Charoen could also want to break up the 129-year-old
conglomerate, which has soft-drink and real-estate businesses,
according to Justin Harper, Singapore-based market strategist at
IG Markets.  “We still think Thai Bev is more interested in the
alcoholic business of F&N of which APB is the jewel in the
crown,” he said in an e-mail. “It would hate to see Heineken
gain control of this.”  Japan ’s  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , which has a 15 percent stake in
F&N, has said it is interested in its soft-drink and food
businesses.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  has explored a bid for the drinks
operations, people with knowledge of the matter have said. Kirin
spokesman Jun Sato and Coca-Cola spokeswoman Joanna Price
declined to comment today.  Fraser & Neave got 30 percent of its 2011 revenue of S$6.3
billion from property, 12 percent from soft drinks and 17
percent from dairies, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Charoen’s unlisted business TCC Group has a real-estate unit.
The Singapore company will appoint a financial adviser and  hold
the Sept. 28 meeting as planned, it said in a statement.  European Brewer  Heineken in August raised its offer for APB to S$53 a share
from S$50. The higher $4.4 billion bid followed an offer from a
company controlled by Charoen’s son-in-law to buy a 7.3 percent
stake in the Tiger beer maker for S$55 a share.  Fraser & Neave’s board didn’t accept the Charoen-linked
offer and instead recommended Heineken’s bid. It would have to
pay a S$56 million fee to break up the agreement with the Dutch
brewer. Kindest Place Groups Ltd., controlled by Charoen’s son-
in-law, has an 8.6 percent stake in APB, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Dutch company, which owns at least 42 percent of APB,
has sought full control to protect its hold over a key emerging-
markets business.  APB has rights to brew Bintang beer in  Indonesia , Anchor in
 China , Southeast Asia and  Sri Lanka , and Heineken from China to
 New Zealand . Heineken has the smallest emerging-markets presence
of the world’s big three brewers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The world’s third-biggest brewer will review Thai
Beverage’s statement and comment when appropriate, Heineken
spokesman  John Clarke  said in an e-mail.  Thai Beverage is offering to pay 13.9 times F&N’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That
compares with the 14.2 times median in eight global beverage
deals of at least $1 billion in the last three years, according
to the data.  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) , DBS Bank Ltd. and Morgan Stanley
Asia (Singapore) Pte. are advising TCC. Vichate Tantiwanich, a
senior vice president at Thai Bev, didn’t answer two calls to
his mobile phone.  Charoen was born and raised in Bangkok’s Chinatown
district. He bid for the rights to operate distilleries during a
liberalization of the nation’s liquor industry, before expanding
into beer, alcohol, sugar, and packaging businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  