-- Haier to Buy Rest of F&P Appliances for $564 Million
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-12T03:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/haier-to-buy-rest-of-f-p-appliances-for-564-million.html
Haier Group offered to buy the rest
of New Zealand’s  Fisher & Paykel Appliances Holdings Ltd. (FPA)  for
NZ$695 million ($570 million) as  China ’s biggest appliance maker
boosts international distribution and manufacturing capability.  Haier, the refrigerator maker’s largest  shareholder  with a
20 percent stake, offered NZ$1.20 a share in cash for the rest,
according to an e-mailed statement. Haier had indicated it
planned for more investment in the company, Fisher & Paykel
Chairman Keith Turner said in a Bloomberg TV interview today.  The purchase would extend the overseas expansion of Haier
Group, which has a  plant  in South Carolina, by adding F&P’s
manufacturing bases in the U.S.. Italy,  Mexico  and Thailand. The
deal can help boost Haier’s distribution channels, said Alex Yeung, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Kim Eng Securities HK Ltd.  “The offer is quite attractive,” Yeung said. “It’s
Haier’s long-term strategy to increase exposure overseas. They
probably feel there is market potential to drive sales.”  Haier also has research, design and development centers in
Germany and Italy.  Fisher & Paykel ’s shares rose 12 percent to NZ$1.165 as of
2:56 p.m. in Wellington. The Haier offer is 60 percent higher
that the closing price on Sept. 7, the last day before the
company disclosed Haier was considering a bid.  The company has told investors to take no action on the
offer as it considers the bid.  Market Share  Auckland-based F&P gets 40 percent of sales from  Australia ,
30 percent in its home market and 16 percent in  North America ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It had the second-
largest market share in refrigeration appliances in Australia
last year with 24 percent, after  Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  which has 28
percent, according to data from London-based Euromonitor. Haier
Group ranked fifth with a 5.5 percent share.  Haier Group, the unlisted parent of Hong Kong-listed  Haier
Electronics Group Co. (1169)  and Shanghai-listed  Qingdao Haier (600690)  Co.,
bought 20 percent of Fisher & Paykel in 2009 and said it planned
more acquisitions and alliances to expand its brand.  Qingdao Haier has been suspended from trading in Shanghai
since yesterday, while Haier Electronics dropped 0.9 percent to
HK$9 in Hong Kong at 11:25 a.m.  Any sale will have to be approved by the New Zealand
government, Turner said, adding he didn’t see any “particularly
major impediments” to that process.  The offer is attractive for Fisher & Paykel shareholders,
“given market volatility, recent economic uncertainty and the
competitive nature of the global white goods sector,” Liang Haishan, president of Haier White Goods Group, said in
yesterday’s statement.  Fisher & Paykel’s second-largest shareholder, Allan Gray
Australia Pty Ltd., has accepted Haier’s proposed offer, Liang
said.  Fisher & Paykel said Sept. 10 it allowed Haier to undertake
“limited” due diligence, giving it access to part of a five-
year strategic plan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  