-- Taiwan’s Bond Yield, Currency Rise on U.S., China Stimulus Bets
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   A r g i n   C h a n g
-- 2012-09-12T08:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/taiwan-s-bond-yield-currency-rise-on-u-s-china-stimulus-bets.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds dropped,
pushing the 10-year yield to a three-week high, and the local
dollar rallied for a fifth day on speculation the U.S. and  China 
will step up efforts to address slowdowns in their economies.  Global funds bought $101 million more Taiwanese equities
than they sold today, boosting 2012 net purchases to $752
million, according to exchange data. The Fed will probably keep
borrowing costs near zero this week, according to a Bloomberg
News survey, and decide whether a third round of quantitative
easing is warranted. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled
yesterday there’s more room for fiscal and monetary policy to
support growth in Taiwan’s biggest export market.  “Sentiment is pretty risk-on today,” said  James Wang , a
debt trader at Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei. “If the U.S.
really launches QE3, it’ll attract more money into riskier
assets, and yields may go up even more.”  The yield on Taiwan’s 1.125 percent notes due September
2022 rose one basis point to 1.19 percent in Taipei, the highest
rate for a benchmark 10-year note since Aug. 21, according to
Gretai Securities Market.  The  overnight money-market rate  held at 0.39 percent, a
weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center
shows.  German Ruling  Germany ’s top constitutional court cleared the way for a
permanent euro-area rescue fund, rejecting bids to halt German
ratification of the 500 billion-euro ($644 billion) backstop.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe today
dismissed motions filed by groups including a conservative
lawmaker and an opposition political party that sought to block
the fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism, and a
deficit-control treaty championed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  One-month non-deliverable forwards for Taiwan’s dollar
advanced 0.1 percent to NT$29.54 against the greenback,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a 0.4 percent
premium to the spot rate, which rose 0.2 percent to NT$29.669.  Implied volatility in the currency for one-month increased
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.6 percent.
The measure is a gauge of exchange-rate swings used to price
options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  