-- Weepu Gets Start as All Blacks Bench Smith for Protocol Breach
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-13T00:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/all-blacks-name-team-to-face-springboks-in-rugby-championship.html
New Zealand made four changes to
face South Africa in their Rugby Championship match in Dunedin
this weekend, including dropping scrum-half  Aaron Smith  for a
disciplinary breach.  Piri Weepu  comes in for his first start of 2012 after
Smith, who made his Test debut against Ireland in June, broke a
team protocol regarding post-match rehabilitation, the New
Zealand Herald cited All Blacks coach  Steve Hansen  as saying.  “He broke a non-negotiable and the consequences are that
you don’t start if you break them,” Hansen was cited as saying,
adding that it would be wrong to assume the 23-year-old Smith’s
indiscretion involved alcohol or curfews.  In the other starting changes to the team that beat
Argentina 21-5 last week, Andrew Hore replaces Keven Mealamu at
hooker,  Liam Messam  starts at blindside flanker ahead of  Victor
Vito  and Samuel Whitelock takes over at lock with Brodie
Retallick dropping to the bench.  The match will be the world champion All Blacks first Test
at Dunedin’s Forsyth Barr Stadium, which has a transparent roof.  New Zealand tops the southern hemisphere championship
standings with 12 points after three of six rounds, a lead of
five over South Africa, with Australia on four points and
Argentina on two.  “At the halfway stage we are very happy from a results
point of view,” Hansen said in a team statement. “There is a
second challenge we have set ourselves -- to constantly improve
our game -- and in that regard we are not the finished
product.”  NEW ZEALAND: Israel Dagg,  Cory Jane , Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu, Julian Savea, Aaron Cruden, Piri Weepu, Kieran Read,
Richie McCaw (captain), Liam Messam, Samuel Whitelock, Luke
Romano, Owen Franks, Andrew Hore, Tony Woodcock.  Reserves: Keven Mealamu, Charlie Faumuina, Brodie
Retallick, Victor Vito, Aaron Smith, Beauden Barrett, Tamati
Ellison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  