-- Ambassador Stevens Dies, Witness Then Casualty in Libya
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-09-12T22:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/ambassador-stevens-dies-witness-then-casualty-in-libya.html
John Christopher Stevens, the
American ambassador to  Libya  killed trying to evacuate the U.S.
consulate in Benghazi during an attack by Islamist protesters,
was a firsthand witness to Libya’s painful transition to
democracy who became one of its casualties. He was 52.  Known to friends, family and colleagues as Chris, the
California native was a fluent Arabic-speaking, 21-year veteran
of the State Department who had postings in Damascus, Cairo and
other Middle Eastern locales before his first stint in Libya
from 2007 to 2009.  “He found humor in the blackest of moments, always made
time for a game of tennis, and enjoyed a gin and tonic at the
end of a long day,” said Molly Phee, who joined the foreign
service in the same class as Stevens and is deputy chief of
mission in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia . His friendship over 20 years
“and kindness helped revive me when I felt low,” Phee said in
an e-mail.  Stevens, the No. 2 diplomat in Tripoli when  Muammar Qaddafi 
was still in power, went to Benghazi in 2011 as the eyes and
ears for policy makers trying to gauge how to respond to the
rebellion under way and avert a massacre in that city by Qaddafi
forces. He was promoted to ambassador after the dictator was
killed by rebels.  ‘Building Bridges’  “Chris took his work seriously, but never himself,” Phee
said. “He was an avid student of Islam and the  Middle East , and
consistently strove to build the proverbial bridge between our
two cultures in the face of sometimes overwhelming antagonism
and bitter misunderstanding.”  Ali Aujuali, Libya’s ambassador to the U.S., remembers
meeting Stevens six years ago in Tripoli and thinking that the
talented diplomat was going places. They formed a friendship
over tennis games and breakfasts.  Stevens “was very enthusiastic” about the relationship
between Libya and the U.S., Aujali told reporters yesterday in
 Washington . “He believed that the Americans should support the
Libyan people to get their country back.”  Stevens’ killing on Sept. 11 came four months after he was
sworn in and dispatched to the most challenging assignment of
his career: navigating the aftermath of Qaddafi in a divided
country with no constitution or rule of law. Tribal rivalries
have pitted regional militias against one another, and weapons
made their way across borders, falling into the hands of
insurgents.  ‘Passion for Service’  “I had the privilege of swearing in Chris for his post in
Libya only a few months ago,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in a statement. “He spoke eloquently
about his passion for service, for diplomacy and for the Libyan
people.”  At a March 23 Senate hearing, Stevens spoke of the
“tremendous goodwill for the  United States  in Libya now” and
how “Libyans recognize the key role the United States played.”  That faith suffered a blow this week when an anti-Muslim
film sparked an attack by armed protesters on the consulate in
Benghazi and the U.S. embassy in Cairo. A clip of the disputed
film aired on YouTube shows a fictional attack by Muslims on a
Christian family followed by an account of the origins of Islam
depicting Muhammad as a womanizer.  “It’s especially tragic that Chris Stevens died in
Benghazi, because it is a city that he helped to save,”
President  Barack Obama  said yesterday.  ‘Personal Loss’  Senator Dick Lugar, the top Republican on the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee told reporters yesterday that
Stevens had been in Benghazi “attempting to at least try to
survey how things were going there” with security of the U.S.
consulate.  “I feel Chris Stevens’ loss as a personal loss,” said
Lugar. Stevens had worked on the Indiana senator’s staff for a
year in 2006 on a State Department fellowship.  Ibrahim Dabbashi , the deputy Libyan ambassador to the
United Nations, was visibly moved as he remembered Stevens as
someone able to connect with Libyans from all walks of life.  “His personality was very simple,” Dabbashi, who was
among the first Libyan officials to defect to the Qaddafi
regime, told reporters. “He used to have the friends among high
officials and simple Libyan people.”  During his tenure in Tripoli, Stevens had time to observe
Qaddafi, who ruled Libya for more than four decades and was the
first of the autocrats to be killed in the Arab Spring
uprisings.  Stevens wrote a cable prepared for the historic visit to
Libya of then-Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice  in 2008, where
he described Qaddafi as a “notoriously mercurial” figure who
avoids eye contact.  Small Town  Born in a small town in Northern California, Stevens went
to high school in Piedmont, near Oakland, according to  a
biography  on the State Department’s website.  He earned an undergraduate degree at the  University of
California , Berkeley, in 1982 and then taught English as a Peace
Corps volunteer in  Morocco  from 1983 to 1985.  He received a law degree from the University of
California’s Hastings College of the Law in  San Francisco  in
1989 and served as an international trade lawyer before joining
the Foreign Service in 1991. In 2010, he received a master’s
degree in national security studies from the National War
College in Washington.  The Peace Corps service was key, according to Clinton.
That’s when, she said, Stevens “fell in love with the Middle
East.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  