-- Americans Without Health Insurance Decline, Census Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-09-12T16:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/americans-without-health-insurance-decline-census-says.html
The number of Americans without
health insurance fell for the first time since 2007, as many
younger than age 26 took advantage of a new law allowing them to
stay on their parents’ plans.  About 540,000 more young people were insured in 2011,
helping reduce the proportion of uninsured people to 15.7
percent, the Census Bureau said today in a  report . About 48.6
million people were uninsured last year, compared with 49.9
million in 2010, the largest numerical drop since at least 1999,
according to Census data.  The proportion of uncovered U.S. residents ages 19 to 25
improved to 27.7 percent, a 2.1 percentage point decline from a
year earlier. President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law lets
parents keep their children on their plans until they turn 26.  “I don’t think people were expecting the young adults
provision to have such a noticeable effect,” said Tom Buchmueller, a professor of risk management and insurance at the
 University of Michigan ’s Ross School of Business in  Ann Arbor .
“Clearly, there’s been a lot of take-up and it’s met a real
need, because we know in today’s job market kids are leaving
college without a lot of great options.”  Major Impetus  The proportion of people in the country without insurance
has risen since the turn of the century, a major impetus for
Obama’s effort to overhaul the health system. There were 44.8
million people, or 14.9 percent of the population, without
insurance in 2008, at the end of President  George W. Bush ’s
term, and 36.6 million, or 13.1 percent, uninsured in 2000, at
the end of President  Bill Clinton ’s administration, according to
Census data.  The health law, called the Affordable Care Act, will expand
Medicaid, the state-run program for the poor, and open new
government-run insurance exchanges that may expand  coverage  to
about 30 million people starting in 2014.  Obama’s administration had  estimated  that 3.1 million
people who would otherwise lack insurance this year took
advantage of the health law to join their parents’ coverage.  The Census data showing increased coverage of young adults
“is a clear signal that the Affordable Care Act is working,”
said  Ron Pollack , executive director of Families USA, a
nonprofit consumer advocacy group in  Washington  that supports
the law.  Stable Coverage  About 63.9 percent of Americans had private health
insurance in 2011, unchanged from 2010, the Census said. It was
the first year in a decade that the proportion of people with
private insurance didn’t fall.  “The number of people who have private insurance is stable
and that’s really good news obviously, and we’re working very
hard to help employers make that possible,” said  Karen Ignagni ,
president and CEO of America’s Health Insurance Plans, the
industry’s Washington lobby group, in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  Private insurance coverage probably remained stable in part
because health-care costs have been growing less quickly for the
past two years, Pollack said. Tax credits that the health law
offers to small businesses to help them pay for insurance for
their workers may also be helping, he said.  Premiums for family plans offered by employers increased
about 4.5 percent in 2012, half as much as a year earlier, the
 Kaiser Family Foundation , a  Menlo Park , California-based
nonprofit research group, reported yesterday.  Cost Increases  Policy makers need to keep an eye on health-care cost
growth as the nation prepares to implement the rest of the 2010
health law, Ignagni said.  “That’s going to be the name of the game for the business
community,” she said. “They’re going to look at what are we
paying now, what are we going to pay in the future, can we
afford to continue to offer health insurance? It’s very
important for our economy that this issue of affordability is
front and center so they can make an affirmative decision
there.”  Mitt Romney , the Republican nominee for president, has
 pledged  to repeal the Affordable Care Act if he’s elected and
replace the law with policies he says would reduce costs and
allow the uninsured to access coverage. He has not detailed his
health plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  