-- American Eagle to Pay Biggest Special Dividend as Sales Rise
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-09-12T20:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/american-eagle-announces-biggest-special-dividend-as-sales-rise.html
American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) , the
teen-apparel chain that brought in a new chief executive officer
in January, plans to reward shareholders with the company’s
biggest special dividend as sales rise.  American Eagle will distribute $1.50 a share in addition to
its regular quarterly payout of 11 cents a share to stockholders
of record on Sept. 26, the Pittsburgh-based company said in a
statement today. The one-time payment is about $295 million
based on shares outstanding, and the company’s first such
dividend since 2010, according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg.  CEO Robert Hanson, who joined American Eagle from Levi
Strauss & Co., has been cutting back inventory, pushing for
faster fashion-item turnaround and improving product assortments
to boost sales and reduce markdowns. Net sales in the first half
rose 14 percent to $1.45 billion from $1.27 billion a year
earlier, propelling a 49 percent rally in the shares this year
through yesterday.  “The special cash dividend is a component of our capital
allocation plan, which balances continued investment in our
business with top tier shareholder returns,” Hanson said in
today’s statement.  American Eagle rose 3.3 percent to $23.46 at the close in
 New York , the highest closing price since Feb. 1, 2008. It was
the biggest one-day increase since Aug. 22, when the company
reported second-quarter earnings. American Eagle has gained 53
percent this year.  American Eagle had $696.1 million of cash and equivalents
as of July 28, according to its most recent quarterly filing.  The retailer, which operates more than 1,000 stores, said
it sees comparable store sales rising in the mid-single digits
in the third quarter and the low-single digits in the fourth
quarter, according to its Aug. 22 earnings statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  