-- AMR Risks Bankruptcy Delay on Pilot Rift as US Air Waits
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-09-12T20:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/amr-risks-bankruptcy-delay-on-pilot-rift-as-us-air-waits.html
American Airlines ’ widening rift
with its pilots union threatens to delay the bankruptcy
restructuring of parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and improve the chances for a
takeover by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   While AMR’s unsecured creditors committee wants a contract
approved by pilots before leaving Chapter 11,  Fort Worth , Texas-
based American is imposing cost cuts spurned by the union. No
new talks are set in bargaining that began in 2006, and the
 Allied Pilots Association  wants members to authorize a strike.  Creditors’ patience may be tested as AMR struggles to show
that it can reorganize successfully, said Fred Lowrance, an
Avondale Partners LLC analyst in Nashville,  Tennessee . Even
victories such as a new flight attendant accord are tempered by
that union’s support for a  US Airways  merger resisted by AMR.  “Members of the unsecured creditors committee aren’t
sitting there with their heads in the sand,” Lowrance said in
an interview. “They got the results of the pilot vote -- the
sound rejection of the last offer -- and have heard the rhetoric
from flight attendants leaders. That’s why it’s hard for me to
fathom that we have a stand-alone American after this thing.”  AMR is implementing cuts on pilots as soon as today after
winning authorization last week from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane, who approved concessionary contracts with flight
attendants and mechanics at a  New York  hearing today. US Airways
has paved the way for a merger with conditional contracts with
American’s major unions.  Bonds, Shares  Takeover speculation has buoyed AMR debt this year and
helped US Airways shares more than double. AMR’s 6.25 percent
convertible notes due October 2014 were unchanged at to 66.5
cents on the dollar at 4:20 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. US Airways rose 1.7 percent to $11.82 in
New York trading.  For AMR, trying to exit bankruptcy without a pilot deal may
discourage potential investors because future costs wouldn’t be
known and a walkout would be a possibility, said  Hunter Keay , a
Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst in New York. AMR has said its
original goal of leaving court protection in 2012 won’t be met.  The creditors committee’s “strong desire” is for a
consensual agreement between American and the Allied Pilots
Association while AMR remains in court protection, according to
 Jack Butler , the panel’s attorney.  ‘Preferred Course’  “There is a credible legal path to emerge without a deal,
but that is not the committee’s preferred course,” he said in
an interview.  A consensual agreement also remains AMR’s aim, said  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman. A long-term contract would replace the terms
being dictated by American and set future pilot costs. Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Horton  has said he must pare annual labor
expenses by more than $1 billion to successfully restructure.  “It won’t necessarily be easy,” Hicks said. “But the
pilots understand, just as we do, that we both need the
assurances of a consensual agreement long term.”  Achieving that would mean mending labor ties that Lowrance
said are the worst in the industry. Pilots walked out in 1997
before then-President  Bill Clinton  intervened minutes later, and
staged an 11-day sickout in 1999 that cost American $225 million
and led to a fine against the union.  ‘New Management’  “Labor needs a new management team to repair the
relationship,” Savanthi Syth, a Raymond James & Associates Inc.
analyst based in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , said in an interview.
“It’s becoming more evident that it is going to be difficult
for the current management to do so. That’s another advantage of
a merger -- not just what it brings to the network but from a
labor peace perspective.”  US Airways declined to comment immediately, said Ed Stewart, a spokesman for the Tempe, Arizona-based airline.  The APA’s board authorized a strike vote starting today
through Oct. 3 in response to AMR’s setting of new contract
terms. While federal law prohibits a walkout now, that balloting
and the prospect of an eventual strike may scare away investors
and passengers.  “It’s going to be an overhang going forward and doesn’t
provide a very positive symbol for what is happening at American
Airlines now between its pilots and management,” said Dennis
Tajer, an APA spokesman. The union has about 8,000 active
pilots.  Six Years  American and its pilots began bargaining in September 2006,
and even the Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing that AMR blamed on high
labor costs hasn’t been enough to break the stalemate. The last
contract offer to pilots was rejected Aug. 8 with 61 percent of
the vote even though it would have provided a stake in a
restructured AMR, raises and protection against layoffs.  “The anger there is tangible,” said  Vicki Bryan , a
Houston-based senior bond analyst for Gimme Credit LLC. “You
can just feel it. It brings into sharper focus the importance of
the union relationships with US Airways.”  Excluding any cuts involving pilots, American has won
concessions from other unions that will shrink the number of job
cuts, to 7,625 from a planned 10,975. Savings from unions will
be as much as $900 million a year, and as much as $1.1 billion
when non-union workers are included. The amount depends on pilot
givebacks, which may total $315 million to $370 million.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  