-- American Airlines Wins Approval of Cost-Cutting Contracts
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-09-12T19:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/amr-wins-court-approval-of-cost-cutting-labor-contracts.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  won
bankruptcy court approval of new cost-cutting labor agreements
with unions for flight attendants and mechanics, which will get
equity stakes in the airline.  Six-year contracts were approved today by U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Sean Lane in Manhattan, who said “labor peace” was
valuable to the bankrupt airline.  “This is a very wise thing to do to resolve the dispute in
this way,” Lane said.  The accords secure savings that Fort Worth, Texas-based
American says are critical for its restructuring. Pilots are now
the airline’s only union that hasn’t agreed on concessions.  Lane last week approved American’s request to reject the
collective-bargaining agreement with pilots and impose cost
cuts. The ruling came after the pilots rejected a proposed
contract.  Excluding any cuts involving pilots, American has won
concessions from unions that will shrink the number of job cuts,
to 7,625 from a planned 10,975. Savings from unions will be as
much as $900 million a year and as much as $1.1 billion when
nonunion workers are included.  Flight Attendants  The agreement with the Association of Professional Flight
Attendants gives the union 3 percent of the equity issued to
unsecured creditors when AMR exits bankruptcy, according to
court papers.  The Transport Workers Union, representing groups including
mechanics and baggage handlers, is to get 4.8 percent of the
equity distributed to creditors. Lane today approved contracts
with mechanics and aircraft stock clerks. Five other groups
represented by the TWU previously reached agreement with
American.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 