-- Anglo Platinum Halts Mines on S. Africa Labor Unrest
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-09-12T17:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/anglo-platinum-diverts-miners-after-intimidation-at-rustenburg.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the
largest producer of the metal, halted its Rustenburg operations
as labor turmoil in  South Africa ’s  mining industry  disrupted
gold and platinum mines.  “In light of the current volatile situation in the
Rustenburg area, where our employees, who want to go to work,
are being prevented from doing so and are being intimidated by
the threat of violence, Anglo American Platinum has decided to
suspend its operations” with immediate effect, Chief Executive
Officer Chris Griffith said today in a statement. The halt will
last until work can safely resume, he said.  The company diverted about 3,000 employees from its mines
in the area to an undisclosed “neutral place” for their
safety, Mpumi Sithole, a spokeswoman for the Johannesburg-based
company known as Amplats, said by mobile phone. They were
released at noon after being briefed by management, she said.  The intimidation of Amplats workers is the latest
escalation of unrest in the South African mining industry amid
unlawful work stoppages at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine and  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s KDC West shaft. About 43,000 people are either on
strike at these three companies or staying away from work.
Platinum prices rose to a five-month high. The country produces
about 75 percent of the world’s platinum, used in pollution-
reducing devices and jewelry.  Great Threat  Amplats’s Rustenburg operations include the Khuseleka,
Thembelani, Khomanani, Siphumelele and Bathopele mines, which
produced 288,100 platinum equivalent ounces in the first half of
the year, or about one quarter of the company’s total output,
according to its website.  “There is a great threat” that illegal  strike action 
could break out at  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s Rustenburg
operation, the biggest platinum mine in the world,  National
Union of Mineworkers  spokesman  Lesiba Seshoka  said by mobile
phone. The mine was “fairly quiet,”  Bob Gilmour , a spokesman
for the second-biggest platinum producer, said by phone from
Johannesburg.  Amplats fell as much as 4.8 percent in Johannesburg
trading, the biggest intraday drop since July 19, and closed 4.1
percent lower at 417.50 rand. Platinum for October delivery
advanced for an eighth day in the longest winning streak since
August 2011. The metal gained as much as 3.3 percent to
$1,659.50 an ounce, the highest price since April 3.  Confirmed Death  The protests at Amplats began last night, and people
blocked access to four of the company’s shafts, police spokesman
Thulani Ngubane said by mobile phone.  The death toll in violence associated with the Lonmin
strike rose to 45 after a body was found yesterday in a field
near where police shot and killed 34 protesters Aug. 16. Police
believed the latest fatality to be a rock driller from the
Eastern Cape, which has yet to be confirmed, Ngubane said. Ten
others, including two police officers, died during protests the
week before police opened fire on protesters. Talks to end the
strike at Marikana resume tomorrow, according to mediators.  At Gold Fields’ KDC West operation, about 85 percent of
12,500 workers expected in the shafts were absent, spokesman
Sven Lunsche said by phone from Johannesburg, 50 kilometers (31
miles) north east of the mine. The illegal strike began Sept. 9,
with workers demanding the same 12,500 rand ($1,500) minimum
wage Lonmin strikers have sought.  Biggest Risk  The unrest may spread to other Gold Fields operations in
South Africa, NUM’s Seshoka said by phone. “The biggest risk at
the moment remains Beatrix,” located in the Free State
province, he said.  Julius Malema , the expelled youth leader of South Africa’s
ruling  African National Congress , addressed workers at KDC West
yesterday, calling for miners around the country to strike for
five days every month until bosses meet their demands for higher
wages.  Malema’s comments were “hogwash,” and put thousands of
workers’ jobs at risk, Seshoka said in an e-mailed statement.  Security guards fired teargas at protesters at the KDC mine
today after they attempted to stop a train, the South African
Press Association reported.  “This atmosphere is also only set to get more intense as
we move towards December,” when the ANC will hold its
leadership election conference, Nomura International Plc said in
a report today. The probability of a national mining strike is
low, but cannot be ruled out, it said.  Amplats Chairwoman  Cynthia Carroll  said the company’s
objective is to safely return to production as soon as possible.
“Our Rustenburg operations are already under considerable
economic pressure and the longer it is necessary to continue
this suspension, the greater the risk  to their long-term
viability,” she said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  