-- Anti-Theft Plan Boosts Eletropaulo Revenue as Rates Fall
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-09-12T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/anti-theft-plan-boosts-eletropaulo-revenue-as-rates-fall.html
Eletropaulo Metropolitana de
Eletricidade de Sao Paulo SA ,  Brazil ’s largest power distributor
by market value, is giving away refrigerators and hooking up
street lights in low-income communities to stamp out energy
theft that reduces industry revenue by 10 percent.  The utility is spending as much as 90 million reais ($45
million) through 2016 to rewire  power lines  in 500 so-called
favelas, according to Jose Luiz Cavaretti, Eletropaulo’s manager
of new markets. The goal is to connect as many as 200,000
customers, including people who have been pilfering electricity
for decades.  The new customers may generate as much as 170 million reais
in annual revenue, Cavaretti said. When combined with the
500,000 favela residents who have become customers since 2004,
Eletropaulo expects about 580 million reais in sales, or 5.9
percent of  total  2011 revenue. The additional income will help
counter the impact of government-ordered rate cuts that drove
down Eletropaulo shares 29 percent since July 2.  “We do this because it’s a good business,” Cavaretti said
in an interview.  Eletropaulo shares have lost more than half their market
value this year through yesterday as President  Dilma Rousseff  is
demanding that utilities lower rates to combat inflation and
make companies more competitive. Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
index has gained 4.7 percent  Regulators ordered the Sao Paulo-based company to cut rates
9.3 percent on July 3, and Rosseff announced a plan yesterday to
reduce power rates by an average of 16 percent for households
next year and as much as 28 percent for producers.  Urban Growth  Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , based in  Belo Horizonte ,
gained 18 percent this year before today while Sao Paulo-based
 CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  declined 13 percent. The two Brazilian utilities
get more than half their revenue from delivering power, as does
Eletropaulo. The  Bloomberg World Utilities (BWUTIL)  index has increased
8.2 percent.  Eletropaulo’s moves to combat power theft in favelas is a
response to economic expansion in low-income areas that’s giving
more favela residents the ability to pay monthly power bills,
Gabriel Laera, a senior analyst at BES Securities, said in a
telephone interview.  “Rapid urban growth in these areas demand investments” in
power infrastructure, said Laera, who has a recommendation
equivalent to hold. “They’re being compelled to do this.”  Lost Revenue  About 10 percent of electricity consumed in Brazil is
stolen, compared to 0.5 percent to 2.5 percent in the U.S. and
some western European countries, Ben Gardner, president of the
Washington-based research company  Northeast Group LLC , said in a
telephone interview.  Eletropaulo, a unit of  AES Corp. (AES) , cut theft from 5.3
percent of delivered power in 2009 to 4 percent in 2011.  “One of the biggest problems Brazilian power utilities
face is energy theft,” Nelson Fonseca Leite, president of the
Brasilia-based  Brazilian Association of Electric Energy
Distributors , said in a telephone interview.  Eletropaulo is seeking to demonstrate that becoming an on-
the-books utility customer brings more reliable power service
and other benefits to communities, Cavaretti said. Street lights
make neighborhoods brighter and safer, reducing crime.  Murder Rates  In Colinas D´Oeste, a low-income community on a hillside in
western Sao Paulo city, an average of two people were murdered a
day before Eletropaulo started helping the government light
roads in 2009.  “Lots of people arrived and then left because they
couldn’t deal with the violence,” according to Lucianete, a
Colinas D´Oeste shop owner who didn’t give her family name for
fear of reprisals from bandits. Public “lighting helped a lot.
I’m not joking -- if someone shoots someone, everyone can see
now.”  Lucianete and her husband now spend about a fifth of their
joint 1,000-real monthly income on Eletropaulo power bills, she
said in an interview at her shop, surrounded by racks of snacks
and canned goods.  The utility also distributed about 30,000 refrigerators to
favela residents from 2004 and 2011 and one million energy-
efficient chloro-fluorescent lamps for household use, according
to its annual  sustainability report , using funds the government
requires it to set aside for energy-efficiency projects.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , which distributes energy
in Brazil’s poorer northern regions, and  Light SA (LIGT3)  in  Rio de
Janeiro  are also hooking up favela customers to fight theft.  Smart Meters  Light will spend 75 million reais this year installing so-
called smart meters that use wireless technology to remotely
monitor usage of 40,500 customers in favelas, a project that may
have an annual return on investment of about 22 percent, Mario
Romano, director of community relations at Light, said in a
telephone interview.  Light wasn’t paid for about 19.8 percent of the energy it
delivered in 2011, the third-highest in the country, after Cia.
Energetica de Alagoas and Cia. Energetica Piaui, both Eletrobras
units, according to Brazil’s energy-distributors’ association.  Offering incentives may convince favela residents to become
paying customers, boosting utilities’ revenue, Northeast Group’s
Gardner said.  “If you go in offering free energy-efficiency audits,
checking the safety of wiring in houses, customers are bound to
be more loyal and pay bills,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  