-- Arab Bank Civil Claims Over Attack Trimmed by U.S. Judge
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-09-12T22:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/arab-bank-civil-claims-over-attack-trimmed-by-u-s-judge-1-.html
A former Israeli public security
official can’t pursue a claim in a lawsuit that Arab Bank Plc
aided and abetted a Hamas-implicated attack, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein  threw out a claim
that Jordan’s largest bank specifically aided in the 2008
gunfire attack in  Israel  that wounded Mati Gill, an ex-aide to
that country’s then-minister of public security, according to
the decision filed today in federal court in  Brooklyn ,  New York .
The judge said in his ruling that Gill failed to show the bank
directly caused the attack.  “The clear, present, and serious dangers now posed to the
nation by terrorist acts cannot excuse a lack of due process in
applying civil law,” Weinstein said in his 82-page ruling.  Gill, a U.S. and Israeli citizen, is seeking civil damages
under the Anti-Terrorism Act from the Amman, Jordan-based bank
over the incident. The ruling allows his suit to move forward on
four other claims, including those alleging that the bank
conspired with Hamas and knowingly supported terrorism.  Hamas has been designated a terrorist group by the U.S.  ‘Cautiously Optimistic’  “Obviously, the judge put a lot of time and thought into
the analysis, and we’re cautiously optimistic that we will be
able to go to trial,” a lawyer for Gill, Gary Osen, said in a
phone interview.  A trial is scheduled for Nov. 19.  Bob Chlopak, a spokesman for the bank, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The case is separate from a pending lawsuit filed by U.S.
and Israeli citizens in Brooklyn federal court alleging that the
bank helped provide payments to families of Palestinian  suicide
bombers .  In 2005, the New York branch of Arab Bank agreed to pay a
$24 million civil penalty to settle U.S. allegations that it
failed to identify and report suspicious transactions involving
possible support of terrorism, according to Weinstein’s ruling.
The bank neither admitted nor denied those claims, according to
the ruling.  The case is Gill v.  Arab Bank Plc (ARBK) , 1:11-cv-03706, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  The other case is Linde v. Arab  Bank  Plc, 04-cv-02799,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  