-- Arsenal Looking to Sign Didier Drogba, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-09-12T08:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/arsenal-looking-to-sign-didier-drogba-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Gunners Move  Arsenal is trying to sign former Chelsea striker  Didier
Drogba  from Shanghai Shenhua as the Chinese club’s owners face
off in a dispute,  the Sun said .  Gunners coach  Arsene Wenger  believes the 34-year-old Ivory
Coast national team player can help replace Robin  van Persie ,
the newspaper said. Van Persie joined  Manchester United  in the
offseason.  Liverpool and Real Madrid have also been monitoring
Drogba’s situation, the Sun said.  Terry Hearing  Chelsea defender John Terry’s Football Association hearing
on charges that he racially abused Queen’s Park Rangers player
Anton Ferdinand will be held Sept. 24,  the Daily Mail said .  The player was cleared of charges in a U.K. court in July,
and his F.A. hearing was delayed while the governing body
appointed members to the three-person panel, the newspaper asid.  Liverpool Target  Liverpool is facing competition from Juventus to sign
Luciano Vietto, an 18-year-old player at Racing Club Avellaneda,
 the Daily Mirror said.   The Argentine, who would cost about 4 million pounds ($6.4
million) to sign, has attracted the attention of scouts from
several European teams, the newspaper said.  Van Persie Hurt  Manchester United striker  Robin van Persie  was taken off at
halftime with a thigh injury during Holland’s 4-1 victory in
Hungary,  the Mail said .  Dutch coach Louis van Gaal said the substitution was a
precautionary move, the Mail added. Van Persie has scored four
times in three games for United.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  