-- Euro, Stocks Climb as German Court Approves Bailout Funds
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-09-12T20:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/asian-stocks-rise-as-wen-signals-stimulus-oil-copper-retreat.html
The euro climbed to a four-month
high and  stocks  rose for a second day as a German court allowed
ratification of a bailout fund and investors awaited tomorrow’s
 Federal Reserve  policy decision. Oil halted a five-day rally.  The euro added 0.3 percent to $1.2892 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
as Irish, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese bonds rallied. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2 percent. Ten-year
Treasury yields increased six basis points to 1.76 percent, a
three-week high. Oil fell, reversing an early gain of as much as
0.9 percent, after an unexpected jump in U.S. inventories.
Platinum rallied 2.6 percent in  London  and the South African
rand plunged as labor tensions escalated amid a mining strike.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed to a 14-month high and
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed at its best level since
December 2007 after  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court
cleared the way for ratification of the European Stability
Mechanism. The Fed will make a policy statement tomorrow after a
two-day meeting amid speculation the central bank will provide
more stimulus.  “With the potential European action and the Fed action,
those are two positives driving risk taking right now,” Joseph Veranth, chief investment officer at Dana Investment Advisors in
Brookfield,  Wisconsin , said by phone. The firm manages $3.7
billion. “The near-term catalyst, up or down, is the Fed. It’s
difficult for them to come out with a strong bond purchase plan
just because of the amount of risk taking that’s going on in the
market right now.”  Euro Strengthens  The euro strengthened versus 14 of 16 major peers, gaining
the most versus the South African, Canadian and Brazilian
currencies. The dollar weakened against 11 of its 16 major
peers, losing the most versus Sweden’s krona, Norway’s krone and
the euro.  The  S&P 500  added to yesterday’s 0.3 percent gain as
telephone, industrial and financial shares led gains among the
10 main groups.  Apple Inc. advanced 1.4 percent after introducing a new
version of the iPhone that boasts a bigger screen, faster chip
and access to speedier wireless networks, an overhaul aimed at
widening its lead over Samsung Electronics Co. and Google Inc.
in the $219.1 billion smartphone market.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  rose 7.7 percent, its biggest advance since
going public in May. The shares extending gains after Apple said
the new iPhone has a built-in application for the social network
that enables photo sharing and voice-activated posts. Facebook
climbed earlier after Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg 
said he’s addressing the missteps that have made it hard to reap
the benefits of mobile advertising.  Bank Shares  Capital One Financial Corp. and Huntington Bancshares  rose
more than 2 percent to lead gains in 21 of 24 stocks in the KBW
Bank Index. PulteGroup Inc. advanced 6 percent as homebuilders
rallied after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said housing may finally
rebound and Credit Suisse Group said a survey of real-estate
agents showed momentum in prices is continuing.  The Fed is likely to announce a third round of bond
purchases tomorrow, according to almost two-thirds of economists
in a Bloomberg survey, while also extending the duration of its
zero-interest-rate policy into 2015.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues on the  Federal
Open Market Committee  will once again roll out unconventional
policies to bolster economic growth of less than 2 percent in
the second quarter and bring down unemployment stuck above 8
percent for 43 straight months, the survey showed.  European Bonds  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield fell seven basis points to 5.63
percent, with the rate on its two-year security sliding 11 basis
points to 2.82 percent. The yield on two-year Italian debt
slipped 12 basis points to 2.19 percent, while 10-year yields
lost five basis points to 5.03 percent.  France  wants Spain to snub German concerns and request help
from the European Union to contain the financial crisis,
according to three people familiar with negotiations.  The cost of insuring European high-yield corporate bonds
using credit-default swaps fell to the lowest in more than a
year. The  Markit iTraxx Crossover  index of credit-default swaps
on 50 mostly junk-rated companies dropped 11 basis points to
491, the lowest since August 2011. The gauge measures the cost
of insuring the borrowers’ debt and its nine days of declines is
the longest  since June 2010.  The rand plunged versus all 16 major peers, losing more
than 1.7 percent versus the dollar and euro, as South African
mediators failed to persuade striking Lonmin Plc worker
representatives to return to work. Lonmin lost 5.9 percent in
London and platinum futures rose for a seventh straight day, the
longest rally in a year. Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the
largest producer, said it suspended its Rustenburg operations
after unidentified people intimidated workers.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities rose 0.3 percent,
climbing to the highest level since May 2.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced for a fifth day,
adding 0.6 percent. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies climbed 1.2 percent after Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said yesterday that  China  has “ample” room to use fiscal and
monetary policy to meet economic targets. India’s Sensex
increased 0.8 percent. South Korea’s Kospi index climbed 1.6
percent before a central bank decision on  interest rates 
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  