-- Asia Debt Risk Falls to One-Year Low as Kaisa Plans Dollar Bonds
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-09-12T04:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/asia-debt-risk-falls-to-one-year-low-as-kaisa-plans-dollar-bonds.html
The cost of insuring corporate and
government bonds in Asia from non-payment dropped to the lowest
in more than a year as  Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. (1638)  and  PTT Global
Chemical Pcl (PTTGC)  are said to market dollar-denominated debt.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan is set for its lowest close since Aug.
3, 2011, CMA and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
Kaisa, a Chinese developer, is considering pricing five-year
notes at about 13.5 percent, a person familiar with the matter
said, asking not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  China has “ample” room to use fiscal and monetary
measures, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday, indicating the
government may step in to stimulate the economy and support
growth analysts estimate may slump to 7.9 percent this year.
China is trying to prevent growth from slipping below the 7.5
percent target set in March, which would already be the weakest
since 1990. The  Federal Open Market Committee  meanwhile starts a
two-day meeting today to discuss additional measures to prop up
the  U.S. economy .  “Expectations for further quantitative easing in the U.S.
and selective stimulus packages in China are doing a lot for
confidence,” said Brayan Lai, a Singapore-based desk analyst in
emerging-market credit trading at Jefferies Group Inc. “Some
investors are coming back in, which is very conducive to getting
deals done.”  PTT Global Chemical, Thailand’s biggest chemicals company
by market value, is marketing a benchmark-sized offering of 10-
year dollar bonds to yield about 300 basis points, or 3
percentage points, more than similar-maturity Treasuries, a
person familiar with the matter said today, also asking not to
be identified. Benchmark typically means at least $500 million.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index fell 3 basis points to 127.5
as of 8:21 a.m. in  Hong Kong , RBS prices show. The gauge has
declined from 153 at the start of the month, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. A drop signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased 3 basis points to
196 as of 9:53 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
index is set for its lowest close since Aug. 22, CMA prices
show. The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 4 basis points to
148.5 basis points as of 10:12 a.m. in Sydney, according to
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   The swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting bonds
against default and traders use them to speculate on  credit
quality . The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net 
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  