-- Aussie Dollar Advances as Stimulus Bets Boost Risk Demand
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-09-12T06:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/aussie-kiwi-stay-higher-as-fed-stimulus-bets-boost-risk-demand.html
The Australian dollar touched the
highest in almost three weeks as demand for riskier assets rose
amid speculation the U.S. and  China  will take more steps to
stimulate the world’s largest economies.  The so-called Aussie and New Zealand’s dollar strengthened
against most of their major counterparts before the  Federal
Reserve  opens a two-day policy meeting today, while Germany’s
constitutional court is set to decide on the country’s
participation in  Europe ’s bailout fund. Demand for Australia’s
currency was also supported after a private report today showed
an improvement in Australian  consumer confidence .  “If the Fed decides to conduct QE3 as the markets expect,
it’s likely to lead to a risk-on sentiment,” Junichi Ishikawa,
a Tokyo-based analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. said,
referring to a third round of asset purchases known as
quantitative easing. “The Aussie and kiwi are supported on the
back of the U.S. dollar’s broad weakness.”  The Australian dollar gained 0.4 percent to $1.0475 as of
4:13 p.m. in Sydney after earlier touching $1.0489, the
strongest level since Aug. 23. It rose 0.6 percent to 81.60 yen.
New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, added 0.3 percent to 82
U.S. cents, after touching 82.12, the highest since Aug. 7. It
climbed 0.5 percent to 63.88 yen.  Australian  government bonds  declined, with the yield on 10-
year notes rising five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 3.17 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks gained 1.2 percent
following a 0.4 percent advance in the MSCI World Index
yesterday.  Consumer Confidence  A report released by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and the
Melbourne Institute showed Australia’s consumer confidence
improved this month. The sentiment index rose 1.6 percent to
98.2, though the fact that the gauge held below 100 indicates
that pessimists continued to outnumber optimists.  Fed policy makers are due to begin a two-day meeting to
discuss possible measures to stimulate the economy, including
asset purchases that tend to debase the U.S. currency. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 that the costs of
“nontraditional policies” appeared manageable when considered
carefully. He said he wouldn’t rule out steps to lower a jobless
rate he described as a “grave concern.”  China has “ample” room to use fiscal and monetary policy
to boost economic growth, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
yesterday.  Biggest Risk  “China’s slowdown is the biggest downside risk for the
Aussie,” said IG’s Ishikawa. “The currency is likely to be
well supported in the long term, however, should we get more
stimulus measures from global central banks.”  The Australian dollar dropped 3.2 percent in the past
month, the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as concern
over China’s weaker growth dimmed the outlook for the South
Pacific nation’s commodity exports.  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court is due to rule on
whether the country can ratify the European Stability Mechanism,
a 500 billion-euro ($643 billion) fund established to combat the
region’s debt crisis. Failure to approve the ESM would throw
Europe’s bailout measures into doubt.  -- Editors: Jonathan Annells, Benjamin Purvis  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  