-- Aussie Dollar Trades Near 3-Week High Before Fed Outcome
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-09-13T06:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/australian-dollar-trades-near-3-week-high-ahead-of-fed-decision.html
The Australian dollar traded 0.3
percent from the highest level in three weeks on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will signal further stimulus that tends to
debase the U.S. currency.  The so-called Aussie and  New Zealand ’s dollar maintained
two days of gains after Germany’s top constitutional court
cleared the way yesterday for the nation’s ratification of the
euro area’s permanent bailout fund. New Zealand’s currency,
known as the kiwi, was close to a more-than four-month high
after the Reserve Bank kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged today.  “The markets are seeing a good chance that the Fed will
announce QE3 today,”  Daisaku Ueno , a senior foreign-exchange
and fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. in  Tokyo , a unit of Japan’s biggest listed bank,
said, referring to a third round of asset purchases known as
quantitative easing. “That’s lending support to risk currencies
like the Aussie and kiwi.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0470 as of
4:02 p.m. in Sydney from the close yesterday, when it touched
$1.0506, the strongest since Aug. 23. It fetched 81.34 yen from
81.48. New Zealand’s dollar traded at 82.14 U.S. cents from
82.08, after yesterday rising as much as 0.8 percent to 82.38,
the highest since April 30. It bought 63.84 yen from 63.91.  Australian  government bonds  declined for a second day, with
the yield on 10-year notes rising six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.23 percent. It earlier touched 3.25
percent, the most since Aug. 27. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of
stocks added 0.2 percent following a 0.4 percent advance in the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  yesterday.  Fed Stimulus  The Fed will probably announce today a new round of bond
purchases, according to almost two-thirds of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The central bank may also commit to hold
 interest rates  close to zero into 2015, the poll showed. The
previous two series of quantitative easing totaling $2.3
trillion have failed to revive the labor market, which Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month is a “grave concern.”  “We suspect the market has priced in too high of odds of
QE3,” strategists at Citigroup Inc. including Steven Englander,
head of Group-of-10 currency strategy in New York, wrote in a
note to clients yesterday. “With that in mind, any rally in
risky assets resulting from the Fed pursuing QE3 might be small
and short-lived.”  ESM Ratification  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court yesterday dismissed
motions that sought to stop the government from contributing to
the rescue facility known as the European Stability Mechanism, a
500 billion-euro ($646 billion) fund. The legal challenge
delayed efforts by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and other euro-area
policy makers to stem the region’s debt crisis.  In New Zealand,  Reserve Bank  Governor Alan Bollard and his
board left the official rate at 2.5 percent and signaled it
would remain unchanged through mid-2013.  “New Zealand’s trading partner outlook remains weak,”
Bollard said. In the domestic economy, “fiscal consolidation is
constraining demand growth, and the high  New Zealand dollar 
continues to undermine export earnings and encourage
substitution toward imported goods and services.”  The kiwi has gained 3.5 percent so far this year, the best
performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  