-- Rudd Says People Too Excited by China Vice President Absence
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-09-12T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/australia-s-rudd-says-people-over-excited-by-xi-jinping-absence.html
Kevin Rudd , Australia’s former
prime minister, dismissed speculation about Chinese Vice
President  Xi Jinping ’s absence from public events, saying it was
normal for such a figure not to attend the World Economic Forum
in Tianjin.  “I think people are getting themselves excessively excited
by this,” Rudd, a Chinese-speaking former diplomat, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television from the Chinese city.
“It’s completely normal that Xi Jinping would not be at an
occasion like this and I think people frankly need to take a
long, strong, hot cup of tea and just calm down a bit.”  Xi’s absence from public events for more than a week fueled
speculation about the health of the leading candidate to succeed
President  Hu Jintao  in a once-in-a-decade leadership change.
Secrecy surrounding China’s leadership, combined with the ouster
of Politburo member Bo Xilai earlier this year, has left
investors with limited information on who’ll be overseeing the
world’s second-biggest economy.  The Communist Party has yet to release the dates for the
gathering anticipated in coming weeks where the next generation
of leaders will be appointed.  Rudd, who headed the government from 2007 to 2010, said
Australia’s economy was well positioned to withstand declining
commodity prices amid a “change in the structure of Chinese
demand for energy and raw materials.”  “You still have hundreds of millions of people emerging
into Chinese middle classes,” Rudd said. “There will continue
to be strong demand for resources, but anyone who expects
commodity prices to remain there or a particular level over a
long period of time is not a keen student of the history of
commodity prices.”  Commodities Boom  While  Australia ’s economy grew about 4 percent in the first
half on the strength of resource-industry investment and
 consumer spending , a plunge in the price of iron ore, the
nation’s biggest export, and a high currency prompted mining
companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG)  to put off projects and cut employees in the past month.  China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, expanded 7.6
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in three years, after the government moved to counter
inflation and surging property prices in the wake of the 2008
stimulus.  Since speaking at the Party School of the Communist Party
on Sept. 1, Xi canceled a Sept. 5 meeting with U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton . After foreign journalists in Beijing were
told the same day that Xi would meet Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt on Sept. 10, the event wasn’t included in an
official agenda distributed Sept. 7. The foreign ministry said
yesterday no such meeting was planned.  “I’ve been following Chinese politics for about 30
years,” Rudd said. “It’s entirely normal,” he said of Xi’s
absence from the forum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  