-- Baht Rises as China Stimulus Optimism Brightens Export Outlook
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-09-12T08:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/baht-rises-as-china-stimulus-optimism-brightens-export-outlook.html
Thailand’s baht approached a four-
month high after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled there’s
more room for policy measures to spur growth, improving the
region’s export outlook.  Government bonds  dropped.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index touched the
highest level since May after Wen said yesterday that  China ,
Thailand’s top export market, still has “ample strength” to
use fiscal and monetary policy to boost growth. Global funds
bought $410 million more Thai sovereign debt than they sold in
the first two days of this week, according to the Thai Bond
Market Association.  “Speculation about China’s stimulus is supportive for
Asian countries that have strong trade ties with China,” said
Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “Under the current environment where
investors remain somewhat cautious, funds are coming to  Asia  and
more so to the bond markets.”  The baht climbed 0.4 percent to 30.97 per dollar as of 3:35
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 30.89 on Sept. 10, the strongest level since May 4. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, was unchanged at 4.27 percent.  China bought about 12 percent of goods shipped from the
Southeast Asian nation in the first seven months of 2012,
official data show.  Thailand’s sovereign notes dropped as the benchmark SET
Index of shares advanced the most in almost a week. The yield on
the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 rose five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 3.38 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 