-- BCE’s Growth Is Poised to Slow Amid Antitrust Worries
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-12T20:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/bce-growth-poised-to-slow-on-antitrust-worries-corporate-canada.html
BCE Inc. (BCE)  is facing limits to a
growth strategy that spawned almost $8 billion in takeovers
since 2010 and helped Canada’s biggest broadcaster outperform
the Standard & Poor’s/TSX composite index 22-fold.  Chief Executive Officer George Cope had to defend his
proposed C$3 billion ($3.1 billion) purchase of  Astral Media
Inc. (ACM/A)  to Canada’s regulator this week amid  criticism  from
competitors and consumer-lobby groups BCE has grown too large.
Montreal-based BCE’s expansion may slow because there are fewer
assets left to buy, even if the Canadian Radio-television
Telecommunications Commission endorses the Astral deal, said
Neeraj Monga, an analyst at Veritas Investment Research in
Toronto.  “Already the public is complaining about media
concentration in Canada, and to that extent, I don’t think there
are more media deals down the line for BCE along the lines of
Astral,” Monga, who rates BCE a sell, said in a telephone
interview.  Cope has been tapping near-record low borrowing costs to
buy media companies and entice Canadians to spend more on
programming for smartphones, tablets, computers and TVs.  Since the collapse of a $52-billion buyout of BCE in
December 2008 by  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  and a group of
U.S. private-equity firms, the stock has  climbed  steadily. Since
Cope announced the $3 billion cash-and-debt acquisition of
broadcaster CTV on Sept. 10, 2010, BCE has  risen  about 34
percent while the S&P index of Toronto-listed stocks has climbed
just 1.7 percent.  “I think it’s running out of steam,” said Monga.  Expensive Stock  After completing the CTV deal, BCE teamed up with rival
 Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  in December to buy a controlling
stake in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. for $1.3
billion, acquiring the pro sports franchises Toronto Maple Leafs
and  Toronto Raptors . Its agreement in March to buy Astral, if
successful, would arm BCE with 22 new television channels
including MusiquePlus and Super Ecran to challenge its Montreal-
based rival  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B)   Analysts have grown more skeptical of the company’s
strategy as its stock has become more expensive. Thirty-seven
percent of analysts rated BCE a buy in September 2010, and none
gave it a sell, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Buy
ratings now represent 23 percent of analysts who track the
stock, and 9 percent give it a sell.  ‘Expensive Side’  BCE rose 0.6 percent today to C$43.96 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.  “It’s on the expensive side relative to the growth profile
of the company,” said Jeff Fan, an analyst at  Scotia Capital  in
Toronto, who rates BCE a hold. While he declined to predict
whether or not the Astral deal will be rejected, Fan said BCE
needs Astral to keep its steady dividend payout policy.  “Without Astral, it may be more of a challenge for BCE to
maintain its 5-percent dividend growth,” Fan said.  Competitors such as Quebecor, which is BCE’s biggest rival
in French-speaking  Quebec , where Astral is based, say the Astral
deal could muscle out broadcasters like its TVA sports channel
and block them from carrying some sports events.  “If approved, this deal will be a point of no return for
the future of telecom and broadcasting in  Canada ,” Quebecor CEO
Pierre Karl Peladeau said at the regulatory hearings in  Montreal 
yesterday. “No other company would be able to compete with the
power of Bell,” as BCE is known.  ‘Full Confidence’  Cope has dismissed the charge from Quebecor, saying two
days ago at the same hearings that Astral-BCE’s combined share
would still only account for about 24 percent of French-language
viewership in Canada, 6 percentage points below Quebecor’s. Its
share of the English-language market would be 33.5 percent,
below a regulatory threshold of 35 percent, Cope said.  Buying Astral “gives us a portfolio in Quebec to compete
with Quebecor,” Cope said at a conference in Toronto yesterday.
“They’re obviously not happy about that and are spending a lot
of money. The more our competitors spend, the more I know it
must have been a brilliant acquisition idea because they sure
are upset about it.” He added he has “full confidence” the
transaction will close.  Mark Langton, a BCE spokesman said that opposition to this
deal shouldn’t necessarily preclude the company conceiving
acquisitions in the future. BCE would not have gone ahead with
the Astral purchase if the company wasn’t confident it met CRTC
rules, he said.  9,600 Letters  Ken Engelhart, Rogers’ head of regulatory affairs, said
today at the hearings that “Bell is already too big and
powerful.” He urged the CRTC to order Bell to sell its English-
language services to dilute its control of Canadian programming.  “The burden of proof” that the deal is in the public’s
interest “rests squarely with Astral and BCE,” CRTC Chairman
Jean-Pierre Blais said in his opening remarks at this week’s
hearing. The regulator received 9,600 letters or comments about
the deal, said Blais. He has the power to reject or approve the
acquisition or prescribe new conditions for the deal.  Telus Corp. (T) , the Vancouver-based company that competes with
Bell in selling mobile-phone, Internet and cable-TV
subscriptions, has expressed concern that BCE will be in a
powerful position to charge unfair prices for its content.  The Ottawa-based Public Interest Advocacy Centre joined
Quebecor, Telus and individual Canadians who’ve written to the
CRTC to express their concern about the deal.  If the purchase goes ahead, Bell will force higher prices
and less choice on their customers and their competitor’s
customers, the consumer group’s counsel Janet Lo  said  last
month.  Divest Stations  Cope this week announced plans to divest 10  radio stations 
to try and appease critics, while at the same time saying he
will introduce an Internet-based film and television service to
compete with  Los Gatos , California-based  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   While BCE shares surpassed the performance of the Toronto
Stock Exchange and Rogers, Canada’s largest wireless operator,
they still  lag behind  Telus, which has been pumping hundreds of
millions of dollars into building faster wireless phone and
fixed-line networks for Internet protocol television.  “BCE is trying to answer to multiple taskmasters by giving
dividend increases to the market, chasing IPTV to go after the
next growth market and making all these acquisitions,” said
Monga. “It’s just a very tall order.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  