-- Bernanke Should Do the Right Thing and Not Say He’s Sorry
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/bernanke-should-do-the-right-thing-and-not-say-he-s-sorry.html
If Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  fails this week to announce new measures to stimulate
the  U.S. economy , he’d better have a good reason. We can only
think of a bad one, and we urge Bernanke to refute it
explicitly.  For weeks, Bernanke has been signaling to the financial
markets that he will act. If he fails to follow through when the
Fed’s policy-making committee meets Sept. 13, it will probably
be because, with the presidential election coming in November,
he wants to shield the Fed from the charge that it’s doing the
Obama administration’s bidding. That’s the bad reason he should
confront and dismiss.  At the central bankers’ conference Aug. 31 in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming ,  Bernanke said  that quantitative easing -- the Fed’s
policy of buying bonds to lower  interest rates  -- has boosted
the recovery and, though it’s no magic cure, can work again.
When the Fed engages in “large scale asset purchases,” as it
calls them, it affirms its commitment to keep monetary
conditions loose. Two previous rounds of quantitative easing,
according to Fed economists, raised economic output by almost 3
percent and created more than 2 million private-sector jobs.  Airtight Case  Nonetheless, the recovery continues to flag. Last week’s
disappointing jobs figures were only the latest sign of a subpar
expansion. Bernanke insists that the Fed takes its dual mandate
seriously, striving for full employment as well as low
inflation. So with weak growth, persistently high joblessness
and no sign of mounting inflationary strain, the case for more
quantitative easing is airtight, so long as the Fed believes it
can help.  Almost  two-thirds of economists  surveyed by Bloomberg
expect Bernanke to announce a third round of quantitative
easing. We hope they’re right, and hope too that the Fed, for
the first time, makes its program  open-ended . There’s no need to
announce a limit on the scale of planned purchases. The Fed
should say it will begin a new round of stimulus and will
maintain its efforts to support demand until economic conditions
show clear signs of improvement.  Bernanke can expect to be criticized for doing the right
thing. Hostility to the Fed’s efforts to spur the recovery --
restrained as the efforts have been in recent months -- is a
theme in Republican  Mitt Romney ’s presidential campaign. There’s
talk of tougher audits and other ways of tying the Fed’s hands.
Romney has said that, if elected,  he won’t reappoint Bernanke  to
the Fed when his term ends in January 2014 unless he behaves
more “responsibly.”  If Bernanke goes ahead with QE3, as we expect, he’ll
probably take care to swerve away from these attacks. His style
is to avoid controversy -- a low-key approach that in this case
could undermine his policies by casting them in overly timid
terms. Instead, he ought to be bold in two ways. First, he
should assure markets that the new round of easing will be
powerful enough to work. Second, he should turn the pressure
back on  Washington  to break its policy paralysis and lift the
threat of the so-called fiscal cliff, a combination of growth-
killing tax increases and spending cuts that will come into
force at the beginning of 2013 unless Congress acts.  Bernanke is quite right to say, as he often does, that
monetary policy can’t do it all. But there are two ways to make
that necessary point. It can be cast as an apology for failing
to get the economy moving and a warning not to expect much
progress, or as a criticism of Congress’s failure to do its job.
Bernanke should dial back the apology and take on his critics.  In particular, Bernanke ought to confront the complaint
that QE3 is mainly to help President  Barack Obama ’s re-election.
That’s nonsense, and he should explain why. He’s acting to save
the economy, not the president. If he chose not to act, when the
objective economic case for action is so strong, the charge of
improper political influence would actually be true. He would be
setting his mandate aside because an election was two months
away.  You can bet that would be grounds to condemn Bernanke’s
economic stewardship. He shouldn’t say sorry for doing his job.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Chicago’s teachers union
is wrong , on  how the euro dodged a German bullet , and on  Mitt
Romney’s chance on immigration ;  Caroline Baum  on whose policies
really created the  financial crisis ;  Michael Kinsley  on the
 similarities between politics and the Olympics ; Jonathan Mahler
on  John Henry’s fall from grace ; Cass R. Sunstein on the triumph
of  cost-benefit analysis ; Stephen Starr on why  Syrian rebels  are
losing popular support.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 