-- Big Stimulus Would Harm China Long-Term Growth: Xinhua
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-13T08:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/big-stimulus-would-harm-china-long-term-growth-xinhua.html
Massive stimulus measures would
hurt  China ’s long-term growth and the government’s hesitation in
making “bold moves” to support the economy is pragmatic, the
official Xinhua News Agency wrote in a commentary.  “Many have expected the government to announce an
aggressive plan, similar to the 4-trillion-yuan ($632 billion)
stimulus package issued in 2008, to keep the economy from
stalling for a second time,” Xinhua writer Liu Jie wrote in the
commentary published yesterday. “However, a massive stimulus
plan is not only unlikely, but would be detrimental to the
country’s sustainable growth.”  China’s policy makers have refrained from easing monetary
policy since cutting  interest rates  in July and fiscal support
has been limited to tax cuts, encouraging loans to some
industries and small companies and accelerating infrastructure
project approvals. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this week the country
has “full confidence” it will meet this year’s economic
targets.  “All they do now is just to boost confidence,” as they
are “sanguine” about growth, Joy Yang, Hong Kong-based chief
economist for  Greater China  at Mirae Asset Securities Co., wrote
in a note today after meeting government officials from bodies
including the top economic planning agency in Beijing last week.
“Concrete plans, actions may have to wait until the new
government takes over.”  Boost Growth  The slew of infrastructure project approvals announced by
the  National Development and Reform Commission  last week are
already included in the nation’s current five-year plan and were
aimed at increasing confidence rather than introducing any new
stimulus, said Yang, who previously worked at the  International
Monetary Fund .  Stocks in China surged 3.7 percent on Sept. 7, the most in
eight months, after the NDRC announced the approvals as
investors speculated the government is stepping up stimulus to
boost growth that may decelerate for a seventh quarter. The
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  closed 0.8 percent lower
today, the most in two weeks, after the Xinhua commentary raised
concerns China’s growth will slow in the long term.  Morgan Stanley, UBS AG, ING Groep NV and Barclays Plc have
cut their estimates for 2012 economic expansion to 7.5 percent
amid slower  industrial output  and export growth and a smaller
stimulus than they previously expected. That would be the lowest
in 22 years and compare with 9.3 percent in 2011.  Structural Slowdown  Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the
world’s biggest bond fund, estimates growth will slow even
further in 2013 to about 7 percent and be “similar in
subsequent years.”  “The engines of the previous Chinese growth model -- net
exports and investment -- have reached their limits,” Ramin Toloui, Pimco’s global co-head of  emerging markets  portfolio
management in  Singapore , said in e-mailed comments today. “In
the past, China’s leadership has risen to the challenge of
accelerating reform during structural growth slowdowns, but this
time there is the added challenge of a weak global backdrop.”  In its commentary, Xinhua said this time round, China is
focusing on invigorating the private sector, improving social
security and widening the  yuan ’s trading band rather than
showering money onto investment projects. Policy makers are
aware of the limitations of a possible stimulus plan and don’t
want to disrupt the re-balancing of the economy, it said.  The State Council yesterday approved measures to support
exporters amid a slump in sales to  Europe , including speeding up
the process for paying export tax rebates, expanding trade
financing and boosting export-related insurance.  Increase Lending  The policies were issued after China’s  export growth  fell
to below 3 percent for the second month in August after gains of
more than 20 percent in the same period last year.  The official China Securities Journal reported today that
regulators have told banks to increase lending for
infrastructure projects such as railways and roads to support
the nation’s growth.  Yet banks’ ability to boost credit may be constrained by
rising bad debts and declining profitability,  Standard & Poor’s 
said in a report yesterday. Borrowers most at risk include local
government financing vehicles, property developers and
industries relying heavily on a domestic consumption boom, S&P
said.  In a speech to the  World Economic Forum  in Tianjin this
week, Wen said that while China’s expansion is slowing, it is
more stable. The government has “ample fiscal and monetary
policy space” to sustain growth, he said.  Based on the implementation of the budget so far this year,
the government has about 5 trillion yuan to spend in the last
four months of the year, which “is not significantly higher”
than the same period last year, Citigroup Inc.’s Hong Kong-based
economists Ding Shuang and  Shen Minggao  wrote in a note today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  