-- Gross Cuts Treasuries Holdings While Warning of Reflation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-09-12T20:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/bill-gross-cuts-holdings-of-treasuries-to-lowest-since-october.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, reduced his holdings of U.S. Treasuries to
the lowest since October while warning that more stimulus from
the  Federal Reserve  will lead to a resurgence of inflation.  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $272 billion  Total
Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 21 percent of assets in August, from 33 percent
the previous month, according to a report on the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s  website  today. Mortgages assets were
cut to 50 percent from 51 percent. Pimco doesn’t comment
directly on monthly changes in portfolio holdings.  “QEs lower real interest rates and raise nominal rates
because their intent is to reflate,” Gross wrote in a Twitter
post earlier today, referencing the two rounds of bond purchases
conducted by the Fed since 2008 to keep borrowing rates low that
have become known as quantitative easing, or QE.  Almost two-thirds of economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected the U.S. central bank will announce a third round of
quantitative-easing tomorrow, while also extending into 2015 its
pledge to keep  interest rates  at virtually zero.  Policy makers will probably announce an open-ended plan
tied to a sustained improvement in the economy rather than
specify an amount of purchases and an end-date, according to 32
of the 73 economists in the survey. Twenty-two expected a fixed
duration and amount.  Inflation Expectations  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
traders’ outlook for consumer prices, reached 2.41 percentage
points, the widest since March 21. The average over the past
decade is 2.16 percentage points.  Pimco’s founder and co-chief investment officer said Sept.
7 that investors should try to take advantage of central bank
policies and not fight the Fed or  European Central Bank , which
has endorsed buying one- to three-year sovereign debt of nations
such as  Spain  to keep borrowing costs low.  “Look at it as a surfer would, you want to get on top of
that wave and you want to ride it as long as possible and take
the force of that wave,” Gross said in a radio interview last
week on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“You sell volatility via mortgages, you sell volatility by
capturing the roll down from five to four to three years because
things simply don’t change.”  Industry Comparisons  The Total Return Fund gained 8.3 percent over the past
year, beating 94 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the past month, it has returned 0.65
percent, outpacing 87 percent of similar funds.  The fund’s government and Treasury debt category includes
fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and
inflation-protected securities.  Pimco kept emerging-market debt steady at 8 percent in
August, and cut investment-grade credit to 12 percent from 13
percent, the least since March 2008. High-yield credit was 2
percent of holdings in August, the same as the previous month.  Gross changed the Total Return Fund’s net cash-and-
equivalent position to negative 6 percent, from negative 18
percent the previous month. The fund can have a so-called
negative position by using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
 managed  $1.82 trillion of assets as of June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  