-- BlackRock Boosts Asian Team as Manulife Hires: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-09-13T04:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/blackrock-boosts-asian-team-as-manulife-hires-southeast-asia.html
The world’s biggest asset managers
are hiring bond traders and analysts in  Singapore  as more global
capital shifts to Asia, where economies growing fivefold the
pace of advanced nations are improving creditworthiness.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the largest  money manager , has made the
city-state its primary trading center for the region’s debt and
currencies, while Manulife Asset Management, a unit of  Canada’s
largest insurer , established a complementary fixed-income base
to that in Hong Kong. Aberdeen Asset Management Plc expanded its
Asia fixed-income staff by about 20 percent in the year through
June to 17. Western Asset Management Co., part of Baltimore-
based  Legg Mason (LM)  Inc., has plans to hire more people.  Singapore, home to the highest proportion of millionaire
households in the world, is attracting global financial firms
after retaining its no. 2 place behind Switzerland among the
most competitive economies ranked by the  World Economic Forum .
Asia’s dollar bonds and local-currency notes returned 10 percent
and 5.7 percent, respectively, this year, HSBC Holdings Plc data
show. Investors earned 2.6 percent on  U.S. Treasuries , 4 percent
on German bunds and 1.6 percent on Japan’s debt, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “Quite recently, our Asian fixed-income capability was
quite underdeveloped and so the decision was made to try to
build a world-class capability,” Mark McCombe, the Hong Kong-
based Asia-Pacific chairman at BlackRock, which oversees $1.3
trillion of debt globally, said in an interview on Sept. 6.
“The regulatory framework, the living and working environment
as well as the kind of rich base of investors make Singapore a
very attractive place to do business.”  ‘An Upside-Down World’  Indonesia and South Korea had their debt ratings raised
this year by Moody’s Investors Service and the Philippines was
upgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  as the  International Monetary Fund 
forecast Asia’s emerging-market economies will expand 7.1
percent in 2012, beating an estimated 1.4 percent increase for
developed countries and a 3.4 percent gain for Latin America.
Moody’s said on Sept. 11 it may join Standard & Poor’s in
downgrading the Aaa rating for the U.S.  “Historically, emerging-market sovereigns were
predominantly viewed as credit risks,” said Chia-Liang Lian,
Singapore-based head of  investment management  for Asia at
 Western Asset . “Today, following negative rating actions, many
developed markets are now viewed from a credit-risk perspective.
Western Asset describes this as an upside-down world. Over time,
this suggests a growing sponsorship from investors who didn’t
have an allocation to  emerging markets .”  Singapore Favored  While financial firms are expanding in Asia, jobs are
declining in London. Vacancies at financial-services companies
in the British capital fell by more than a third in July from a
year earlier amid Europe’s debt crisis, recruitment firm Astbury
Marsden said last month. Investment bankers in the U.K. favor
working in Singapore over New York and London, where they face
lower wage growth and higher taxes, according to the recruiter.  Record-low yields in developed nations are encouraging
investors to seek higher returns in Asia, according to
BlackRock, Manulife and  Aberdeen Asset. (ADN)  Ten-year U.S. Treasuries
yielded 1.75 percent today and similar-maturity German bunds
paid 1.62 percent yesterday, compared with 5.93 percent in
Indonesia, 4.87 percent in the Philippines and 3.49 percent in
Malaysia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High-Yield Hunt  International funds  added  $23 billion so far in 2012 to
holdings of government debt in Thailand and 13.8 trillion rupiah
($1.4 billion) in Indonesia, official data show. Foreigners
poured a net $11 billion into  Malaysia’s bonds  this year as of
July 31 and $3 billion into South Korean notes as of Aug. 31.
Emerging-market funds took in more than $32 billion in inflows
this year through Sept. 5, nearly double the $17.3 billion for
all of 2011, data from research firm EPFR Global show.  Growth in the 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations , known as ASEAN, is poised to accelerate, boosting
currencies and fueling consumer and property booms, as the
region’s cheaper and expanding labor pool attracts investment,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The Philippine  labor force  will rise almost 18 million, or
31 percent, to 75 million by 2020 from 2010, the second-biggest
U.S. lender projected in an April 27 note. Jobs in Malaysia will
grow 19 percent to 22 million. Indonesia will see an 11 percent
gain to 180 million, according to the bank.  ‘Bullish on ASEAN’  “Increasingly, European and North American investors will
look for attractive yields in Asian markets and we believe
having a very solid fixed-income capability underpins that,”
said McCombe, who was chief executive officer in  Hong Kong  at
HSBC before joining BlackRock in January. “Places like the
Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia are in a good structural
position with low levels of debt and young workforce. We’re
quite bullish on the ASEAN region.”  The  Singapore dollar  led gains among Asia’s 11 major
currencies this year with its 5.6 percent appreciation, followed
by the Philippine peso’s 5.1 percent and the Malaysian ringgit’s
3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Philippine sovereign bonds using five-
year credit-default swaps fell 72 basis points this year to 120
yesterday and Indonesia’s slumped 62 basis points to 146,
according to data provider CMA. That on Malaysia’s debt also
fell 64 basis points, or 0.64 percentage point, to 82. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  BlackRock, Manulife  BlackRock’s  Asian Tiger Bond Fund (MERATAA) , which was run from New
York earlier, is now managed from Singapore by Joel Kim and
Neeraj Seth, according to McCombe. The fund returned 10.6
percent this year, exceeding the 6.7 percent gain among its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kim, who came from ING Investment Management, joined the
U.S. firm in November to become its head of Asia-Pacific fixed
income, a newly created role. BlackRock said it has an Asian
debt-investment team of 22 people, excluding those in Japan and
Australia. BlackRock also plans to start a separate dealing desk
later this year in Singapore to service regional and global
investment teams.  Manulife’s Asian bond portfolio manager Endre Pedersen
moved to Singapore from Hong Kong in July. Regional debt funds
managed by the firm have grown to $37 billion from $29 billion a
year ago, prompting it to hire six fixed-income professionals
this year, boosting staff comprising portfolio managers and
analysts to 41 in the region outside of Japan, said Pedersen.  ‘Closer to Markets’  “You will see us expanding,” he said. “We obviously see
the importance of Singapore and the other ASEAN countries and
the only way to serve that better is to grow our presence to
have a point-of-contact closer to the markets.”  Manulife’s  Asia Total Return Bond (MASTRID)  fund returned 8.9 percent
this year, beating a 5.8 percent gain among peers, Bloomberg
data show. It holds more corporate debt than recommended by the
benchmark it follows, according to Pedersen.  “We are overweight on the credit side,” said Pedersen.
“The key is to make sure one is getting high enough income
because people will continue to see more and more investors
chasing the same markets.”  Western Asset will expand its Asian bond trading team as
increasing fund inflows into the region boost business, said
Lian, who moved from Pacific Investment Management Co. a year
ago to replace Rajeev De Mello, who transferred to Schroders
Plc. He hired five people in the past months to strengthen his
investment team.  Western Asset sourced about $11.2 billion of its global
funds from Asia excluding Japan as of June 30, an increase of 31
percent since 2010, the company said. Aberdeen Asset’s Aberdeen
Local Currency Short Duration Bond fund grew to $1.05 billion
last month from $13 million when it was launched in March 2011,
according to data provided by the company.  “We have been gradually adding to our team as our funds
under management and product range grow,” said  Anthony Michael ,
Aberdeen’s regional head of fixed income in Singapore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  