-- BNP Paribas Details Plan to Expand U.S. Wealth Management
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-09-12T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/bnp-paribas-details-plan-to-expand-u-s-wealth-management.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s biggest
bank, embarked on a five-year plan to expand services to
affluent U.S. clients as the company looks to businesses beyond
its core European market for growth.  The lender combined trust, brokerage and private-banking at
its Bank of the West unit as it seeks to manage more money for
wealthy people in the world’s largest economy, Sofia Merlo, co-
head of  wealth management  at Paris-based BNP Paribas, said in an
interview. The subsidiary manages about $10 billion, more than
two-thirds in brokerage accounts, said John Bahnken, head of
wealth management at the unit.  Wealth management has “turned into a significant positive
story,” Bahnken said in an interview at the unit’s flagship
office, which opened Sept. 5 in  San Francisco ’s financial
district. “We came to the conclusion that given the client base
and changing regulatory environment it was important to provide
wealth management” for U.S. clients, he said.  About 70 percent of BNP Paribas’s assets at the end of 2011
were in four euro-area markets -- France, Belgium,  Italy  and
Luxembourg, based on data from its annual report. Expanding
wealth management in the U.S. would lure more clients and
increase revenue from a business less dependent on a region
struggling with a debt crisis now in its third year.  BNP Paribas was among European banks hurt last year by a
liquidity crunch, especially in U.S. dollars, and losses on
Greek sovereign debt. The lender sold some U.S. corporate-and
investment-banking assets to reduce its short-term funding needs
in dollars. In February, the bank agreed to sell about $9.5
billion of North American energy assets to Wells Fargo & Co.  Capital Rules  Worldwide, BNP Paribas provides wealthy customers with
investment advice and services related to business succession,
retirement, real estate, art and philanthropy. Managing wealth
provides noninterest income, entails less risk than more
capital-intensive businesses and allows the lender to better
meet the capital rules outlined by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , Bahnken said.  The company’s U.S. plans are part of a broader strategy to
expand in smaller markets such as Turkey, Poland and Morocco,
where it also has large retail branch networks. The Middle East,
Asia and Italy also will see growth, Merlo said.  BNP Paribas’s wealth-management business had 244 billion
euros ($314 billion) in assets under management in 2011 and the
unit is active in 30 countries, with 6,100 employees, according
to the bank’s annual report. Assets under management climbed to
258 billion euros through June, Merlo said.  Enhanced Service  “It’s very important to have this footprint in the  United
States ,” Merlo said. In addition to U.S. customers, “many
clients in Europe or  Asia  want to have some of their wealth in
dollars,” she said.  Bank of the West has about 1.2 million clients. Customers
with at least $250,000 in assets at the bank will be eligible
for the enhanced service, Bahnken said. Executives will spend
about 80 percent of their time telling current clients about the
service and 20 percent finding new customers, he said. The bank
has 55 private-client advisers, up from 25 last year, he said.  BNP Paribas took control of Bank of the West in 2001, when
it purchased the 55 percent stake it didn’t own in the lender’s
holding company, BancWest Corp., for about $2.4 billion. Bank of
the West had $62.7 billion in assets at the end of June,
according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. data.  Tax Havens  In Switzerland, the bank will focus on customers from
Eastern Europe and the  Middle East , Merlo said. Those who have
kept assets in Switzerland may withdraw money and repatriate it
as banks face calls from governments to identify customers who
used Swiss accounts as tax havens, she said.  “Now, we see those clients will probably stay onshore,”
Merlo said.  BNP doesn’t own large-scale retail-banking operations in
most Asian nations. The lender will instead look to offer
wealth-management services to entrepreneurs and others that have
a corporate relationship with the bank, Merlo said.  BNP Paribas runs wealth-management operations in Asian
markets including  Hong Kong ,  China ,  Singapore  and  India ,
according to a June presentation to investors. The lender has
hired about 30 wealth-management advisers in Asia since the
start of the year, Merlo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 