-- BOE’s Broadbent Says MPC Needs to Focus More on Employment Data
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-09-12T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/boe-s-broadbent-says-mpc-needs-to-focus-more-on-employment-data.html
Bank of England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said officials should place more importance on
employment data as it may provide a better guide to the
inflation outlook than changes in output.  “We should probably pay less attention than we normally do
to movements in output and relatively more to changes in
employment,” Broadbent said today in Durham,  England , referring
to the Monetary Policy Committee. “We may be less confident
than usual about the origins of a given change in output --
whether it’s ‘demand’ or ‘supply’ led.”  In a speech looking at U.K. employment growth and the
outlook for productivity, Broadbent also noted comments by Chief
Economist Spencer Dale last week that a “Pavlovian response”
to  weak output  by calling for more stimulus is not sensible.
They were the only two policy makers to vote against more
quantitative easing in July, when the central bank increased its
bond-purchase target by 50 billion pounds ($81 billion).  On the relationship between employment and inflation,
Broadbent said the link between the two “has proved more stable
through the crisis than those between either of those variables
and output.”  “What we do know is that, whatever the original
disturbance, and as long as the supply of labour -- and
therefore the NAIRU -- is relatively stable, we’re likely to
want to ease policy if employment falls -- because either demand
has weakened or underlying productivity has risen -- and to
tighten it if employment growth improves,” he said. NAIRU is
the non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment.  Policy Impact  Broadbent also noted that the comparative strength of
employment and  inflation  was “remarkable,” though demand “is
independently weak.” He said the MPC should set policy “not
just on its ability to affect demand but its capacity to improve
the flow of finance in the economy as well.”  “Much of this lies outside our control, and depends, as I
argued in a speech earlier this year, on events in the euro
area,” Broadbent said. “But that doesn’t mean domestic policy
is powerless.”  The Funding for Lending plan, started by the central bank
and the Treasury last month, may help counter a slowdown sparked
by the threats from the euro debt crisis, he said.  “If, as the MPC expects, the Funding for Lending Scheme
helps to promote the supply of finance across the economy, it’s
likely it will also improve its allocation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  