-- Bugatti’s $2.5 Million Vitesse Zooms to 233 MPH
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-09-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/bugatti-s-2-5-million-vitesse-zooms-to-233-mph.html
Concentrate on the road. Look for
unexpected stop signs nestled among leafy trees. Ignore a few
salient facts that are knock-knock-knocking at your
consciousness.  For instance, don’t dwell on the whooshing eruption from
the quad-turbo-charged engine, which sounds ominously like a
full-throttle jet. That is the noise of a 1,200-horsepower
engine that wants to take you to a top possible speed of  255
miles per hour .  Focus instead on your driving technique. You don’t want to
get sloppy and hit a stone at the side of the road or slip-slide
into a telephone pole.  Definitely try not to think about this: Depending on that
day’s euro-dollar exchange rate, the car you’re piloting is
worth some $2.5 million. Especially since you’re driving it like
you stole it.  The car is the Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse and it is
the world’s fastest convertible, warping to 60 mph in 2.5
seconds, and capable of as much as 233 mph with the
polycarbonate roof off.  Those rare buyers able to pony up the money for the
Creamsicle-orange Vitesse I’m driving today (the only one
currently in the U.S.) will also have to ignore a few salient
facts. The foremost is they will probably never find a road to
approach that top speed.  More likely they’ll find themselves ambling through  Monte
Carlo ’s famous tunnel or streaking down desert roads in the
 United Arab Emirates , or, like me, rolling down Connecticut
lanes outside of Greenwich, which has a  Bugatti dealership .  Second Gear  There are some good roads out here, trust me, but none that
will brook the Vitesse’s might. After all, second gear will send
you past 90 mph.  Why is the car so expensive, why would a car company make a
car with such a top speed, why would anyone buy it?  The answer is hubris, all around.  The Veyron is the only model currently offered by Bugatti,
part of the  Volkswagen Group (VOW) , which also owns Audi, Porsche,
Bentley and Lamborghini. The company wanted to create a car so
fast, so powerful, that it would be a shot heard around the
automotive world.  In 2006, we saw the first 1,001-hp Veyron, which was so
technology-laden it seemed better suited to launching into space
than rolling out on the highway. Bugatti promised to limit
production, but to keep buyers interested it released a
convertible version, the Grand Sport, and then “special
edition” models with funky paintjobs.  Power Bump  The Veyron Super Sport model then got a bump in power to
1,200 horsepower. The new Vitesse is the convertible version.  Odd thing about the Veyron: It is the least sexy exotic on
the market. There’s something cold and clinical to its shape and
styling. But the Vitesse gains several new air intakes on its
front, the better to suck in oxygen to aid the turbochargers.
They also serve to give the Vitesse a face with more vital
personality.  Take off the targa-style roof and its look improves. (Roof
removal is a manual process. It’s bulky and heavy and has to be
stored someplace else, like a garage.) I found myself warming to
the appearance of the Vitesse in a way I haven’t with other
Veyrons.  The interior is so simple and elegant that I love it. The
center dash has only a couple of knobs to control the
temperature and radio, and no navigation or infotainment
screens.  Ferrari Contrast  The steering wheel is round and with no controls on it, a
far cry from the latest Ferraris, which are crammed with them.  Put the Vitesse’s gear shift into drive, and you’ll slide
easily through city streets. No heroics or histrionics, no
flames shooting out of the tailpipes.  But you buy the Veyron for the direct link from the
accelerator to your endorphin receptors. And like the mouse in
an experiment who returns again and again to the trigger that
releases cocaine, it’s hard to stay away from the gas pedal.  So go ahead and trip the light fantastic. G forces deform
your face, and your brain stutters, trying to process faraway
objects suddenly rushing at you. There are no pauses as the
gears shift, just a seamless crush of relentless forward motion.  Rollercoaster Ride  This is not a car. It’s the world’s most expensive
rollercoaster ride.  Several years ago I tested the regular Veyron Grand Sport,
with 1,001 hp. So I was somewhat prepared for the speed. That
car, though, underwhelmed me as far as actual handling. It felt
bulky and unwieldy in turns.  The Super Sport and Vitesse got reworked suspensions. Since
my roads will not allow high-speed runs, I concentrate instead
on negotiating the corners with maximum smoothness.  I marvel over my self-control. The car sings through the
turns and I keep a light touch on the gas.  Then I approach a straightaway and something comes knock-
knock-knocking into my consciousness. I’m probably never going
to get this chance to drive a Veyron again.  I floor it.  The 2013 Bugatti Veyron 16.4 Grand Sport Vitesse at a Glance  Engine: 8.0-liter quad-turbo W-16 with 1,200 horsepower and  1,106 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Seven-speed dual-clutch automated manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 2.5 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 9 city; 14 highway (estimated).  Price as tested: About $2.5 million.  Best feature: The endorphins that come from such intense  speed.  Worst feature: A new set of tires will run you around  $30,000.  Target buyer: The one percenter.  Muse highlights include Philip Boroff on  Broadway  and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 