-- California Emitters May Run Short of CO2 Offsets: Camco
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-09-12T13:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/california-emitters-may-run-short-of-carbon-offsets-camco-says.html
California ’s greenhouse-gas
emitters may run short of emission offsets at the beginning of
the state’s carbon market, as happened at the start of  Europe ’s
program, according to  Camco International Ltd. (CAO)   Credits for the state’s market from  agricultural methane-
cutting projects  have surged 27 percent to $8.88 a metric ton
since the end of June, according to prices from Karbone Inc., a
 New York  broker. That’s near their average $8.85 a ton in the
past year. California allowances for December 2013 slipped 4.3
percent to $16.50 a metric ton since June 30.  Camco is developing projects under all methodologies
approved by regulators in the state, said  Scott McGregor , the
 London  emission-reduction and renewable energy project
developer’s chief executive officer.  “That’s a very promising market,” McGregor said today in
a phone interview. “In Europe during the first few years, there
was a big shortage of available credits. The same thing is
happening in California,” he said. The state’s cap-and-trade
system begins in 2013.  Camco had 2.5 million tons of agricultural biogas credits
under management in the U.S., according to a statement
distributed today by the Regulatory News Service. They would be
worth $22.2 million based on the Karbone data.  Camco shares  rose 1 pence, or 24 percent, today to 5.25
pence in London as of 1:50 p.m., the highest in almost five
months. They value the company at 10 million pounds ($16
million).  Profit Falls  Camco’s net income fell in the first half and the developer
said it may be able generate cash even as United Nations carbon-
credit prices drop.  Net income was 1.1 million euros, or 0.59 euro cents a
share, in the six months through June 30, down from 3 million
euros, or 1.62 cents a share, a year earlier, Camco said in the
statement.  The company’s UN credits would potentially generate a
negative  cash flow  before 2013 of about 300,000 euros if
December Certified Emission Reduction prices drop to about 1.66
euros a ton, it said. CERs were up 6.4 percent to 2.16 euros a
ton today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London, having
dropped 75 percent in the past year. At a price of 2.66 euros a
ton, the cash flow would jump to 1.9 million euros, it said.  Camco will seek to sell its credits for delivery after
April next year, after which certain industrial-gas credits are
banned for use in the European Union carbon market, McGregor
said. Availability of those banned credits is currently driving
credits lower, he said.  Camco is looking to boost revenue from  Australia  and other
nations including  China , he said. A plan for Australia and the
EU to link their carbon markets may encourage Europe to adjust
its greenhouse-gas cap on a rolling basis based on the bloc’s
economic output, as the southern-hemisphere nation plans for its
program, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  