-- Cameron Apologizes for Hillsborough Soccer Disaster Injustices
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-09-12T13:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/cameron-says-he-s-sorry-for-hillsborough-disaster-injustices.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
apologized for the injustices, cover-up and misinformation
surrounding the 1989 Hillsborough soccer disaster, in which 96
people died.  The “deeply distressing” findings of a  report published
today  into the event and its aftermath by  James Jones , the
Bishop of Liverpool, show that police doctored evidence and
briefed the media to hide their failings, Cameron said today.
The inquests into the deaths were also geared to protect the
reputation of the  emergency services , he told lawmakers.  “On behalf of the government, and indeed our country, I’m
profoundly sorry,” Cameron told the House of Commons in  London .
“While nothing can ever bring back those that were lost, with
all the documents revealed and nothing held back, the families
at last have access to the truth.”  There was no evidence that  Margaret Thatcher ’s Conservative
government played a part in the cover-up after the deaths when
standing spectators were crushed at the Hillsborough stadium, in
Sheffield, before the FA Cup semi-final match between Liverpool
and Nottingham Forest, Cameron said. The report conclusively
found that the Liverpool fans who died in the disaster were not
responsible for it, he told lawmakers.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun newspaper published a story in 1989, based
on a briefing by the police and  Irvine  Patnick, a Conservative
lawmaker, blaming the Liverpool fans. Under the headline “The
Truth,” it alleged fans were drunk and violent and picked the
pockets of the dead. The paper is still boycotted in the city.  Further Review  Attorney General Dominic Grieve is reviewing the report
before making a decision about whether to apply to the  High
Court  for the inquests into the deaths to be reopened, Cameron
said.  “It is clear to me that the new evidence in today’s report
raises vital questions which must be examined,” the premier
said. “The attorney general has assured me that he will examine
this new evidence immediately and reach a decision as fast as
possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  