-- Canada Natural Gas Rises Amid Speculation of Lower Supply Gain
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-09-12T20:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/canada-natural-gas-rises-amid-speculation-of-lower-supply-gain.html
Canadian natural gas rose on
speculation that U.S. supplies will show a below-average gain
last week because of Gulf of Mexico production shutdowns in the
wake of Hurricane Isaac.  October gas in Alberta  climbed 3.2 percent. The Energy
Department may report tomorrow that  U.S. stockpiles  expanded by
26 billion cubic feet, below the five-year average gain of 72
billion, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
As much as 73 percent of Gulf gas output was shut because of
Isaac, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said.  Alberta  gas for October delivery gained 7.75 cents to
C$2.50 per gigajoule ($2.43 per million British thermal units)
as of 4:15 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 7.1 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $3.063 per million
Btu, the highest settlement price since Aug. 1. The futures have
rallied 14 percent this week and are up 2.5 percent this year.  “It has a lot to do with the expectation of a below-
average storage number on Thursday,” said  Kyle Cooper , director
of research with IAF Advisors in Houston. “Production from
Isaac is returning much slower than expected, but there doesn’t
seem to be long-term infrastructure damage.”  Lost Output  Isaac, a Category 1 hurricane, made final landfall in
 Louisiana  on Aug. 29. Gas production lost as offshore platforms
and rigs were evacuated totaled 27.9 billion cubic feet through
Sept. 10, the Energy Department said yesterday in its monthly
 Short-Term Energy Outlook .  U.S. gas inventories ended the week of Aug. 31 at 10.7
percent above the five-year average for the week, down from 12
percent the previous week, department data show.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.7 billion cubic
feet at 3 p.m.  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.96 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.09 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s  British Columbia system 
at Kingsgate was 169 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.85 billion cubic feet today. Estimated capacity was
2.02 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.78
billion cubic feet at 3:20 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 