-- Cemig Slumps on Outlook Brazil Rules Will Cut Profit
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-09-12T21:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/cemig-slumps-on-outlook-brazil-rules-will-cut-profit.html
Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais ,
 Brazil ’s largest power company by market value, dropped the most
in more than 14 years on concern government measures to cut
electricity rates will hurt profit. Other utilities also fell.  Cemig, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based power company is
known, declined 20 percent to close at 25.29 reais in  Sao Paulo ,
after falling as much as 23 percent, the biggest intraday drop
since September 1998.  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo , or Cesp,
plummeted 28 percent, the most since it started trading in
August 2006.  President  Dilma Rousseff  and Energy Minister Edison Lobao
yesterday announced measures to force power utilities to cut
rates by as much as 28 percent to stoke economic growth while
taming inflation. The measures, announced at an event with
industry leaders in Brasilia, include revised conditions for the
renewal of license expiring between 2015 and 2017.  The event was “marked by the speechless, stupefied faces
of sector specialists and company executives,” Banco Itau SA
analysts led by Marcos Severine said in a note to clients. “We
see relevant downside potential to our earnings” estimates, the
analysts said.  Others utilities including Cia. de Transmissao de Energia
Eletrica Paulista, or Cteep;  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) ,
or Eletrobras; and  AES Tiete SA (GETI3)  were also among shares leading
losses on Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Interconexion
Electrica SA (TRPL4) , Cteep’s parent, declined 4 percent in Bogota.  The government measures will boost the economy even while
affecting Eletrobras’s earnings, Chief Executive Officer Jose da
Costa Carvalho said on a conference call with analysts.  Cemig may seek to appeal in court the new concession
renewals if talks with the government fail, Chief Financial
Officer Luiz Rolla said on a separate call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  