-- Chesapeake’s McClendon Taps Expanding Shale Oil Demand
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-09-13T13:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/chesapeake-s-mcclendon-taps-expanding-shale-oil-demand.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  negotiated
a higher-than-expected price for  oil fields  in the U.S.
Southwest as the natural-gas driller exploited a growing
appetite for shale assets among the world’s largest energy
explorers.  Chesapeake agreed yesterday to sell drilling rights and
wells on about 1 million acres in the Permian Basin of  Texas  and
 New Mexico  for $3.3 billion in three separate transactions with
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and EnerVest Ltd. The
proceeds equate to $3,200 an acre, which exceeds the $3,094 an
acre in implied value that ITG Investment Research estimated a
larger group of assets in the region would fetch.  The Permian Basin, a 300-mile (480-kilometer) long geologic
formation that has been gushing oil and gas for more than 90
years, is attracting renewed interest from major international
oil producers who quit the region in the mid-1980s as falling
oil prices made aging fields unprofitable to operate. Hydraulic
fracturing and horizontal drilling techniques have now opened
shale formations that geologists formerly wrote off as
impermeable.  “This shows that the larger companies are very interested
in the horizontal development going on in the Permian Basin,”
 Scott Hanold , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC in
 Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview. “Right now, the new
Permian prospects are where the Bakken shale was four years ago.
For the super majors, it’s a new development opportunity where
they can get a significant position.”  Weakened Position  Stung by the lowest prices in 13 years for the fuel that
comprises 80 percent of Chesapeake’s production, Chief Executive
Officer  Aubrey McClendon  pledged to auction about $20 billion in
assets by the end of 2013 to finance the company’s transition to
a crude producer. Analysts including Philip Weiss of Argus
Research Group expected Chesapeake to fall short of its sales
goal for the Permian as potential buyers, knowing the company’s
predicament, held out for lower prices.  Shell, Europe’s largest oil company by market value, will
acquire three-fourths of the assets being sold after agreeing to
pay $1.94 billion for 618,000 acres in Texas. Chevron, which
paid $3.2 billion last year for Appalachian shale driller Atlas
Energy, will boost its Permian holdings by 35 percent. Terms of
the Chevron and EnerVest deals weren’t disclosed.  The sales in the Permian Basin, along with $3.6 billion in
other oilfield and pipeline deals announced yesterday, will
enable McClendon to repay a $4 billion bridge loan from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  before the effective
 interest rate  jumps from 8.5 percent to more than 10 percent in
January.  Chesapeake’s $1.3 billion of 9.5 percent debt due February
2015 rose 1.35 cents to 113.85 cents on the dollar to yield 3.5
percent as of 8:30 a.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. That’s the highest price since April, when the
securities traded as high as 114.6 cents, Trace data show.  2012 Deadline  McClendon has a little more than 100 days to sell another
$1.4 billion in assets to reach his goal of raising at least $13
billion from divestitures this year to plug a looming cash-flow
gap.  The remaining $1.4 billion to be raised this year probably
will come mostly from a joint-venture partner who would exchange
cash for a stake in Chesapeake’s Mississippi Lime holdings in
Kansas and Oklahoma,  James Sullivan , an analyst at Alembic
Global Advisors, said in a telephone interview.  Mississippi Lime wells cost 50 percent less to drill than
those in the Bakken shale, indicating a more robust profit
margin, the company said in a July 16 presentation on its
website.  Gas Slump  Gas futures traded in New York have averaged $2.56 per
million British thermal units this year, which would be the
lowest annual average since 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Advances in drilling and fracturing shale and other
so-called unconventional formations unleashed a flood of gas
that has overwhelmed North American markets and collapsed
prices.  McClendon may have been able to obtain an even higher price
if his negotiating position hadn’t been compromised by low gas
prices and the impending cash crunch,  Philip Weiss  of Argus said
in an e-mailed statement. “The company was not necessarily
negotiating from a position of strength,” Weiss said. When the
agreements announced yesterday are completed, McClendon will be
58 percent toward his 2013 fundraising goal.  Chesapeake is “going to get the gap covered for this
year,” Alembic Global’s Sullivan said. In 2013, the company
probably will need to sell its oilfield-services unit and stakes
in other energy-industry operators to cover a $4.5 billion to $5
billion gap between expected cash-flow and spending, he said.  U.S. explorers that pioneered the new shale-drilling
techniques, such as  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  and Chesapeake, are
transferring those practices to formations soaked in crude in a
bid to replicate the successes in gas-rich rocks.  Bakken-Like  One such success story has been the Bakken formation of
North Dakota and  Montana , where oil output more than quadrupled
in the past three years as a result of the new techniques,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  In addition to undrilled reserves of oil and gas, the
Permian sale will give Shell the equivalent of 26,000 barrels of
daily crude production. Chevron’s acreage will include the
equivalent of 7,000 barrels of oil a day, the  San Ramon ,
California-based company said in a statement yesterday.  Chesapeake will retain 470,000 of the 1.5 million acres it
originally sought to sell in the Permian. Those acres will be
remarketed or drilled at a later date, the company said.  Not Desperate  Alembic’s Sullivan said Chesapeake’s decision to retain
some of the Permian acreage shows it wasn’t a desperate seller.
“The only reason for holding on to it is that they didn’t get
the price they wanted,” he said. “So they are going to sit on
it and get a better value for it at a later date.”  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. gas producer, lost as
much as 60 percent of its market value in the past year.
Investors battered the stock amid low gas prices and federal
probes of potential conflicts between McClendon’s personal
financial transactions and his chairman and CEO duties.  McClendon, 53, was deposed as chairman in June and more
than half the board was replaced as Chesapeake’s largest
shareholders, Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and  Carl Icahn ,
agitated for governance reforms. McClendon also is losing access
to a corporate perk that allowed him to buy personal stakes in
almost every well the company drilled.  “It’s a positive sign that there are proven counterparties
that want to do business with Chesapeake,” Tim Rezvan, an
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in New York, said yesterday.
McClendon and Archie Dunham, who replaced him as chairman in
June, have “delivered” on a promise to accelerate asset sales
and narrow the cash gap, Rezvan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  