-- Chesapeake Loses Bid to Void Texas Oil, Gas Rights Award
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-12T21:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/chesapeake-loses-bid-to-void-texas-oil-gas-rights-award.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , facing
claims by mineral rights holders in multiple states over
canceled oil and gas lease offers, lost a bid to reverse a
$19.7 million judgment to a Texas lease owner.  Chesapeake wrongfully canceled an agreement to buy drilling
rights held by the family-owned Peak Energy Corp., the U.S.
Court of Appeals in  New Orleans  ruled. The panel today upheld a
2011 decision by U.S. District Judge John Ward in Marshall,
Texas, awarding Plano, Texas-based Peak $19.7 million.  Peak claimed Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake breached a
contract and abandoned the deal as gas prices plummeted. Ward
said a letter of intent signed by both sides was a valid
contract. Chesapeake asked the court to reverse Ward and find
that a letter of intent isn’t a binding contract.  “The absence of closing documents does not necessarily
make an agreement nonbinding,” the appeals court said. “This
agreement is enforceable.”  Chesapeake also asked the appeals court to cancel Ward’s
order telling the company to pay the $12,000-an-acre difference
between the offer price and the lease value when the bid was
withdrawn. Peak didn’t have rights to almost two-thirds of the
5,405 acres (2,187 hectares) covered in the accord, Chesapeake
argued.  The court upheld the damages award.  Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman, declined to comment
on the ruling.  Similar Suits  Claims similar to Peak’s have been filed in federal and
state courts by hundreds of landowners in states including
 Pennsylvania ,  Michigan  and Texas alleging that Chesapeake
breached contracts to buy oil and gas leases.  Those suing typically claim Chesapeake offered top prices,
including sign-up bonuses, only to walk away from agreements
when gas prices dropped or shale formations proved less
profitable to develop than originally projected.  Chesapeake lost a separate Texas lawsuit July 10, when a
federal judge ordered the company to pay more than $100 million
to holders of three leases. The plaintiffs, Texas energy
companies unrelated to Peak, sued Chesapeake in November 2008
for failing to complete the purchase of three gas leases the
producer began negotiating for in June of that year, before
energy prices plunged by as much as 50 percent.  ‘Big Loss’  “This is a big loss for Chesapeake and will have
ramifications across the U.S.,” said  Anthony Sabino , a law
professor at St. John’s University in  New York  who specializes
in complex litigation and oil-and-gas law.  The federal appeals court in New Orleans, the Fifth
Circuit, covers Texas,  Louisiana  and  Mississippi , “a huge
portion of the oil patch,” and is often given deference by
other courts on cases involving the industry, Sabino said.  “It is unlikely that the  Supreme Court  will review this,
so the Fifth Circuit’s decision will be final,” he said. In
arguing similar lawsuits, “lawyers for Chesapeake will have to
distinguish this case and why it doesn’t apply,” he said.  Chesapeake fell 21 cents, or 1 percent, to $19.89 today in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. gas producer, lost
35 percent of its  market value  in the past year as the effect of
tumbling energy prices was compounded by questions about Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon , who led a costly push to
expand the firm’s gas holdings during the past decade. He was
replaced as chairman June 21 by Archie Dunham.  Under Fire  McClendon has been under fire for using personal stakes in
the company’s oil and gas wells to borrow privately more than
$800 million last year from some of the company’s biggest
financiers.  He also has been criticized for a wrong-way bet in natural-
gas prices that damaged Chesapeake’s cash flow, increased its
borrowing costs and spurred its biggest investors to replace
more than half the board.  Peak officials sued Chesapeake in 2009, alleging that its
executives began a “land grab” in eastern  Texas  and western
Louisiana in early 2008, seeking to acquire the rights to large
swaths of the Haynesville Shale area. Chesapeake relied on an
“army of  landmen ” to acquire leases, Peak’s attorneys said in
court filings.  Peak officials contend that McClendon was personally
involved in their deal, approving a landman’s offer of $15,000
an acre and pushing to speed negotiations.  Written Offer  Upon learning Peak officials wanted the offer in writing,
McClendon sent his negotiator an e-mail urging him to complete
the deal promptly. “Sooner the better of course!” McClendon
said in the July 1, 2008, e-mail, according to court filings.  McClendon described the push to acquire rights to the
Haynesville Shale formation in a July 2008 call with investors,
saying he was trying to make Chesapeake “the only game in town
for a lot of owners of smaller tracts of land out there.”  “We especially understand the value in today’s world of
having a huge land machine that can devour big chunks of land
across these massive new unconventional plays,” McClendon said,
according to a transcript. “In these plays, if you snooze, you
lose. And with over 4,000 landmen in the field every day buying
new leases, I can assure you that Chesapeake is not snoozing.”  Four months later, McClendon and other Chesapeake officials
weren’t as eager to complete the deal as gas prices fell, Peak’s
lawyers said.  ‘Market Conditions’  “The transaction failed to close because market conditions
had changed, Chesapeake ran into cash flow problems and
Chesapeake was looking for excuses to back out of its pending
deals for Haynesville Shale properties,” Peak said in a
February appeals court filing.  The price of natural gas had dropped in 2008 by about 50
percent from June to September, Peak, represented by attorney
Clint Schumacher, said in the complaint.  “Because of the falling price of natural gas and
tightening credit markets, the agreement between Chesapeake and
sellers was no longer economically advantageous for Chesapeake
in October 2008,” Schumacher wrote. “Chesapeake chose to
repudiate the agreement.”  Chesapeake countered that the “letter of intent” between
the two companies over the oil and gas leases didn’t amount to a
final contract and Peak officials failed to come up with a final
list of leases to be covered.  “The letter of intent was simply the beginning of a
negotiation,” Chesapeake’s lawyers said in court papers in June
2010. A final agreement was never reached, the lawyers said.  Peak’s Performance  “Peak cannot enforce a sale and assignment between the
parties because, as a matter of law, Peak cannot demonstrate
that it performed its obligations,” Chesapeake said. “In
tendering only 1,645 acres, Peak failed to perform under the
letter of intent.”  Ward, the trial judge, disagreed, finding that the letter
of intent was a contract, that Chesapeake breached it and that
the company must pay for the acres Peak tendered.  “Chesapeake contends the district court erred in
concluding that the parties intended to be bound by the July
agreement,” U.S. Circuit Judge Patrick Higginbotham wrote in
today’s appellate decision.  “We disagree. The agreement stated on its face that it was
‘valid and binding,’ was entitled ‘Offer to Purchase,’ and
provided that Chesapeake’s offer would be void if Peak did not
accept it by signing the agreement before 5 p.m. on July 3.”  While the agreement didn’t list all the properties to be
covered, it “contains an adequate nucleus of description,” the
court said. The lease list “is not itself an essential term of
the agreement,” Higginbotham said in the 19-page decision.  The lower-court case is Coe v. Chesapeake Exploration LLC,
2:09-cv-00290, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall). The appeal is Coe v. Chesapeake Exploration LLC, 11-
41003,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  