-- Chicago Teachers Shouldn’t Be Obstacle to School Progress
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/chicago-teachers-shouldn-t-be-obstacle-to-school-progress.html
The stakes in  Chicago ’s school
strike go well beyond the nation’s third-largest public school
system. For U.S. education reform, it may be a watershed. For
teachers unions, it may be a Waterloo.  It was poor timing for Chicago teachers to walk out on
350,000 children Monday, the second week of the school year.
(Despite union claims to the contrary, “walk out” is exactly
what the teachers did, unilaterally shutting off negotiations
with city.)  Chicago teachers have  tough jobs : 87 percent of the mostly
minority students come from low-income families. Even so, the
record is shockingly awful. On the most reliable  national
standardized test , the National Assessment of Educational
Progress, Chicago’s fourth-graders not only lagged well behind
the national average, they were nine points below the average
among large cities on math and eight points lower on English.  The ostensible reasons for the strike concern pay
increases, longer school days and teacher evaluations. The union
has a weak case on all fronts. With an average salary of $76,000
a year, Windy City educators are at the  top of the big-city
teacher pay scale , yet they called for a 30 percent pay raise
over two years amid the worst economy since the Great
Depression. (The city, which rescinded a scheduled pay increase
over the summer, has offered 16 percent over four years.) Mayor
 Rahm Emanuel ’s lengthening of the school day and year were
necessary, given that Chicago teachers now spend less time in
the classroom than those in any other large district.  Measuring Achievement  At its heart, however, the strike is about teacher
evaluation and their implications for measuring student
achievement, rewarding good teachers and firing bad ones, and
increasing competition through  charter schools . Under the city’s
new evaluation system -- which is mandated by state law --
student scores on standardized tests would make up 40 percent of
a teacher’s rating. Not surprisingly, the teachers like the old
system, under which  99.7 percent  of them received a rating
between satisfactory and distinguished.  On this issue, the strike goes well beyond Chicago: It is
emblematic of other efforts to obstruct public school reform
based on performance. The teachers’ mindset was neatly  summed up 
by the spotlight-grabbing president of the Chicago Teachers
Union, Karen Lewis, who demanded the school board “evaluate us
on what we do, not the lives of children we do not control.” If
how much students actually learn is beyond the job description
of teachers, what exactly are Chicago residents getting for
their tax dollars?  Admittedly, not every reform has been flawless. President
 George W. Bush ’s No Child Left Behind Act has been rightly
criticized for its emphasis on one-size-fits-all testing and a
flawed “adequate yearly progress” metric. Yet, all in all, the
law was a tremendous step forward: It converted a hodgepodge of
squishy state and local assessment practices into comparable
national standards, set clear goals for school performance and
made school administrations and districts accountable for
student achievement.  Refinements under the Obama administration, including the
Race to the Top program in which states compete for federal
innovation grants and NCLB waivers granted by Education
Secretary Arne Duncan, have added flexibility without
undermining standards. The next step is likely to be widespread
implementation of the  Common Core State Standards , a project
spearheaded by the nation’s governors that has been adopted in
45 states.  Public Approval  The public is generally behind these efforts. A  study
released last fall  by the journal Education Next and the Program
on Education Policy and Governance at  Harvard University  found
that vast majorities of Americans approve of merit pay based on
state tests, as well as the expansion of charter schools and
private-school vouchers for low-income students. Pluralities
also favored allowing college graduates without formal teaching
credentials to teach and opposed nationwide tenure. Seventy-two
percent favored annual testing based on common state standards.  If teachers don’t get behind the reform movement, they will
get run over by it. Research by the  Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation , among others, indicates that  teacher quality  is the
most important factor in student success. If unions think
student scores are overemphasized in teacher evaluations, they
should work with states and school boards to create more
comprehensive assessments, including reports from in-class
observers, feedback from students, and measures of pupil
performance such as portfolios and “value-added” exams that try
to identify a teacher’s contributions to student success.  Chicago might be the last stand for business as usual.
Parents know it. Politicians know it. And, in their heart of
hearts, the teachers probably know it, too. Perhaps they need a
nudge from authority to move beyond the denial stage.
Ordinarily, there’s no reason for the White House to get
involved in local political disputes. But Chicago is President
 Barack Obama ’s hometown, Emanuel is his former chief of staff
and Duncan is the city’s former schools chief. Obama has so far
declined to take sides. He should -- and he should side with the
future.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Ben Bernanke should
confront his critics , on  how the euro dodged a German bullet ,
and on  Mitt Romney’s chance on immigration ;  Caroline Baum  on
whose policies really created the  financial crisis ;  Michael
Kinsley  on the  similarities between politics and the Olympics ;
Jonathan Mahler on  John Henry’s fall from grace ; Cass R.
Sunstein on the triumph of  cost-benefit analysis ; Stephen Starr
on why  Syrian rebels  are losing popular support.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 