-- Chile Peso Falls From Year High as Copper Drops on China Concern
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-09-12T18:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/chile-peso-falls-from-year-high-as-copper-drops-on-china-concern.html
Chile’s peso retreated from its
highest level in a year as copper, the country’s biggest export,
fell on concern that growth in  China  will slow.  The peso slid 0.1 percent to 474.85 per  U.S. dollar  after
earlier rallying to 472.27, the strongest since Sept. 12, 2011.
Copper fell from a four-month high, dropping 0.1 percent to
$3.6925 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  Morgan Stanley became today the fifth bank to estimate
China will only grow 7.5 percent this year, the slowest in 22
years. The Asian nation is the biggest buyer of Chile’s copper,
which makes up more than half the Andean country’s exports.  “After shooting to a 12-month high, there was some profit-
taking around that level,” said Katia Diaz, an economist at
4Cast Inc. in New York. “There was also a loss of momentum
globally, and the peso followed.”  The peso gained earlier as economists forecast a third
round of bond buying from the  Federal Reserve  to support the
world’s largest economy.  Commodity-linked currencies such as the peso, the South
African rand and the Russian ruble would benefit most from so-
called quantitative easing in the U.S., according to Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc. RBS recommends buying the peso if the Fed
starts a new round of stimulus. Almost two-thirds of economists
in a Bloomberg survey expect the U.S. central bank to start
buying bonds tomorrow.  ‘Very Bullish’  “People will be looking for safe assets with higher yields
to invest the liquidity, and some of that liquidity will flow to
 Latin America ,” said Felipe Hernandez, an economist at RBS in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We are still very bullish on the
Chilean peso. It keeps attracting capital inflows from foreign
direct investment.”  Chile ’s five-year credit-default swaps fell to 80 basis
points, the lowest in a year on an intraday basis. The two-year
interest-rate swap rate rose six basis points to 4.94 percent.
Two-year break-even inflation increased four basis points to
2.99 percent, in line with the central bank’s 3 percent target.  Local investors, led by pension funds and excluding banks,
in the Chilean peso forwards market cut their long  peso position 
to a three-month low of $15.3 billion on Sept. 10 from $15.5
billion on Sept. 7, according to central bank data.  Banco Itau Chile sold today $47.5 million worth of 14-year
inflation-linked bonds at a yield of 3.83 percent, according to
data from the Santiago stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  