-- Chile’s La Polar Soars on Bets Fund Raising to Succeed
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-09-13T18:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/chile-s-la-polar-plans-to-double-sales-by-2014-after-share-sale.html
Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR)  gained for the
first time in eight days on speculation its plan to raise funds
will allow the Chilean retailer to meet growth targets and avert
a second bankruptcy in 13 years.  The stock advanced 9.1 percent to 180 pesos at 3:35 p.m. in
Santiago trading, the biggest intraday gain since Aug. 21. The
shares are down 44 percent in the past 12 months.  La Polar plans to sell about 120 billion pesos ($254
million) of new shares, and would sell assets in Colombia to
generate cash if the issuance of new stock doesn’t raise at
least 90 billion pesos, Chairman Cesar Barros told reporters
yesterday.  “The market likes the idea of having another option if the
share sale doesn’t reach targets,” Natalia Burgos, a portfolio
manager at Euroamerica, said in a phone interview. “It means
they don’t have their hands tied.”  La Polar plans to use the funds it raises to overhaul
brands and renovate stores in a bid to boost sales 63 percent by
2014, Chief Executive Officer Patricio Lecaros told reporters
yesterday. The plan includes developing private labels and
refurbishing existing locations to help it boost sales to 462
billion pesos by 2014 from an estimated 284 billion pesos this
year, Lecaros said.  Should the share sale fail, “we have a plan B -- La Polar
has very attractive assets in  Colombia ,” Barros said yesterday.
“It would be silly for our creditors to cause a bankruptcy as
even without the share sale we’re heading back to breakeven.”  Irregularities  The discovery last year of accounting irregularities led to
the dismissal and trial of some former managers. The new shares
will be sold before Oct. 29 as part of an agreement with
creditors.  The Santiago-based company said in June 2011 that it had
been unilaterally restructuring terms of clients’ past due loans
as a way to cap loss provisions and boost profit.  About 100 billion pesos from the share sale will be used to
refurbish stores and fund consumer loans in  Chile  and Colombia,
and 20 billion pesos will go toward compensating  customers
affected by the loan modifications, according to a presentation
on the company’s website.  La Polar will seek to cater to a wider variety of clients
instead of only middle- and lower-income segments, Lecaros said.
“We want to take a little bit of market share from each of the
three bigger players, but not too much to make them mad,”
Lecaros said. The biggest department store operators in Chile
are  SACI Falabella (FALAB) , Cencosud SA and  Ripley Corp SA. (RIPLEY)   The company will open its fifth store in Colombia in
November. It operates 42 stores in Chile, Lecaros said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  