-- China to Provide Weather Forecasts for Islands Claimed by Japan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-12T04:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/china-to-provide-weather-forecasts-for-islands-claimed-by-japan.html
China ’s Meteorological
Administration started providing  weather forecasts  for islands
at the center of a dispute with  Japan  as both sides seek to
assert authority for their claims.  The move falls under the meteorological body’s
responsibility to provide forecasts and alerts for China’s land
and waters, according to a  statement  posted on the
administration’s website yesterday. The islands are known as
Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese.  The announcement comes as China sent patrol ships to the
East China Sea islands yesterday after Japan announced it would
buy them from a private owner for 2.05 billion yen ($26.2
million). The standoff over the territory and the resource-rich
waters surrounding it has threatened to further strain ties
between the world’s second and third-largest economies.  The weather reports will be broadcast after the 7 p.m. news
on  China Central Television , the country’s main state-run TV
channel, according to the statement.  Anti-Japanese protests were reported in three Chinese
cities yesterday, according to Xinhua. Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said in a regular  briefing  yesterday that
“Japan’s recent wrongful actions have sparked Chinese people’s
strong indignation within and outside of China.”  The National People’s Congress and  Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference  both issued statements urging
Japan to “realize the danger of the current situation” and
“work with China to maintain the bigger picture of China-Japan
relations,” according to a front-page article in today’s
People’s Daily newspaper.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  