-- China Says EU Trade Probes Should Consider Impact on Relations
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-12T14:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/china-says-eu-trade-probes-should-consider-impact-on-relations.html
The European Union should consider
the impact that trade investigations have on its relations with
 China , the Chinese ambassador to the EU said.  The EU last week opened a probe into allegations that
European producers of solar panels, including  Solarworld AG (SWV) , are
harmed by Chinese rivals selling below cost. The inquiry covers
21 billion euros ($27 billion) of imports of crystalline silicon
photovoltaic modules or panels and cells and wafers used in
them. EU regulators have nine months to decide whether to impose
anti-dumping duties on solar-panel products from China.  The European Commission, the EU regulator in Brussels,
“should give sufficient attention to the impact this would
bring to our relations” when it starts a trade investigation,
China’s envoy to the EU, Wu Hailong, told reporters in Brussels
today. Such probes are “not constructive” and can be a
“double-edged sword” for European businesses that supply
Chinese manufacturers, he said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said last month that she
was seeking talks between the commission and Chinese authorities
to prevent the EU investigation. She told reporters in Beijing
that “it would be better to solve” the dispute with
negotiations.  Hailong said Merkel’s comments showed “a very wise
position,” adding that China also favored talks to resolve
trade disputes.  Anti-Dumping Duties  The EU probe will determine whether Chinese producers
violate World Trade Organization rules by selling solar panels
below cost. The commission could impose provisional anti-dumping
duties for half a year and EU governments have 15 months to
decide whether to apply “definitive” levies for five years.  The case highlights EU concerns about the expansion of
Chinese solar companies, which have grabbed market share from
European rivals that were once dominant, and follows a U.S.
decision earlier this year to hit the Chinese industry with
anti-dumping duties as high as 250 percent.  Chinese companies have gained more than 80 percent of the
market in  Europe  for solar goods compared with almost zero in
2004, according to  EU ProSun , a group that represents European
producers including Solarworld and that requested the dumping
investigation in late July.  China produces about 65 percent of solar panels worldwide,
the commission said in a separate statement. The EU is China’s
main export market, accounting for around 80 percent of Chinese
sales abroad, according to the commission.  -- -With assistance from Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France .
Editor: Jones Hayden,  Patrick Henry   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 