-- China Narrows Estimate of Capital-Account Gap by $30 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-12T04:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/china-narrows-estimate-of-capital-account-gap-by-30-billion.html
China  said its capital-account
deficit last quarter was 42 percent narrower than initially
estimated, signaling outflows of funds were less severe than the
previous figures suggested.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange today revised
its estimate of the capital-account gap to $41.2 billion,
compared with the initial $71.4 billion published July 31. The
agency said the current-account surplus was $53.7 billion, down
from the previous figure of $59.7 billion. SAFE didn’t give an
explanation for the revisions.  Slower capital outflows would mean less downward pressure
on the  yuan  and  growth  at risk of decelerating for a seventh
quarter. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled yesterday that
there’s more room for fiscal and monetary policy to support
expansion, saying the nation has full confidence it will meet
its economic goals for the year.  “Outflow risks for China, without any external or domestic
shock, are limited,” said Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-based senior
China economist with Citigroup Inc. “China’s economic
fundamentals remain there, and yuan appreciation pressure will
return in a long-term point of view.”  SAFE, in its 44-page balance-of-payments report, said the
yuan  exchange rate  has reached a reasonable level and that there
is no “massive” short-selling pressure on the currency.  China will maintain a “relatively big”  trade surplus  in
the second half of this year and the country is able to
“withstand impacts from cross-border capital flows,” SAFE said,
citing rapid economic growth, the surplus and large foreign-
exchange reserves.  The yuan strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.3275 against the  U.S.
dollar  as of 11:20 a.m. in Shanghai. The currency has dropped
about 0.5 percent this year.  China reported a $14.9 billion capital-account surplus for
the first half. The current-account surplus was $77.2 billion,
or 2.1 percent of gross domestic product, SAFE said.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  