-- China Silence on Xi Speculation Contrasts With Past Denials
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-13T02:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/china-s-silence-on-xi-speculation-contrasts-with-past-rebuttals.html
China’s silence on Vice President
 Xi Jinping ’s 12-day absence from public view contrasts with past
rebuttals of speculation about top officials and is escalating
concern over the nation’s leadership succession.  The official Xinhua News Agency took less than a day in
July 2011 to deny former President  Jiang Zemin  had died. Earlier
this year, Xinhua published accounts of China’s top security
official within days of a Financial Times report that he was
under investigation. By comparison, state media haven’t reported
on Xi for a week, or mentioned that he canceled meetings with
foreign officials on Sept. 5.  The vacuum of news on Xi, weeks before the 59-year-old is
forecast to be anointed China’s next president, may be a sign of
the severity of his condition, or divisions over how to present
his absence. The public remains uninformed even of the date for
the congress where the new generation of leaders, including Xi,
is set to be announced.  “In a relatively closed system, Chinese society is driven
by rumors and conspiracy theories and the government does
recognize the need to release some explanation,” said  John Lee ,
an adjunct associate professor at the  University of Sydney  and
author of the book “Will China Fail?” “The fact that you have
not had a definitive explanation from state media suggests that
there is internal disagreement as to how to release the truth,
whatever that may be.”  Health Speculation  Speculation about Xi began after he canceled meetings with
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Singaporean Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong last week. The Wall Street Journal
reported that Xi may have injured his back swimming. The Hong
Kong-based Apple Daily newspaper, citing unidentified sources,
reported today that Xi suffered a heart attack.  Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said last week that the
cancellations were a “normal adjustment” and when asked
yesterday, said he had “no information” about Xi.  He Guoqiang, a Politburo Standing Committee member whose
public absence since late August had been linked to Xi’s,
appeared on state television yesterday visiting Chinese
newspapers. Citing an unidentified government source, the U.S.-
based website Boxun.com reported earlier that He and Xi may have
been hurt in car accidents.  Chinese stocks  have risen since Xi canceled his meeting
with Clinton, suggesting no sign of investor unease. The
Shanghai Composite Index has risen about 4 percent since Sept.
5. The cost of insuring Chinese sovereign bonds against default
fell to the lowest in more than a year Sept. 10, according to
data provider CMA.  ‘Excessively Excited’  “I think people are getting themselves excessively excited
by this,” former Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg Television from the
Chinese city of Tianjin, where he was attending a World Economic
Forum gathering. “I think people frankly need to take a long,
strong, hot cup of tea and just calm down a bit.”  “I’ve been following Chinese politics for about 30
years,” said Rudd, a Mandarin-speaker who served as a diplomat
in Beijing in the 1980’s.  The run-up to the Communist Party congress has been
complicated by the ouster of former Politburo member  Bo Xilai ,
in the country’s deepest political crisis since the 1989
Tiananmen Square protests. Bo’s wife was convicted last month of
the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood and he was
suspended in April from the Politburo on allegations of
violating party discipline.  Xinjiang Tour  The Financial Times reported on May 13 that  Zhou Yongkang ,
a member of the nine-man Politburo standing committee, and who
oversees internal security, was under investigation for
supporting Bo. State-run  China Central Television  issued a
report four days later on Zhou touring the country’s Xinjiang
region, and several of his speeches were published by Xinhua.  Most recently, a day after Sina’s news website reported
Sept. 4 that state-owned  PetroChina Co. (857)  Chairman  Jiang Jiemin 
had been hospitalized, Xinhua published a story confirming he
was getting treatment for an illness that wasn’t serious.
PetroChina’s parent posted a release on its website saying Jiang
chaired a meeting on Sept. 3, hours after the Sina report.  The central bank also used statements about meetings
attended by Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  to counter a report by risk
analysis group Stratfor that he’d fled the country because the
government planned to punish him for losses in China’s U.S.
Treasuries holdings. The People’s Bank of China posted a
photograph of Zhou meeting  Japan ’s financial services minister,
while declining official comment on the Stratfor report.  ‘Pure Rumor’  In July 2011, a day after  Hong Kong ’s Asia Television Ltd.
reported that former President Jiang had died, Xinhua issued a
one-sentence story saying overseas media claims of his demise
were “pure rumor.”  By comparison, Xinhua hasn’t carried an account of any
activities by Xi since Sept. 1, after reporting on at least
eight events involving him in August, including a meeting with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  “The longer Xi remains out of sight without clarification
as to his condition, the more likely his condition is to be
serious and the silence not simply a reflection of party hyper-
sensitivity,” said Daniel Lynch, an associate professor at the
University of Southern California’s School of International
Relations. “Even worse, the top party leaders might not even be
fully aware of the problem that their silence creates for
governance.”  Speculation about Xi coincides with concern that China’s
economic slowdown is deepening. Yesterday, Morgan Stanley became
at least the fifth bank to cut its estimate for  growth  this year
after imports slid in August and industrial production cooled.  “The most important thing is that the government stick
together and effectively carry out the objectives that have been
stipulated in the 12th Five-Year plan,” Morgan Stanley’s  China 
Chief Executive Wei Christianson said at the World Economic
Forum event in Tianjin yesterday when asked about Xi’s absence.
“Overall we don’t feel the uncertainties. We feel that the path
is quite clear.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  