-- Coda Cranks Up Battery-Car Sales After ‘Soft’ Start
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-09-13T00:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/coda-cranks-up-battery-car-sales-after-soft-start.html
Coda Automotive Inc. , the electric
carmaker whose investors include billionaire  Philip Falcone , is
boosting production of its namesake sedan and building a 30-
dealer network to compete in the rechargeable vehicle market.  The Coda sedan by next year will compete in states
including Oregon and  Florida  with  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf,  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus EV and  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ’s i-MiEV
hatchbacks, Chief Executive Officer Phil Murtaugh said in an
interview this week. The Los Angeles-based company, which relies
on  China  for battery cells and some assembly, has delivered 100
cars in  California  since March, he said.  “March through July was a soft launch -- new car, new
company, new manufacturing process, new everything,” Murtaugh
said in an interview at Coda’s headquarters. “Now as we get
into real production ramp-up we need to add some dealers.”  Closely held Coda, which also counts former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  as an investor, is positioning its
vehicle as a “real world” car with better range, battery-pack
life and acceleration than its competitors. Coda’s goal is to
win at least 15 percent of non-luxury electric vehicles sales,
Murtaugh said, declining to provide a specific volume target.
That would exclude cars such as  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s $57,400
Model S. The Coda costs $37,250 before a $7,500 U.S. tax credit.  The nascent U.S. market for battery-only cars has shrunk
this year to about 5,000 units sold through August, compared
with about 6,300 in the same period of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Excessive Euphoria’  “Two years ago, there was excessive euphoria about the
potential for electric vehicles,” said Murtaugh, 58, who
previously led the former General Motors Corp.’s Chinese unit.
“Now it’s swung the other way to excessive pessimism. The
reality is there’s going to be steady, gradual growth.”  The company has 1,000 orders for its sedan, and has a goal
to add as many as 20 more stores after the initial 30-dealer
network is set up, Murtaugh said.  The compact Coda averages 88 miles (142 kilometers) per
charge and can travel as far as 125 miles, according to U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency estimates.  Nissan’s Leaf hatchback, the best-selling all-electric car
in the U.S., has a $35,200 base price and averages 73 miles per
charge. Ford’s Focus EV has a $39,200 base price and averages 76
miles per charge. The prices exclude destination charges.  Coda has raised $320 million in private funds and is
seeking additional investment, Murtaugh said without
elaborating. He declined to say when or if the company may sell
shares to the public to fund its expansion.  China Plans  Coda has said it will also produce vehicles with China’s
 Great Wall Motor Co. (2333)  to be sold under the U.S. company’s name
starting in 2014.  The first model from the agreement with Baoding, China-
based Great Wall is due by 2014’s second quarter.  The Coda sedan’s chassis is built in Harbin, China, through
a partnership with Hafei Motor Co., with final assembly in
Benicia, California. Lithium-iron-phosphate cells for its 1,000-
pound (454-kilogram) battery pack are from LIO Energy Systems, a
joint venture of Coda and China’s Tianjin Lishen Battery.  Coda also has contracts with “a few global automakers” to
buy so-called zero-emission vehicle credits generated from sales
of its vehicles in California and other states that follow
California’s emissions rules, Murtaugh said. He declined to
identify the companies or say how much such sales may be worth.  Large automakers need the credits to comply with the
state’s air-pollution rules and avoid fines and other penalties.
Tesla disclosed selling such credits in a filing related to its
initial public offering in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  