-- Congress Short of Time on Farm Law as Groups Urge Action
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-09-12T16:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/congress-short-of-time-on-farm-law-as-groups-urge-action.html
Congress is running out of time to
pass a new agriculture law that covers food stamps and crop
subsidies before the election, a Republican senator said, while
groups rallied on  Capitol Hill  today demanding action.  The Senate, which passed a five-year law in June, is aiming
to adjourn at the end of next week and return after the Nov. 6
election, deputy Democratic leader  Dick Durbin  of Illinois said
yesterday. In the House, Republican leaders are reluctant to
vote on a five-year bill before the law expires Sept. 30. A one-
year measure being considered by  House Republicans  is
“unacceptable,” Senate Agriculture Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow  of Michigan said yesterday.  “You have a much better chance of getting a bill in
December,” after the election when disagreements on issues such
as food-stamp spending may be easier to resolve, said Mary Kay Thatcher, top lobbyist for the  American Farm Bureau Federation ,
the biggest U.S. farmer group. The Bureau, along with the
National Farmers Union and about 40 other organizations held a
rally on Capitol Hill today to pressure lawmakers into passing a
plan. About 500 people participated.  With an adjournment looming and Congress needing to pass a
stop-gap measure to pay for government programs for the budget
year that begins Oct. 1, action on long-term farm policy is in
doubt, said Senator  John Thune , a  South Dakota  Republican.  “I’d like to see a five-year farm bill,” Thune told
reporters yesterday on Capitol Hill. “But in the number of
legislative days that are left, it’s unlikely we’d probably get
there.’  Food Stamps  The farm legislation funds federal nutrition programs
including food stamps, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
biggest expense, as well as subsidies to farmers that lower raw-
materials costs for companies including  Archer Daniels Midland
Co. (ADM)  and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  In the next 10 years, measures approved by
the House Agriculture Committee and passed by the Senate would
cost about $1 trillion, with cuts in nutrition programs,
including food stamps, and  farm subsidies . Lower payments to
farmers would be partially offset by adjustments in crop-
insurance initiatives.  The Senate passed its five-year measure in June, and the
House Agriculture Committee advanced a plan in July. House
Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy , a California Republican, said
Sept. 10 that leadership still hopes to get a farm bill passed
by the end of the month. GOP hesitancy to move forward a bill is
frustrating members of its caucus from rural areas, who want to
show constituents results before the November elections.  ‘‘I am disappointed that they haven’t scheduled this for a
vote,” said Representative Kristi Noem, a freshman Republican
from South Dakota, in an interview at today’s rally. “Frankly,
I take my direction from the people of South Dakota.”  Senate, House  Hurdles remain, especially between the House committee and
Senate versions of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program, or food stamps. The House version calls for a $16
billion cut over 10 years, about four times the Senate’s
reduction.  Democrats including Stabenow have said the House cuts are
too large, while Tea Party Republicans including Representative
Tim Huelskamp of  Kansas  have said they’re not enough.  Representative  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , top Democrat
on the House Agriculture Committee, said Republican leadership
doesn’t appear interested in passing a law. “They’ve apparently
decided not to do it before the election,” he said of House
leaders. “I can’t really do anything about it.”  Thune said a one-year extension may be the next-best
option, considering the time constraints. Stabenow said such a
move would cost the government more money and only create more
uncertainty for farmers.  Kicking Can  “People who don’t want reform want to kick the can down
the road,” Stabenow said on Bloomberg Television. The House
only needs “a couple of days” to pass a measure, after which
both chambers could hammer out a final agreement, she said.  A sense of urgency on farm policy may be damped by a lack
of consequences when the existing law expires, Thatcher said.
“Nothing terrible happens” on Sept. 30, she said.  1949 Provisions  Without legislation, USDA programs revert to original farm-
program language approved in 1949 under a radically different
approach to agriculture. Still,  food stamps , crop insurance, and
many conservation programs have their spending authorized
separately from the farm bill, and those initiatives will
continue, she said.  Most crop subsidies, meanwhile, aren’t paid until later in
the growing season, giving lawmakers until early 2013 to avoid
creating disruptions for farmers seeking to know the contours of
farm programs before making planting decisions, she said. Dairy
producers may see payments disrupted before then, yet they are a
small constituency, she said.  That uncertainty still penalizes farmers, Stabenow said.  “It’s very clear that farm country is overwhelmingly
saying, ‘‘get the job done.’’  More than half of all U.S. counties have been declared
natural disaster areas by the Department of Agriculture this
year, mainly because of extreme heat and dryness. Still, farmers
may see record profits of $122.2 billion this year because
higher prices and crop-insurance payments will outweigh losses
from the drought, the USDA said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  