-- Cowdery’s Second Coming as Top U.K. Insurance Dealmaker Falters
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-09-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/cowdery-s-second-coming-as-top-u-k-insurance-dealmaker-falters.html
Clive Cowdery has left investors
with losses of 30 percent after failing to repeat the success of
the strategy that won him a reputation as  London ’s top insurance
dealmaker. He and his team still profited from management fees.  Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , which Cowdery founded in 2008, has missed
its targeted returns to shareholders, wound down its plan to buy
ailing life insurers and intends to dissolve a management
structure that allows its founders to earn private-equity style
fees following pressure from the  Financial Services Authority .
Cowdery will run the firm as a “conventional” insurer rather
selling it by 2014 as planned, he said Aug. 15.  “It hasn’t gone as well as we thought or they thought,”
said Jane Coffey, who manages 12 billion pounds ($19 billion) as
head of U.K. equities of  Royal London Asset Management Ltd.  and
has invested in Resolution since its initial public offering.
“It was a complicated structure that made people worry about
where the fees were going and what else they were doing.”  Cowdery’s first attempt to consolidate the U.K.’s life
insurance industry -- by purchasing pools of expiring policies
at below book value from 2003 to 2008 -- netted him a personal
fortune of 145 million pounds, earned his investors a return of
28 percent a year and cemented his reputation as London’s top
insurance dealmaker. His second venture was hurt in its early
stages by a regulatory probe that stopped him from buying
insurance assets when they were cheap and a complex public-
private ownership structure that put off investors and
regulators.  Shares Decline  The stock has  fallen  44 percent since its IPO in December
2008 and shareholders are down 30 percent if dividends are
factored in, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The firm
has an embedded value, a measure of future profits from
policies, of about 5.9 billion pounds, 41 percent lower than the
10 billion-pound target announced in 2010.  Cowdery, 49, manages the publicly traded firm through a
private partnership called Resolution Operations LLP, owned by
him and seven partners, including former FSA Chief Executive
Officer John Tiner. Neither Cowdery nor Tiner have a seat on
Resolution Ltd.’s board even though they direct the firm’s
strategy under a management agreement with the company, an
arrangement that diverges from standard practice in the U.K.,
where a company’s most senior executives are typically board
members.  While investors are sitting on losses, Resolution
Operations made a profit of 21 million pounds over four years,
according to annual  filings  published at  Companies House . The
partners have lost about 9.8 million pounds on their 28 million
pounds of Resolution shares, Bloomberg calculations show, based
on the difference between the price at which they were bought
and yesterday’s value.  ‘One-Way Bet’  The fees show the limited downside that Cowdery and his
colleagues assumed when they started the company in 2008,
according to Sarah Wilson, CEO of  Manifest Information Services
Ltd. , a proxy voting agency with 3 trillion pounds of equity
under administration.  “It was a money extraction exercise and one-way bet for
the management,” she said. “Nobody begrudges success fees, but
only if you’re not also extracting lots of fees along the way.”  The partners declined to comment through a Resolution
spokesman, Alex Child-Villiers. The portion of the management
fees that wasn’t used to pay salaries was invested in Resolution
shares, which have since declined in value, he said in an e-
mailed statement.  Modest Roots  Cowdery, who was quoted by the  Guardian newspaper  in Feb.
2011 describing how he relied on welfare for food and housing as
a child in foster care, made his fortune in the five years to
2008 by buying pools of life insurance policies that were in
run-off, called zombie funds in the U.K., at deep discounts to
their embedded value. He released capital by merging them, cut
costs, captured a  cash flow  from expiring policies and sold the
firm, also named Resolution, to Pearl Group Ltd., at the
market’s top for 5 billion pounds in 2008.  That transaction earned investors a return of about 28
percent a year, and Cowdery is now the U.K.’s 624th richest
person, according to the 2012  Sunday Times Rich List . Pearl, now
named  Phoenix Group Holdings (PHNX) , ceded stakes to its lenders, which
helped finance the purchase of Resolution.  Cowdery founded Resolution Ltd. in 2008 with Ian Maidens
and Jim Newman, his former colleagues from the old Resolution.
He also brought Tiner, former CEO of the FSA, on board to help
with the regulatory hurdles of restructuring insurers.  The new Resolution would be valued at “several multiples”
of the old company, Cowdery said in May 2008, saying the
financial crisis would force banks to raise capital by disposing
of their life insurance assets. His strategy was to build by
acquisition a new-look insurer that generated cash from its book
of expiring policies while only selling profitable and low-risk
products such as pensions to corporations. The old Resolution
bought only pools of expiring policies.  Cowdery’s Strategy  As he started his new company, Cowdery said there was an
opportunity because incumbent U.K. life insurers were failing to
produce stable returns from running off existing policies, were
selling new products too cheaply and paying salesmen too much.  He raised 600 million pounds in December 2008, short of his
target of 1 billion pounds. Initial investors included
 Prudential Plc (PRU) ,  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and Royal London.  Cowdery said when starting the venture investors would
receive a “mid-teens” percentage annual return over the life
of the project, which was scheduled to end with a sale in 2013
or 2014.  The venture didn’t start well. In March 2009, Resolution’s
directors were the subject of an FSA investigation into the sale
of the previous company to Pearl in 2008. While the probe was
discontinued without any finding of wrongdoing within two
months, it stopped Cowdery from buying life insurers at bottom
of the market following the financial crisis.  Buyback Canceled  U.K. life insurers  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  and  Aviva Plc (AV/) 
both dropped to 20-year lows in early March 2009 before more
than doubling by May that year. Resolution instead paid 1.9
billion pounds for  Friends Provident  in 2009, giving it an
embedded value of 3.1 billion pounds. Resolution later bought
 Axa SA (CS) ’s U.K. life insurance unit and Bupa Health Assurance
Ltd., two smaller firms.  Resolution managed to extract enough cash to fund a 250
million-pound share buyback program in 2011. It canceled a
similar payout this year, citing “heightened investment,
economic and regulatory uncertainty.”  Tougher regulation, more volatile markets and financial
firms less willing to sell insurance assets have undermined the
success of Cowdery’s second Resolution venture, Royal London’s
Coffey said. Record low interest rates have squeezed
profitability for most European insurers since 2008.  ‘Very Unhelpful’  Other insurers such as Legal & General, Standard Life and
Aviva began to adopt Cowdery’s strategy and focus on producing
cash for shareholders rather than revenue generated from
commissions paid to sales advisers, according to Matthew Preston, a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank with a hold
rating on Resolution.  “It’s difficult to pull the same trick twice,” he said.
“When they launched there were plenty of assets available. The
rally in 2009 was very unhelpful.”  During its four years, Resolution Operations, Cowdery’s
private partnership, earned 54.1 million pounds in management
fees, according to annual filings at Companies House. The firm
posted 21 million pounds of profit during that time after paying
employees’ wages and administration expenses.  About 12.2 million pounds of the profit was used to pay the
partners’ salaries, which ranged from 265,000 pounds to 672,000
pounds, the filings show. The remaining 8.77 million pounds was
paid to Resolution Capital Ltd., an investment firm owned by the
partners that was used to invest in Resolution Ltd. shares.  Cowdery Loan  Resolution Capital “has never paid a dividend or otherwise
distributed value to its shareholders” and its profits were
used to buy Resolution shares, spokesman Child-Villiers said in
an e-mailed statement. The shares have fallen in value and are
now less than an initial loan given to the company, meaning the
firm has “negative value” to its partners.  Cowdery provided an initial 20 million-pound loan to buy
shares in Resolution’s IPO, the filings show. It was increased
to 7.25 million pounds in July 2010, when the firm sold shares
to buy the Axa unit. Resolution Capital paid 1.1 million pounds
of interest on the loan in the year to March 2011, according to
company filings.  Cowdery separately invested about 600,000 pounds in
Resolution shares in December 2011, regulatory filings show.  No Payout  While the Resolution Operations partners may have collected
fees, they haven’t yet benefited from a potentially larger
payout written into the Resolution’s IPO  prospectus . That
entitled them to be paid 10 percent of any increase in embedded
value created by end of the project.  The  share price  at which this payout begins to accumulate
is 275.6 pence, according to Resolution’s first-half results.
The stock closed at 217.3 pence a share yesterday, 21 percent
below the payout price.  “The big payout from releasing value was about
crystallizing cash out of the Resolution structure,” said Simon Gergel, who manages 700 million pounds at RCM Allianz in London
including Resolution shares. “Until cash is paid out through
some sort of transaction or through many years of dividends, the
founders wouldn’t get a massive payout.”  Cowdery plans to disband the management structure, which
involves at least six satellite companies and is domiciled in
Guernsey, in the  Channel Islands , under pressure from investors
and the  FSA . Tiner, 55, will retire as CEO of Resolution
Operations once the changes are complete.  “People didn’t feel they understood the old structure,”
said Royal London’s Coffey. “Removing it should make it easier
to compare them against other insurance companies.”  FSA Critique  The move follows an FSA  consultation paper  published in
January that criticized so-called externally managed companies,
without naming Resolution. If adopted more widely in the U.K.,
the practice of managing a company without sitting on its board
“could seriously undermine the ability of shareholders to hold
managements to account,” the FSA said. Such companies should no
longer be eligible to be publicly traded, the paper said.  “What they’re planning to do in terms of collapsing the
structure will be helpful in simplifying the business and
maintaining a listing on the stock market,” RCM’s Gergel said.
“It’s not worked out as a lot of people hoped or expected but a
lot has happened in the past four years in financial services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  