-- Daimler Pins Smart Recovery on Electric at Lowest Price
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-09-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/daimler-pins-smart-recovery-on-electric-at-lowest-price.html
When  Daimler AG (DAI)  introduced the
diminutive Smart car in 1998, the vision included a smog-
reducing electric version to cement the brand’s image as an
urban transport leader. While that model is finally becoming
reality, Smart was long ago overtaken in city-car innovation.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Mini has rolled out variants
that range from a roadster to a four-door crossover, serving as
a stepping stone to the parent BMW brand. Smart, by contrast,
offers just a single model and has done little to lift Daimler’s
Mercedes-Benz, which fell behind Audi in sales for the first
time last year.  Daimler is looking to re-establish the brand’s position as
an urban mobility pioneer with the first mass-produced electric
auto from a German manufacturer. The car starts deliveries in
the coming weeks.  “Daimler has some catching up to do,” said Peter de Haan,
an auto markets analyst at consulting company Ernst Basler +
Partner in Zollikon,  Switzerland . “The e-Smart is of symbolic
relevance for the whole company.”  With Smart owners driving less than 50 kilometers (30
miles) a day on average -- easily within the electric version’s
range of 145 km per charge -- the emission-free model is a good
match for its space-saving size, said Smart brand chief Annette Winkler.  “From the beginning, Smart was designed as an electric
vehicle,” Winkler said in a written response to questions.
“That’s now paying off, because the electric drive suits our
car perfectly.”  Catching Up  The battery-powered model is part of a broader expansion of
Smart. In coming years, the lineup will also include an
electric-powered bicycle, an e-scooter and a four-seat car,
similar to a model introduced in the last decade and pulled off
the market two years later.  Daimler needs the brand to meet tighter environmental rules
by offsetting emissions from high-margin sedans like the
Mercedes S-Class. The conventional Smart gets as much as 71
miles per gallon in the city, compared with 22 to 41 miles per
gallon for the Mercedes flagship. Still, Ford’s Fiesta, which
seats five, matches Smart’s efficiency.  Smart’s stuttering expansion has given competitors time to
develop vehicles for crowded urban areas. Since 2003, when the
brand had 10 percent of the city-car market in  Europe ,  Fiat SpA (F) 
has brought out the retro-styled 500,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  has
introduced the iQ, and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  has rolled out the Up.  Share Slump  Given the competition, Smart will control just 5.5 percent
of the segment this year, down from 6.3 percent in 2011,
according to data from IHS Automotive. The market researcher
doesn’t expect Smart to exceed 6 percent in the next five years.  Smart’s struggles reflect Daimler’s difficulty in keeping
pace with competitors. Over the past two years, Daimler’s stock
has  declined  9 percent compared with BMW’s 31 percent gain and
VW’s 68 percent surge.  Daimler is rolling out the electric Smart about a year
ahead of BMW’s i3 city car and a battery-powered version of the
VW Up. At 18,910 euros for the car and 65 euros a month to rent
the battery, the two-seater will undercut most rivals in a bid
to reach a target of at least 10,000 deliveries a year, or about
10 percent of sales for the model.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf, the world’s best-selling electric
car, has a sticker price of $35,200.  General Motors Co. (GM)  charges
$39,145 for the Chevrolet Volt. The i-MiEV from  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211)  starts at $29,625, while  Renault SA (RNO) ’s upcoming Zoe
will cost 20,600 euros, not including the battery.  Profit Search  “The potential demand for the e-Smart is huge, because
people have been brainwashed toward electric vehicles for the
last couple of years,” said Christoph Stuermer, an analyst with
IHS Automotive, which expects the model to account for as much
as 20 percent of Smart’s sales by 2015. “The question is if
Daimler will be able to make money on them.”  Profit has been rare for Smart, which started as a joint
venture with  Swatch Group AG. (UHR)  The watchmaker’s late founder
Nicolas Hayek was one of the strongest supporters of an
electric-powered version. Following Swatch’s exit shortly after
the brand’s 1998 introduction, Daimler expanded Smart with a
roadster and a four-seater, only to scrap the models by 2006 as
sales fell short of targets, leaving it with just the Fortwo.  “You can’t make money on only one model, especially if
it’s a small car, which doesn’t yield high margins,” said
 Juergen Pieper , an analyst with Bankhaus Metzler in  Frankfurt ,
who estimates the brand has lost at least 1 billion euros. “The
electric drive fits well with Smart.”  Smart Sharing  The electric version of the Fortwo will cost almost double
the conventional model’s base price. The 93-cell lithium-ion
battery takes seven hours to recharge from a household outlet or
one hour with a fast-charging system. The 55-kilowatt (73-
horsepower) electric motor gives the vehicle a top speed of 125
kilometers per hour.  The e-Smart’s rollout will be aided by Daimler’s Car2go
car-sharing service, which rents Fortwos by the minute in 15
cities in Europe and  North America . The service already has
electric vehicles operating in Amsterdam,  San Diego  and
 Portland ,  Oregon , offering Smart a distribution outlet and
providing a no-risk platform for drivers to test the cars.  “Many dyed-in-the-wool Smart drivers will be waiting for
the electric version,” said Nick Margetts, managing director at
market researcher JATO Dynamics in Limburg, Germany. “The Smart
is heavily used by local service delivery companies, such as
health care or pizza. The e-Smart will appeal to them.”  Still, Smart’s expansion with models that are more
versatile and yet consistent with its urban image is critical to
expand out of the brand’s niche and hold on to fans like Willi
Rode. After 10 years of driving Smart cars, the 39-year-old
photographer reluctantly switched to a Focus wagon from  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  after starting a family and his own business.  “The Smart is a great car if you are single or to use as a
second car -- and for city dwellers in any case,” said Rode.
“In 99.9 percent of all cases, I was able to find a parking
space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  