-- Debate On What Makes Teachers Good Drives Chicago Strike
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-09-12T17:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/debate-on-what-makes-teachers-good-drives-chicago-strike.html
The first  Chicago  teacher strike in
25 years has both sides saying the fight is about assuring that
classrooms are led by good educators. They just disagree over
how that should be done.  Teacher evaluations, based partly on student test scores,
have emerged as a major obstacle to reopening schools for more
than 350,000 students in the third-largest U.S. city. The leader
of the Chicago Teachers Union, Karen Lewis, told reporters last
night that “we are still miles apart” on the question of
measuring teacher performance.  How that hurdle is cleared may determine the direction of
public-school restructuring efforts across the country.  “This may be the last stop, the last gas station on the
highway,” said Robert Bruno, a professor of labor and
employment relations at the  University of Illinois  at Urbana-
Champaign. “Once we get past this, this may be the model of
school reform for the next generation.”  Union members have good reason not to focus on pay. They’re
sensitive to public sentiment at a time when unemployment has
remained above 8 percent nationwide since February 2009, the
longest stretch in monthly records going back to 1948. Chicago’s
schools also face a  budget deficit  that may reach $1 billion
next year.  “It’s not about the money, we understand the  budget
crisis ,” said Susan Hickey, a school social worker and member
of the teacher’s union bargaining team. “The evaluation system
they are setting up right now means 6,000 teachers will be fired
in the near future.”  Student Performance  As union and school district negotiators returned to talks
today, the Boston Teachers Union and that city’s School
Department reached a tentative agreement after 27 months of
negotiations, according to the Boston Globe. Part of the accord
allows the evaluation of teachers based on student test scores.  The Chicago Teachers Union, with 30,000 members, says its
district’s proposed evaluation procedure puts too much emphasis
on test scores. At least 25 percent of a teacher’s rating during
the contract’s first two years would be based on pupils’
academic performance and would rise to 30 percent in the third.  Unlike previous teacher strikes that were tied primarily to
salary issues, the walkout that began Sept. 10 is viewed by the
union as a pivotal point in the two-decade national effort to
weed out ineffective teachers by weakening job rules.  Soul Struggle  “This is far more than a labor struggle,” a fist-waving
 Randi Weingarten  of the  American Federation of Teachers , the
union president, said yesterday at a news conference in front of
the Chicago Board of Education building. “This is a struggle
for the heart and the soul of public education for the kids of
Chicago.”  The strike also is an extension of battles in other big
cities where mayors control the schools, said Jeffrey Henig, a
professor of politics and education at  Columbia University ’s
Teachers College in  New York .  In  Washington ,  Michelle Rhee , the schools chancellor who
fired more than 200 teachers over performance, resigned in 2010
after her boss, Mayor Adrian Fenty, lost a re-election bid in
which Rhee’s policies became a central issue.  In  New York City , the teachers union went to court to stop
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s administration from releasing earlier
this year the names of educators and their performance ratings.
(The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.)  ‘Outright War’  At the same time, Chicago teachers watched the recent
battle in  Wisconsin  that curbed public employees’ bargaining
rights and concluded that it was time to risk a strike, even if
it undermined their support among families of school-age
children, Henig said.  “There are folks that feel they are being driven to the
brink -- that they are in an outright war for survival,” he
said. “It’s a desperate move. If they win, then we might see
this repeating.”  Paul Vallas, the former chief executive officer of Chicago
Public Schools who went on to lead districts in Philadelphia,
 New Orleans  and, currently, Bridgeport,  Connecticut , said the
strike reflects education debates that have become
“increasingly polarized.”  “In some ways it’s turned into kind of a street fight,”
Vallas said. “And, quite frankly, teachers feel like they are
being demagogued and in some cases victimized or scapegoated.”  ‘Raising Standards’  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , who controls the school system,
rejected charges that evaluating teachers is designed to
eliminate their jobs. He repeated yesterday that the walkout is
a strike “of choice.”  “It’s not about getting rid of people, it’s about raising
standards, raising the quality in the schools,” Emanuel said at
a news conference at Marquette School on the city’s south side.  Unions are publicly stressing their opposition to
evaluation policies to obtain their true goal -- bigger raises
and job protection -- said Michael J. Petrilli, executive vice
president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, a Washington
education policy group that advocates freeing schools “held
hostage by adult interest groups.”  “The unions see the bad PR they’re getting about looking
greedy,” Petrilli said. “Let’s be honest. It’s still about the
money.”  Personality clashes between unions and strong-willed
leaders -- such as Emanuel in Chicago and Rhee in Washington --
further aggravate the negotiations, Petrilli said.  Rare Strikes  In the 1960s and early 1970s, teacher strikes were more
commonplace as unions sought to establish workplace protections
and bargaining rights. In 1968, a strike over due process in the
firing of teachers in New York City shut down the system for
about two months.  Since then, strikes have become rare, and the public less
sympathetic to their often disruptive effects, said Maria
Ferguson, executive director of the Center on Education Policy
at George Washington University.  “People don’t see unions the same way they did back then,
as the little guy, as  Don Quixote  tilting at windmills,”
Ferguson said. “Now, unions are so big they are often viewed as
part of the problem.”  Popular movies, including the 2010 documentary “Waiting
for Superman,” have portrayed organized labor as a barrier to
improving education. That narrative will get fresh attention
beginning Sept. 28 with the premiere of a new feature film,
“Won’t Back Down,” in which Maggie Gyllenhaal plays a mother
fighting against intransigent unions to help her daughter.  Shuttering Schools  The confrontation between Chicago is the third-largest by
public-sector workers since 1993, when the Bureau of Labor
Statistics began keeping records. About 47,000 employees of Los
Angeles County went on strike in 2000, while 35,000 New York
transit workers walked out in 2005, department data show.  Emanuel is considering closing 80 to 120 underperforming
schools, according to a report today in the  Chicago Tribune .
Sarah Hamilton, spokeswoman for the mayor, told the newspaper
the report is “completely untrue.”  Vallas, who was the Chicago schools CEO from 1995 to 2001,
said school closures will be unavoidable regardless of how the
strike is settled. Neither the school system nor the teachers
will be able to afford the terms, he said.  “This is a district that has exhausted its reserves,” he
said. “The settlement itself is going to create pressure to cut
even more, ultimately impacting more teachers, impacting more
schools. It’s inevitable. It’s like a death spiral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  