-- Defense Laboratories Reach Technology-Sharing Agreement
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/defense-laboratories-reach-technology-sharing-agreement.html
A Boston-based  investment company 
plans to announce agreements today with Defense Department
laboratories that it says can speed the transfer of military
technology for commercial uses.  Allied Minds Federal Innovations, a unit of closely held
 Allied Minds Inc. , has formed public-private partnerships with
Army, Navy and Air Force research centers to develop products
from new technologies, according to a company statement.  The arrangement may create hundreds of jobs in 20 new
subsidiaries in the first year of operations, Chris Silva, chief
executive officer of Allied Minds, said in an interview. The
company, which serves as a holding company for subsidiaries, is
funded through investors that include Atlanta-based  Invesco
Ltd. (IVZ) , according to Silva.  “It is a first-of-its-kind public-private partnership
between a U.S. investment group and DOD labs,” Silva said,
referring to the  Department of Defense .  Allied Minds will invest $100 million in technology
developed by the Army Research, Development and Engineering
Command, based at Aberdeen Proving Ground,  Maryland ; the Naval
Surface Warfare Center Crane Division in Crane,  Indiana ; and the
Aerospace Corp., which operates a federally funded research
center in El Segundo, California, for the  Air Force  and the
 National Reconnaissance Office .  While the Pentagon traditionally advertises new
technologies to license them to private companies for commercial
use, the partnerships will let Allied Minds continuously search
for promising opportunities and “shorten the commercialization
cycle,” Silva said.  Revised Rules  A March 19 Pentagon notice from Frank Kendall, the
undersecretary of defense for acquisition, technology and
logistics, revised rules in an effort to “promote research and
development within the commercial sector of the  U.S. economy ,
and the transfer of technology from the military to the
commercial sector.”  Pam Keeton, a spokeswoman for Aerospace Corp., said Allied
Minds “came to Aerospace with a proposal to make it easier to
transfer technologies, and was selected after a review of
several companies because of its experience with labs,
universities and organizations similar to ours.”  The Army and Navy labs didn’t reply to e-mailed requests
for comment yesterday.  Silva said the agreements have already led to creation of
two subsidiaries that have been in business for a few weeks. The
first is intended to provide technology to make the wireless
spectrum more efficient as mobile devices consume more data. The
second provides a new way to transmit data on the internet that
is more secure, Silva said.  Allied Minds sees business opportunities through federal
lab research in such fields as cybersecurity, wireless
communications and power storage and energy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  