-- Democrats See Arizona Gain as Backlash Drives Hispanic Voters
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/democrats-see-arizona-gain-as-backlash-drives-hispanic-voters.html
Erika Rodriguez registered to vote
when she turned 18 this summer, motivated by  Arizona  anti-
immigration laws she says could hurt her undocumented family
members.  Now Rodriguez, a U.S.-born community college student,
spends her weekends going door-to-door with other volunteers in
Latino neighborhoods in Phoenix -- part of a push by Democrats,
the Obama campaign and non-profit groups statewide that fueled a
51 percent surge in Hispanic voter registration since 2008,
according to the Arizona Democratic Party, and may permanently
alter the state’s political climate.  “I’m telling them their vote is equal to any millionaire,
any billionaire out there,” said Rodriguez, a Democrat
volunteering for the nonpartisan Arizona Center for Empowerment,
after signing up a middle-aged Hispanic woman and her daughter
to vote by mail as a half-dozen children huddled at their feet.
“Through the vote is how we make a change -- not any time soon,
but in 20 years, when her grandchildren are older.”  In the two years since Arizona passed its first-in-the-
nation immigrant crackdown, the state has become  ground zero  in
the U.S. debate over border issues. Republican Governor Jan Brewer, who signed the 2010 law, and Republican Maricopa County
Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who faces a federal civil-rights lawsuit
over treatment of Latinos, have won favor from immigration hard-
liners and alienated many Hispanics.  More Powerful  While the jump in Latino voters may not be enough for
President  Barack Obama  to carry Arizona in November, it will
make Hispanics a more powerful force in the state in coming
years, San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro said at a
Bloomberg/Washington Post breakfast Sept. 6 in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina .  Castro, who became the first Latino to give a keynote
address at a national party convention when he spoke to
Democrats last week, said Hispanic growth will shake Republican
control of his home state of  Texas  and also give Democrats an
advantage in Arizona, where the immigration backlash has
increased electoral participation.  “I do think that because of those policies that it’s moved
along the scale closer to being winnable by a Democrat,” Castro
said. “You have seen some backlash and once these folks start
voting, I think that they’re going to keep up a habit of
voting.”  Arizona is projected to become more Democratic on
demographics alone, according to some research.  A report  last
month by the  Morrison Institute’s Latino Public Policy Center  at
 Arizona State University  predicted that the state could turn
from red to a blue by 2025, as a disproportionately high number
of young Latino citizens comes of age.  Rising Share  The Hispanic share of the voting-age population will rise
to 35 percent from 25 percent by 2030 -- and they tend to vote
Democratic, according to the report.  Joseph Garcia, executive director of the Phoenix-based
policy center, called the demographic shift a “tsunami” that
will alter Arizona’s political landscape.  “I think the generation coming up will be a lot more
politically engaged than the older generation,” he said in a
telephone interview. “Both parties are going to have to go
after Latino votes. Future elections you cannot win without the
Latino vote -- it is that crucial, that important.”  Garcia said Democrats have hoped for years to reap benefits
from Arizona’s growing Latino population, only to be foiled by
low registration and low turnout -- a trend seen across the U.S.  Low Turnout  Nationwide, Hispanic voter turnout lags behind other
groups. About 50 percent who are eligible to vote did so in
2008, compared to 65 percent of blacks and 66 percent of whites,
according to  William Frey , senior demographer at the Washington-
based  Brookings Institution .  “The key is energizing those eligible voters, getting them
to register, getting them to vote,” Frey said in a telephone
interview.  That may be happening now in Arizona, said Rodolfo Espino,
an associate professor of political science at Arizona State.
Hispanics say their communities have been targeted by policies
ranging from the 2010 immigration law, known as SB 1070 ,to a
ban on ethnic studies classes, to a recent executive order by
Brewer denying driver’s licenses to young immigrants allowed to
stay under a new federal program, he said.  “Latino voters are frustrated with everything,” Espino
said in a telephone interview. “Latino voters are being
constantly reminded to get involved in politics so things like
SB 1070 don’t happen to them again.”  Not Enough  Even with the increase in voter registration, enthusiasm
and engagement, the number of Latino voters aren’t enough to
give Democrats an advantage in this election, Espino said.  “What Republicans need to be worried about is they could
very well push it to a permanent blue state,” he said.  Latinos registered to vote grew to 589,0000 this month from
389,000 in October 2008, said Luis Heredia, executive director
of the Arizona Democratic Party. Total voter registration in the
period grew to 3.1 million from 2.98 million, Heredia said in a
telephone interview. Latino voters split 45 percent Democrat to
15 percent Republican, with the rest registering as independent
or other, Heredia said.  The Arizona Secretary of State’s Office can’t verify the
Democrats’ figures because ethnicity isn’t recorded on voter
applications, said a spokesman, Matt Roberts. The Arizona
Republican Party doesn’t track Latino voter registration,
spokesman Tim Sifert said.  ‘Universal’ Message  The only numbers that matter in this election are jobs,
since “Latinos have been disproportionately harmed by the
terrible economy,” Sifert said. “The Republican message is
really a universal one.”  Thirty-six percent of Arizona’s registered voters are
Republican, 30 percent are Democrats and 33 percent are
independent or belong to minor parties, according the secretary
of state’s office.  Democrats point to recent victories in mayoral elections in
Tucson and Phoenix, as well as a Phoenix City Council race where
a Latino candidate increased Hispanic turnout.  Heredia said Democrats stand to make gains in the
Legislature, take a majority of the state’s nine U.S. House
seats and win the open U.S. Senate seat with candidate Richard
Carmona, a Latino who served as U.S. Surgeon General under
President  George W. Bush . He said he’s not ready to rule out an
Obama win for his state either.  “Latino voters in Arizona are a part of a coalition that
will help change Arizona,” Heredia said. “I think the
performance of 2012 will help us shape the next decade of how we
need to restore balance to the state, and Latinos make a huge
part of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
acrawford24@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  