-- Democrats Risk No Female Governor, First Time in 17 Years
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-09-12T17:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/democrats-risk-no-female-governor-first-time-in-17-years.html
Whether she wins or loses in the
November general election to become  New Hampshire ’s next
governor, Democrat Maggie Hassan will make history.  If Hassan, who won the party’s primary yesterday, is
victorious on Nov. 6, she’ll become only the second woman
elected to lead the 236-year-old state. A loss to her Republican
challenger, Ovide Lamontagne, would leave Democrats without a
female governor for the first time in 17 years.  The  Democratic Party  has billed itself as the champion of
women, accusing Republicans of waging a war on the gender with
attempts to restrict access to health care like contraception
and abortion. Democrats and women’s groups say the lack of a
female state chief executive in their ranks would deprive the
nation of a feminine voice to help shape those debates.  “This should be a wake-up call,” said Madeleine Kunin, a
Democrat who was elected  Vermont ’s first female governor in
1984. “You can set the agenda for the state.”  Battles on social issues such as women’s health have
erupted at the state level after Republicans captured majorities
in 25 legislatures in 2010, boosting their power by the most
since 1928. Republicans led the passage of a record 92 abortion
restrictions in states last year, more than double the previous
high set in 2005, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a New
York-based compiler of reproductive-health policy data.  Perdue, Gregoire  North Carolina ’s Bev Perdue and  Washington ’s  Christine Gregoire , both Democrats, aren’t running for re-election. The
four remaining female governors are Republicans who won office
in the 2010 sweep. Among them were New Mexico’s  Susana Martinez ,
who became the first Hispanic female governor of any state, and
Mary Fallin, the first woman to lead  Oklahoma .  Lamontagne, who won the Republican primary yesterday, is a
lawyer who has run unsuccessfully for governor before. The 54-
year-old Manchester native, who calls himself the “Tea Party
favorite,” opposes abortion -- except when the woman’s life is
in danger -- and wants to repeal the state’s 2009 same-sex
marriage law. Republicans swept into power in New Hampshire in
2010, capturing 75 percent of the more than 400 open seats.  The Democratic Governors Association and Emily’s List,
which helps recruit, train and raise funds for Democratic women
candidates who back abortion rights, said in a joint statement
that a Republican win in New Hampshire would embolden “anti-
woman hardliners” to run in more states. Both groups are
increasing efforts to recruit and prepare more women to run in
2014, when 36 gubernatorial races will be held after 11 this
year.  Too High  “The stakes are too high right now to have a country where
we don’t have a single female Democratic governor in one of
those offices,” Jess McIntosh, a spokeswoman for Washington-
based Emily’s List, said in an interview.  Women aren’t monolithic in their political views, and many
have led the fights to ban access to abortion and contraception.
Still, the gender as a whole tends to vote more Democratic, exit
polls show. Obama won the female vote by 13 percentage points
against  John McCain , his Republican opponent in 2008. New
Hampshire Governor  John Lynch , a Democrat who chose not to seek
a fifth two-year term, won it in 2010 by  20 points .  The fewer Democrats in power, the better, regardless of
gender, said Rae Chornenky, president of the  National Federation
of Republican Women . The Alexandria, Virginia-based group
encourages and helps female party members to run.  Democrats are “alleging this mythical Republican war on
women,” she said. “Taking aside one social issue gets us off
the most important issue: the economy.”  Not Content  Republicans like Chornenky and Democrats including Kunin
say they aren’t content with how long it’s taking political
institutions to more closely mirror the demographic breakdown of
the populations they represent.  In the election of 1992, dubbed the Year of the Woman, the
number of female members of Congress almost doubled to 10
percent. Women now make up 17 percent, according to the Center
for American Women and Politics at  Rutgers University  in New
Brunswick,  New Jersey . A record 181 female candidates for the
House and Senate, 71 percent of whom are Democrats, have won
their party’s nomination as of today, the center said.  In state legislatures, a pipeline to higher office, gains
have been slower. Female representation stands at 24 percent,
just three percentage points higher than two decades ago,
according to the center.  Republican Lag  For statewide elective office -- one of clearest paths to
governorships, according to McIntosh -- it has risen 1
percentage point in that time, to 23 percent, down from a high
of 28 percent in 2001.  One reason for the slower growth is that Republican women
haven’t made the gains their Democratic counterparts have, said
Laurel Elder, who teaches political science at Hartwick College
in Oneonta,  New York . From 1987 to 2007, the number of women as
a share of Republican state legislators declined as Democratic
women increased their share 15 percent, according to data she
compiled. This year, there are 1,055 female Democratic state
lawmakers and 676 Republicans, according to Rutgers.  Of the 93 women currently serving in Congress, Democrats
outnumber Republicans more than two to one, according to the
 Congressional Research Service .  Republicans haven’t made more headway because the “liberal
media” doesn’t pay their female candidates enough attention,
Chornenky said.  Hassan’s Career  Female representation in New Hampshire’s state legislature
has consistently beaten the national average since at least
1975. Hassan, 54, is a former senate majority leader and
attorney from Exeter who entered politics as an advocate for
people with disabilities, a community that includes one of her
two children. She was elected to the state Senate in 2004 and
was a member of the 2008 class that made New Hampshire the first
state to have a majority-female legislative body.  “We are the last line of defense,” Hassan said in an
interview. Jeanne Shaheen, a Democrat, broke the gender barrier
in the Granite State’s top office when she won the 1996
gubernatorial election.  The Democrats’ potential predicament of having no female
governor is partially self-inflicted. President  Barack Obama 
plucked two fellow Democrats out of office --  Janet Napolitano 
of  Arizona  and  Kathleen Sebelius  of  Kansas  -- to join his
administration and lead the departments of  Homeland Security  and
Health and Human Services, respectively. Both were replaced by
Republicans, Napolitano by a woman.  The appointments were bittersweet victories for advocates
of getting more women into office, revealing just how small the
pool of qualified women is, said Kunin, a professor-at-large at
the University of Vermont in Burlington. In April she published
her latest book, “The New Feminist Agenda.”  “When I was elected governor, I thought, ‘Well that’s
done,’” she said. “I thought I’d look and we’d have a trail of
female governors marching behind me. But hardly anyone was
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  