-- Detroit Fights Michigan for Control of Fraying Belle Isle
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-09-12T15:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/detroit-fights-michigan-for-control-of-fraying-belle-isle.html
Detroit ’s Belle Isle park reminds
Shalon Turner of peace, family and days when the city had money
to mow the grass, keep the 108-year-old aquarium open and fix
the toilets.  “Most people in Detroit, when you mention Belle Isle, it
makes them smile,” said Turner, 46, gazing across the Detroit
River to the skyline on a sultry afternoon. “It’s the first
place they think of for a picnic or reunion. This is Detroit’s
crown jewel.”  The gem is tarnished, however, and  Michigan  Governor  Rick Snyder  wants to place the 983-acre island under state control,
charge an entry fee and create a lure for young people to move
into a city that’s lost one-fourth of its population since 2000.  Snyder’s plan embodies a larger conflict over control of a
mostly black, Democratic city that’s resisted takeover by a
state government dominated by white Republicans like Snyder. The
governor has said he would rather not appoint an emergency
manager, and that the city’s salvation lies with attracting tax-
paying residents and businesses.  Bill Rustem, Snyder’s strategy director, said a beautified
Belle Isle would help transform Detroit’s riverfront to a
thriving gathering place.  “It’s about creating a quality place that can attract the
young people we need to move to the city,” Rustem said. “It’s
all about place.”  People’s Park  But some say an entry fee would shut out low-income
Detroiters who’ve always had free access to the island nestled
between their city and  Canada .  “Everything’s being taken away from Detroit,” said Anita
Parker, 48, who sat with friends at a picnic table on Belle
Isle. “Are they going to charge to come in here? I think no. I
think it should be a free park.”  An agreement approved by the city in April meant to avert a
takeover of municipal finances or bankruptcy called for a long-
term lease of Belle Isle to the state. A state proposal for a
99-year lease prompted a protest march last month led by three
members of the City Council, which must approve a plan.  Bargain Struck  Today, Snyder and Mayor Dave Bing said they have agreed on
a no-rent, 30-year deal beginning Oct. 1. Bing said that would
save Detroit $275 million over 30 years and could be renewed for
two more 30-year terms. Snyder said the state would issue bonds
to pay for some restorations.  Admission would be a $10 annual parks sticker Michigan
motorists can buy when they renew their license plates. It
allows unlimited use, although entry would be free by foot,
bicycle or public transportation.  “This isn’t Detroit versus Michigan,” Snyder said at a
press conference at  City Hall  with Bing. “This is Detroit,
Michigan.”  Belle Isle Park was designed in 1883 by Frederick Law
Olmsted, co-creator of New York’s Central Park, and is reachable
only by a half-mile bridge from the city or by boat. About 2
million vehicles are expected to make the drive this year,
according to Brad Dick, director of the city’s general services
department.  The park, though, shows the effects of a 76 percent cut in
the maintenance budget over six years, Dick said. Belle Isle is
Detroit’s second-largest park, and maintenance and utilities
cost the city about $5.5 million a year, he said.  By comparison, New York’s Central Park is 843 acres and has
a $45.8 million budget for maintenance and restoration -- 85
percent from the nonprofit  Central Park  Conservancy and 15
percent from the city.  Unmown Grass  Some U.S. cities have deferred more than $1 billion apiece
in maintenance due to budget cuts since 2008, according to a
report led by the National Association of Parks and Recreation
and the  Urban Institute .  Parts of Belle Isle are overgrown, buildings are falling
into disrepair and an 87-year-old white marble fountain spouts
water only occasionally because the city can’t staff it daily.  Detroiter Leonard Rutledge, 67, said the state would do
better. He said a $10 annual fee isn’t too much to ask, even for
poor families.  “Give up cigarettes, a pack of cigarettes, whatever it
costs to come out,” said Rutledge in an interview at the park’s
greenhouse and botanical garden.  Riverside Retreat  It’s rare for a state to assume control of municipal parks,
said Phil McKnelly, executive director of the National
Association of State Park Directors in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  Delaware  in 1998 took responsibility for three along
Brandywine Creek in Wilmington, the state’s largest city. They
had been maintained by New Castle County until financial straits
prompted the state to take over with a $2 million-a-year
subsidy, said Charles Salkin, director of the state parks and
recreation division.  Salkin said the conversion allowed more staff, and
improvements to grounds and facilities. No entry fees are
charged, Salkin said.  Belle Isle is still a popular getaway with a beach, fishing
piers, a nine-hole golf course, auto racing and 1,000 annual
events such as weddings and reunions, Dick said.  Aquariums of Detroit  The privately funded Belle Isle Conservancy spent $1.8
million to restore a picnic area and to replace the roof on a
former horse stable used by maintenance crews, said Sarah
Earley, the group’s chairwoman. The conservancy raised money to
reopen the aquarium, billed as the oldest continuing aquarium in
 North America  until budget cuts closed it in 2005. It’s now open
Saturdays.  Earley, 62, said the Michigan Natural Resources Department
is better equipped to improve the park. She said a 2010 survey
by the  New York  City-based Project for Public Spaces showed most
Belle Isle visitors favored an entry fee.  “There’s a lot that can’t be done because there’s no money
in the city,” Earley said.  State control would free 36 city employees to tend other of
the city’s 208 parks, Dick said.  A gleaming Belle Isle would spur development near the
Detroit River, said John Mogk, a Wayne State University
professor who specializes in urban law and policy.  Mogk said some Detroiters fear that upgrading Belle Isle to
appeal to wealthier visitors would come at the expense of people
who enjoy the island’s fishing, swimming and picnic areas.  “A lot of residents feel if it ain’t broke, don’t fix
it,” Mogk said. “Everybody has to win at this for everyone to
get on board.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  