-- Dewa 2020 Yield Drops to Record on Moody’s Upgrade: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2012-09-12T13:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/dewa-2020-yield-drops-to-record-on-moody-s-upgrade-dubai-mover.html
Yields on Dubai Electricity & Water
Authority’s eight-year bonds fell to a record as Moody’s
Investors Service raised its rating to investment grade status
on a “marked improvement” in cash flows.  The yield on the utility’s 7.375 percent dollar bonds due
in October 2020 dropped 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage
point, to a record 4.7 percent at 4:26 p.m. in Dubai. Moody’s
raised the long-term debt of Dubai Electricity, known as DEWA,
by one level to Baa3, the lowest-investment grade ranking, with
a stable outlook.  “The Moody’s upgrade to investment grade is well
deserved,” said Gus Chehayeb, the Dubai-based director for
Middle East research at Exotix Ltd. “DEWA continues to deliver
and strengthen its credit metrics, through a combination of debt
repayments and improving cash flows.” The utility is also
benefiting “in general from Dubai’s recovering economy,” he
said.  DEWA, which generates and distributes power and water in
Dubai, is among state-linked companies in the city that have
paid or restructured debt this year. Chief Executive Officer
Saeed Mohammed al-Tayer said in March DEWA would repay 1.2
billion dirhams ($327 million) of loans that month ahead of
schedule and that no further repayments are due this year.
DEWA’s first-half profit rose 13 percent to 1.8 billion dirhams.  “DEWA’s business and financial profiles are commensurate
with an investment-grade rating, with solid prospects for the
company maintaining these in the medium term given recent
operational improvements and credit-enhancing strategic steps
taken in addition to the company’s recurring deleveraging
efforts,” David Staples, Moody’s managing director for
corporate finance issuers, said in a report today.  DEWA is expanding generation capacity as power demand in
Dubai, one of seven sheikhdom’s that are part of the  United Arab
Emirates , climbed 3.8 percent in the second quarter,
outstripping the 3 percent growth in supply in the same period,
the company said this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  