-- Digital Domain’s Quick Sale Questioned by Judge
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-09-12T18:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/digital-domain-s-quick-sale-questioned-by-judge.html
Digital Domain Media Group Inc. (DDMGQ) ,
the bankrupt special-effects company behind the movies
“Transformers” and  James Cameron ’s “Titanic,” may need to
delay an auction for its main assets, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon today called
the sale timeline requested by Digital Domain “unprecedented”
at a hearing in Wilmington, Delaware. To win approval to hold an
auction on Sept. 21, 10 days after filing for bankruptcy, the
company would have to present Shannon with evidence “that I
don’t know that I’ve ever seen,” he said.  He asked the company to discuss the auction schedule during
a break in today’s hearing before Digital Domain began
presenting its case.  The company, with operations in Florida, California,
Canada, India, China and  Abu Dhabi , plans to hold an auction for
most of its assets. A unit of Searchlight Capital Partners LP
would be the initial bidder, with an offer of $15 million,
according to court papers.  The sale-related deadlines are tied to a so-called debtor-
in-possession loan that would give Digital Domain enough money
to operate while in bankruptcy.  Paying Employees  After the break, lender attorney David M. Hillman offered
to remove the deadlines from the part of the loan that would be
used to temporarily pay employee salaries. That would free up
about $4 million that Digital Domain could use to meet its
current payroll, company attorney Robert J. Feinstein said.  Shannon said the idea was worth exploring. He approved a
related request to give the company authority to pay employees.  Digital Domain filed for bankruptcy yesterday, blaming a
cash crisis that hit less than a year after the company went
public. The  Port St. Lucie , Florida-based company, with 765
employees, said it also sought court protection in Canada.  The company, which counted former Miami Dolphins football
star  Dan Marino  among its investors, had assets of $205 million
and debt of $214 million as of June, according to Chapter 11
papers.  The case is In re Digital Domain Media Group Inc.,
12-12568, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  -- Editors: Stephen Farr,  Charles Carter   To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  