-- Dinner Date in Brooklyn Runs $300 at Gwynnett St.: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/dinner-date-in-brooklyn-runs-300-at-gwynnett-st-review.html
Gwynnett St. is an ambitious,
sometimes forward-thinking restaurant turning paprika into
streusel and pistachios into tofu.  It’s where a $115 wine-paired tasting menu will end up
costing you and your date $296 after tax and tip.  Yet it’s in East Williamsburg, down the block from a 99
cent store.  Brooklyn fine-dining has become as expensive as Manhattan
dining. Get used to it.  Luxury rarely comes cheap. Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare is
in a supermarket annex; Blanca is in a converted garage. Dinner
for two often exceeds $650.  So I suppose  Gwynnett St.  represents an affordable option
to a privileged cohort. The eight-course tasting, which draws
from cheaper a la carte selections ($5-$30), is $85 before wine,
tax, tip and bread. Bread is a $5 supplement.  Don’t expect foie gras, truffles, caviar -- or for the
moment, Kobe beef.  Roe Speckles  Of six available appetizers, four are vegetarian.  The two outliers contain a modicum of seafood protein, a
luscious gem lettuce soup ($11) with speckles of trout roe, and
cubes of watermelon ($12), garnished with gossamer slices of
cured fluke. The fish isn’t so much the main event as a salty
seasoning for the sweet fruit.  Michael White might use lardo, but this is Gwynnett St.,
where there’s no pork or beef (at the moment).  And that’s just fine by me. Chef Justin Hilbert makes
vegetables brilliant with expert cooking and modernist platings.
And don’t worry: there’s enough chicken, lamb and duck entrees
to sate carnivorous inclinations.  I recommend the bean curd (made without bean curd). Hilbert
takes pureed pistachio and jiggles it up with gellan gum and
kuzu starch. The result is a nutty, creamy, elegant “tofu.”  If this all seems like a cross between the chemistry
experiment that is WD-50 crossed with the locavore temple that
is Blue Hill, you’re correct, because Hilbert worked for the
former and sous-chef Owen Clark worked at both.  Whiskey Bread  The room is simple: brown woods and bar stools with backs.
It looks like a pub and sometimes eats like a pub; that $5 bread
is spiked with whiskey. It’s dense, nearly as sweet as corn
bread and stings of spirit.  The cocktails are well-balanced -- just a whisper of almond
in the Rye-Tai (a riff on the Mai-Tai), a hint of peaches in the
whiskey sour.  Champagne? It starts at $30 by the half bottle (about time
we caught a break here). And easy breezy Lambrusco is $7 the
glass.  Carrots ($14) are sweet enough to qualify as dessert, which
is perhaps why Hilbert pairs them with a savory dehydrated
carrot cake spiked with cumin.  The root vegetables -- some pickled with coriander, others
glazed and still others infused into a yogurt -- suffuse the
restaurant with a heady perfume.  Ask for the summer beans ($12) on your tasting; the kitchen
takes requests. Gwynnett tosses haricots verts with smoky bits
of paprika streusel.  Lobster mushrooms don’t taste like lobster. To be fair,
they’re not supposed to, but I’m reasonably certain these guys
possess the culinary whiz-bangery to make that happen. No
matter. The earthy fungi sit atop a hash of sweet corn, sweeter
husk cherries, tomatoes and a light corn puree. Love it.  Oddball Combos  Crispy-skinned dorade ($27) collapses in the mouth with the
ashen ease of a toasted marshmallow, while monkfish ($28), the
poor man’s lobster, actually tastes like lobster.  Roast duck brined in peach pits and paired with peaches,
faro, chanterelles and pecans is even better than it sounds.
Lamb is fussy and complex in the best possible way: tender loin,
crispy belly, red pepper juice and aubergine in various
incarnations (smoked eggplant puree, grilled fairytale eggplant
and charred japanese eggplant).  Finish with the raspberry dessert, a loose salad of berry
mousse, beet meringue and minty shiso. It would make Paul
Liebrandt, the brilliant master of oddball combos, quite proud.  Let’s just hope Gwynnett raises the tasting to $90 and
tosses in the bread. No one wants to be nickel and dimed at
these prices. It’s not a 99 cent store, after all.  Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Mains at $30 or less; tasting at $85.  Sound Level: Around 70-75, about average.  Date Place: Worked for me.  Inside Tip: Skip the wine pairings; order cocktails.  Special Feature: Try roast chicken marinated in oil made
from roasted garlic and burnt hay ($22).  Back on My Own Dime: Especially for the tasting.  Gwynnett St. is at 312 Graham Avenue. Information: +1-347-
889-7002;  http://www.gwynnettst.com .  Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse. 56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to
hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71
to 75: You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on a $2.5 million
Bugatti and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 