-- Dollar Declines to Seven-Month Low Versus Yen Before Fed
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-13T15:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/dollar-near-4-month-low-versus-euro-before-fed-decision.html
The dollar fell to the weakest in
seven months versus the yen amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will announce bond buying to bolster the economy in a program of
quantitative easing that tends to debase the currency.  The greenback traded at almost a four-month low against the
euro before the central bank also releases policy makers’
forecasts for unemployment, inflation and the expected path of
the federal funds rate. The Russian ruble gained versus the
greenback after the country’s central bank unexpectedly raised
all of its policy rates by a quarter-percentage point.  “The expectation is for the Fed to announce some form of
new policy easing likely to be QE3 or new asset purchases,”
 Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington at Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage, said in a telephone
interview. “Because that will likely involved printing new
dollars to buy these assets, there’s an inevitable negative
impact on the U.S. currency.”  The dollar fell 0.6 percent to 77.42 yen at 11:44 a.m. New
York time, after reaching 77.37, the least since Feb. 14. It was
little changed at $1.2909 per euro after touching $1.2937
yesterday, the weakest since May 11. The euro slipped 0.5
percent to 99.94 yen.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell a third day before the Fed concludes
its two-day policy meeting at which economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast a third round of QE will be announced.  Ruble Drops  The ruble extended gains against the dollar after the
country’s central bank raised the refinancing rate to 8.25
percent from 8 percent, the first increase since April 2011. The
overnight auction-based repurchase rate will rise to 5.5 percent
from 5.25 percent and the overnight deposit rate to 4.25 percent
from 4 percent, effective tomorrow.  The currency rose 0.3 percent to 31.3712 per dollar. It
gained 0.4 percent to 40.4502 per euro.  South Africa’s rand weakened after  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS) , the largest producer of the metal, said yesterday it
suspended its Rustenburg operations after workers were
intimidated. The threats follow stoppages at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s
Marikana mine and Gold Fields Ltd.’s KDC West shaft.  About 43,000 people are either on strike at the three
companies or staying away from work following conflict at
Lonmin’s Marikana site last month in which 44 people died.  The rand fell 0.4 percent to 8.3652 per dollar.  Franc Level  Switzerland’s franc fell for a second day against the euro
after the  Swiss National Bank  announced it would  maintain  its
1.20 limit against the shared currency.  The franc dropped 0.2 percent to 1.2112 per euro after
declining to 1.2155 on Sept. 7, the weakest since Jan. 9.  The U.S. central bank is predicted to extend the duration
of its zero-interest-rate policy into 2015. Two previous series
of bond purchases totaling $2.3 trillion have failed to revive
the labor market, which Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
month is a “grave concern.”  “Anticipation of QE3 is very high,” said  Yuji Kameoka ,
chief currency strategist at Daiwa Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“The dollar may extend declines for some time, given that QE3
isn’t priced-in completely.”  The  Dollar Index , which  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, declined 0.1 percent to 79.632. It yesterday
touched 79.522, the lowest since May 4.  Dollar Rebound  Measures of momentum indicate the dollar may be poised to
rebound from its slide since an August employment report
heightened speculation the Fed will add more stimulus, according
to Standard Chartered Plc.  “The Dollar Index is very oversold, with weekly relative
strength indices and stochastic back to 2008-2012 levels, which
have preceded explosive rebounds,” Callum Henderson, global
head of currency research at  Standard Chartered  in Singapore,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Stochastics, a technical analysis tool based on momentum
measures, are often used to identify whether a security’s price
is overbought or oversold.  Since December 2008, when the Fed began its asset-purchase
programs, the Dollar Index has dropped more than 8 percent.  The dollar has depreciated 1.6 percent in the past week,
the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen was
gained 0.4 percent and the euro advanced 0.7 percent.  Yen Surge  Japan ’s Vice Finance Minister Takehiko Nakao told reporters
in Tokyo today the recent surge in the yen against the dollar
has been “obviously speculative” and that Japan can’t overlook
such moves.  Further appreciation in the yen may see Japan intervene in
the  currency market , according to  Steven Barrow , head of Group
of 10 research at Standard Bank Plc in  London .  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  ordered currency
intervention on Oct. 31, after the yen strengthened to a post-
war record 75.35 per dollar.  “If the Fed were to act particularly aggressively today
and we were to see dollar-yen fall quite significantly, then I
think we probably would see some intervention,” Barrow said on
Bloomberg TV’s “The Pulse” with  Guy Johnson . “We’re 77.5 now,
so you could say that we’ve maybe still got a little bit of a
way to go, but I don’t think we’re that far away,” he said.  The yen tested a support level at 77.36 earlier before
depreciating again. This represents an “short-term correction”
lower, according to Tim McCullough, a technical strategist at
Lloyds Banking Group in London.  The yen may appreciate further to levels as high as 74.30
in the next few weeks, McCullough said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  