-- Domain Digital Wins Approval of Asset Auction Timeline
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-09-12T22:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/domain-digital-wins-approval-of-asset-auction-timeline.html
Digital Domain Media Group Inc. (DDMGQ) ,
the special-effects company behind the movies “Transformers”
and  James Cameron ’s “Titanic,” won initial court approval to
auction itself off 10 days after filing bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon today said he
would approve the “unprecedented” timeline only because
Digital Domain claimed it would be forced to liquidate and fire
all its employees.  “I don’t offend easily, but you have managed it,” Shannon
told lawyers in the courtroom. He said the Sept. 21 auction date
was so soon after the bankruptcy filing, that he would consider
moving it should creditors file objections that convince him it
was necessary.  The company, with operations in Florida, California,
 Canada , India, China and  Abu Dhabi , filed bankruptcy yesterday
with plans to hold an auction for most of its assets. A unit of
Searchlight Capital Partners LP has agreed to be the initial
bidder with a $15 million offer, according to court papers.  The timeline is embedded in two court documents Shannon
said he would approve: a so-called debtor-in-possession loan to
fund the company’s operation during the bankruptcy and the
procedures that will govern the auction.  Shannon said that both approvals are considered interim
because they came on the first day of the company’s bankruptcy
case. Earlier in the hearing, he had said he wouldn’t approve
the timeline and told the company to delay the auction for a few
days.  Production Schedules  Company attorney Robert J Feinstein said the company
couldn’t afford to wait that long because of the pressure being
put on the business by the tight production schedules in
Hollywood.  During the hearing, Digital Domain officials testified that
the survival of the company was at stake because their main
customers, Hollywood’s biggest movie studios, had threatened to
cancel work unless the special-effects business was sold
immediately. The studios were worried about the financial
stability of the Digital Domain.  “They want what they want, and when they say immediately,
they mean it,” Feinstein said in court.  Digital Domain blamed its bankruptcy yesterday on a cash
crisis that hit less than a year after the company went public.
The  Port St. Lucie , Florida-based company, with 765 employees,
said it also sought court protection in Canada.  The company, which counted former Miami Dolphins football
star  Dan Marino  among its investors, had assets of $205 million
and debt of $214 million as of June, according to Chapter 11
papers.  The case is In re Digital Domain Media Group Inc.,
12-12568,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  