-- Dubai Renters Face Eviction After Broker Fails to Pay Landlord
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-09-12T09:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/dubai-renters-face-eviction-after-broker-fails-to-pay-landlord.html
Dozens of tenants in Dubai say
they’re facing eviction after Haitham Mahmoud Alkouatly, a Saudi
real estate and entertainment-company owner, collected payments
and then failed to pass the money to the property owners.  Dubai’s Department of  Economic Development  and the Real
Estate Regulatory Agency are investigating, RERA Chief Executive
Officer Marwan bin Ghalita said. Major-General Khamis al
Mazinah, deputy commander of Dubai police, said an investigation
is under way.  Laws governing property agents, rent increases and
foreclosures have come into force gradually in the years after
Dubai’s real estate market crashed in 2008. Bin Ghalita said a
rule requiring tenants to register leases with his agency
improves rental data, protects tenants from dubious brokers and
prevents the rental of a property to multiple people.  “We require brokers to provide a 5-million-dirham ($1.4
million) deposit with RERA to ensure against this kind of
situation,” bin Ghalita said.  Carl Dowling says he paid a year’s rent in advance for his
Dubai apartment after Alkouatly promised a month free and no
rate increase. After shelling out 60,000 dirhams, he discovered
that the landlord never received the money and the broker can’t
be found.  Hopes Fade  “We are left high and dry and we don’t have much hope of
getting our money back,” Dowling, a 30-year-old from the U.K.,
said in an interview. “We share some of the blame, but we don’t
understand how an event-management company was able to get the
listing for so many homes and deal among other brokers.”  Tenants are responsible for ensuring the brokers they deal
with are legitimate and registered with the regulator, bin
Ghalita said. Alkouatly has a license to sell and manage
property with the Department of Economic Development, according
to documents on its website. He’s not registered with RERA.  Calls to the landline phone listed on the license weren’t
answered and the mobile phone was out of  service . Another mobile
number provided by clients is also out of service. Calls and an
e-mail seeking comment to the  Department of Economic Development 
weren’t returned.  Alkouatly, listed on the LinkedIn website as chief
executive officer of event-management company Shamyana
Entertainment, also rented the same apartments to more than one
tenant and falsely claimed ownership of properties, according to
his clients and the  real estate regulator .  Around 50 tenants who used his services attended a Sept. 2
meeting to discuss how to recoup their losses and they have
started a Facebook group to coordinate a response, Dowling said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 