-- Dubai Stocks Rise to Highest Level This Month
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-09-12T13:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/dubai-shares-rise-on-global-outlook-recovery-as-qatar-gains.html
Dubai stocks rallied to the highest
level this month as oil rose amid speculation China and the U.S.
will take more measures to spur growth and on signs the
emirate’s economy is recovering.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, advanced 2.1 percent.  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , the Dubai-based
mortgage provider whose shares doubled this year, soared to the
highest since April. The DFM General Index climbed 0.9 percent
to 1,571.39, the highest close since Aug. 26. Qatar’s gauge
added 1.1 percent and emerging-market shares rose, with the MSCI
EM Index gaining 0.7 percent at 2:04 p.m. in London.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  starts a two-day meeting
today and may announce measures to stimulate the U.S. economy.
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the government has more room for
fiscal and monetary policy to support growth. Crude for October
delivery rose as much as 0.9 percent to $98.06 a barrel in New
York as Germany’s top constitutional court cleared the way for
the ratification of the euro area’s permanent bailout fund.  “The positive sentiments of international markets due to
the expectation of more stimulus by the U.S. is encouraging
investors to take more risk,” said Tariq Qaqish, the Dubai-
based deputy head of asset management at Al Mal Capital.
“Positive local news continues to build stronger investment
sentiments in the U.A.E.”  Dubai Recovery  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  rose 0.6 percent and Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.3 percent. Oman’s
 MSM30 Index (MSM30) ,  Kuwait’s Stock Exchange Price Index (KWSEIDX)  and  Abu Dhabi ’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  each increased 0.2 percent. Bahrain’s  BB All
Share Index (BHSEASI)  was little changed. Gulf Arab oil exporters,
including the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, supply about a
fifth of the world’s oil.  Dubai’s economy is showing signs of recovery after narrowly
escaping a default in 2009. Dubai Electricity and Water
Authority, the Gulf emirate’s only utility, was upgraded today
by one level to investment grade with a stable outlook at
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited an improvement in the
company’s “financial metrics and cash flows.”  Dubai Airports, home to the biggest Arab airline Emirates,
this month said passenger traffic surpassed 5 million for the
first time in July.  Dubai’s shares are valued at an average of about 10.3 times
 estimated earnings , compared with about 13.3 times for the  MSCI
World Index (MXWO)  and 12 times for the  STOXX Europe 600 Index, (SXXP)  data
compiled by Bloomberg show. About 157  million shares  traded in
Dubai today, compared with the 12-month daily average of 142
million shares.  Emaar advanced the most since Aug. 9 to 3.44 dirhams. The
company, which has the  biggest weighting  on Dubai’s index, said
in July second-quarter profit more than doubled as the emirate’s
retail and tourism industries extend their best year since the
2008 property crash. The shares have surged 34 percent this
year, compared with a gain of 16 percent for Dubai’s gauge.  Tamweel, up 121 percent this year, climbed 4.7 percent to
1.33 dirhams, the highest close since April 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  