-- Dutch Voters Buck Euro Crisis to Re-Elect Rutte as Premier
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-09-13T15:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/dutch-liberals-take-one-seat-lead-over-labor-exit-poll-shows.html
Dutch Liberal Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s victory yesterday makes him the second euro-area leader,
after Estonia’s  Andrus Ansip , to win re-election since Europe’s
financial crisis dawned in 2009.  Party leaders today agreed to Rutte’s proposal to let Henk Kamp, the minister of social affairs, explore possible
coalitions and next week recommend starting talks, Parliament
chairwoman Gerdi Verbeet said in The Hague.  Kamp may advise parliament to explore a coalition between
the  Labor Party  and his Liberals after voters rejected Geert Wilders’ anti-euro  Freedom Party  and enabled the biggest blocs
to govern together without leaning on smaller political
formations. The last two-party government in the Netherlands to
complete its term was between 1989 and 1994.  The results “will likely inject a little more confidence
into parts of the European political elite” as they step up
efforts to contain the debt crisis, David Mackie, chief European
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, wrote today. “The
risks of the Netherlands changing policy direction in a
fundamental way appear to have receded, doubtless to private
sighs of relief in Berlin and elsewhere.”  Rutte’s Liberals took 41 of the 150 seats in the vote, up
from the 31 in the outgoing parliament, according to  news agency 
ANP after 99.5 percent of votes were counted. Labor’s seats were
revised to 38 from 39 earlier, up from 30. D66 rose to 12 from
10, as the Christian Democrats lost eight seats to 13. Wilders
lost nine to 15.  ‘Weakening Populists’  It was the second win of the day for German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  after a German high court rejected efforts to
block the 500 billion-euro ($645 billion) European Stability
Mechanism rescue fund she championed. Her Foreign Minister,
 Guido Westerwelle , said the Dutch result “marks a strengthening
of Europe and a weakening of populists and nationalists.”  European leaders felled by bailout fatigue -- whether
creditors or debtors -- include  Nicolas Sarkozy ,  Silvio Berlusconi , and  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  among the 10 who
have lost their jobs.  “With the Dutch shying away from anti-European parties,
the same day the German constitutional court rules in favor of
the ESM, Sept. 12 seems to have been a good day for the euro,”
Dimitry Fleming, an Amsterdam-based analyst at  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,
said in a note today.  Bonds Gain  Dutch bonds gained today, narrowing the  risk premium  above
German 10-year notes to the least since January and replacing
Finland as the cheapest euro-area borrower after Germany.  Even with a majority, Rutte and Labor leader Diederik Samsom may add smaller parties to govern one of only four euro
countries with a top  credit rating .  “The Liberals and Labor don’t have a majority in the upper
house of parliament, which can be a problem for passing
legislation, so they may need to add the Christian Democrats and
D66,” said  Andre Krouwel , an associate professor of political
science at VU University in Amsterdam.  The Liberals of Rutte, 45, will take the lead in the
formation of a new government, a process that took 127 days in
2010. The new parliament won’t meet until Sept. 20, two days
after the caretaker administration presents the 2013 budget.  “The Netherlands needs a stable Cabinet as quickly as
possible; I’ll work together with you to ensure the Netherlands
emerges stronger from the crisis,” Rutte told his supporters in
The Hague today. “It’s important this country is at the
forefront of fighting the crisis in Europe, being strict for
southern Europe but willing to help if they do what’s needed.”  Wilders’ Withdrawal  Austerity measures included in a proposed budget led
Wilders, who had backed the minority government of Liberals and
 Christian Democrats , to withdraw support in April, triggering
the need for elections.  “We’ve lost heavily,” Wilders told supporters in The
Hague. “But this is also a new beginning as our fight in the
Netherlands is needed more than ever.”  After that Cabinet collapse, Rutte within three days won
backing from D66, Green Left and the Christian Democrats for an
emergency austerity package to bring next year’s budget deficit
below a limit set by the European Union. Labor withheld support
for the accord, saying the cuts will hurt the economy.  The Dutch economy, the fifth largest in the euro area, may
shrink this year, according to the median of 11 economist
forecasts gathered by Bloomberg. An unemployment rate of 6.5
percent, the highest in seven years, is still the second-lowest
in the euro area after  Austria .  “These two big parties have both done very well in their
own way and now feel the pressure and the obligation to make the
best of themselves and each other,” former Labor Prime Minister
Wim Kok told NOS in Amsterdam.  Turnout was 74 percent compared with 75 percent in 2010 and
80 percent in 2006, according to ANP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  