-- The Speculative Look of Utility Stocks
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-09-12T20:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/the-speculative-look-of-utility-stocks.html
Spurned by the Federal Reserve’s interest rate policy that has
pushed the 10-year Treasury note yield below 2 percent, income
seekers are enjoying a rebound relationship with utility
stocks flashing come-hither 4 percent or so average yields.  Mutual fund and exchange-traded fund assets in the utility
sector increased more than 30 percent in the 12 months through
July, according to Morningstar. Not only did investors pocket
a bond-beating yield, the sector’s total return for the year
(yield plus capital gains on the underlying stocks) was nearly
20 percent for the classic defensive group. It all sounds so
promising. Yet investment pros warn the lovefest with utility
stocks could be headed for rocky times.  Value disconnect  For the most part, the argument against utilities isn't
based on their balance sheets. It's tied to the runup in the
price of their stocks. The slow-growth utilities sector
typically trades at a valuation 20 percent or so below the
level of the overall S&P 500. The price/earnings ratio of the
Bloomberg Industries index tracking North American regulated
integrated utilities is 14.9, based on estimated earnings for
the next 12 months. That leaves a 16.3 percent gap between it
and the 12.8 p-e estimate for the S&P 500 over the same
period.  “I don’t remember a time where there was this speculative
element to utilities,” says Brad Sorensen, director of market
and sector analysis at the Schwab Center for Financial
Research. Despite the high valuation, Schwab has a “market
perform” rating for the sector for the next three to six
months. It's based on the expectation that continued macro
issues -- slow growth and the looming fiscal-cliff issues in
the U.S., and the continued wait for resolution of the
European sovereign debt crisis -- will buoy the defensive
sector.  Russ Koesterich, global chief investment strategist for
iShares’ ETF business, recently took to the blogosphere with a
warning: “The [price-earnings] premium can’t be justified by
U.S. utilities being more profitable than in the past. In
fact, the U.S. utilities industry is currently less profitable
than its long-term average. Return on earnings for U.S.
large-cap utility companies is currently 10.5 percent, the
lowest level since 2004.” At the same time, managers such
as Roger Conrad, editor of the Utility Forecaster investment
newsletter, say the companies are in good financial shape:
“This is not like 2000," says Conrad, "when utilities were
branching into new business lines and ended up getting into a
lot of trouble. The industry as a whole is being run very
conservatively now.”  That may be so, but from today’s lofty valuations, the
sector is set up for a harder fall when the economic storm
clouds dissipate and defensive sectors become less attractive.
Just take a look at what happened last January when the
economic zeitgeist was rosier. The $6 billion SPDR Utilities
Sector ETF lost 3.6 percent, while the S&P 500 stock index
gained nearly 4.5 percent.  Premium Pricing  The trick for investors who want to be in utilities
now, says Conrad, is to avoid paying too much for the
attractive yields. Regulated utilities, the least economically
sensitive segment of the sector -- rates are set by
regulators, not market supply and demand -- are where the most
danger lurks. Ever since the financial crisis, this
recession-resistant segment of the market has been the most
popular among investors looking to play defense and collect a
bond-beating yield.  For example, Conrad says the Southern Company (4.3 percent
yield) is a well-run utility in a solid (Southeast) market. A
price-earnings ratio near 19, compared with 13 for the S&P
500, makes it less compelling for investors with fresh cash to
put to work than an unregulated utility such as Entergy (4.8
percent yield) that trades at a current p-e of 9.7 percent.
Southern makes up more than 7 percent of the $691
million iShares Dow Jones Utility ETF.  Maura Shaughnessy, a manager with the $4.5 billion MFS
Utilities fund for 20 years, is cherry-picking unregulated
U.S. utilities. Since energy delivery in the U.S. is highly
regional -- there’s no national power grid -- she likes both
Calpine and NRG Energy, given their roots in Texas. There is
strong energy demand in the state, and less supply, due in
part to coal plant shutdowns. Shaughnessy is also finding
value in European utilities such as Energias de Portugal (9
percent yield, 6.7 p-e). “The macro [economic picture] in
Europe is whipping everybody right now,” says
Shaughnessy, “but if you are patient, these are lifetime
values I’ve never seen in Europe.”  Another option is to set your sites on other sectors that
offer a compelling yield story without frothy valuation.
Sorensen of Schwab recommends taking a look at health
care, where yields of 3 percent or so can be found with better
valuations. According to data provider S&P Capital IQ, the
health sector’s price-earnings growth, or PEG, ratio is
1.3, compared with 3.2 for the utility sector. That’s a
powerful argument for broadening a yield-seeking portfolio
beyond the much-loved utility sector. 