-- The Stunning Triumph of Cost-Benefit Analysis
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-09-12T22:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/the-stunning-triumph-of-cost-benefit-analysis.html
It is not exactly news that we live
in an era of polarized politics. But Republicans and Democrats
have come to agree on one issue: the essential need for cost-
benefit analysis in the regulatory process.  In fact, cost-benefit analysis has become part of the
informal constitution of the U.S. regulatory state. This is an
extraordinary development.  To understand the point, a little history is in order.  When  Ronald Reagan  became president in 1981, he was greatly
concerned about excessive regulation. He was also aware that the
federal bureaucracy was large, decentralized and sprawling. He
was the boss, but he had limited tools by which to oversee
federal rulemaking.  As one of his very early actions, Reagan issued an
executive order with two essential components. First, he told
executive agencies that to the extent permitted by law, they
must not issue a regulation unless the potential benefits to
society “exceed the potential costs to society.” Second, he
directed the  Office of Management and Budget  to oversee a
process to ensure compliance with the cost-benefit requirement
(among others) and to promote consistency with the president’s
goals. The  Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs , within
OMB, soon assumed that responsibility.  At the time, both the cost-benefit requirement and the OIRA
process were exceptionally controversial, especially among
Democrats and groups on the left. Some activists argued that the
result would be to undermine important public protections,
designed to safeguard health, safety and the environment.  Reagan Approach  Defenders of cost-benefit analysis responded that such
protections would be spurred, not undermined, if they promised
to deliver big benefits at an acceptable cost -- and that if the
costs were high and the benefits low, the protections might not
be such a good idea. The enthusiasts insisted that we can’t know
whether to support public protections unless we have a sense of
both costs and benefits. But many public-interest advocates
remained unconvinced, contending that we should not put crucial
safeguards into a kind of arithmetic straitjacket.  Not surprisingly, President  George H.W. Bush  endorsed the
Reagan approach. But when President  Bill Clinton  came into
office, there was a real question whether that approach would be
maintained, and a number of Clinton’s supporters hoped he would
repudiate cost-benefit analysis. He didn’t. Although Clinton
took steps to make the regulatory process more transparent, he
embraced the need for careful analysis of costs and benefits.  For eight years, President  George W. Bush  operated under
the framework established by Reagan and Clinton, and many
advocacy groups became increasingly agitated about cost-benefit
analysis. Some critics claimed that business had
disproportionate influence over the process, exaggerating costs
so as to block necessary safeguards. Others said that important
protections had become vulnerable to “paralysis by analysis,”
because the need to assemble information about costs and
benefits, and to establish that benefits justify costs, can be
difficult and time-consuming.  When President  Barack Obama  was elected, critics of the
whole approach hoped he would jettison it. But he had no
interest in doing so. I  was  head of OIRA from September 2009
until August 2012, and from the beginning, the Obama
administration was committed to careful consideration of both
costs and benefits. And in an executive order issued in January
2011, the administration doubled down on cost-benefit analysis.
First, Obama made an unprecedented commitment to quantification
of both costs and benefits. Second, he ordered executive
agencies to review all significant rules on the books, largely
with the goal of eliminating or streamlining excessive
requirements.  Obama Order  Under the order, it has proved possible to move forward
with rules protecting public health, safety and the environment.
In late August, for example, the Environmental Protection Agency
and the Transportation Department  finalized  ambitious rules to
increase the fuel economy of cars. The benefits of the rules
greatly exceed the costs -- the annual net benefits (benefits
minus costs) are in the billions of dollars.  At the same time, the requirement of cost-benefit analysis
has deterred agencies from proceeding with rules that promise to
impose big economic burdens without corresponding gains. With
its embrace of cost-benefit analysis, the Obama administration
has approved rules with net benefits well in excess of $100
billion.  It is true that even if we accept cost-benefit analysis,
serious questions remain. Some of those issues are scientific.
If we cut emissions of certain air pollutants, what, exactly,
are the public-health benefits? Other questions are economic.
Suppose that a rule would save 30 lives a year. How do we turn
that figure into monetary equivalents? These and other issues
have a philosophical dimension. How should we deal with values
that are hard or impossible to quantify, such as human dignity?
And should our valuations change if a rule would mostly benefit
members of future generations?  It is also true that regulators often face considerable
uncertainty, and they have to give ranges for both costs and
benefits, rather than specifying a single number. There are also
continuing questions about scope, including the role of cost-
benefit analysis in the context of  homeland security  or
financial regulation, where the benefits may be especially hard
to quantify.  What is remarkable is that all of these issues are being
addressed under a framework that is now broadly shared. Endorsed
for more than three decades and by five presidents, cost-benefit
analysis is here to stay.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View  columnist . He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and, most
recently, the author of “On Rumors: How Falsehoods Spread.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Ben Bernanke should
confront his critics , on why  Chicago’s teachers union is wrong ,
on  how the euro dodged a German bullet , and on  Mitt Romney’s
chance on immigration ;  Caroline Baum  on whose policies really
created the  financial crisis ;  Michael Kinsley  on the
 similarities between politics and the Olympics ; Jonathan Mahler
on  John Henry’s fall from grace ; Stephen Starr on why  Syrian
rebels  are losing popular support.  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  