-- EADS Nailed BAE Deal Details Over Sandwiches at Airport
-- B y   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-09-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/eads-nailed-bae-merger-details-over-sandwiches-at-london-hotel.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  executives spent five months
exploring a combination, with the breakthrough for one of the
biggest deals of the year coming over sandwiches at London City
airport in July, people with knowledge of the negotiations said.  London-based BAE and Toulouse, France-based EADS said
yesterday they’re in discussions to merge, a combination that
would leapfrog  Boeing Co. (BA)  to create the world’s largest
aerospace company. EADS would own 60 percent of the new entity
and BAE the rest, the two companies said in a statement.  Earlier this year, EADS Chief Executive Officer Tom Enders
and his chief of strategy, Marwan Lahoud, suggested a lunch with
their counterparts at BAE, Ian King and  Kevin Taylor , to explore
options, one of the people said. Preliminary talks took place in
April, and by early June the two sides had engaged in more
serious discussions about a merger, the people said. EADS and
BAE representatives declined to comment.  A feasibility study was requested and on July 2, a team of
six top EADS and BAE executives, including EADS General Counsel
Peter Kleinschmidt, his counterpart Philip Bramwell and EADS
Chief Financial Officer Harald Wilhelm, presented the results in
a hotel business center at City airport, one of the people said.
The deal advanced over sandwiches they disliked so much they
promised never to meet there again, that person said.  The next stage came in  Bavaria  over the weekend of July
14-15. This time, the executives met at a hotel closer to
Enders’s home outside of Munich, two people said.  Deal Hurdles  It was there that they agreed on many of the details of the
merger, including the 60-40 ownership split, the people said.
After that meeting, they decided they could take it to
shareholders, including the German, French and British
governments.  The main obstacles to the deal were the size of the
proposed company and the competing shareholder interests, the
people said. The governments wanted to protect their national
interests and secure strategic control, which they have been
promised in the form of special voting shares. They needed to be
convinced that one large business combining EADS and BAE could
do what two smaller companies could not.  Private-sector shareholders, which include  Lagardere SCA (MMB) 
and  Daimler AG (DAI) , were more concerned with liquidity and value.  ‘Vision 2020’  Advisers were gradually hired to work on the deal, one
person said.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Gleacher
Shacklock LLP are advising BAE, with Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer LP as legal counsel. EADS is being advised by  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR) , Perella Weinberg Partners LP,  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) , and Clifford Chance LLP is acting as counsel,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  will probably be asked to compile a
fairness opinion, said one of the people, who asked to remain
anonymous because the advisers have not been publicly announced.  The final structure of the voting rights may draw 
inspiration from the current arrangement at BAE, one person said.
The fate of the proposed merger is now largely in the hands of 
government regulators, said one of these people. Lazard’s role 
is focused on talks with the French government, the person said.  If the deal succeeds, EADS is poised to realize the
strategy set out by Enders predecessor  Louis Gallois  in 2007.
Gallois wanted EADS to be able to benefit from business cycles
in both the commercial aviation and defense and expand the
global presence. That plan, known as Vision 2020, may now happen
as soon as 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  