-- Edison to File Restart Plan for San Onofre Unit in October
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-09-12T23:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/edison-to-file-restart-plan-for-san-onofre-unit-in-october-3-.html
Edison International (EIX) , owner of the
second-largest electric utility in  California , will file a plan
with federal nuclear regulators in October to seek permission to
restart its San Onofre Unit 2 reactor.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission will take months to
evaluate Southern California Edison’s plan to repair frayed
steam generator tubes at the reactor that have kept the 2,200-
megawatt San Onofre plant shut since the end of January, U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Allison Macfarlane  said
today at a hearing of the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment
and Public Works.  The NRC will need to review Edison’s analysis of the cause
of the generator damage and approve its plan to repair and bring
the unit back online, Macfarlane said. Edison will file its
proposal by the end of the first week of October, she said.  “We will not let this plant start up unless we are
absolutely convinced it is safe to operate,” Macfarlane said.
San Onofre’s Unit 3 reactor, which has more tube damage, may be
shut for some time, she said.  Edison is targeting a response to the NRC for early October
pending reviews from its engineers, senior management and
independent experts, Jennifer Manfre, a spokeswoman for Southern
California Edison, said in a telephone interview.  Faulty Manufacturing  In July, NRC inspectors said faulty computer modeling and
manufacturing issues contributed to the unusual tube wear. The
reactor shutdown has cost $165 million in inspection, repair and
replacement power costs as of June 30, Edison said in a July 31
presentation to investors.  Deterioration in steam generator tubes “could pose health
and safety risks” if they leak or rupture and the NRC shouldn’t
allow the reactors to restart unless the agency is certain the
facility is safe, U.S. Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California
Democrat, said today at the hearing.  Edison is unloading fuel from Unit 3, where leaks and tube
damage were first discovered, and said last month it was laying
off 730 employees, one-third of the plant’s workforce.  The nuclear plant is located about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
south of  Los Angeles  and can produce power for 1.4 million
homes, according to Edison’s website.  Edison rose 0.1 percent to $44.47 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  