-- Emerging Stocks Rise to One-Month High on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-12T21:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/emerging-stocks-rise-to-one-month-high-on-stimulus-bets.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
one-month high after Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the nation
has room to boost stimulus and a German court paved the way for
a permanent rescue fund to combat Europe’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  increased 0.6 percent to
978.48 at 5:04 p.m. in New York, climbing for a fifth day.
Brazil’s Bovespa Index added 0.8 percent as steelmaker  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  climbed to a four-month high.
Taiwan’s  TPK Holding Co. (3673)  gained the most in three months. Equity
gauges in South Korea,  South Africa (JALSH)  and the Czech Republic
increased.  China still has “ample strength” to use monetary or
fiscal policy to boost growth in the biggest emerging economy,
Wen said yesterday. Germany’s top constitutional court rejected
bids to halt the nation’s ratification of the 500 billion-euro
($644 billion) rescue fund today. The U.S. Federal Reserve
begins a two-day policy meeting today amid speculation policy
makers will announce a third round of asset purchases to boost
the economy.  “ Wen Jiabao ’s comments together with last week’s
infrastructure announcements have been very good for investor
sentiment toward  emerging markets ,” Mark Luschini, chief
investment strategist for Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion, said in a phone
interview. “The major central banks have been worried that the
slowing has been more than anticipated, so they’re stepping up
efforts to resuscitate economic activity before they lose the
ability to do so in a swift manner.”  Export Markets  The 21 countries in MSCI Inc.’s developing-nations gauge
send about 13 percent of their exports to the U.S. and 30
percent to the European Union, according to data compiled by the
 World Trade Organization .  The index extended this year’s gain to 6.8 percent, and its
five-day stretch of gains is the longest in a month. The MSCI
World Index of advanced-nation shares has gained 11 percent this
year.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced for the
first time in three days, rising 1.2 percent. South Korea’s
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  increased 1.6 percent and South Africa’s FTSE/JSE
Africa All Shares Index added 0.8 percent. The Czech PX index
gained 1.1 percent. The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent against
the dollar.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries declined five basis points to 291,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  German Court  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court dismissed motions
filed by groups including a conservative lawmaker and an
opposition political party that sought to block the rescue fund,
known as the European Stability Mechanism, and a deficit-control
treaty championed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  The court stipulated that a cap of about 190 billion euros
be set on German liabilities before ESM ratification, unless
parliament decides to back extra funds.  Usiminas, as the Brazilian steelmaker is known, advanced to
the highest since May and  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest iron-ore
producer, increased 0.7 percent in Sao Paulo. Oil producer
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  climbed 1.2 percent after Chief Executive
Officer Maria das Gracas Foster said the company is “anxious”
to bid on new licenses.  TPK Holding jumped 7 percent to the highest since October.
 Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) , Mexico’s largest homebuilder, rose for
a sixth day, the longest winning streak since February.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) , China’s biggest supplier of cement,
jumped 4.8 percent in  Hong Kong , leading a rally in
construction-related companies.  China Coal Energy Co. (1898) , the
nation’s second-largest coal producer, rose 2.4 percent.  “Be it monetary or fiscal, we still have ample strength,”
Wen said at the  World Economic Forum  in Tianjin yesterday. A
fiscal stabilization fund of 100 billion  yuan  ($16 billion) is
available for “preemptive” measures, he said.  iPhone Boost  Morgan Stanley today became at least the fifth bank to
estimate that China’s economic growth this year will be 7.5
percent, the same as Wen’s target and the weakest pace in 22
years, after imports slid in August and industrial production
cooled.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  paced gains among Apple Inc.
suppliers as the world’s largest company by market value
unveiled its new iPhone at an event in San Francisco today.  Hon
Hai (AAPL) , the world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics,
rose 2.9 percent to the highest level since April 26.  AirAsia (AIRA)  Bhd., Asia’s biggest discount airline, tumbled 5.3
percent in  Kuala Lumpur , the most since November. Malindo
Airways, backed by Indonesia’s PT Lion Mentari Airlines, will
sell tickets at prices matching “or maybe lower” than
AirAsia’s, the company said yesterday.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the largest producer of the
metal, declined 4 percent in Johannesburg. The company said it
diverted employees at its Rustenburg operations away from the
mine after unidentified people prevented some workers from
entering shafts last night.  South Africa’s rand weakened 1.8 percent against the dollar
for the biggest decline among emerging-market currencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  