-- Merkel’s Court Win on Euro Rescue Resonates Across Debt Divide
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-09-12T16:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/merkel-wins-on-euro-rescue-as-german-court-stops-bailout-critics.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s court
victory on policy for saving the euro was hailed by southern
 Europe  as well as her northern allies as German bailout critics
failed to stop the joint currency’s permanent rescue fund.  With an extension of  Greece’s bailout  still undecided and
 Spain  holding out on seeking a sovereign rescue, today’s German
constitutional court verdict avoids worsening the debt crisis as
it approaches its third anniversary. It also hands Merkel
ammunition against domestic opponents who see German taxpayers’
money at risk in the name of a united Europe.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who has introduced
budget austerity measures to keep the crisis from engulfing the
euro area’s third-largest economy, said the court decision is
“excellent news.” Spanish Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre called it “very positive.”  Stocks (SXXP)  and Spanish and Italian bonds rallied after the
ruling, while the euro rose to a four-month high. The single
currency climbed 0.4 percent to $1.2901 at 4:17 p.m. in Berlin.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.3 percent.  The ruling is “another big step towards defusing the euro
crisis,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank,
said in a note to clients. While the debt crisis isn’t over, a
“gradual return of confidence could enable the German economy
to rebound by the end of the year from its current stagnation
and the euro zone to start expanding gradually in early 2013.”  ECB Role  The court in the southern city of Karlsruhe ruled
unanimously that German participation in the ESM is
constitutional, while saying the government must secure binding
caveats that its 190 billion-euro ($245 billion) contribution
won’t be raised without its consent. Further backing Merkel, the
eight judges said the  European Central Bank  can’t finance the
permanent fund, the European Stability Mechanism, and endorsed
her European deficit-control treaty.  “This is a good day for  Germany  and it is a good day for
Europe,” Merkel said in a speech to lower-house lawmakers in
Berlin. “Today, Germany once again sends a strong signal to
Europe and beyond: Germany is resolutely fulfilling its
responsibilities as the biggest economy and trusted partner in
Europe.”  Waiting for the German court decision held up efforts by
euro-area governments to stem the financial turmoil that has
rippled to the U.S. and  China  and spawned a north-south rift
between Europe’s creditor and debtor countries.  Anti-Crisis Tandem  Once set up, the Luxembourg-based ESM will form a crisis-
fighting tandem with the European Central Bank after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  offered to buy sovereign bonds on the
secondary market to reduce borrowing costs for countries such as
Spain and  Italy . Spain’s  10-year benchmark  bond fell to 5.57
percent from 5.69 yesterday, compared with 7.17 percent before
Draghi’s announcement.  In the Netherlands, one of four euro-area countries
retaining a top AAA credit rating, voters cast ballots today in
parliamentary elections that may determine whether the country
stays behind Merkel’s austerity-first approach.  Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen, whose country
also holds a AAA rating, said the court ruling in Germany lifts
uncertainty about the ESM’s future.  The ESM’s governing board will hold its first meeting on
Oct. 8, said Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
chairs meetings of euro-area finance ministers. The legal ruling
is “part of our comprehensive strategy to bolster the outlook
for fiscal sustainability and growth in the euro area,” he said
in an e-mailed statement.  North vs South  North-south praise for the German government’s victory in
the courts belies a disparity over Merkel’s wider approach to
crisis fighting revealed in an opinion poll released today in
Brussels.  Merkel’s handling of the debt crisis scored approval
ratings of 74 percent in the Netherlands, 64 percent in  France 
and 63 percent among German voters. Disapproval was at 63
percent in Italy and Spain and 61 percent in  Portugal .  “Some worrying trends emerge, from the deep differences
between northern and southern European countries to the lack of
trust in governments,” said Sergio Chiamparino, chairman of
Compagnia di San Paolo, which co-sponsored the poll with the
 German Marshall Fund  of the  United States .  Attention is focused on Spain, the euro area’s fourth-
largest economy, after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  sought aid
for the country’s blighted banks. He told Parliament in  Madrid 
today that it’s still not clear whether Spain needs a full
sovereign bailout as the ECB’s crisis plan has cut borrowing
costs.  German Warning  Rajoy’s hesitation prompted a warning from Germany. The
Spanish government can’t bet on avoiding conditions if he seeks
more aid from Europe’s bailout funds, said Michael Meister, a
senior lawmaker from Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party.  “It’s crystal clear that if Spain asks for further help it
cannot escape conditionality entirely,” Meister, the CDU’s whip
and finance spokesman, said by phone.  Much of the effort to resolve the crisis hinges on the ESM,
which will succeed the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility. While the ESM will be the main rescue vehicle once
it’s up and running, the EFSF’s remaining funds will be
available until mid-2013 to ensure a fresh lending capacity of
500 billion euros.  German President  Joachim Gauck , who has withheld signing
legislation on the ESM and the so-called fiscal pact pending
today’s ruling, is studying the court’s decision and will decide
“as soon as possible,” his office said in a statement.  Monti, who has said Italy won’t need a bailout, said the
German court’s caveats to Merkel aren’t a hindrance to putting
the permanent aid fund into force.  “I don’t think this limitation signals an unexpected brake
on the process of stabilizing the markets,” Monti said. “I
think the sentence only says that to increase the total
commitment of Germany the two houses of parliament have to
intercede. That doesn’t seem surprising to me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  