-- Merkel’s Crisis Stance Wins Northern Cheers, Southern Jeers
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-09-12T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/merkel-s-crisis-stance-wins-northern-cheers-southern-jeers.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
handling of the debt crisis is winning cheers in northern Europe
and jeers in the south, reflecting the continent’s economic
divide with the fate of the euro hanging in the balance.  Merkel’s policies scored approval ratings of 74 percent in
the Netherlands, 64 percent in  France  and 63 percent among her
own voters, according to a  trans-Atlantic opinion poll  released
today in Brussels. Disapproval was at 63 percent in Italy and
Spain and 61 percent in Portugal.  “Some worrying trends emerge, from the deep differences
between northern and southern European countries to the lack of
trust in governments,” said Sergio Chiamparino, chairman of
 Compagnia di San Paolo , which co-sponsored the poll with the
 German Marshall Fund  of the  United States .  Northern attitudes toward aiding financially stricken
neighbors were in focus today when  Germany ’s supreme court
cleared the way for the setup of a permanent bailout fund.
Separately, Dutch voters cast ballots in an election campaign
marked by calls for more spending at home and less abroad.  While the poll showed flagging esteem for the euro, backers
of a return to national currencies were in the minority. Some 27
percent in Spain, now debating whether to tap a full aid
package, want to ditch the euro, followed by 26 percent in
Germany and 21 percent in Italy.  Other highlights from the survey:  Unpopular European Union: “Unfavorable” views of the EU
rose by 14 points to 49 percent in the U.K., by 8 points to 29
percent in  Italy  and by 10 points to 35 percent in Spain.  More Austerity  Spending cuts: Support for more spending cuts reached 70
percent in Portugal and 65 percent in Italy and France. In
Britain, only 26 percent favored more austerity.  EU- Turkey  impasse: An unchanged 53 percent of Turks have an
“unfavorable” view of the EU. Negative EU attitudes toward
Turkey rose 3 points to 43 percent. Turkey’s bid to join the EU
has been frozen since mid-2010.  The annual survey of 15,500 people was conducted in seven
euro-zone countries, five EU countries outside the euro, Turkey,
Russia and the U.S. between June 2-27. The margin of error is 3
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  