-- Merkel Ally Says Spain Can’t Escape Conditions in Aid Bids
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-09-12T12:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/merkel-ally-says-spain-can-t-escape-conditions-in-aid-bids.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  can’t expect to escape conditions if he seeks more aid
from Europe’s bailout funds, said a senior lawmaker from
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union party.  While  Spain ’s government hasn’t said whether it needs more
help from the permanent euro rescue fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, it must hold to terms to gain aid if required,
Michael Meister, CDU whip and finance spokesman, said by phone.
The constitutional court upheld the role of  Germany ’s parliament
today in approving ESM aid and the “certainty” of terms
attached to it, he said.  “It’s crystal clear that if Spain asks for further help it
cannot escape conditionality entirely,” he said.
“Conditionality will apply in either case,” a full aid program
or limited precautionary assistance, and “the same basic
approval procedure will apply,” he said. “Any application --
and the court made this very clear today -- must be approved by
the German Bundestag,” parliament’s lower house.  Today’s ruling of the constitutional court in Karlsruhe
opens the way to German ratification of the delayed ESM while
upholding the role of lower-house lawmakers to approve aid
petitions. Rajoy, who has already secured as much as 100 billion
euros ($129 billion) in aid for Spain’s banks, has yet to decide
whether he will seek a broader financial lifeline from the
rescue fund.  Schaeuble Briefing  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told CDU
lawmakers on Sept. 10 that Spain has made good progress in
implementing fiscal and economic reforms and doesn’t need to
enter a full program of ESM aid to add to the bailout of its
banks agreed on June 29, two party official said on condition of
anonymity because the meeting was held in private.  Germany has “no preference” should Spain require a full
program or precautionary assistance in the form of loans,
Meister said.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  announced
plans last week to buy  government bonds  to help lower borrowing
costs for countries such as Spain and Italy as long as
governments first apply to the rescue fund for aid and submit to
“conditionality.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  