-- ESRB Aims for EU Shadow Banking Proposals in Early 2013
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-09-12T16:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/esrb-aims-for-eu-shadow-banking-proposals-in-early-2013.html
The  European Systemic Risk Board , a
group of central bankers and other regulators charged with
monitoring market threats, aims to recommend shadow banking
oversight changes in early 2013, European Union documents show.  The ESRB wants to mitigate systemic risk associated with
shadow banking, according to the papers prepared in advance of a
Sept. 14-15 meeting of officials in Cyprus. The panel intends to
make policy recommendations on ways regulators can manage the
overall health of the financial system and prevent firms from
collapsing and triggering contagion.  “Enhanced transparency of certain shadow banking
activities is needed to further monitor the sector, for example
in the areas of securities lending and repos and other shadow
banking entities,” the documents said, referring to  repurchase
agreements  and other financial products. Non-bank financial
companies also should not be able to circumvent supervision by
switching regulators, according to the papers.  Finance ministers and central bankers will consider a range
of regulatory issues when they meet in Cyprus in their first
gathering since the  European Central Bank  announced its plan for
working with the euro area’s firewall. This week the Brussels-
based European Commission announced its plan for creating a
common bank supervisor, which must be operational for the rescue
funds to be able to lend directly to banks.  At their meeting in Cyprus, officials will also hear a 
presentation from Bank of Finland GovernorErkki Liikanen, who 
has been asked by EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  to lead a group considering bank structures.   The ESRB is a group chaired by ECB President  Mario Draghi 
and hosted at the central bank’s headquarters in Frankfurt, with
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  as his deputy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 