-- Europeans Favor Obama Over ‘Unknown’ Romney, Survey Indicates
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-09-12T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/europeans-favor-obama-over-unknown-romney-survey-indicates.html
Europeans expressed barely
diminished enthusiasm for President  Barack Obama  four years
after he burst onto the international scene, yearning for his
re-election over the “unknown”  Mitt Romney , a poll showed.  Some 75 percent of Europeans would vote for the Democratic
incumbent, only 8 percent for the Republican challenger,
according to a  poll  released today in Brussels by the  German
Marshall Fund  of the  United States  and the Italian foundation
 Compagnia di San Paolo .  While Obama’s European approval rating slipped to 71
percent from a post-inauguration 83 percent, he continued to
exceed the 20 percent that  George W. Bush  left office with.
Europeans had more enthusiasm for Obama as a leadership icon
than for his policies, with 48 percent endorsing his approach to
the Afghan war and 49 percent his response to  Iran ’s nuclear
ambitions.  “What this survey shows is that, regardless of who is
elected in November, the trans-Atlantic challenges are real,”
GMF President Craig Kennedy said in an e-mailed statement.  The poll was conducted in June, before Romney went on an
international tour that drew far smaller crowds than Obama’s
2008 campaign swing across Europe culminating with a speech to a
throng of 200,000 in Berlin.  Romney had a bumpier ride on a trip to Europe and Israel in
July, drawing fire in the U.K. for questioning London’s
readiness for the Olympics and being forced to defuse an aide’s
assertion that he would back a unilateral Israeli strike on
Iran.  Same Stage  Romney was an unknown quantity to 38 percent of Europeans,
the poll showed. That figure contrasted with 14 percent who
didn’t know Obama and 24 percent who didn’t know  John McCain ,
the Republican candidate, at the same stage of the 2008
campaign.  Other highlights from the survey:  Iranian nuclear dispute: 28 percent in Europe and 32
percent in the U.S. called for sanctions on Iran. In case
economic pressure fails, 18 percent in the U.S. would take
military action, compared to 7 percent in Europe.  Non-intervention in Syria: 59 percent in Europe, 57 percent
in Turkey and 55 percent in the U.S. want to stay out of the
conflict in Syria.  Afghan exit: 68 percent in the U.S. and 75 percent in
Europe favor a partial or full pullout from  Afghanistan , 11
years after the U.S.-led invasion.  The annual survey of 15,500 people was conducted in 12
European Union countries,  Turkey , Russia and the U.S. between
June 2-27. The margin of error is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  