-- Euro-Region Industrial Output Rose More Than Forecast in July
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-09-12T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/euro-region-industrial-output-rose-more-than-forecast-in-july.html
Euro-area  industrial production 
increased more than economists forecast in July, as increasing
output in  Germany  helped offset decreases in countries from
 Spain  to the Netherlands.  Output in the 17-nation euro area advanced 0.6 percent from
June, when it fell 0.6 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had projected a gain
of 0.1 percent, the median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. From a year ago, production fell 2.3 percent.  European manufacturers are seeking ways to lower costs as
the euro region’s deepening economic slump, faltering global
growth and budget cuts from Spain to  Italy  erode export and
consumer demand. Euro-area manufacturing contracted more than
initially estimated in August and  economic confidence  fell to a
three-year low as governments struggled to contain the turmoil.  “We’re limping into the second half of the year,”  George Magnus , a senior economic adviser at  UBS AG (UBSN)  in  London , told  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television on Sept. 10.
“We’re not in a global recession, but it’s going to be a close-
run thing in 2013.”  Euro-area output of  capital goods  led gains, rising 2.4
percent in July from the previous month, when it fell 1.2
percent, today’s report showed. Production of durable  consumer
goods  fell 0.5 percent, while output of intermediate goods rose
0.1 percent. Energy production slipped 1.2 percent.  Waning Confidence  Europe’s economy may struggle to gather strength after
shrinking 0.2 percent in the second quarter, with at least five
nations including Italy and Spain in recession. In Germany,
Europe’s largest economy,  business confidence  fell for a fourth
month in August and investors also grew more pessimistic.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said on Sept. 6 that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis is hurting growth
across Group of Seven economies, calling it the “most important
risk” for the global economy. It also cut its 2012 economic
forecasts for the largest euro-area economies including Germany.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, last month reported its first drop in quarterly
profit in almost three years and warned that Europe’s debt
crisis could cast further clouds on the global growth outlook.
MAN SE, the German truckmaker that lowered its 2012 earnings
forecast in July, said on on Aug. 31 it may cut production
shifts and eliminate additional temporary staff.  U.S., China  Euro-area unemployment held at 11.3 percent in July, a
record, as companies from Ireland to Spain eliminated jobs. A
gauge of manufacturers’ employment expectations declined in
August, a report by the European Commission showed on Aug. 30.  Economies around the globe are also faltering. In the U.S.,
manufacturing contracted for a third month in August in the
longest decline since the recession ended in 2009.  China ’s
manufacturing last month shrank at the fastest pace since March
2009, the purchasing managers’ index released on Sept. 3 by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed.  So far, Germany’s expansion has helped counter some of the
impact of tougher austerity measures. German industrial output
rose 1.3 percent in July from the previous month, when it
slipped 0.4 percent, today’s report showed. Italy and Spain
reported monthly declines of 0.2 percent. The Netherlands
reported a drop of 0.8 percent, while  France  had a gain of 0.3
percent and Greece reported an increase of 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  