-- Mexican Bonds Slump as Optimism for Europe Saps Refuge Demand
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-09-12T22:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/mexican-bonds-slump-as-optimism-for-europe-saps-refuge-demand.html
Mexico’s peso bonds dropped,
pushing yields to their highest level since June, as optimism
for progress on  Europe ’s debt crisis and bets on more  Federal
Reserve  stimulus damped demand for assets seen as a refuge.  Yields on Mexican peso bonds due in 2024 rose for a fifth
day, increasing four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
5.7 percent at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.43 centavo to 137.84 centavos per
peso. The yield was the highest since June 20. The peso slid 0.2
percent to 13.0143 per dollar.  Mexican debt dropped along with  U.S. Treasuries  after
Germany’s top constitutional court rejected efforts to block a
permanent euro-area rescue. The securities also slid on
speculation the Federal Reserve will announce a third round of
bond purchases tomorrow, according to Kenneth Lam, a Latin
America currency and rates strategist at Citigroup Inc.  “Mainly it’s because of Treasuries,” Lam said by phone
from  New York . “We’ve seen yields backing up because of just in
general the positive risk sentiment.”  The 60-day correlation coefficient between 10-year Mexican
 government bonds  and similar-maturity Treasuries increased to
0.33 today, the highest level in almost a year. A reading of 1
means the two securities move in lockstep while -1 indicates
they move in opposite directions.  The Fed will probably announce a third round of bond
purchases tomorrow, according to almost two-thirds of economists
in a Bloomberg survey, while also extending the duration of its
zero-interest-rate policy into 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  