-- Fairfax Case Against Morgan Keegan, Exis Dismissed
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/fairfax-lawsuit-against-morgan-keegan-exis-dismissed-by-judge.html
Broker-dealer Morgan Keegan & Co.
and Exis Capital Management persuaded a judge to dismiss a $3.2
billion lawsuit by insurer  Fairfax (FFH)  Financial Holdings Ltd. over
what it said was a campaign of false negative information.  Superior Court Judge Donald Coburn threw out Fairfax’s
commercial-disparagement lawsuit just before a trial was set to
begin yesterday in Morristown, New Jersey.  Fairfax, which owns stakes in Canadian and U.S. insurers,
claimed that Exis and Morgan Keegan, now known as Raymond James
Morgan Keegan, coordinated with stock analysts to drive down its
share price by spreading false rumors in a so-called bear raid.
Coburn dismissed some of the case Sept. 11 and some yesterday.  The judge ruled that while “it’s clear here that there was
evidence of intent to adversely affect the actual business
dealings” of Fairfax, the Toronto-based company wasn’t entitled
to damages under  New Jersey  law, according to a transcript of
his Sept. 11 ruling.  Fairfax wasn’t entitled to damages it claimed for the sale
and repurchase of stock, notes and debentures issued and
repurchased, lost income and earnings, or legal fees, according
to Coburn’s ruling. Other judges had dismissed other counts and
defendants from the 2006 lawsuit.  ‘Day One’  “Today’s ruling is in keeping with what we have said since
day one: Our company plays by the rules and this lawsuit should
never have been filed in the first place,”  Adam Sender ,  fund
manager  at Exis, said yesterday in a statement. “Our plan is to
move forward and work to reestablish Exis Capital as one of the
leading  hedge funds  in the world.”  Sender and Exis Capital Chief Operating Officer Andrew Heller were also defendants dismissed by the judge.  Steve Hollister, a spokesman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based
Morgan Keegan, declined to comment on the judge’s ruling.  On June 27, Superior Court Judge Stephan Hansbury, who
previously handled the case, ruled that Fairfax had “suffered
massive pecuniary/economic loss in this case.” He dismissed
some of the counts by Fairfax. Seven of the eight hedge funds
that Fairfax originally sued, including  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP, earlier won dismissal from the case.  “We strongly disagree with the decision that the massive
damage caused by that indisputable and intentional conduct is
not recoverable,” Michael Bowe, a Fairfax attorney, said in an
e-mail. “We will appeal this erroneous ruling and are confident
the appellate court will find there is a remedy for what the
trial court has described as ‘a scheme of tremendous
proportions.’”  Consent Judgment  On Sept. 11, Coburn signed a consent judgment between
Fairfax and Spyro Contogouris, an independent analyst who
allegedly harassed company officials with phone calls and a
visit to Fairfax offices.  The judgment said that Contogouris and his research firm,
MI4 Reconnaissance, are liable to Fairfax. It also said he may
not call, visit, e-mail or text message any executives at
Fairfax. Nor may he post anything on the Internet about Fairfax
or trade its stock. Fairfax’s complaint against Contogouris was
dismissed and could be filed again, according to the judgment.  Fairfax claimed Contogouris was hired by the hedge funds to
help with a broad scheme to drive down Fairfax’s shares so that
the funds would profit by betting on a decline. As part of the
plan, Contogouris and the funds sent a letter to Fairfax Chief
Executive Officer  Prem Watsa ’s pastor in Toronto, saying Watsa
was cheating his shareholders, Fairfax alleged.  A phone number listed in Contogouris’s name in  New Orleans 
rang without answer. His lawyer, Michael Critchley, didn’t
immediately return a call yesterday seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  