-- Princeton Endowment Expected to Rise Less Than 5% in Year
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/fdic-pushes-banks-to-make-market-out-of-unbanked-americans.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
has a simple message for banks about poorer Americans: They
could be good customers, and their numbers are growing.  U.S. households without bank accounts grew by 821,000 from
2009 to 2011, pushing the so-called unbanked population to 8.2
percent of the nation’s total, according to the FDIC’s National
Survey of Unbanked and Underbanked Households.  The result is that about 17 million adults manage their
finances without checking or  savings accounts  at insured
institutions, many of them relying instead on non-banks such as
payday lenders and check-cashing stores.  “Insured financial institutions have an important chance
to grow their customer base by expanding opportunities that
bring unbanked and underbanked individuals into mainstream
banking,” Martin J. Gruenberg, the FDIC’s acting chairman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The agency released  the report  in conjunction with a
conference to explore ways banks could profit by serving this
population.  The FDIC and consumer advocates have sought to shed light
on the unbanked -- those without bank accounts -- and
underbanked -- those who rely on alternative services even
though they have bank accounts -- as a first step toward
promoting use of insured lenders instead of non-bank products,
which can have high fees and  interest rates .  The study, conducted in 2011, revealed that 1 in 12 U.S.
households, are unbanked. That is up 0.6 percentage points from
the first study, conducted in 2009.  Underbanked Households  The FDIC’s findings are “an extremely negative
development,” National Community Reinvestment Coalition
spokesman Eric Hersey said in an e-mail. “We already knew that
there has been a constriction in lending; now we know that there
has been a serious constriction in basic banking services.”  One in five households, or 20.1 percent, were underbanked
in 2011, according to the FDIC report. The agency said it used a
different methodology to measure the rate in 2009, when it found
18.2 percent underbanked.  Unbanked households vary significantly by ethnicity,
according to the 2011 report. Black households were 21.4 percent
unbanked, and Hispanics registered a 20.1 percent rate, while
American Indians were at 14.5 percent. White and Asian
households were at 4 percent and 2.7 percent, respectively.  The FDIC has increased its focus on the subject of
underbanked Americans over the last few years. In 2010, it
created a new division of depositor and consumer protection,
which works on the issue as well.  Pilot Program  In 2011, the FDIC ran a “Model Safe Accounts” pilot
program designed to explore the feasibility of checking and
savings accounts designed for underserved populations.  In an April 26 report on the program, the FDIC concluded
that the market was ripe for the entry of insured banks. Nine
participating banks were able to acquire and retain customers,
while keeping their own costs down.  “The results of this one-year pilot suggest that
opportunities exist for financial institutions to offer safe,
low-cost transaction and savings accounts,” the report states.  Cleveland , Ohio-based  KeyCorp (KEY)  offers an account aimed in
part at the unbanked. Reduced to the bare bones of a checking
account -- it has no paper checks -- the new product has been
successful, said David Bowen, a director at KeyBank for
community bank product management and specialty programs.  “You cannot overdraft the account,” Bowen said at the
FDIC conference yesterday. And because you don’t have checks,
there’s no way to bounce an item.’’  Low Risk  Without these features, there is a very low risk that the
bank would lose money. So, “for all intents and purposes it’s
free,” Bowen said.  Mary Monahan, executive vice president and research
director at Pleasanton, California-based Javelin Strategy &
Research, questioned whether low to medium-income people will
ever have the money to establish a long-term link with a bank.  “First and foremost, there’s the issue of money keeping
underbanked under-banked,” Monahan wrote in a June 14 blog
post. “They just don’t have the funds to maintain an
extravagant banking relationship; their income is lower and
their budget is tight.”  For some banks, customers with deposits and investments of
less than $100,000 may be unappealing. In February,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, said about 70
percent of such customers will be unprofitable following
regulations that cap lenders’ fees.  At yesterday’s conference Gruenberg questioned the
relationship between a person’s income and banking status,
noting that 47.6 percent of households with less than $15,000 in
annual income were fully banked.  “How is it that they have an account and how do they
utilize those accounts?” Gruenberg asked. “How have these
households which represent nearly half of that group found a way
to a full account relationship?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  