-- Fed Likely to Push Zero-Rate to 2015, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-09-12T14:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/fed-likely-to-push-zero-rate-to-2015-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
There’s a “high probability” the
 Federal Reserve  will say that it’s extending the duration of its
zero- interest-rate  policy into 2015, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian.  The central bank is likely to announce a third round of
bond purchases, known as quantatitive easing, or QE3, at the
conclusion of tomorrow’s policy meeting, according to almost
two-thirds of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Two rounds of
bond purchases totaling $2.3 trillion have failed to breathe
life into the labor market, with unemployment stuck above 8
percent for 43 straight months, which Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said last month is a “grave concern.”  “We suspect that the most likely outcome will be a change
in the forward guidance language to go well into 2015,” El-
Erian, the chief executive officer of the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, said in a “Bloomberg Surveillance”
radio interview with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. A “high
possibility is you may get QE3, either now or by December.”  The U.S. central bank is unlikely to cut the interest rate
it pays banks on reserves, intended to spur lending, or to
target growth in gross domestic product, El-Erian said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  plans to release a
statement tomorrow at about 12:30 p.m. after a two-day meeting.
At 2 p.m. the Fed will release policy makers’ forecasts for
unemployment, inflation and the expected path of the federal
funds rate over the next several years. Bernanke plans to hold a
press conference at about 2:15 p.m.  Global Growth  While the Fed and the  European Central Bank  can help avoid
or mitigate a crisis, or so-called tail risk, they can’t
necessarily create a “better growth outcome,” El-Erian said.
Last week, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank was
ready to buy unlimited quantities of short-dated government
bonds of nations signed up to rescues.  The global economy is forecast to expand 2.27 percent this
year and 2.7 percent in 2013, compared with 2.87 percent in
2011, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  For better growth “you need other policy makers to come in
and so far other policy makers have not come in,” El-Erian
said. “At the end, we need to do something with the functioning
of our labor market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  