-- Fink Belies Being Boring Telling Customers to Buy Stocks
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2012-09-12T23:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/fink-belies-being-boring-telling-customers-to-buy-stocks.html
In June 2008,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  was desperately trying to figure out
what to do with its $80 billion in money-losing credit-default
swaps, which were backed by mortgages. Then  Larry Fink  came
calling.  The chief executive officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  was pitching
his firm’s proprietary software to value the derivatives, says
Robert Willumstad, AIG’s then-newly installed CEO. Willumstad
hired BlackRock, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
October special issue on the 50 Most Influential people in
global finance.  Fink’s team wrapped up their assignment that August,
advising AIG to hold the derivatives until the housing market
improved. Just weeks later, on Sept. 14, Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. declared bankruptcy and the markets tanked, taking
the derivatives -- and AIG -- down with them. When the U.S.
government bailed out AIG two days later, it ousted Willumstad,
and the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  stepped in. The New
York Fed needed someone to manage AIG’s toxic assets. It, too,
turned to Fink.  If a beleaguered government or a giant corporation is
wrestling with a financial conundrum, BlackRock’s Fink will
often be the first one to step in. His client list includes the
governments of Germany, Greece, Ireland and Sweden as well as
companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   ‘Boring’ Model  “Fifteen years ago, everybody thought our business model
was boring,” Fink, 59, says of his firm’s focus on managing
money for institutions. “ Wall Street  was much more trendy.”  Now, with big banks under increasing scrutiny from
regulators, customers and shareholders, BlackRock’s business has
gotten a lot more interesting.  “They built this entity that was incredibly in demand once
the credit bubble popped and there was so much challenge in
valuing assets,” says  Gregory Fleming , a former president of
Merrill Lynch & Co. who helped BlackRock go public in 1999.  Willumstad says he preferred BlackRock to an investment
bank. “In the midst of the crisis, most of the banks themselves
were part of the problem,” he says.  While Fink has expanded his influence with such high-profile assignments as sorting through the wreckage of Bear
Stearns Cos. and AIG, the advisory business only represented
about 6 percent of BlackRock’s $9.08 billion in revenue last
year. The company still depends for the bulk of its profit on
its “boring” model: the fees it earns from managing other
people’s money.  World’s Largest  Today, BlackRock is the world’s largest money manager, with
assets of $3.56 trillion as of June 30 -- about the same size as
Germany’s gross domestic product last year. The company’s two
biggest businesses are its actively managed bond and stock funds
and its exchange-traded funds, which typically hold baskets of
securities that track an industry or a market benchmark.  Being the biggest isn’t enough for Fink, a former  First
Boston Corp. (CS)  mortgage trader who started BlackRock in 1988 with
seven colleagues and $1 billion. Now he wants to increase the
company’s reach with mom-and-pop investors. Fink says
individuals should put more of their retirement money in riskier
products such as  hedge funds , real estate and private equity.  Pushing Equities  “People are shying away from equities, which I happen to
think is wrong,” says Fink, who during a July interview wears a
cream-colored shirt with ladybug-shaped cuff links. He has a
golden tan from gardening and hiking in North Salem, New York,
where he and his wife, Lori, own a house.  “I don’t see how you make your necessary return earning
1.5 percent on the 10-year U.S. Treasury bill. You will not have
the pool of savings that you need to retire.”  Not coincidentally, the riskier offerings are areas where
BlackRock is expanding and where the fees it earns are higher
than those for plain stock and bond funds.  Opinionated and plain-spoken, Fink has been taking public
stances more frequently, whether it’s to admonish U.S. President
 Barack Obama  to reduce the national debt or to advocate for more
regulation and transparent labeling of ETFs. “Larry’s very
forthright,” says Ken Langone, a co-founder of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
who served on the board of directors of the New York Stock
Exchange in 2003 with Fink. “When you get down to talking to
Larry, you know exactly where Larry is. Exactly.”  Backs Obama  The son of a shoe salesman and an English professor, Fink
says he’s a lifelong Democrat who raised funds for Obama in 2008
and backs him for re-election.  Fink’s frankness extends to owning up to his firm’s
mistakes, says Ralph Schlosstein, a co-founder of BlackRock who
left in 2007 and is now at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , a boutique
investment bank. When the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the biggest U.S. public pension fund, took a
$500 million loss in 2009 for its stake in BlackRock’s failed
investment in the Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village apartment
complex in New York, Fink apologized personally to the fund’s
board. “If clients don’t get perfection, that upsets him,”
Schlosstein says.  So far, Fink hasn’t been able to assuage customers who are
unhappy with the returns of BlackRock’s stock and bond funds.
Investors withdrew $13.7 billion more than they deposited in
these funds last year, while its smaller rival Pacific
Investment Management Co. had net deposits of $60 billion. In
the three years ended on June 30, BlackRock’s actively managed
mutual funds trailed 54 percent of their peers on an annualized
basis, according to Morningstar Inc. data.  Shrinking Lead  BlackRock became the world’s largest manager of ETFs with
its purchase in 2009 of Barclays Global Investors Inc., yet its
lead is shrinking. BlackRock’s U.S. market share declined 1.6
percentage points this year, to 41 percent as of July 31, while
rival Vanguard Group Inc. gained 1.8 points to 18 percent,
according to data from  State Street Global Advisors , the No. 2
ETF firm, with 24 percent of the market. And Vanguard attracted
$33.9 billion in the first seven months of this year, 73 percent
more than BlackRock’s $19.6 billion.  BlackRock’s sheer size has made some of its potential
customers wary. In April, Spain decided against hiring the
company to carry out stress tests on the country’s banks because
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos feared it would be conflicted.  “Don’t you think BlackRock wants to buy assets in Spain?”
he told  Bloomberg News  at the time. “If you are going to be the
referee and at the same time you want to buy assets, there’s a
very clear conflict of interest.”  Spanish Debt  BlackRock’s head of global rates investments said in June
that the firm was looking for ways to invest in Spanish debt.
Fink says there wouldn’t have been any conflict because
BlackRock keeps the management of its client investments
separate from its advisory activities.  “BlackRock is so large and they’re interconnected to so
many investments; just by nature it’s hard for them to be
independent,” says  Mark Williams , a former Federal Reserve Bank
examiner who teaches risk management at  Boston University . “If
they throw themselves into a consulting role, they increase the
chance of insider conflicts.”  Advising clients is BlackRock’s fastest-growing business,
with Fink forecasting an increase of 15 to 20 percent annually
during the next three years. Fink hired former Swiss central
banker Philipp Hildebrand to oversee the firm’s relationships
with non-U.S. clients. Fink spends much of his time visiting
clients in London, Hong Kong and Dubai, pitching his firm’s
proprietary software, which is an outgrowth of a program created
in 1994 to help GE sell toxic mortgage assets.  Maiden Lane  BlackRock used the same program to manage the AIG and Bear
Stearns assets that the Fed had repackaged into three separate
vehicles named  Maiden Lane I, II and III . By July of this year,
BlackRock had raised enough money selling the debt to investors
to repay all $72.7 billion of the AIG and Bear Stearns bailout
money, plus interest, Fink says.  Could that success, BlackRock’s growing roster of
government clients and Fink’s increased outspokenness on
economic policy mean that he’s grooming himself for a role in a
second Obama administration?  Langone says Fink would make a great  Treasury secretary  to
succeed  Timothy F. Geithner , who plans to step down. “Because of
his judgment, his experience and his leadership capabilities and
his willingness to make tough decisions,” Langone says.  Fink himself demurs. “I love my job,” he says. “I expect to
be here longer than some people have speculated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  