-- France May Act to Protect Wind, Solar-Power Jobs as Growth Slows
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-12T16:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/france-may-act-to-protect-wind-solar-power-jobs-as-growth-slows.html
France  may unveil measures to
safeguard jobs in wind and solar energy after subsidy cuts and
tightening credit markets slowed growth in the industry.  The government may make an announcement during a two-day
environment conference starting Sept. 14 in Paris, according to
an Energy Ministry official who asked not to be identified. The
plan would be an attempt to move quickly to help the industry,
the official said, declining to provide details.  France, like the U.K. and  Germany , has scaled back support
for renewable energies after incentive programs led to runaway
growth, equipment costs fell and economic stagnation curbed
available funds. France put a cap on new solar installations
last year, while wind companies are contending with a cut in the
feed-in tariff, a premium price paid for clean power.  Even with these restrictions, President  Francois Hollande 
is seeking to boost renewable-energy output as he works to
reduce France’s reliance on nuclear power, which accounts for
more than three-quarters of the nation’s electricity output.  The country had 2,503 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity at
the start of the year and is seeking to more than double that by
2020, according to figures from grid operator  Reseau de
Transport d’Electricite . Wind capacity, totaling 6,674 megawatts
at the start of 2012, is seen at 19,000 megawatts in 2020.  Still, the pace of wind installations is slowing, with 875
megawatts connected to the grid last year, short of the 1,400
megawatts needed to meet the 2020 target, trade lobby  Syndicat
des Energies Renouvelables  said last month. “France’s wind
energy sector is in danger,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  