-- Fraport Advances as Traffic Rises Amid Walkout: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-09-12T10:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/fraport-advances-as-traffic-rises-amid-walkout-frankfurt-mover.html
Fraport AG, the owner of  Europe ’s
third-biggest airport, gained the most in six months as
passenger traffic across its airports grew in the face of a
strike in  Germany .  The shares  climbed  as much as 4.6 percent, the steepest
intraday gain since March 8. They traded 3.8 percent higher at
46.60 euros as of 12:18 p.m. in Frankfurt. Passenger traffic
grew 5.2 percent in August from a year earlier, even while cabin
crew at  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , the company’s main client, walked
out one day that month, Fraport said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “Fraport achieved a new August monthly record,” despite
the strike, which reduced passenger figures by 28,000,  Jochen Rothenbacher , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet, said in a
note to clients.  Fraport is expanding its capacity with a new runway and
enlarged passenger facilities at its marquee Frankfurt facility.
It opened a 760 million-euro ($980 million) fourth runway there
in October, lifting capacity to 700,000 flights a year from
500,000, and will open an extension to Terminal 1, Lufthansa’s
hub, next month.  Lufthansa agreed to enter mediated talks with its main
cabin crew union Sept. 7 after three days of strikes culminated
in a walkout which forced the cancellation of more than half the
carrier’s services. The first strike, on Aug. 31, led to the
cancellation of 251 flights in  Frankfurt , Fraport said today.
The second walkout came on Sept. 4.  Share Performance  Fraport, which also operates Turkey’s Antalya airport and
Peru’s Lima airport, has gained 23 percent this year, valuing
the company at 4.3 billion euros. Lufthansa, Europe’s second-
biggest airline, has  gained  17 percent this year, for a
valuation of 4.9 billion euros.  Air freight volumes declined 4.1 percent in August compared
to a year earlier, Fraport said. Frankfurt was hit by a court
ban on all flights between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. last October, a
decision which predominantly affected cargo flights. The volume
decline was also due to “the uncertain development of the world
economy,” Equinet analyst Rothenbacher said in the note.  Fraport is “well on track to reach a full-year growth of
less than 4 percent,” said Rothenbacher, who has an accumulate
recommendation on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  