-- French Drillers Call for Shale Experiments to Calm Debate
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-12T08:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/french-drillers-call-for-shale-experiments-to-calm-debate.html
France  should carry out
experimental drilling for shale oil and natural gas, which the
country’s anti-fracking law would allow even though the
government has so far resisted, an energy lobby said.  “We’re hoping this tiny little door won’t be closed,”
Jean-Louis Schilansky, head of Paris-based Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres or UFIP, said in a telephone interview.
“This could help get past the terrible controversy that has
developed on shale in France.”  French energy companies including  Total SA (FP)  are preparing
arguments through UFIP in favor of home-grown research into
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the process used to release
the fuel from shale rock, ahead of a Sept. 14-15 environment
conference organized by the government. France banned fracking
on concern the process, which involves blasting rock with water,
sand and chemicals, harms the environment.  Schilansky as well as the Paris daily Le Figaro, citing an
unidentified participant, said a shale-related commission may be
created in an announcement at this week’s conference. UFIP is
pushing for the creation by the government of a publicly
controlled commission to oversee shale experiments.  French parliament passed legislation last year outlawing
the process over concerns it pollutes drinking water,
effectively halting plans by Total and other companies to
explore for shale gas in southern France. Fracking is widely
used in the U.S., including by Total, to produce gas.  Shale Future?  Debate over the future of shale energy in France has
resurfaced since the May election of Socialist President
 Francois Hollande . Hollande is scheduled to open the conference.  Environment Minister Delphine Batho and Industry Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  have made comments on shale prospects that are
contradictory, leaving the industry and anti-fracking groups
thinking the ban may be softened.  While Batho has said the fracking ban will stand,
Montebourg said the topic should be debated. Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault, scheduled to close the conference, said
France must put all aspects of the shale debate “on the
table.”  Batho today “categorically denied” the door would be
opened to shale exploration experiments, the AFP news agency
reported, citing the minister.  “I can understand it’s tempting to develop shale energy,”
Nicolas Hulot, an environmental activist who favors a shale
moratorium, said on RTL radio. “I would be very surprised if
there is a complete about-turn” in policy.  Poland and France are the countries in  Europe  with the
biggest potentially recoverable reserves of shale gas, according
to the  International Energy Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  