-- French Yields Ignore Hollande Economy to Touch Lows: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-09-12T08:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/french-yields-ignore-hollande-economy-to-touch-lows-euro-credit.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
never misses an opportunity to boast about his country’s record-
low bond yields. Trouble is, they may have little to do with him
or his policies.  Euro-area worries -- from  Greece ’s budget woes and a German
court ruling on the region’s bailout fund to anti-austerity
candidates gaining support ahead of today’s Dutch vote -- have
sent investors scurrying to the relative safety of French debt.
Investors drove yields below zero at a French bills sale last
week and pushed 10-year borrowing costs to 2.21 percent, the
lowest at an auction since at least 1999.  “What’s keeping French yields low is event risks ahead:
Greece is still an issue; the German Constitutional Court’s
decision is a risk; and we have an election in the
Netherlands,” said  Michael Leister , a strategist at Commerzbank
AG in  London . “ France  still offers safety in this environment.
Hollande is working on reforms and that’s important, but it’s
the situation in the euro region more than anything French
specific that gets French yields to these levels.”  Hollande faces an economy that hasn’t grown in three
quarters and joblessness is at a 13-year high. The French
president is also struggling to plug a budget hole of more than
30 billion euros ($37 billion) for next year.  “The state borrows on the market at rates that are
historically low,” he said in an interview on TF1 Television on
Sept. 9. “But can we be sure it will last? I’m proud that
France is among countries that has the capacity to borrow at
such low rates, but we can’t just bank on this situation.”  Beating AAAs  The French 10-year yield was at 2.2 percent today, about 20
basis points higher than the record-low reached on Aug. 3 and
down from 2.89 percent on the last trading day before Hollande’s
election on May 6.  While France was stripped of its AAA rating for the first
time this year by  Standard & Poor’s , since the end of June its
bonds have outperformed those of euro-area countries with the
top credit ranking.  French  government securities  returned 3.1 percent in the
period, beating 0.6 percent for German bunds,  Finland ’s 1.5
percent and 1.4 percent for the Netherlands, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data.  Investors were lured by France’s stability relative to
countries such as  Spain  and  Italy  in  Europe ’s so-called
periphery and reassured by Hollande’s consistent reiteration of
his goal to cut the  budget deficit  to 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year and 3 percent next year from 5.2
percent in 2011.  ‘By Default’  “France wins out by default,” said Gareth Fielding, chief
investment officer at Quantum Global Wealth Management in Zug,
 Switzerland , which manages about $6 billion. “We are buying
French securities not because we love French fundamentals;
Hollande’s trying to meet his deficit target by raising taxes,
but he will miss his growth target doing that. We buy French
bonds because yields in the core market are so low, and we are
not willing to accept the high risk of Italy or Spain.”  The French bonds rally came as the  European Central Bank 
cut its main interest rate to a record low and reduced its
deposit rate to zero as the euro area teetered on the verge of
recession and Spanish and Italian 10-year bond yields climbed
above 6 percent. Then on Sept. 6, ECB President  Mario Draghi  set
out a plan to aid countries where bond yields have soared after
leaving  interest rates  unchanged at the record-low 0.75 percent.  The ECB will acquire unlimited amounts of bonds with
maturities of as much as three years, issued by nations that
request aid from the European Union’s bailout funds. The central
bank also gave up seniority over other investors in a default.  ‘Teflon’ Bonds  The moves helped cut the Spanish 10-year yield to about 5.7
percent and the Italian one to 5.1 percent.  They may also have made France the “eurozone’s Teflon bond
market,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in London.  “France’s sovereign debt market has entered something of a
sweet spot,” he said. “It has benefitted as much from bouts of
 risk aversion  towards Spain and Italy as it has from periods of
increased risk appetite.”  Hollande’s insistence that France will stick to its
deficit-cutting targets is aimed at staying in that spot.  On Sept. 9, Hollande gave himself a two-year window to fix
the economy as he announced a freeze in  government spending  and
30 billion euros in deficit-reduction measures to be included in
next year’s budget to reach his fiscal targets.  ‘Renewed Worry’  He also cut the 2013 growth forecast to 0.8 percent from
1.2 and announced measures including 10 billion euros in
spending curbs, 10 billion euros in corporate taxes and 10
billion euros in levies on individuals.  For now, investors are “giving Hollande the benefit of the
doubt,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA
Capital Markets in Edinburgh. That may not last if Hollande is
unable to revive the economy, he said.  The premium France pays over  Germany  to borrow for a
decade, which fell below 60 basis points for the first time in
more than a year on Aug. 15, was at 58 basis points today.  “The spread suggests investors still have some confidence
that Hollande will stick to his fiscal consolidation pledge,”
Stamenkovic said. “He hasn’t committed any major political
mistakes and that works for him with the investment community.”  The real test will be the budget for next year, he said.
French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault is set to present the
2013 budget the week of Sept. 24.  “The market will want to look at the details of the
budget,” Stamenkovic said. “The risk is that the weakness of
the French economy could prompt renewed worry that France may
miss its target, and we can see a backup in French yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  