-- GDF Suez Request to Raise Gas Prices Is Too High, State Says
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-12T14:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/gdf-suez-request-to-raise-gas-prices-is-too-high-state-says-1-.html
France ’s government rejected a
request by  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , the operator of the country’s natural-
gas network, to raise customer prices, saying it was too high.  “In its current form it’s not acceptable,” Najat Vallaud-
Belkacem, a government spokeswoman, said today following the
weekly cabinet meeting.  GDF Suez, France’s former gas monopoly, has asked for a 7
percent jump in tariffs from Oct. 1,  Le Figaro  reported today,
without saying where it got the information. The change accounts
for variations in the cost of supply and makes up for past
government failures to pass on costs, the newspaper said.  The government will make a statement on gas prices early
next week, according to an Energy Ministry official who asked
not to be named. GDF Suez declined to comment.  GDF Suez has long disputed  gas prices  with the government,
which holds a 35 percent stake in the company and has resisted
rate changes considered politically unpalatable. The state
granted a 2 percent increase in August, which the  regulator  said
wouldn’t cover GDF Suez’s costs and should have been 7.3
percent.  The Paris-based company took the former government to court
last year over its failure to pass on supply costs to consumers
after freezing prices. The cost is calculated using a formula
that takes into account oil and gas prices from long-term
contracts as well as the  spot market , and currency fluctuations.  The government last week unveiled a draft law to make gas
and power more affordable for low-income households and energy-
efficient consumers. Debate in parliament on the so-called
progressive tariffs law will start next week, according to the
ministry official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  