-- GE Said to Weigh Possible Sale of Bank of Ayudhya Stake
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-09-12T20:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/ge-said-to-weigh-possible-sale-of-bank-of-ayudhya-stake.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is considering
options including a sale of its $2.2 billion stake in  Bank of
Ayudhya Pcl (BAY) , Thailand’s fifth-largest lender, said two people
with knowledge of the matter.  GE may contact potential buyers including Malayan Banking
Bhd., said one of the people, who asked not to be identified as
the deliberations are private. GE owns 33 percent of  Bank of
Ayudhya , which has a market value of 206.5 billion baht ($6.7
billion), data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is shrinking the  GE
Capital  unit after $32 billion of credit losses in the financial
crisis. GE has sold at least $3.9 billion of assets so far this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The largest deal was the
$2.5 billion sale of Business Property Lending Inc. to EverBank
Financial Corp, announced in July.  “GE could receive a very good price from this sale,” said
Sasikorn Charoensuwan, the head of research at Phillip
Securities (Thailand) Pcl. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company would get “strong interest for its stake.”  GE, whose businesses range from GE Capital to making  jet
engines  and refrigerators, gained 1.4 percent to $21.89 at the
close in New York, the highest since October 2008. Bank of
Ayudhya jumped 6.3 percent today to close at the highest since
November 1997.  The lender’s stock has more than doubled since GE first
invested $584 million in Bank of Ayudhya in January 2007, paying
16 baht a share.  Maybank (MAY) , which last year acquired Singaporean
brokerage Kim Eng Holdings Ltd., has said it would consider
buying a Thai lender.  Thai Ambitions  Bank of Ayudhya trades at  1.9 times  book value, higher than
the average of 1.71 times among publicly traded Thai banks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock closed at 34
baht in Bangkok, taking gains this year to 55 percent.  “We regularly evaluate our strategic options for our
investments,” GE Capital said in an e-mailed response to
questions from  Bloomberg News . “In the meantime, we continue to
work closely with the Bank to strengthen its business
franchise.”  A Maybank official declined to comment.  Maybank, Malaysia’s biggest lender, will consider buying a
retail bank in Thailand to expand its operations in  Southeast
Asia , CEO Abdul Wahid Omar said in August last year. Maybank
bought Kim Eng for $1.4 billion in 2011, and has also made
investments in lenders in Vietnam and Pakistan.  Loan Expansion  “It would be good for Maybank if it’s true as it will give
them a foothold in Thailand,” Lim Sue Lin, an analyst at
HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn., said of a possible purchase of
Bank of Ayudhya. The Thai lender “is a good bank.”  Since GE’s investment, Bank of Ayudhya has expanded its
retail banking business by acquiring  credit card  and consumer
loans businesses from GE Capital,  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  The lender’s net income jumped 23
percent to 7.13 billion baht in the first half from a year
earlier.  Thailand ’s economy has recovered this year as consumption
rebounded following last year’s floods, and the government
forecasts growth will reach 6 percent for 2012. Loan expansion
accelerated to 14.2 percent in the second quarter and non-
performing debts fell, according to Bank of Thailand.  Among 34 analysts covering Bank of Ayudhya, 20 rate the
stock a “buy,” 13 have a “hold” recommendation and one
advises investors to sell the shares, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  