-- German Decision on Euro Fund Is Good, But Not Enough
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-12T16:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/german-decision-on-euro-fund-is-good-but-not-enough.html
The euro dodged another bullet with
today’s decision by  Germany ’s constitutional court not to block
the creation of a European Stability Mechanism, the latest just-
in-time measure by the continent’s leaders to save the currency.
That’s good news, but not enough.  Far from being reassured,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  should
take the decision as the starting point for a campaign to
explain to Germans why saving the euro is in their best
interest. If that doesn’t work, she should call a referendum on
Europe.  Had the judges in Karlsruhe refused to allow the fund’s
ratification, Europe’s already sick economy could have imploded,
dragging down the rest of the world with it. So the ruling came
as a huge relief, cheering the equity markets and boosting the
euro.  But the case also shows that Germans remain reluctant as a
nation to do “whatever it takes,” in the words of European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , to rescue the common
currency. That reluctance on the part of the euro area’s main
creditor will probably continue to prevent a lasting solution to
the debt crisis.  That needs to change, and the spectacle of global markets,
governments and central banks awaiting the words of eight
Germans dressed in red robes and white bibs helps explain why.  High Hurdle  The constitutional court placed a heavy condition on its
approval of the  ESM’s ratification  by Germany. Any action by the
fund that would increase German liability, beyond the country’s
190 billion-euro ($245 billion) capital commitment, would now
require German parliamentary approval. That’s a high hurdle that
Merkel will try to avoid because her party has proved reluctant
to make such politically unpopular moves. If the 500 billion-euro 
fund doesn’t look big enough at any point, that will perpetuate 
uncertainty in financial markets over whether  Europe  will do 
what’s needed to underwrite  Greece ,  Italy ,  Portugal  or  Spain .  It’s understandable that Germans want to control a process
that could impose unlimited liability on their economy for the
mistakes of others. But as we have argued before, a distorted
narrative has taken hold in Germany that has led to a failure to
understand how Germans benefited from the euro; how their
exporting success contributed to southern debt troubles; and how
German banks (which by 2009 had lent $704 billion to Greece,
Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain) gained from the  subsequent
bailouts .  More worrying for the future is a popular failure to
recognize that a euro collapse would probably cost Germans a
great deal more than would a full commitment to rescue troubled
governments. Bloomberg View has calculated that had a permanent
federal transfer system of the kind that exists between states
in the U.S. been set up in 2001, the  total cost  to Germany by
2012 would have been roughly 11 billion euros, or about 0.03
percent of gross domestic product. Of course, that fund doesn’t
exist, so the costs of fixing the euro as a result of the
current crisis would be much higher -- but again, not as high as
the economic collapse that a euro-area breakup might trigger.  Merkel and other German leaders need to start making it
clear to citizens why rescuing other economies would be in
Germany’s national interest -- a case they have failed to make
effectively so far. They have a duty to explain how the euro has
expanded markets for German exports in Europe and created jobs
at home. They also must tell Germans that those markets would
shrivel and the jobs would disappear should the euro break up.
Merkel must also tell Germans that, should the euro disintegrate
due to Germany’s reluctance to foot the bill, the rancor would
inflict lasting damage on the European Union itself.  Union Supporters  That’s a vital point, because while Germans are ambivalent
about the euro, they remain strong supporters of the EU, a
project that brought Germany in from the cold after World War
II, generated prosperity and enabled German reunification after
the collapse of the Soviet bloc.  There are signs that Merkel and Germany’s elite recognize
the risk that the euro crisis will blind Germans to collateral
damage on the EU. Last month, a group of German think tanks,
backed by the country’s big media groups, started a public-
relations campaign called  “I want Europe,”  devoted to reminding
Germans why the EU is still worth protecting. Merkel endorsed
the campaign.  By now, the narrative of bad Greeks and virtuous Germans is
so ensconced that even a frank and determined message from
Merkel might not work. If it doesn’t, she should call a
referendum on whether Europe’s largest economy wants to further
the EU’s integration in a way that will ensure the euro’s long-
term survival. This is something that individual judges on the
German constitutional court and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  have already called for.  A referendum on Europe would delay an end to the prolonged
crisis, and it would be risky -- history shows such referendums
can be lost, even in pro-European countries such as  France ,
Ireland and the Netherlands. It would require an act of great
political courage for Merkel to call one, given that failure
could kill her chances of re-election next year.  Yet the risk that the crisis will deepen through the next
year on the back of uncertainty presents an equal threat to
Merkel’s election prospects. She is more popular than her party
precisely because voters think she has handled the euro crisis
well, helping Germans to escape largely unscathed so far. If
that changes, and the crisis spins out of control, she could
lose the election -- and go down as the German chancellor who
lost Europe.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 