-- German Court’s Backing Bailout Fund to Test EU Resolve
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-09-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/german-court-s-backing-bailout-fund-to-test-eu-resolve-on-crisis.html
German backing for Europe’s bailout
fund quickened the bargaining over a bond-buying program for
 Spain , testing the resolve of government leaders and the
 European Central Bank  to conquer the debt crisis.  Spain is pressing for an ECB intervention with no strings
attached, while creditors led by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
are reluctant to lend more money.  Mario Draghi ’s central bank is
waiting for the two sides to commit before it wades back into
the  bond market .  After yesterday’s “Super Wednesday” in crisis politics
marked by relief over the German supreme court’s endorsement of
the 500 billion-euro ($645 billion) rescue fund, the question of
a credit line or full loan program for Spain is set to dominate
a two-day meeting of finance ministers starting tomorrow in
Nicosia, Cyprus.  “Now we can say that Europe has in place a powerful
backstop in terms of financial support,”  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development  Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan told  Bloomberg Radio ’s Ken Prewitt yesterday. “It does
not fix finally the problem but certainly it is very important
progress.”  Discussions at the finance meeting will also touch on
 Greece ’s bid for easier aid terms and Cyprus’s efforts to escape
a bailout, with no decisions until at least October, a European
official told reporters in Brussels on Sept. 10.  Barroso’s Federation  The officials will also have a first look at yesterday’s
proposals to make the ECB the center of a  bank-supervision
system  -- the newest plank in what European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  labeled a “federation of nation states” that
could take shape starting in 2014.  For now, investors saluted the German decision for Europe’s
crisis-containment strategy, unleashing gains in the euro,
stocks and peripheral countries’ bonds. Spain’s extra  10-year
borrowing cost  over German levels fell to 398 basis points
yesterday from a peak of 638 basis points on July 24.  In  Madrid , Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  took the advance as
a sign that Spain, already tapping 100 billion euros of aid for
its banks, can get by without support from the rescue fund and a
remodeled version of the  ECB bond-purchase program  that briefly
propped up its  debt market  last year.  “I don’t know if it’s necessary for Spain to ask for it,
let’s see how the risk premium evolves,” Rajoy told the Spanish
parliament.  Rajoy’s Choices  Spain would have to negotiate a  credit line  or loan package
from the taxpayer-financed rescue fund before the ECB
intervenes. A fight is brewing over the conditions -- budget
cuts and economic reforms -- with Rajoy saying Spain has already
done enough to deserve the help.  “Any application -- and the court made this very clear
today -- must be approved by the German Bundestag,” Michael Meister, a top lawmaker in Merkel’s party, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Spain is trying to avert the stigma of outsourcing control
over its economic management to creditors, ultimately dominated
by lawmakers in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy and principal
sponsor of 486 billion euros in aid pledged since Greece became
the first crisis victim in early 2010.  The jousting between northern and southern Europe has taken
on a harsher tone, leading Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  on
Sept. 6 to float the idea of “a code of conduct for public
remarks by the people who love to call themselves European
leaders.”  Merkel’s Standing  Merkel’s dominance of the crisis response has split Europe,
earning her favorability ratings of 74 percent in the
Netherlands and 63 percent at home, while 63 percent in Italy
and Spain voice disapproval, according to a  poll  released
yesterday by the  German Marshall Fund  of the  United States .  Voters in the Netherlands, one of four AAA rated countries
left in the euro zone, went to the polls yesterday after a
campaign dominated by economic distress at home and hostility to
further bailouts. The results, pointing to a coalition of the
two biggest parties, suggest no change in Dutch backing for her
austerity-first crisis response.  Now in campaign mode for her own re-election in about a
year, Merkel faces obstacles to getting parliamentary majorities
to spend more bailout money. Equally, there is no Bundestag
majority for kicking Greece out of the euro, making the two-term
chancellor even less likely to take policy risks.  “This is a good day for Germany and it is a good day for
 Europe ,” Merkel told lawmakers in Berlin yesterday. “Germany
once again sends a strong signal to Europe and beyond: Germany
is resolutely fulfilling its responsibilities as the biggest
economy and trusted partner.”  The court decision made Germany the last country to ratify
the permanent rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism,
paving the way for its setup on Oct. 8. It will increase the aid
capacity to 500 billion euros from the 148 billion euros left in
the temporary fund, the  European Financial Stability Facility ,
due to be phased out in mid-2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  