-- German Stocks Rise as Top Court Clears Way for ESM
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-12T15:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/german-stocks-rise-as-top-court-clears-way-for-esm.html
German stocks advanced as the top
constitutional court cleared the way for the country to ratify
the euro-area bailout fund, while imposing some conditions on
its implementation.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second biggest lender, surged 7.2
percent. Fraport AG jumped 5.4 percent as  Frankfurt  aircraft
movements rose in August. Deutsche Lufthansa AG climbed 1.6
percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added 0.5 percent to 7,343.53 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, after earlier rising as much as 1.4
percent. The gauge has risen 23 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged
to preserve the euro and speculation grew the U.S. Federal
Reserve will announce further stimulus. The broader HDAX Index
rose 0.4 percent today.  “It was very important for our court to say yes to the
ESM,” said  Robert Halver , head of capital markets research at
Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt. “A way for getting rid of the
European crisis is definitely available and the markets are
responding to this. The ECB will help find euro-land a way
through in the same way as central banks have in the U.S., Japan
and the U.K.”  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe today
dismissed motions filed by groups including a conservative
lawmaker and an opposition political party that sought to block
the 500 billion-euro ($644 billion) fund, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, and a deficit-control treaty championed by
 Chancellor Angela Merkel .  The court also stipulated that a cap of about 190 billion
euros be set on German liabilities before ESM ratification,
unless parliament decides to back extra funds.  Commerzbank jumped 7.2 percent to 1.58 euros. A gauge of
European lenders was the best performer of the 19 industry
groups on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Fraport Traffic  Fraport gained 5.4 percent to 47.29 euros as Frankfurt
airport aircraft movements rose 1.2 percent in August. The
increase would have been 1.8 percent without the strike-related
cancellation of 251 flights, the company said in a statement.  Lufthansa climbed 1.6 percent to 10.83 euros.  Europe ’s
second-biggest airline has completed its initial Swiss, Austrian
and Brussels Airlines integrations, freeing up resources for it
to look at other targets, according to Copenhagen-based
newspaper Berlingske, which cited an interview with Goetz Ahmelmann, Lufthansa’s vice president for alliances, strategy
and subsidiaries.  Grammer Order  Grammer AG, a German maker of seats for cars, buses and
tractors, gained 5.6 percent to 16 euros after winning an order
from Deutsche Bahn AG for 46,000 train seats.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s second-biggest steelmaker, surged
5.3 percent to 33.76 euros as the stock was raised to buy from
neutral at MainFirst Bank AG.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  fell 3.3 percent to 53.20 euros. The
German maker of polysilicon was the biggest decliner on the
Stoxx 600 Chemicals Index.  Xing AG, the German professional networking provider, slid
3.3 percent to 34.40 euros as the stock was cut to neutral from
overweight by JPMorgan Chase & Co., which set a price forecast
of 41 euros per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  