-- Gilts Fall Third Day as German Court Ruling Damps Safety Demand
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-09-12T15:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/gilts-fall-third-day-as-german-court-ruling-damps-safety-demand.html
U.K. government bonds declined for
a third day after a German court paved the way for the nation’s
participation in  Europe ’s permanent bailout fund, damping demand
for the safest assets.  Ten-year yields climbed to the most since May after
 Germany ’s top constitutional court rejected bids to halt
ratification of the 500 billion-euro ($645 billion) European
Stability Mechanism, ending legal challenges that delayed
efforts by euro-area leaders to contain the debt crisis. The
pound rose to the highest level in four months versus the dollar
after  unemployment  in the U.K. fell the most in more than two
years, adding to signs the economy is emerging from recession.  Gilts have dropped because the “constitutional court
ruling has cleared one more hurdle towards the euro rescue
package, which means it’s risk-on today and safe-haven flows are
reversing,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotiabank Europe
Plc in  London . “The U.K. data is also helping sentiment.”  The yield on 10-year gilts climbed nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 1.83 percent at 4:22 p.m. London time,
after reaching 1.85 percent, the highest since May 23. The 1.75
percent bond maturing in September 2022 fell 0.83, or 8.30
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,609) face amount, to 99.28.  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe
dismissed motions that sought to block the ESM and a deficit-
control treaty championed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel . The legal
challenge had delayed efforts by Merkel and other euro-area
policy makers to stem the region’s debt crisis.  Jobless Claims  Jobless-benefit  claims  declined by 15,000 to 1.57 million
in August, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News
Survey was for no change. Unemployment decreased 7,000 in the
three months ended July.  Ten-year gilts also fell before the U.K. Debt Management
Office sells 3.5 billion pounds of the benchmark securities
tomorrow.  The difference in yield, or  spread , between two- and 10-
year gilts widened to 162 basis points, the most since May 3,
signaling investors were adding to bets for faster inflation.  Volatility on U.K. bonds was the second highest in
developed markets today behind Ireland, according to measures of
10-year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread between two-year
and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Pound Advances  Gilts have returned 2.8 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies,
outperforming German bunds, which gained 2.6 percent, and U.S.
Treasuries, which earned 2 percent.  The pound strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.6105, after rising
to $1.6131, the highest level since May 11. Sterling lost 0.2
percent to 80.11 pence per euro after depreciating to 80.28
pence, the weakest since July 5.  The pound advanced against the dollar yesterday after data
showed the U.K.’s  trade deficit  shrank in July by more than
economists predicted. The dollar weakened versus most major
peers as policy makers on the  Federal Open Market Committee 
begin a two-day meeting today amid speculation they will decide
to buy bonds to boost the economy, a policy known as
quantitative easing.  “U.K. data is playing into pound strength in the near
term,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “A rebound in U.K.
growth in the third quarter is largely anticipated. The dollar
is weakening in advance of the FOMC decision tomorrow where more
quantitative easing is anticipated.”  The pound has gained 0.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The dollar fell 2.2 percent and
the euro rose 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  