-- Ginia Rinehart Loses Bid for Mediation of Trust Dispute
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-09-12T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/ginia-rinehart-loses-bid-for-mediation-of-trust-dispute.html
An Australian judge rejected a bid
by the youngest daughter of  Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman,
to have a family dispute over a multibillion-dollar trust moved
from court to private mediation.  New South Wales Supreme Court Justice Paul Brereton
yesterday rejected the request from Ginia Rinehart, who has
sided with her mother, saying “there is little to indicate”
the dispute could be successfully resolved in mediation.  Hope Rinehart Welker, Bianca Rinehart and  John Hancock  sued
their 58-year-old mother in Australian state court last
September, accusing her of misconduct by threatening their
financial ruin and breach of trust. They want her removed as
trustee of the Hope Margaret Hancock Trust, which holds 23.45
percent of the voting shares of Hancock Prospecting Pty and may
be worth as much as $4.5 billion.  Gina Rinehart’s lawyer David Russell yesterday pressed
Brereton to throw out the lawsuit, after the bid for mediation
was rejected, saying Gina Rinehart has complied with all demands
made by the children, including having agreed to turn over the
shares when they request them.  Pursuing the lawsuit further is “simply a matter of
spite,” Russell said.  Brereton reserved his decision on the request, giving no
indication of when he may rule.  Gina Rinehart inherited  iron ore  mining assets from her
father,  Lang Hancock , and has an agreement with  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) 
under which she collects royalties on properties in  Western
Australia  mined by Rio. She agreed last year to sell coal
projects in Queensland to  GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP)  for
$2.2 billion.  Capital Gains  Gina Rinehart is ranked 33rd wealthiest person in the world
by the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , with an estimated net worth
of $19.3 billion.  Welker, Bianca Rinehart and Hancock were instilled with
fear by their mother that they’d have to pay capital gains taxes
on the shares when they acquire them, said Andrew Bell, a lawyer
representing the children.  Jay Newby, chief financial officer of Hancock Prospecting,
said in a Sept. 4, 2011, e-mail to Bianca that based on her
stake, then valued at A$600 million ($630 million), she would
have to pay about A$142 million in  capital gains  taxes.  Bankruptcy Risk  Gina Rinehart had warned Bianca in an e-mail last year that
acquiring the shares could force the children into bankruptcy
because the stock can’t be sold outside the family or used as
collateral for loans, according to the company’s constitution.  Based on additional advice and a review of a
PriceWaterhouseCoopers report Gina Rinehart had, it’s evident
there is no risk of bankruptcy now, Bell said.  The tax office has six years to make a final decision
however, and the children will have the risk of a tax liability
hanging over them, Bell said.  Gina Rinehart’s threats to the children, including a
warning in a recent e-mail that said “if you verify the
statement of claim, that will be held against you all your
life,” has revealed her character, Bell said.  “What she has done is to reveal herself as wholly
unsuitable to continue as the trustee,” Bell said. It shows
she’s prepared to resort to “dishonesty and deceit” to get her
way, he said.  The case is Hope Rinehart Welker v Gina Rinehart.
2011/285907. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  