-- Golub Says Obama Violated Bankruptcy Principle in GM Aid
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-09-12T21:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/golub-says-obama-violated-bankruptcy-principle-in-gm-aid.html
Harvey Golub , the former chairman
of American International Group Inc., said President  Barack Obama  “violated every bankruptcy principle known to man” in
the rescue of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  “One of the major elements of a bankruptcy is that debtors
similarly situated get treated the same,” Golub told Bloomberg
Television’s  Betty Liu  on the “In the Loop” program today.
“They changed the rules and bailed out the unions, not the
companies.”  Criticism of the  $63.4 billion  bailout of GM and Chrysler
has intensified because the bailout divides Obama, whose
administration points to the rescues as one of its biggest
successes, and Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , who
has called the restructurings “crony capitalism” that helped
union allies.  The United Auto Workers union, which represents GM and
Chrysler hourly workers in the U.S., agreed in 2009 to
concessions including an end to programs that paid workers
indefinitely when a factory was idled and accepted cuts in GM’s
contribution to their pension fund and retiree health benefits.  The union’s retiree health-care fund did get preferential
treatment over other unsecured claims. Obama’s task force that
managed the automotive restructurings saw the companies needing
a cooperative union to build its vehicles once they reorganized,
giving workers more leverage than other claimants.  GM-Chrysler Haircuts  Bondholders of GM’s bankrupt predecessor stood to recover
35 cents on the dollar from claims that should have been
“worthless,” Steve Rattner, who led Obama’s automotive task
force, wrote in the epilogue to his 2010 book “Overhaul: An
Insider’s Account of the Obama Administration’s Emergency Rescue
of the  Auto Industry .” The $2 billion paid for Chrysler
lenders’ $6.9 billion claim was “probably double what they
would have extracted from a liquidation,” he wrote.  Golub, 73, is chairman of Miller Buckfire & Co., the  New
York  investment-banking and advisory firm that focuses on
corporate restructurings. The chairman and chief executive
officer of  American Express Co. (AXP)  from 1993 to 2001, he joined
 AIG (AIG) ’s board in 2009 as the company was trying to repay its own
U.S. bailout. He stepped down as AIG chairman in 2010.  The U.S. committed $182.3 billion to New York-based AIG in
a bailout that began during 2008’s worldwide credit crunch. The
U.S.’s AIG stake fell to about 16 percent from 53 percent
through a sale of the insurer’s stock that would raise $20.7
billion, the Treasury Department said yesterday.  AIG Recovery  The U.S. has recovered its full commitment to AIG under the
bailout after Treasury’s latest sale with a profit. The profit
includes results from the Federal Reserve portion of the rescue,
such as a  credit line  and the purchase of mortgage-linked
securities.  In criticizing the government’s involvement in the GM and
Chrysler restructurings, Golub said today that the companies
“would have survived, they had good brands, some of them had
good products, and those products would have been manufactured
by someone else.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber in July 2009 approved
of the sale by GM’s predecessor to a U.S. Treasury-funded buyer,
writing in an 87-page  opinion : “As nobody can seriously
dispute, the only alternative to an immediate sale is
liquidation.” He largely followed the ruling of his then-
counterpart on the Manhattan court  Arthur Gonzalez , who approved
of the sale that formed Chrysler.  Chrysler’s bankrupt predecessor “was faced with either
accepting the Fiat Transaction or liquidating,” Gonzalez wrote
in his 47-page ruling in May 2009.  Bush’s Loans  Initial loans to GM and Chrysler were provided by President
George W. Bush’s administration, which gave $4 billion to each
company in December 2008 and January 2009. Bush eventually
provided $17.4 billion in aid to the automakers before Obama’s
administration expanded the rescue.  Rattner wrote in a Feb. 25 op-ed in the New York Times that
Obama’s automotive task force “spoke diligently to all
conceivable providers of funds, and not one had the slightest
interest in financing those companies on any terms.”  “Without government financing -- initiated by President
 George W. Bush  in December 2008 -- the two companies would not
have been able to pursue Chapter 11 reorganization,” Rattner
wrote. “Instead they would have been forced to cease
production, close their doors and lay off virtually all workers
once their coffers ran dry.”  Profits, Jobs  GM earned record full-year net income of $9.19 billion last
year while surpassing  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s top-
selling automaker. Chrysler said in July that it plans to raise
its full-year profit outlook from $1.5 billion after the company
gives third-quarter results. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
automaker has reported $909 million net income in 2012’s first
half.  Since bankruptcy, Detroit-based GM has announced more than
$7.3 billion of investments for U.S. factories that retain or
create 18,600 jobs. Chrysler has said it has added almost 4,000
hourly jobs in the U.S. since the company was formed in June
2009 under the control of Italian automaker  Fiat SpA. (F)   The Treasury said yesterday it has collected  $35.1 billion 
in repayments and income from the $63.4 billion in aid that went
to GM and Chrysler through the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  The U.S. still holds 500 million shares, a 32 percent
stake, in GM. The holding was valued at $11.6 billion as of
today’s close. The shares rose 0.7 percent today to $23.13.  The Treasury exited its investment in Chrysler in June
2011.  GM Alive  The auto bailouts have returned to the spotlight ahead of
the November presidential election. GM and Chrysler were
“literally on the verge of liquidation,” Vice President  Joe Biden  said in his speech to the Democratic National Convention
this month. He repeated an Obama campaign mantra: “ Osama bin Laden  is dead, and General Motors is alive.”  Romney said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” during a Sept. 9
 interview  that GM should have gone into bankruptcy earlier, and
suggested that the president resisted putting the company
through that process at a cost to the U.S. of $20 billion.  “I said, ‘Let them go into bankruptcy. Help them come out.
But let them go in,’” Romney said. “And I don’t think most
Americans know that GM went bankrupt. That they did go bankrupt.
The president put them into bankruptcy. And he finally did what
I also thought was the right thing to do.”  ‘Ludicrous’ Claim  The suggestion that Obama’s task force held up GM going
into bankruptcy was “ludicrous,” Rattner told the  Detroit News 
in a story published Sept. 10. GM “had refused to prepare” for
a bankruptcy and the filing was done as soon as possible, he
said.  Public support for the government rescue of GM and Chrysler
has increased since 2009. A Pew Research Center  survey  in
February found that 56 percent of Americans saw the loans to GM
and Chrysler as “mostly good” for the economy, up from 37
percent in October 2009.  Golub, a donor to the  Republican National Committee ,
according to  OpenSecrets.org , said today that he sees Romney
winning the election.  “‘I think there’s a good chance that  Governor Romney  will
win by 5 or 6 points and have an effective mandate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  