-- Google to Offer Fastest U.S. Internet Service in Kansas City
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-12T17:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/google-set-to-offer-fastest-u-s-internet-service-in-kansas-city.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will move a step closer
to offering the fastest citywide Internet service in the U.S.
tomorrow when it picks the first neighborhoods in Kansas City to
get hooked into a new fiber-optic network.  The system will provide online speeds of 1 gigabit per
second, about a hundred times faster than the average U.S.
connection, along with television programming. Google  said on
Sept. 9  that at least 180 out of 202 neighborhoods in the Kansas
City area have qualified for the project, which will only go
into areas where residents have requested the service.  The effort, known as Google Fiber, marks a new stage for
the Web-search giant, which will run the program as a for-profit
business. Unlike Google’s free Wi-Fi service in its hometown of
 Mountain View ,  California , or the high-speed fiber project at
 Stanford University , Google Fiber isn’t an experiment, said
Kevin Lo, the general manager in charge of the project.  “This is a real business,” Lo said in an interview last
week at the Google’s Fiber Space, a converted mini mall on the
border of Kansas and  Missouri . “Our goal is to be successful in
delivering 1-gigabit Internet and TV in  Kansas City .”  Google picked Kansas City from a list of more than a
thousand cities and gave residents six weeks to preregister for
the service. The coverage includes portions of Kansas and
Missouri, offering an alternative to broadband from  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC) , the area’s main Internet service provider.  Pricing Plans  Google Fiber  offers three plans . Residents can pay $70 a
month for an Internet connection alone or $120 for a package
that includes TV service, a digital video recorder, and a set-
top box with a tablet-computer remote control. With the third
option, customers pay a $300 installation fee and get at least
seven years of free  Internet access , though at slower speeds.  Google’s Fiber Space showroom is outfitted with mock living
rooms where members of the project’s 60-person staff show the
power of 1-gigabit speed -- for instance, streaming eight high-
definition videos from YouTube at the same time.  The company is trying to spur people’s imaginations in
terms of how they can use faster speeds. That in turn may create
demand for new online services -- just as the earlier rollout of
broadband helped set the stage for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s download
service and Internet storage.  Still, Google hasn’t said if it will expand the fiber
network beyond the Kansas City area. That small scope will limit
the benefits, said Jan Dawson, an analyst at London-based
research firm  Ovum Ltd.   Small Scale  “Things like Netflix and online backup only thrived with
the availability of national broadband,” Dawson said.  The costs of connecting fiber-optic cable to homes and
operating the network have hampered other companies’ plans.
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  curbed its FiOS expansion last year,
and AT&T cut back on the scope of its U-verse fiber rollout.  In Kansas City at least, Google Fiber puts pressure on Time
Warner Cable, which offers a maximum speed of 50 megabits per
second. Residents now have another choice for TV and  Internet
service , even if Google doesn’t offer popular channels like  HBO ,
for example. Google  announced  today that it had just added ESPN
and some other Walt Disney Co. channels to its lineup.  Time Warner Cable welcomes the competition, said Justin
Venech, a spokesman for the New York-based company.  “We have a robust and adaptable network,” he said in an
e-mail. “We are confident in our ability to compete.”  Google has taken a less expensive route by selecting
individual neighborhoods, instead of using a blanket approach,
Dawson said.  Qualifying Level  Each neighborhood, or “fiberhood” as Google calls it, had
to have 5 percent to 25 percent of the homes commit to the
service, depending on how easy it would be to wire the
residences. Participants also had to pay a $10 fee to qualify.
To get more people on board, especially in poorer neighborhoods,
Google even sent workers out in ice-cream trucks.  The company, facing criticism that low-income areas won’t
get access to the network, said earlier this week that
neighborhoods that didn’t qualify this time around will get
another chance. The goal is to help shrink the digital divide --
the disparity in Internet use among the rich and poor.  “Everyone here wants to solve the digital divide,” Lo
said. “This is a massive issue for the U.S. and our society.”  The importance of Google Fiber is the magnitude of the
speed improvement, he said.  “Speed matters,” Lo said. “We are on the right side of
history. As we saw moving from dialup to broadband, it unleashed
a wave of innovation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  