-- Greece to Lease 40 Uninhabited Islands to Reduce Debt
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-09-12T16:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/greece-prepares-to-lease-40-uninhabited-islands-to-reduce-debt.html
Greece ’s  Hellenic Republic Asset
Development Fund  has identified 40 uninhabited islands and
islets that could be leased for as long as 50 years to reduce
debt as pressure grows on the country to revive an asset-sales
plan key to receiving international aid.  “We identified locations that have good terrain, are close
to the mainland and have a well-developed infrastructure and, at
the same time, pose no threat to national security,” Andreas Taprantzis, the fund’s executive director for real estate, said
in a Sept 6. interview in Athens. “Current legislation doesn’t
allow us to sell them outright and we don’t want to.”  The fund is charged with raising 50 billion euros ($64
billion) from state assets by 2020 to meet conditions tied to
pledges of 240 billion euros in foreign aid. As international
inspectors in  Athens  scrutinize the country’s fitness to receive
the latest aid payment, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras has said
commercial exploitation of some islands could generate the
revenue lenders need to see to continue funding the country.  The shortlist includes islands ranging in size from 500,000
square meters (5.4 million square feet) to 3 million square
meters, and which can be developed into high-end integrated
tourist resorts under leases lasting 30 years to 50 years,
Taprantzis said.  Action Plan  The fund announced an action plan to speed up the country’s
privatization program yesterday. In its statement, the fund
named the companies it’s chosen to proceed to the next phase of
tenders in three real estate projects. The benchmark ASE Index
was up 5.3 percent at 770.5 points at the close in Athens, the
highest since March 23 and the day’s biggest gain among major
European indexes.  The fund reviewed 562 of the estimated 6,000 islands and
islets under Greek sovereignty. While some are already privately
owned, such as Skorpios by the Onassis shipping heiress Athina
Onassis, the state owns islands such as Fleves, which is near
the coastal resort area of Vouliagmeni, and a cluster of three
islands near Corfu. Taprantzis declined to identify any of the
islands.  Legislation needs to be passed to allow development of
public property by third parties and reduce the number of
building, environmental and zoning permits needed before the
plan can proceed, Taprantzis said.  Sensitive Issue  Outright sales have been ruled out because the returns for
the Greek state wouldn’t be higher than a leasehold arrangement,
he said. Greece will attract more investment if an island is
turned into a resort, he said.  Selling public land outright is a politically sensitive
issue in Greece. In 1996, Greece and  Turkey  almost went to war
over who owned the uninhabited Aegean islet of Imia, known as
Kardak in Turkey. A proposal by Greece’s lenders last year to
increase revenue from asset sales including property drew
opposition from then-premier  George Papandreou , who said he’d
legislate to prohibit such sales.  The country has only raised about 1.8 billion euros from
its asset sales program, sparking criticism among European
officials that the government isn’t moving quickly enough to
reduce debt. Months of negotiations over the country’s debt
restructuring earlier this year, the largest ever, and two
general elections that threatened Greece’s membership of the
euro area also held back progress on sales.  ‘Appropriate’ Target  Takis Athanasopoulos, the fund’s new chairman, said the
goal of generating 19 billion euros from state asset sales by
2015 can be met as long as Greece’s business environment is
“appropriate.”  The fund will be able to gauge demand for Greek real estate
as it revives a tender to develop a golf course on the island of
Rhodes, Taprantzis said.  The fund chose six companies, including London & Regional
Group Holdings Ltd. and NCH Capital Inc., out of seven
contenders to enter a second round of bidding for developing a
strip of land on the island. A preferred bidder for the site
measuring 1.85 million square meters, including an 18-hole golf
course, is expected to be chosen by the end of February, the
fund said yesterday.  “We are enthusiastic about the potential of this particular
tender and what it reveals about  market sentiment  for Greek
assets at this time,” Taprantzis said.  The fund also selected Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment
Co., London & Regional, Elbit Cochin Island Ltd. and  Lamda
Development SA (LAMDA)  for the second phase of bidding to buy a majority
stake in  Hellenikon SA . Hellenikon will develop the site of the
former Athens International Airport, which at 6.2 million square
meters is more than three times the size of  Monaco , according to
the fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Athens at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 