-- Gypsies, Venetians, Child Murderers in Paris Fall Season
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-09-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/gypsies-venetians-child-murderers-in-paris-fall-season.html
Love may be a gypsy child, as
Carmen tells us.  In real life, “les gens du voyage” (traveling people) as
they’re officially called in  France , are unwelcome: The French
government has closed a number of camps and sent illegal
immigrants back to  Romania .  “Bohemes”  at the Grand Palais (Sept. 26 until Jan. 14,
2013) explores the myths surrounding the exotic tribe, with whom
writers, artists and other “bohemians” identified. More than
200 paintings, photographs and books are presented in a mise-en-
scene by Robert Carsen, a Canadian opera director.  Information:  http://www.rmngp.fr .  The first important exhibition of the fall features
Canaletto and Guardi, the two masters of Venetian vistas. Of the
50 canvases assembled at the  Musee Jacquemart-Andre , no less
than eight come from the U.K. royal collection. It runs from
tomorrow, Sept. 14, through Jan. 14, 2013.  Information:  http://www.musee-jacquemart-andre.com   On Sept. 22, the Louvre opens a new department devoted to
Islamic art. Some 3,000 items are displayed in a courtyard
covered with an undulating glass roof -- a distant relative of
the museum’s famous pyramid.  Later, the Raphael show at the Prado moves to the  Louvre .
About 100 paintings, drawings and tapestries from his final
seven years are on view from Oct. 11 through Jan. 14, 2013.  Information:  http://www.louvre.fr .  “Impressionism and Fashion” at the Musee d’Orsay (Sept.
25 to Jan. 20, 2013) afterward travels to  New York ’s
 Metropolitan Museum  and the Chicago Art Institute.  Again staged by the ubiquitous Carsen, 60 masterpieces by
Manet, Monet, Renoir, Degas and others will be confronted with
an equal number of dresses and accessories from the same period.  Information:  http://www.musee-orsay.fr .  “L’Art en Guerre -- France 1938-1947” (Oct. 12 to Feb.
17, 2013) at the  Musee d’Art Moderne  de la Ville de Paris
promises to be at least as instructive.  About 400 works illustrate how Picasso, Matisse, Bonnard,
Leger and 100 others coped with the war and the cultural
policies of the Vichy government, which discouraged what the
German occupiers called “degenerate art.”  Information:  http://www.mam.paris.fr .  The biggest blockbuster in the history of the  Centre
Pompidou  was the Dali exhibition 32 years ago. With more than
200 works by the Catalan surrealist and provocateur on view from
Nov. 21 through March 25, 2013, the museum hopes to repeat that
stunt.  Information:  http://www.centrepompidou.fr .  The most original contribution to the opera season comes
from the  Theatre des Champs-Elysees .  It presents three different versions of “Medea,” the myth
of the vengeful child murderer -- by Marc-Antoine Charpentier
(Oct. 12-23), by contemporary composer Pascal Dusapin (an import
from Berlin, Nov. 9-10) and Luigi Cherubini (Dec. 10-16).  Charpentier’s opera will be directed by Pierre Audi and
conducted by Emmanuelle Haim, Cherubini’s by Krzysztof
Warlikowski and Christophe Rousset.  Information:  http://www.theatrechampselysees.fr .  The first new production at the Bastille Opera is
Donizetti’s “La Fille du Regiment” (Oct. 15 to Nov. 11) with
 Natalie Dessay  and Juan Diego Florez singing the lovers. Laurent
Pelly directs, Marco Armiliato conducts.  Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Martin
Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  