-- IAEA to Soften Iran Rebuke, Stress Need for Peaceful Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-09-12T11:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/iaea-to-soften-iran-rebuke-stress-need-for-peaceful-deal.html
The  United Nations ’ atomic agency
may reiterate concern about  Iran’s nuclear program  while calling
for a peaceful resolution to the dispute over the Persian Gulf
nation’s atomic work, which has drawn Israeli threats of
military intervention.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s 35-member board of
governors will vote on whether to adopt the two-page resolution
this week in Vienna. The so-called P5+1 nations -- China,
France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and the U.S. -- drafted the
document today.  The declaration expresses “serious concern” about Iran’s
defiance of United Nations Security Council orders that it
suspend its atomic work. At the same time, it recognizes Iran’s
“inalienable right” to nuclear technology.  It will be the 12th IAEA board resolution passed on the
Islamic Republic since agency inspectors began their
investigation in 2003. Neither the documents nor dozens of
international sanctions have stopped  Iran  from stockpiling
thousands of kilograms of enriched uranium, the key ingredient
for nuclear power and atomic bombs. Iran maintains it wants the
technology exclusively for peaceful purposes.  The latest IAEA resolution uses weaker language than the
last declaration, issued in November, to signal worry about
Iran’s nuclear program. The current draft doesn’t mention the
“deep and increasing concern” over Iran’s work that the board
expressed before.  ‘Intensification’  The document “expresses continued support for a peaceful
resolution of the international community’s concerns, which
could best be achieved through a constructive diplomatic
process.” The powers called for an “intensification” of the
P5+1’s negotiations with Iran.  Iran and the P5+1 failed to reach a breakthrough during
negotiations in Moscow in June. The European Union, which is
leading the discussions, and the Persian Gulf state haven’t yet
agreed on a next round of high-level talks.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said yesterday
that the administration of President  Barack Obama  has no “moral
right” to keep  Israel  from attacking as long as the U.S.
doesn’t set its own “red lines” for Iran. His remarks reflect
differences within his government about an Israeli attack on
Iran and a bid to pressure Obama less than two months before
U.S. elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  