-- Import Prices in U.S. Rose 0.7% in August as Energy Costs Jumped
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-09-12T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/import-prices-in-u-s-rose-0-7-in-august-as-energy-costs-jumped.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. rose in August for the first time in five months as the
cost of petroleum surged.  The 0.7 percent increase in the  import-price index  was less
than forecast and followed a revised 0.7 percent decline in
July, the Labor Department reported today in Washington.
Economists projected the August gauge would rise 1.5 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Costs
excluding fuel decreased for a fourth month.  The cost of goods and materials other than oil from abroad
may be restrained as cooling markets from  Europe  to Asia limit
demand for commodities like metals. Companies may find it
difficult to pass along higher energy prices as consumers face
limited job and income growth.  “The underlying picture on prices is generally subdued,”
Sean Incremona, senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York , said
before today’s report. “Most of the upside we’re seeing
recently is going to be due to  oil prices , which have rebounded
pretty significantly from lows earlier this year. Final demand
looks weak across the board.”  Projections for August import prices ranged from a 0.5
percent decrease to a 2 percent increase, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 47 economists.  Against a backdrop of limited inflation, Federal Reserve
policy makers will weigh additional accommodation to help
bolster an economy that’s weakened this year. Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  and his colleagues at the central bank, who begin a
two-day meeting today, may add to record monetary stimulus.  Bernanke last month at a speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,
made the case for unconventional policies.  Fed’s Bernanke  “As we assess the benefits and costs of alternative policy
approaches, though, we must not lose sight of the daunting
economic challenges that confront our nation,” Bernanke said
Aug. 31. “The stagnation of the labor market in particular is a
grave concern.”  Import prices minus fuel fell 0.5 percent in August from
the same month last year, the first year-over-year decrease
since November 2009, today’s figures showed. Including fuel,
import costs dropped 2.2 percent in the 12 months ended in
August.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due
tomorrow, and the consumer-price index on the following day.  The cost of imported fuel increased 4.1 percent in August
from the prior month, the biggest gain since March.  Imported food and beverages were 0.9 percent cheaper last
month, today’s report showed.  Domestic Food  U.S. consumers and businesses may soon feel the effects of
higher food prices after the worst drought in the Midwest in 76
years. More expensive corn feed has ranchers sending more of
their cattle to market, which means a smaller herd and higher
prices early next year.  “Clearly with the drought, we expect that that could have
an impact on food prices,” Kathee Tesija, executive vice
president of merchandising for Minneapolis-based Target Corp.,
said on an Aug. 15 earnings call. “Haven’t seen that yet, so I
think that’s probably still to come.”  At the same time, the value of the dollar has started to
decline amid speculation the Fed will pursue a third round of
so-called quantitative easing. Since reaching an intraday high
this year on July 24, the  Dollar Index (DXY) , which
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the currency against
that of six major trade partners including the euro and yen, has
dropped about 5.2 percent.  A decline in the dollar makes imported goods more expensive
going forward.  Imported Autos  Prices for imported automobiles and parts were unchanged in
August after a 0.3 percent increase in the prior month, today’s
report showed. The cost of imported capital goods fell 0.1
percent from the previous month.  The cost of imported goods from  China  were unchanged in
August and up 0.8 percent over the past 12 months.  Imported goods from  Japan  were also unchanged, while the
cost of products from the European Union decreased 0.4 percent.
Goods from  Mexico  increased 0.1 percent.  U.S. export prices climbed 0.9 percent in August, the
biggest increase since March 2011, today’s report showed, after
rising 0.4 percent the previous month. Prices of farm exports
jumped 5.1 percent and those of non-farm goods increased 0.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  