-- Tin Orders Equal 61% of Stockpiles as China’s Imports Double
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-09-12T16:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/tin-orders-equal-61-of-stockpiles-as-china-s-imports-double-1-.html
Orders to remove tin from
warehouses monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange equal 61
percent of stockpiles, the most of all the main industrial
metals as imports doubled in  China , the world’s largest user.  Canceled warrants, as the  orders  are known, equal 7,095
metric tons after climbing to the highest level since at least
1997 yesterday, according to LME data. The share of stockpiles
earmarked for delivery jumped to 68 percent yesterday, the most
on record. The ratio compares with 36 percent for lead, 33
percent for aluminum, 18 percent for copper, 14 percent for zinc
and 12 percent for nickel.  China’s tin  imports  doubled in two months through to July
to 3,125 tons, customs data show. Prices fell 20 percent from
this year’s high in February on concern that slowdown in the
U.S., China and Europe will curb demand for the metal used in
cans, televisions and smart phones. China’s mine output will
fall 7.2 percent this year, industry group ITRI Ltd. said.  “China’s demand for imports appears to have been rising,”
 David Wilson , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London, said by e-
mail. “If Chinese production is struggling under lower prices,
that tightens the market outside China as Chinese consumers look
more and more to import metal.”  Tin Backwardation  Tin for immediate delivery was $20 a ton more than the
three-month contract in London. The so-called backwardation may
signal limited nearby supply. Tin for delivery in three months
on the LME climbed as much as 2.5 percent to $21,200 a ton, the
highest since May 9, and is up 5.5 percent in the past week.  Users in China can import tin at a lower price than buying
it domestically, Citigroup estimates. The metal traded on
 Shanghai ’s  market  in Changjiang closed at 153,000  yuan  ($24,183)
a ton today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The price includes
an import duty and value-added tax.  Exports of the metal from  Indonesia , the world’s biggest
shipper, fell 32 percent in August to a seven-month low after
producers including PT Timah halted output because of falling
prices. PT Timah, the third-largest tin producer, restarted
sales from Indonesia in August after prices surged.  About 92 percent of tin stockpiles are in Johor,  Malaysia .
Global  inventories  were unchanged at 11,665 tons as 815 tons of
metal that had been earmarked for delivery were put back on
warrant, LME data showed today. Stockpiles fell 0.4 percent
since the end of July at the same time the orders doubled.  “I don’t think we will see thousands of tons of tin moving
out of the warehouses any time soon,” Peter Kettle, research
manager at ITRI, said by e-mail. The rise in the canceled
warrants may be because the metal is being reserved for shipment
to China or  Europe  or some buyers are trying to beat long
waiting lines at Johor, he said.  Electronics Industry  Demand for tin from the electronics industry is weak,
Wilson said. Electronics account for more than 50 percent of
demand, according to ITRI, whose members account for about two
of every three tons of global production.  China’s tin consumption will drop 3.8 percent to 147,900
tons this year, ITRI and researcher CRU International Ltd. say.
Its mine production will fall to 94,600 tons, ITRI says. Demand
will exceed supply by 2,000 tons, a third consecutive shortage,
Standard Bank Plc estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  