-- India Must End Sugar-Import Duty to Curb Prices, ED&F Man Says
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-09-12T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/india-must-end-sugar-import-duty-to-curb-prices-ed-f-man-says.html
India , the second-biggest sugar
producer, should scrap a duty on imports of the raw variety to
boost supplies as dry weather threatens to cut domestic output
for the first time in four years, according to ED&F Man.  Traders and mills must be allowed duty-free purchases with
an obligation to re-export the same quantity in March, when
supplies are expected to be comfortable, Rahil Shaikh, managing
director of ED&F Man Commodities India Pvt., said yesterday.
Imports may help cool a rally in domestic prices, he said. Raw
and refined sugar imports attract a 10 percent duty.  Imports by India, the world’s biggest consumer, may help
stem a decline in global prices, while curbing local rates,
which surged to a 20-month high last month. Futures in  New York 
have fallen 13 percent this year on expectations that global
supplies will top usage.  “Imports of raw sugar will help mills utilize their
capacity and will bring in stability in local prices as stocks
are depleting,” Shaikh said in an interview in New Delhi.
“It’s not lucrative to import raw sugar at a 10 percent duty as
there is no parity. Imports will happen if duty is removed.”  Sugar prices on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange Ltd. have surged 23 percent since the end of May on
concern below-average monsoon rain will hurt crop yields. The
October-delivery contract fell 0.4 percent to 3,545 rupees
($64.2) per 100 kilograms at 10.14 a.m. in Mumbai. The March-
delivery contract rose 0.3 percent to close at 20.16 cents a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York yesterday.  Ample Supplies  India will have sufficient supplies to meet local demand in
the season starting Oct. 1, allowing exports for a third year,
Food Minister K.V. Thomas said yesterday. The government won’t
scrap the duty on raw-sugar imports, he said last week.  The Surplus available for exports may total 1.5 million
tons in 2012-2013, 57 percent less than the 3.5 million tons
estimated for this year, Abinash Verma, director general of the
 Indian Sugar Mills Association , said Sept. 10.  Production in India may total 23.5 million tons next
season, compared with a local demand of 22.5 million tons, ED&F
Man’s Shaikh said. That’s less than the 24 million tons
estimated by the mills’ association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  