-- India Industrial Output Misses Estimates as Growth Dips
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-09-12T07:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/india-industrial-production-misses-estimates-as-economy-falters.html
Indian industrial production rose
less than economists estimated in July, adding to signs that
Asia’s third-largest economy is faltering.  Production at factories, utilities and mines climbed 0.1
percent from a year earlier, after a 1.8 percent slide in June,
the  Central Statistical Office  said in a statement in  New Delhi 
today. The median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.5 percent gain.  Easing domestic demand and a slowdown in exports as
 Europe ’s debt crisis saps global growth have hurt manufacturing
in countries from  India  to  China . The South Asian nation also
faces elevated inflation, with all 25 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey predicting its central bank will leave  interest
rates  unchanged for a third meeting next week to damp prices.  “Fundamentally, it’s hard to see any triggers for a
meaningful improvement in industrial production over the next
year or so,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. The numbers are unlikely to
prompt the central bank to cut  interest rates , he said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to spur investment
by further liberalizing the economy have been blocked by
opposition from within his ruling coalition. His development
agenda has also been set back by graft allegations that
paralyzed parliament.  Rupee, Stocks  The rupee, which is down about 15 percent versus the dollar
in the past year, climbed 0.2 percent to 55.25 per dollar as of
12:16 p.m. in Mumbai. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.5
percent on speculation officials in China and the U.S. will take
steps to bolster their economies. The yield on the 8.15 percent
government bond due June 2022 advanced to 8.20 percent from 8.18
percent yesterday.  The currency’s drop has made imports including oil more
expensive, adding to price pressures from rising food costs as a
below-average monsoon crimps farm output.  Inflation probably  accelerated  to 7.05 percent in August,
holding above the  Reserve Bank  of India’s comfort level of about
5 percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey ahead of a report due Sept. 14.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao is due to announce his next rate
decision on Sept. 17. He left the benchmark repurchase rate at 8
percent for a second meeting in July, refraining from joining a
wave of cuts in borrowing costs stretching from Asia to Europe.  Twin Deficits  Singh’s government is also struggling to contain a subsidy
program ranging from diesel to fertilizers to meet its goal of
narrowing the  budget deficit  to 5.1 percent of gross domestic
product in the 12 months through March 2013 from 5.8 percent.  The fiscal shortfall and a deficit in the current account,
the broadest measure of trade, led Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings to say earlier this year that they may strip India of
its investment-grade  credit rating .  Moody’s Investors Service said Aug. 2 that power outages on
July 30-31, India’s worst, were “credit negative” for economic
activity. The two collapses in India’s grid left more than half
the country’s population of 1.2 billion without electricity.  Manufacturing fell 0.2 percent in July from a year earlier,
while capital goods output shrank 5 percent, today’s data showed.
Mining fell 0.7 percent and electricity output rose 2.8 percent.  Gross domestic product rose 5.5 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, a pace close to the three-year
low of 5.3 percent in the first quarter.  Subdued expansion has affected industries such as
motorcycle manufacturers, with sales at companies including  Hero
Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL)  and  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT)  down 4.5 percent last month,
the first fall since January 2009, data from the Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers shows.  Forecasters such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc.
and Morgan Stanley have lowered predictions for Indian economic
growth in recent weeks. Morgan Stanley cut its projection to 5.1
percent for the current fiscal year from 5.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  