-- Infosys to Mull Returning Cash, Making More Acquisitions
-- B y   A n a n d   K r i s h n a m o o r t h y   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-09-12T04:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/infosys-to-mull-returning-cash-acquisitions-co-chairman-says.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-
largest software exporter, may consider returning money to
shareholders and making acquisitions to utilize the biggest
amount of cash among outsourcers in the south Asian country.  “We will look at both,” Co-Chairman S. Gopalakrishnan
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television from Tianjin,
 China . “Periodically, we have been returning some of the cash
through special dividends. And we will also look at
acquisitions, but we don’t want to do an acquisition for an
acquisition’s sake.”  The Bangalore-based company said earlier this week it
agreed to buy Swiss management consulting company Lodestone
Holding AG for 330 million Swiss francs ($352 million) in its
biggest acquisition. The purchase may help Infosys meet its goal
of securing a third of its  revenue  from consulting and systems
integration work amid rising competition in outsourcing from
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and International Business
Machines Corp.  Infosys had 206 billion rupees ($3.7 billion) in  cash  and
cash equivalents as of June 30, according to a company  statement 
-- the most among Indian software developers. Mumbai-based Tata
Consultancy, India’s biggest software exporter, had 96 billion
rupees in  cash and short-term investments  at the end of June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys paid its shareholders  “special cash”  once every
two years since at least 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company paid out 12.50 rupees a share in 2004, 15
rupees in 2006, 20 rupees in 2008 and 10 rupees in April, in
addition to its normal dividends, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ’Clear Slowdown’  The  company’s shares  rose 0.4 percent to 2,539.80 rupees as
of 10:13 a.m. in Mumbai trading. The stock has declined 7.8
percent this year, the fourth-worst among the 30 shares in the
benchmark Sensitive Index.  Revenue growth in U.S. dollars may slow to 6 percent to 8
percent in the year ending March, Gopalakrishnan said.
Comparable  sales increased  16 percent a year earlier. India’s
information technology services and outsourcing industry will
expand at least 11 percent this year, according to a forecast by
the National Association of Software & Services Companies.  “The U.S. is on the way to recovery, or getting used to
the environment,” Gopalakrishnan said. “But definitely  Europe ,
financial services as an industry vertical -- these are the
areas where there is a slowdown, clearly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  