-- Italy Sells Bills at Lowest Rate Since March After ECB Pledge
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-09-12T09:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/italy-sells-bills-at-lowest-rate-since-march-after-ecb-pledge.html
Italy sold one-year bills at the
lowest rate since March in the first auction since the  European
Central Bank ’s pledge to buy debt of distressed euro-region
countries led to a plunge in borrowing costs.  The Italian Treasury sold 9 billion euros ($11.6 billion)
of one-year debt at a  rate  of 1.692 percent, down from 2.767
percent at the last auction of similar-maturity debt on Aug. 13.
Italy also sold 3 billion euros of three-month bills at 0.7
percent, down from 0.865 percent the last time the securities
were sold on May 11.  Italy’s 10-year bond yields fell to the lowest since April
2 last week after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central
bank was willing to make unlimited purchases of sovereign bonds
of countries such as Italy and  Spain  that have suffered a surge
in borrowing costs even after austerity measures. Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  has said that Italy doesn’t plan to request aid for
now.  Debt of so-called peripheral countries remains attractive
“after Draghi announced details of the ECB’s bond purchase
program and reaffirmed the ECB’s commitment to do what is needed
to defend the euro,”  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income
strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan, said in a note to
investors before the sale. “We see pressure at the short end as
a buy opportunity.”  Investors bid for 1.65 times the amount of one-year bills
offered, down from 1.69 times on Aug. 13. The bid-to-cover ratio
on the three-month bills was 2.25 times, compared with 2.49 in
May. The country redeems 8.25 billion euros in zero-coupon bonds
on Sept. 14. The resulting net financing of 3.75 billion euros
is the highest since March 15, UniCredit’s Cazzulani said.  Monti helped champion the bond-buying approach at a summit
in June, when euro-region leaders agreed to give the area’s
bailout funds more flexibility to purchase debt to combat the
fallout from the debt crisis. That agreement helped pave the way
for Draghi’s plan to buy bonds with maturities of as much as
three years in conjunction with euro-zone efforts.  Draghi said that the ECB will only buy debt if countries
agree to unspecified “conditionality.” Monti and Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  have pushed for the economic and fiscal
measures they have already adopted to be accepted by euro-region
partners in lieu of new policy demands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  