-- Italian Industrial Output Fell in July as Recession Deepened
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-09-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/italian-industrial-output-fell-in-july-as-recession-deepened.html
Italian industrial  output  fell in
July as the recession in the euro region’s third-biggest
economy deepened.  Production contracted 0.2 percent from June, when it
dropped a revised 1.3 percent, national statistics office  Istat 
said in Rome today. Economists forecast a decline of 0.4
percent, according to the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Production fell 7.3 percent from a year earlier on
a workday-adjusted basis, the 11th annual decline.  Italy ’s gross domestic product  contracted  more than
initially reported in the second quarter, amid the biggest
decline in household spending in almost two decades, Istat said
on Sept. 10. Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said yesterday he’s
conscious that his tax increases and budget cuts to defend
against debt-crisis fallout have exacerbated the country’s
fourth recession since 2001.  Monti’s austerity drive, which included reinstating a tax
on primary residences and higher levies on gasoline, eroded
consumers’ disposable income and sapped corporate investments.
In the three months through June  household spending  decreased
3.6 percent from a year earlier, the biggest drop on annual
basis since 1993, the statistic institute said this week.  The recession has also heightened tensions between
employers and workers as firms including  Fiat SpA (F)  and Alcoa Inc.
scale back activity in the country. Monti met yesterday with
labor leaders, one day after Italy’s biggest union CGIL said it
may call soon a general strike.  Istat had originally reported a 1.4 percent drop in June
industrial production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  