-- Itochu in Talks With Dole to Acquire Asian, Food Units
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-09-13T09:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/itochu-in-advanced-negotiations-to-purchase-two-dole-food-units.html
Itochu (8001)  Corp., the third-largest
trading house in Japan, is in talks to buy  Dole Food Co. (DOLE) ’s
global processed food unit as well as its fruit and vegetable
business in Asia to add more consumer assets.  Itochu expects to complete the deal around November, the
Tokyo-based company said today in a statement. Dole’s in
“advanced negotiations” for the sale, which is part of an
earlier announced strategic review, the  Westlake Village ,
California-based company said yesterday in a statement. The deal
may be worth $1.7 billion, Nikkei reported today without citing
anyone.  Japan’s major trading houses are expanding into food to add
to iron ore, coal and oil sales that dominate their profits as a
way to cushion against economic downturns.  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  beat
Asian rivals to secure U.S. grain merchandiser Gavilon Group LLC
for $5.6 billion in May. Mitsui & Co. took control of Brazil’s
Multigrain SA in 2011.  “Diversification of their non-resource portfolio has
become an issue for all the trading houses,” said Mitsuru Miyazaki, an analyst with SMBC Friend Research Center Ltd. in
 Tokyo . “It’s not about quick profit expansion, it’s about
building a stronger profit base.”  Pineapples, Bananas  Dole’s packaged foods business may be worth $990 million
and return about $110 million in earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization a year, New York-based fund
manager Three Court LP said in a July report. The unit is
undervalued in the overall commodity business of Dole, which is
the world’s top supplier of fresh fruit and vegetables, the
report said.  The Asian operations of Dole, controlled by 89-year-old
Chairman David Murdock, include pineapple and banana farms in
the  Philippines  as well as ripening and distribution centers in
Japan,  South Korea , China,  Australia ,  Taiwan  and  Thailand ,
according to a 2009 document on the  company’s website . Dole’s
Japan and Korea business generated  $998.5 million in sales  last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Itochu, which gets more than half its profit from metal and
energy commodities, made its biggest purchase in a decade in
March last year in buying U.K. tire retailer Kwik-Fit Group Ltd.
for 637 million pounds ($1.03 billion).  Chief Executive Officer Masahiro Okafuji said in May that
while resources have helped the company forge ahead of rivals,
it will need to find more balanced growth to keep the momentum.
Itochu last year overtook  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  as  Japan ’s third-
largest trader after Mitsubishi and Mitsui.  “It’s not just a case of saying: ‘China and resources’ and
that’s it,” Okafuji told investors and analysts in Tokyo on May
11.  Food Trader  Itochu aims to almost double profit to 40 billion yen ($514
million) in three years from food businesses that include
Japan’s third-largest convenience-store chain FamilyMart Co.,
according to Itochu’s annual report.  The food unit had net income of 22.4 billion yen in the 12
months ending March 31, contributing 7.5 percent to Itochu’s
record profit of 300.5 billion yen for the fiscal year. Itochu
trades wheat, vegetable oils, soybean, sugar and beverages and
co-owns a Chinese beer business with Asahi Group Holdings Ltd.,
according to its annual report.  The Japanese company has also helped Dole market bananas in
Japan, Heather L. Jones , an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in
Richmond,  Virginia , said yesterday in a note.  Itochu climbed 0.8 percent to 806 yen in Tokyo, beating the
0.4 percent increase in the Nikkei 225 index. Dole gained 9.5
percent to $14.07 yesterday.  “No definitive agreements have been signed at this time,
and Dole continues in discussions with several other parties
regarding these assets and others,” Dole said. The details of
the deal are yet to be agreed on, Itochu spokesman Masaaki
Yamashita said by phone today in Tokyo.  Sale, Spinoff  Dole said July 19 it was considering a potential sale or
spinoff of the packaged-foods unit and hired Deutsche Bank AG
and  Wells Fargo & Co . as advisers. It said at the time that
options under consideration included the separation of the
packaged-foods unit in combination with its Asian operations and
creating a stand-alone company either via a joint venture with
third parties or an initial public offering in Asia.  A sale for $1.7 billion would value Dole’s Asian fresh
produce business at seven times “normalized” earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and nine times
Ebitda for the packaged foods unit,  BB&T’s Jones said in the
note.  “Those multiples are at the high end of what we
anticipated the company would garner,” said Jones, who rates
the shares hold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  