-- Japan Stock Futures Little Changed on Fed, China Policy Bets
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-12T23:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/japan-stock-futures-little-changed-on-fed-china-policy-bets.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  were little changed as investors awaited the  Federal
Reserve ’s policy announcement today and after a Chinese
newspaper commentary said massive stimulus measures would be
“detrimental” to the nation’s sustainable growth.  American depositary receipts of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender, advanced 0.4 percent from
the closing share price in Tokyo. Suppliers of Apple Inc. such
as Murata Manufacturing Co. may be active after Apple unveiled a
new version of the iPhone. Shares of  Itochu Corp. (8001)  may be active
as the Japanese trading firm is in talks to buy from Dole Food
Co.’s packaged-foods business and a unit in Asia.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring
tomorrow closed at 8,945 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
8,950 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,960
in Osaka, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index added 0.2 percent in Wellington as the nation’s central
banks kept the key  interest rate  unchanged.  “Looks like people are expecting some form of easing, and
the market will wait for that uncertainty to be cleared,” said
Matt Riordan, a portfolio manager who helps manage about $6.5
billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty.
“Ultimately they will do something, but it’s an issue of timing
whether they will do it now or they will wait toward the end of
the year.”  Relative Value  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 3 percent this quarter
as of yesterday as expectations of further stimulus measures
overshadowed signs of a global economic slowdown. The Asian
benchmark traded at 12.5 times estimated earnings, compared with
13.9 times for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  and 12.1 times
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.1 percent
today. The index added 0.2 percent in New York yesterday, when
the Fed began a two-day meeting. The central bank will probably
announce a third round of bond purchases today, according to
almost two-thirds of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks also rose as Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court
dismissed motions that sought to stop the government from
contributing to the bailout fund for debt-stricken nations in
the euro zone.  In China, massive stimulus measures would be
“detrimental” to sustainable economic growth, the official
Xinhua News Agency wrote in a commentary. That came after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  on Sept. 11 signaled there’s more room for
fiscal and monetary policy to support growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York gained 0.6 percent to a three-week
high of 89.94 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 