-- Jennifer Lopez Joins NuvoTV to Target U.S. Latino Viewers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/jennifer-lopez-joins-nuvotv-to-target-u-s-latino-viewers.html
Jennifer Lopez , the actress-singer
who put her cross-cultural appeal to use in movies such as
“Selena” and “Maid in  Manhattan ,” is joining NuvoTV, the
English-language cable network aimed at Latino viewers.  Lopez, 43, and her Nuyorican Productions will contribute
programming, work on strategy and assist in marketing the eight-
year-old channel, she said an interview. In exchange, she will
receive a minority stake, according to an e-mailed statement
that didn’t disclose other financial terms.  “I’m going to be a creative executive and part owner who
will be very involved with every aspect of the network,” Lopez
said. “Development, production, marketing, I’ll be involved on
every side of it so we hit all the right points.”  With Lopez, Los Angeles-based NuvoTV gains a well-known
personality to help position the network to stand out as bigger
media companies, including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , Univision
Communications Inc. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , begin targeting the same
growing audience. Lopez’s involvement will extend to meeting
with advertisers and pay-TV operators to expand distribution,
Chief Executive Officer Michael Schwimmer said in an interview.  “Jennifer wants to be helpful, to grow the business,”
Schwimmer said. “She is coming in as a business partner. To the
extent she can be helpful growing distribution or advertising
relationships, she will chip in where appropriate.”  Purchasing Clout  There are more than 52 million Latinos in the U.S., and the
group will represent the majority of the country’s population
growth in the next five years, according to an April report by
researcher  Nielsen . Latinos’ buying power of $1 billion in 2010
will jump 50 percent to $1.5 billion by 2015.  NuvoTV said last month it raised $40 million from current
investors Columbia Capital LLC and Rho Capital Partners Inc. and
new investors Veronis Suhler Stevenson LLC and Tennenbaum
Capital Partners LLC.  The money will be used for new shows and marketing, much of
which will support Lopez’s efforts, Schwimmer said. She and her
partner, Simon Fields, will serve as executive producers on
NuvoTV projects.  “Our joint goal is to raise the bar and invest more in
programming and marketing, and take this network to the next
level,” Schwimmer said. “The financing took this relationship
into account.”  NuvoTV is available in 30 million U.S. homes through pay-TV
systems operated by  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , Comcast Corp., Cox Communications Inc. and
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)   New Competition  Lopez, who has sold more than 70 million records, according
to her website, is receiving a “non-controlling stake” in
NuvoTV, Schwimmer said. He declined to say whether she will join
the company’s five-member board.  Other media companies are starting to offer programming in
English for Latino viewers. Burbank, California-based Disney’s
ABC News and Univision, based in New York, said in May they are
starting a 24-hour news channel, while Philadelphia-based
Comcast, largest U.S. cable operator, is creating the El Rey
network with director  Robert Rodriguez .  “Everybody is realizing this is way overdue,” Lopez said.
“It’s time to put some energy into this.”  Lopez’s production company is making a pilot for ABC
Family, “The Fosters,” about a lesbian couple raising
biological and foster children. For NuvoTV, the company is
working on two projects, including a musical special about her
current concert tour with Enrique Iglesias.  There are plans for scripted series, reality shows and
movies, she said. Some may feature Lopez, who ended a two-year
stint as a judge of “ American Idol ,” the most-watched U.S.
entertainment program, in July.  “If you took BET and  HBO  and kind of mixed them together
and made them Latino, that is where I hope to bring us in the
next couple years,” Lopez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  