-- JPMorgan Names Hernandez, Blythe Masters to New Posts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-09-12T18:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/jpmorgan-names-carlos-hernandez-head-of-investor-services.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank, named Carlos Hernandez head of investor services and
announced new leadership for the corporate and investment bank
division formed in July.  Hernandez, who had run equities, takes over a business that
combines the New York-based firm’s prime-brokerage, financing
and securities-services units, JPMorgan said today in a memo
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Tim Throsby, who led equity
derivatives, will take over as head of equities, according to
the memo, the contents of which were confirmed by  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a company spokeswoman. The Wall Street Journal
reported the appointments earlier today.  JPMorgan shook up its top management in July following a
$5.8 billion trading loss in its chief investment office, naming
Daniel Pinto and Mike Cavanagh to lead the corporate and
investment bank. That division combined the investment bank,
corporate bank and treasury and securities-services units.  JPMorgan, which made more revenue from fixed-income trading
than any other bank in the world last year, won’t have heads of
fixed-income, a role previously held by Pinto and  Matt Zames ,
now co-chief operating officer of the company. Troy Rohrbaugh
will lead the rates, foreign-exchange and public-finance parts
of fixed-income, while Guy America will run credit trading and
Matt Cherwin will head securitized products.  Blythe Masters will continue to run commodities trading,
and also will lead regulatory affairs for the corporate and
investment bank, reporting to Barry Zubrow. James Kenny will
head emerging markets and the special opportunities group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  