-- Jump in Japan Machinery Orders Aids Bid to Avoid Contraction
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-09-12T01:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/jump-in-japan-machinery-orders-aids-efforts-to-avoid-contraction.html
Japan ’s  machinery orders  rose more
than forecast in July even as weakness in exports and waning
subsidies for auto purchases threaten to stifle economic growth.  Orders, an indicator of  capital spending , climbed 4.6 
percent from the previous month, after gaining 5.6 percent in 
June, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo. The  median 
estimate  of 29 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for
a 2 percent increase. Large orders can cause volatile results.  Today’s data and a pick-up in manufacturers’ confidence
signal some resilience in an economy that Bank of America
Merrill Lynch says is at risk of contracting this quarter.
Japanese exports may benefit from U.S. and Chinese efforts to
spur demand, with the Federal Reserve meeting this week and
Premier  Wen Jiabao  saying yesterday that his nation has ample
fiscal and monetary room to support growth.  “If the overseas economy remains stagnant, we will come to
a point when we’ll need to be bearish about the outlook on
capital spending,” said Kohei Okazaki, an economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo.  The yen has climbed more than 7 percent against the dollar
since mid-March, while still remaining below the postwar high
reached in October last year. The currency traded at 77.86 per
dollar as of 10:08 a.m. local time in Tokyo today.  Turning Optimistic  Today’s increase stemmed from a 12 percent rise in
manufacturing orders, the largest month-on-month jump since
December 2009, boosted by several large orders from the  steel
industry , according to a Cabinet Office official. The government
forecasts a 1.2 percent decline in machine orders this quarter,
with the official citing weak external demand.  Japan’s largest manufacturers turned optimistic for the
first time in four quarters, according to a  government index 
released yesterday, even as subsidies for consumers’ purchases
of energy-efficient vehicles wind down and a stand-off in
parliament over government financing threatens to limit fiscal
stimulus.  Japan’s central bank is due to meet Sept. 18 and 19 to
decide whether the economy needs more monetary support. Growth
was an annualized 0.7 percent in the second quarter, after a 5.3
percent expansion in the first three months of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Mayger in  Tokyo  at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  