-- Kenyan Lawmakers Vote to Deploy Army to Halt Ethnic Fighting
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-09-12T10:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/kenyan-lawmakers-vote-to-deploy-army-to-halt-ethnic-fighting.html
Kenyan lawmakers voted to deploy
the nation’s military in the southeastern Tana Delta region
where at least 116 people have died in ethnic fighting over the
past four weeks.  The vote was carried by acclamation in Parliament in the
capital, Nairobi, today. The motion for the deployment came
after groups including the Kenya National Commission on  Human
Rights  criticized the government for failing to stem the
violence.  “The Kenya Defence Forces should be deployed to restore
peace and order in the Tana Delta region,” Danson Mungatana, MP
for Garsen, told lawmakers. “The military, as they go there,
can be subdivided into different groups, some to chase the
bandits, others to mop up arms, others to reconstruct the
place.”  Fighting erupted between ethnic Orma pastoralists and the
Pokomo, who are farmers, in the Tana Delta last month in a
dispute over pasture and water. There is evidence that the
clashes were instigated for political reasons, according to the
 United Nations . More than 12,000 people have fled their homes
because of the violence, according to the  Kenya  Red Cross
Society.  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki today held talks with Defense
Minister Yusuf Haji and lawmakers from the Coast province, where
the Tana Delta is situated, and agreed that more security
personnel be sent to quell the violence. The East African
nation’s constitution requires that parliament approve any
deployment by the army to deal with unrest or instability.  The meeting also agreed that “leaders and other persons
who incited leading to the skirmishes” be arrested, according
to a statement from Kibaki’s office. “This includes those based
in Nairobi, Tana River and other parts of the country plus those
funding the skirmishes.”  Kenya,  East Africa ’s biggest economy, is scheduled to hold
elections in March, the first since a disputed 2007 vote sparked
two months of ethnic and political reprisals in which more than
1,100 people died.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 