-- Kingfisher First-Half Profit Slips Amid European Wet Weather
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-09-12T08:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/kingfisher-first-half-earnings-slip-amid-european-wet-weather.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s largest
home-improvement retailer, reported the first decline in mid-
year earnings since 2006 as Britain’s record summer rainfall led
to a slump in sales at the B&Q do-it-yourself business.  Adjusted pretax profit fell almost 16 percent to 371
million pounds ($596 million), the London-based company said
today in a statement. That was less than the  average estimate  of
398.8 million pounds compiled by Bloomberg from 11 analysts.  Wet summer weather in the U.K. and northern Europe reduced
profit by more than 30 million pounds, the company said, as
fewer customers bought barbecues and garden furniture, causing
Kingfisher to reduce prices to clear inventory. Earnings at B&Q,
the largest U.K. home-improvement chain, fell 20 percent, while
profit also declined in France, the biggest source of earnings.  “The miss was driven by the U.K. in particular,” Gillian Hilditch, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said in
a note. “Macro weakness in France is also concerning.”  Kingfisher  fell  as much as 3.8 percent in London trading
and was down 0.1 percent at 272 pence as of 9:36 a.m., extending
yesterday’s 3.3 percent decline in the stock.  So-called retail profit in the U.K. and Ireland declined to
145 million pounds at constant currency rates. In addition to
the weather, earnings were reduced by about 10 million pounds by
the cost of accelerating the introduction of common own-brands
across the country, the retailer said.  Adverse Currencies  Kingfisher also cited adverse currency movements from
translating profit made in euros and Polish zloty into sterling,
which it said reduced profit by 25 million pounds.  “It was the toughest six months that I’ve seen in my four
years” at the company, Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire
said on a conference call today. He said he isn’t expecting any
immediate improvement in the retailer’s markets.  “Whilst an uncertain economic backdrop has been a feature
of our markets for some time, we recognize that this is unlikely
to improve for a while,” the CEO said in the statement.
“The U.K. looks like it’s bumping along,” he said on the
conference call. “There’s a feeling of steady-as-you-go.”  Retail profit in  France , where the company has Castorama
and Brico Depot stores, fell 4.9 percent to 191 million pounds.
At constant currency rates, profit rose 2 percent.  The weakness of the French market “is really a product of
political uncertainty” stemming from government tax policies
and instability in Europe, Cheshire said.  Eight-Point Plan  France has faced uncertainty because of the euro debt
crisis as  unemployment  in the country is at a 13-year high.
Same-store sales there fell 0.6 percent, Kingfisher said.  Cheshire is seeking growth by directly sourcing more of
Kingfisher’s products from suppliers, opening and refurbishing
stores, offering in-store collection and building the retailer’s
higher margin, own-brand offerings.  Kingfisher said in March it plans to boost profit by an
additional 300 million pounds over five years through measures
that include creating a YouTube channel with instructional
videos for its B&Q chain in the U.K. An eight-point plan to
enhance earnings also includes adding common product ranges
across all outlets, cutting the cost of buying merchandise, and
testing a new format in  China . The aim is to increase like-for-
like  sales  by an additional two percentage points and widen
gross profit margins by one percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  