-- Knights Jostle Lovers as Pre-Raphaelites Invade Tate
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-09-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/knights-jostle-lovers-as-pre-raphaelites-invade-tate.html
As I walked around the new Pre-
Raphaelite show at  Tate Britain , I was insistently reminded of
something. It wasn’t, as the exhibition argues, a cutting-edge
artistic movement, the mid-19th-century predecessor of Cubism
and Dada. No: What came to mind was costume drama.  I mean this more as an observation than a criticism. As a
blockbuster survey of a subject, the Tate’s is very well done.  It widens the subject interestingly to include photography,
furniture, sculpture and wallpaper, and does so with much more
clarity than the cluttered “Cult of Beauty” show last year at
the V&A, which covered some of the same ground.  Deservedly, it will be a great success. I enjoyed it,
despite being positively phobic about some of the artists
involved, particularly the creepily obsessive, remarkably
incompetent painter Dante Gabriel Rossetti.  The fact that the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood is so adored
by much of the British art-loving public in turn tells us
interesting information about the Brits. Namely, that they are
still, at heart, 19th-century romantics, and love pretending to
be someone they are not -- which is where costume television and
films come in.  Pre-Raphaelite paintings are full of wonderfully well-
researched props and clothes, just perfect for the time and
place in which the story of the picture is set.  Millais’s “Mariana” (1850-1), for example is, essentially,
a great shot. She stands up, stretching and arching her back,
fed up -- who wouldn’t be? -- from sitting by the stained-glass
window embroidering all day.  Hip Clinger  You can imagine the designer selecting just the perfect
Renaissance belt to go over her blue velvet gown, slipping down
at the front, as the catalog observes, while “clinging to her
hips and emphasizing her buttocks.” It’s a terrific role, but
she still looks like a Victorian person dressed up to play the
part.  That’s true even of the pictures set in what was then the
present, such as Holman Hunt’s “The Awakening Conscience” (1853-
4), in which a whiskered fellow’s mistress suddenly sees the
light and gets off his knee.  Their love nest in St. John’s Wood is like a shop full of
slightly vulgar fixtures and fittings.  What comes to mind is a period film or a dramatized novel
on television. It’s perhaps no accident that Ford Madox Ford --
author of “Parade’s End,” the new TV adaptation of which is
captivating British audiences -- was the grandson of the Pre-
Raphaelite painter Ford Madox Brown. Nor that Evelyn Waugh’s
first book, long before “Brideshead Revisited,” was about
Rossetti.  Languishing Maidens  Modern Britons dream about being Edwardian gentry, Downton-
Abbey-style. Their Victorian ancestors fantasized about being
chivalrous medieval knights and languishing maidens. (Millais
quoted a poem by Tennyson in which Mariana lamented, Bridget
Jones-like, “My life is dreary - He cometh not!”)  The interior design wing of the Pre-Raphaelites, led by
William Morris, specialized in providing the wardrobes, carpets
and curtains necessary to live out that fantasy. And they did so
brilliantly. Personally, I think the PRB was much more
successful in the decorative arts than in painting.  Another reason why the average Pre-Raphaelite painting puts
you in mind of film or television is that their trademark sharp-
focus realism was heavily and obviously influenced by
photography. Millais’s “The Woodsman’s Daughter” (1850-1) looks
like a photo-collage (there’s no space around the figures at
all).  So this exhibition contains a big clue to the British
character: Half the nation has been living in a never-ending
period television series. Despite the Tate’s spin, that just
doesn’t seem very avant-garde.  “Pre-Raphaelites: Victorian Avant-Garde” opened yesterday
and runs through Jan. 13, 2013 at Tate Britain, Millbank, SW1P
4RG. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 