-- Natural Gas Stockpile Gain Was Third of Normal, Analysts Say
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-09-12T14:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/natural-gas-stockpile-gain-was-third-of-normal-analysts-say.html
U.S. natural-gas inventories rose
by about a third of the normal amount last week as hot weather
boosted demand from  power plants  and Hurricane Isaac reduced
production in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Inventories expanded by 26 billion cubic feet, or 0.8
percent, to 3.428 trillion cubic feet in the week ended Sept. 7,
based on the median of 12 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The gain would be 36 percent of the five-year average
increase for the week of 72 billion cubic feet. Supplies
advanced 80 billion a year earlier.  The stockpile estimates ranged from increases of 19 billion
to 39 billion cubic feet. The Energy Department’s weekly
inventory report is scheduled for release at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow
in  Washington .  “Ongoing production losses due to Hurricane Isaac were one
limiting factor on storage injections for last week, but cooling
demand was stronger too,”  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York, said in a note to clients
yesterday. “With moderate temperatures anticipated over the
next two weeks, storage injections will likely rebound to near
average rates.”  An inventory gain in line with the Bloomberg estimate would
cut a  surplus  to about 9 percent above the five-year average for
the week, the narrowest since Dec. 2. The supply gap was 10.7
percent the previous week.  Gas production in the Gulf of Mexico averaged 2.66 billion
cubic feet a day in the week ended Sept. 6 after Hurricane Isaac
pushed into Louisiana, according to LCI Energy Insight, an
energy analysis and consulting firm in El Paso,  Texas . Daily
output averaged 5.07 billion two weeks earlier, before the storm
entered the Gulf.  Warm Weather  Temperatures were above normal in most of the contiguous
states last week, according to MDA EarthSat Weather. A cooling
trend in the Midwest will expand into the East over the next 11
to 15 days, the Gaithersburg, Maryland-based forecaster said.  Electricity generators account for 36 percent of U.S. gas
consumption, Energy Department data show.  Natural gas for October delivery slid 3.3 cents, or 1.1
percent to $2.959 per million British thermal units at 9:44 a.m.
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are down 1 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 