-- Netanyahu Says He Has Duty to Keep Atomic Arms From Iran
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-09-12T22:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/netanyahu-says-he-has-duty-to-keep-atomic-arms-from-iran.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said today he has a duty to prevent Iran from
obtaining atomic weapons even when “the best of friends”
disagree, referring to policy differences with the U.S.  Netanyahu’s comments came after his spoke with President
 Barack Obama  by phone for more than an hour late yesterday as
the two nations spar over how to handle the Iran issue. The
White House said in a statement that Obama and Netanyahu
“reaffirmed that they are united in their determination to
prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.”  Netanyahu said today that he must prevent Iran from getting
nuclear arms “even when it is not easy. Because leadership is
tested when it keeps to its goals even when friends disagree and
even when they are the best of friends,” he said. His remarks
were released in an e-mailed statement from his office in
 Jerusalem .  The comments suggest that Netanyahu’s conversation with
Obama failed to bridge the gaps between their two governments on
 Iran  or convince the Israeli prime minister that those
differences are best aired privately. Israeli leaders have
repeatedly said that Iran’s atomic program is for military
purposes and presents an existential threat to the Jewish state.
The U.S. says sanctions against Iran are having an impact and
that more talks and international pressure are needed.  ‘Moral Right’  Yesterday, Netanyahu said the Obama administration has no
“moral right” to keep  Israel  from attacking as long as the
U.S. doesn’t set its own “red lines” for Iran. His remarks
reflect differences over possible military action against the
Islamic Republic’s nuclear program and a bid to pressure Obama
less than two months before the U.S. election to give Israel
more detailed guarantees.  The phone call with Obama came after Israeli media
including the Haaretz daily said Netanyahu’s request to meet the
president in the U.S. later this month was snubbed. The White
House said no meeting was arranged only because of scheduling
issues and that Netanyahu will confer instead with Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton .  Former Israeli Prime Minister  Tzipi Livni  said the dispute
between Obama and Netanyahu benefits the Iranians.  “Instead of Iran becoming isolated it is Israel becoming
isolated, and the stronger Netanyahu talks, the weaker Israel
becomes,” Livni said today in an interview on  Army Radio .  Avoiding Uncertainties  Obama’s objective between now and the election is to avoid
an Israeli attack “because war introduces uncertainties” that
may include a doubling or tripling of  oil prices , turmoil in
European and American markets and public division over a
discretionary war, said  Aaron David Miller , a former State
Department official who served under Democratic and Republican
presidents.  “In a close election you don’t want to alienate anyone,”
said Miller, who’s now at the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, a  Washington  policy group.  Netanyahu’s criticism probably won’t be a determining
factor in the election because Jews aren’t single-issue voters,
and most Jewish Democrats have backed Obama, Miller said. Still,
he said, “in a close election, of course, anything can
happen.”  Obama won in 2008 with 78 percent support from Jewish
voters, according to a national exit poll, and he and his
supporters have said he has an unbreakable bond with Israel and
a record of military and political support to prove it.  Israeli Credibility  Clinton said in an Sept. 9 Bloomberg Radio interview that
the U.S. is “not setting deadlines” on negotiations with Iran.
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  later said it is
“not useful” to set deadlines or “red lines.”  Netanyahu wants assurances that the U.S. will commit its
own military forces to destroy Iran’s nuclear facilities if
economic sanctions and diplomacy don’t succeed, said Miller, who
called that aim unrealistic. It “diminishes Israel’s
credibility and undermines its deterrent capacity,” he said.  The Israeli leader is also trying to build domestic support
in case the government decides to strike, said Emily Landau,
director of the  arms control  and regional security program at
the Institute for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv
University. He and Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  “seem
increasingly isolated in their support for this option as more
and more top security figures come out against it,” she said.  Gabi Ashkenazi, a former Israeli military chief of staff,
said yesterday that Israel shouldn’t jeopardize its ties with
Washington. Even Barak, one of the most hawkish members of the
Israeli security cabinet, yesterday stressed the importance of
maintaining Israel’s ties with the U.S.  U.S.-Israel Ties  “Despite these differences, and the importance of
maintaining Israel’s independence of action, we must also
remember the significance of our partnership with America and do
everything possible not to harm this,” the  Defense Ministry 
quoted Barak as saying in a private forum.  Dennis Ross , a former senior Middle East adviser to Obama
and other U.S. presidents of both political parties who is now
at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, stopped short
of ascribing a U.S. political motive to Netanyahu’s remarks.  “If there wasn’t an election right now, I think he’d be
saying the same thing,” Ross said.  Ross said Netanyahu is concerned that Israel will lose its
own capability to strike if it waits too long. He is trying to
“motivate the rest of the world to act more seriously against
Iran,” an approach that led to sanctions that otherwise might
not be in place, Ross said.  While the disagreements between the U.S. and Israel should
be discussed, “it’s better that they happen behind closed
doors,” he said. “What you want is the focus to remain on
Iran.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  