-- NFL Commissioner to Meet With Players in Saints’ Bounty Case
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-12T13:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/nfl-commissioner-to-meet-with-players-in-saints-bounty-case.html
Jonathan Vilma and the other three
players who had suspensions for their involvement in the New
Orleans Saints’ bounty pool case dismissed last week will meet
with National Football League Commissioner  Roger Goodell .  Vilma’s season-long ban was overturned by an arbitration
panel on Sept. 7, along with shorter suspensions for  Scott
Fujita , Anthony Hargrove and  Will Smith . Fujita is now with the
Cleveland Browns and Hargrove is a free agent.  The NFL said it won’t comment on details of Goodell’s
meetings with the players or when a decision may be reached on
discipline. Vilma’s lawyer, Peter Ginsburg, told the New York
Times that Vilma and Goodell will meet as early as next week.  The four players involved in the Saints’ case were
reinstated last week after the panel ruled Goodell lacked the
authority to impose discipline for unauthorized compensation, or
money that might have been paid under the bounty plan. He is
allowed to punish players for intent to injure opponents, the
arbitrators said in a four-page opinion.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail that the panel
didn’t ask for “new” discipline, but for Goodell to clarify
whether the basis for the discipline was for detrimental conduct
or salary cap violations, or both. Aiello said the panel left it
up to Goodell to determine whether any of the penalties should
be modified.  NFL Players Association spokesman George Atallah and
Ginsburg didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment.  The NFL said in May about two dozen players participated in
the Saints’ bounty program, with Vilma -- a defensive captain --
helping to establish and fund the program.  Vilma, a linebacker who has a salary of $1.6 million this
season, was suspended without pay for the 2012 season. Hargrove,
a defensive lineman, was suspended for eight games; Smith, a
defensive end, for four games; and Fujita, a linebacker, for
three games. Vilma has denied receiving or paying money for the
intentional injury of an opponent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  