-- NHL Owners, Players Tweak Proposals as Labor Deadline Looms
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/nhl-owners-players-make-new-proposals-as-labor-deadline-looms.html
The  National Hockey League  and its
players’ union swapped fresh proposals in a bid to reach
agreement on a new labor contract before the existing one
expires in two days.  NHL  Players’ Association  Executive Director Donald Fehr and
league Commissioner Gary Bettman each said the other side’s
revised offer had changed little from their prior position.  “The proposal was really not much different -- other than
a couple of things around the edges -- than the last proposal
that they had made that we had indicated was clearly not
acceptable,” Bettman told reporters after yesterday’s talks.  Owners offered players 47 percent of hockey-related
revenue, one percentage point more than in their previous
proposal, Fehr said. Under the deal that ends at midnight Sept.
15, players receive 57 percent.  “While it’s accurate in a sense that the owners’ proposal
doesn’t take quite as much money from the players, somebody
might say they’ve moved from an extraordinarily large amount to
a really very big amount,” Fehr told reporters yesterday.  While differences remain, yesterday morning’s talks at
league headquarters in  New York  City -- the first formal session
since Aug. 31 -- produced “some improvement,” Fehr said.  The NHL board of governors will meet today, and as many as
250 players convened last night at a nearby hotel with plans to
continue internal talks into today. Both Fehr and Bettman said
they would be open to meeting again before the existing
agreement expires.  More Dialogue  “What we hope is that, arising out of this, there can be
dialogue that can push us the rest of the way in an effort to
try and reach an agreement,” Fehr said.  There’s no legal requirement for a lockout in the absence
of a new agreement, because the sides can continue to operate
under the old accord while negotiations proceed. Bettman said
that owners won’t operate the 2012-13 season without a new deal;
Fehr said players are willing to compete while negotiations
continue.  The NHLPA said yesterday that it filed an application along
with at least 16 members of the  Montreal Canadiens  asking the
 Quebec  Labor Relations Board to declare a possible lockout
illegal in the province. The NHLPA is not recognized as a union
in Quebec, making a lockout illegal, the statement said.  “Our point is to show that we’re willing to play, we want
to play and we’re going to do everything we can to get ourselves
playing until we reach an agreement,” Canadiens defenseman Josh Gorges said this week on a conference call.  Emergency Hearing  The group has an emergency hearing with the labor board set
for tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. eastern time, according to the
statement. players are also exploring a way to make the lockout
illegal in  Alberta  through its  labor laws , Gorges said.  If successful, the two challenges would allow players on
the Canadiens, the Edmonton Oilers and the Calgary Flames to
continue to receive paychecks and use team facilities should a
lockout occur, Gorges said.  It will have no effect on the league’s ability to lock out
the other four Canadian teams or the 23 teams in the U.S.  “We don’t believe the provincial jurisdiction on the labor
front is something that we’re subject to,” Bettman said.  The sides are arguing over player compensation and revenue
sharing. The NHL’s most recent proposal asked players to
eventually accept 47 percent of the league’s hockey-related
revenue, with a loss of about $256 million in player salaries
next year, Fehr said.  Union Offer  The union’s offer, according to Fehr, tied the players’
share to revenue growth, with the proportion decreasing as
hockey-related revenue increased.  Under the proposal, should league revenue grow at the same
rate as the past 10 years, the players’ share would decrease to
54.3 percent in the first year, then 52.5 percent, 52.0 percent
and rise to 52.3 percent in the fourth year, Fehr said.  Other contentious issues include salary arbitration and the
length of unrestricted free agency.  League revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion television
contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, swelled to an estimated
record $3.2 billion last season from $2.2 billion in 2006,
according to the NHL. The league hasn’t said how much of this
year’s revenue is profit.  The current collective bargaining agreement was reached
after the entire 2004-05 season was wiped out when team owners
shut down the league. The 2012-13 season is set to begin on Oct.
11, about three weeks after training camps open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  