-- Nissan, Lexus Sales in South Korea Drop on Islets Dispute
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2012-09-12T03:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/nissan-lexus-sales-in-south-korea-drop-on-islets-dispute.html
Japan’s  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and the
 Lexus  brand at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  saw August sales plunge in
 South Korea  as tension between the two countries escalated over
disputed islets.  Shipments to South Korea for Lexus, the luxury brand of
Asia’s biggest carmaker, plummeted 39 percent last month
compared with a year earlier, according to data on  Korea
Automobile Importers and Distributors Association ’s website.
Nissan’s plunged 71 percent and its luxury brand Infiniti’s fell
50 percent.  Total sales of Japanese carmakers in South Korea dropped 12
percent and importers attributed the decline to the dispute,
according to the  Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry ’s e-
mailed statement. Of the surveyed importers, 26 percent said the
dispute over the islets affected sales and 81 percent said
shipments will be hurt if the tension persists.  The two countries’ dispute over islands known as Dokdo in
Korean and Takeshima in Japan have escalated since South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  visited them on Aug. 10. Of about 500
companies that have business ties with Japan that were surveyed
by the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 65 percent have
said they will suffer if the dispute drags on.  “If the tension further heightens or if the dispute
prolongs, I think we can expect a significant drop in sales,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees the equivalent of $600
million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “Still, compared to China, the sales volume of Japanese
automakers in South Korea wasn’t very big to begin with, so the
overall impact on the companies may be minimal.”  No Japanese carmaker manufactures in South Korea. Japanese
cars made up 15 percent of imports in South Korea in August.
Imports made up 9.9 percent of total sales, according to the
association.  Toyota hasn’t seen a “major impact” on South Korea sales
from the political situation, company spokesman Joichi Tachikawa
said. Nissan, Japan’s second-biggest carmaker, isn’t aware of
any impact on South Korean sales from the dispute, said Chris
Keeffe, spokesman for the Yokohama City, Japan-based carmaker.
Both said their companies aren’t cutting back on marketing
activities in South Korea, though individual dealerships may
make their own adjustments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  