-- Nomura’s Americas Equities Chief O’Kelly Leaving Amid Overhaul
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-09-12T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/nomura-s-americas-equities-chief-o-kelly-leaving-amid-overhaul.html
Ciaran O’Kelly, recruited by  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  in 2009 to lead the expansion of its Americas
equities business, is leaving as the Japanese bank overhauls
international operations.  O’Kelly, 44, previously global head of equities at  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , will remain at Nomura through the end of the
year, David Findlay, chief executive officer of the Americas
unit, wrote yesterday in a memo. A copy was obtained by
 Bloomberg News  and Jonathan Hodgkinson, a company spokesman,
confirmed its contents. Nomura will announce “a new management
structure for the business shortly,” Findlay wrote.  CEO Koji Nagai, 53, is cutting $210 million in expenses in
the Americas as part of a plan to make the Tokyo-based bank’s
overseas operations profitable by June 2014. The changes follow
a four-year struggle to build a presence abroad, beginning with
the 2008 purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European
and Asian units.  O’Kelly “had a mandate to spend a lot of money” when he
was recruited to Nomura, and his departure comes as the
priorities change, said Richard Lipstein, managing director of
search firm Gilbert Tweed International in  New York .  Nagai took over as CEO from Kenichi Watanabe, 59, last
month amid an insider-trading scandal and is pulling back after
overseas operations reported nine consecutive quarterly losses.  Expanded Workforce  Glenn Schiffman, who ran Lehman’s Asia-Pacific investment
bank and joined Nomura during the takeover, left as head of
Americas investment banking last year. He was replaced by James
DeNaut.  O’Kelly, one of Nomura’s top executives in the Americas,
spent seven years at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of
America  before leaving in 2009. He previously was at New York-
based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  for 11 years, where he was head of equity
trading from 2000 to 2002.  Nomura expanded its workforce in the Americas to 2,350 from
900 in March 2009.  The Americas contributed 35.5 billion yen ($456 million),
or 29 percent, to Nomura’s fiscal first-quarter global wholesale
net revenue, which includes  investment banking , fixed-income and
equities trading. That compares with 42.5 billion yen, or 27
percent, in the previous quarter ended March 31, which was the
Americas wholesale division’s strongest since Nomura began
building its U.S. operation in April 2009.  ‘Less Liquidity’  The global wholesale unit reported an 8.6 billion yen loss
before income taxes in the fiscal first quarter, and the bank
said equities and investment-banking revenue was “affected by
less liquidity in major markets and fewer revenue
opportunities,” according to a July  presentation .  Nomura generated 161.7 billion yen ($2.1 billion) in global
equity trading revenue in the 12 months ended June 30. That
compares with $3.2 billion at Bank of America and $5.6 billion
at Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Farrell  in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  