-- Notre Dame Athletics Except for Football Program to Join ACC
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-12T16:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/notre-dame-except-for-football-to-join-atlantic-coast-conference.html
The  University of Notre Dame  will
join the Atlantic Coast Conference in all league-sponsored
sports except football.  The Fighting Irish will remain independent in football but
will play five games annually against schools in the league.  Notre Dame  will join the ACC as soon as it can exit the Big
East Conference. While the Big East typically requires schools
to pay a $5 million exit fee and give 27-month notice before
leaving, the  University of Pittsburgh  and  Syracuse University 
agreed to $7.5 million cash buyouts in July to terminate their
membership and join the ACC in 2013.  “We have monitored the changing conference landscape for
many months and have concluded that moving to the ACC is the
best course of action for us,” Notre Dame Athletic Director
Jack Swarbrick said in a  statement . “We are able to maintain
our historic independence in football, join in the ACC’s non-BCS
bowl package, and provide a new and extremely competitive home
for our other sports.”  The University of North Carolina, North Carolina State,
 Duke University , Florida State, the  University of Virginia ,
 Virginia Tech , the  University of Miami ,  Clemson University , the
 University of Maryland , Wake Forest University, Georgia Tech and
Boston College are the other current members of the ACC.  “Notre Dame enhances the league’s unique blend of public
and private institutions that are international in scope,” ACC
Commissioner John Swofford said. “The collective alumni and fan
bases cover the entire country with exceptionally strong roots
up and down the Atlantic Coast. This is a terrific milestone in
the evolution of the ACC.”  Big East   In addition to losing Pittsburgh and Syracuse, the Big East
had Texas Christian University and West Virginia depart for the
Big 12 conference, while Temple University joined this year.  After Pittsburgh and Syracuse leave in 2013, the  Big East 
will add Boise State University and San Diego State in football,
and Southern Methodist University, the University of Memphis,
the University of Central Florida and the University of Houston
in all sports. The U.S. Naval Academy will join the conference
in football in 2015.  Notre Dame had joined the Big East for the 1995-96 season.  “Notre Dame’s departure does not change our plans,” Big
East Commissioner Mike Aresco said in a statement. “We have
prestigious institutions that are excited to be a part of the
Big East. We remain committed to making the Big East stronger
than it has ever been.”  Football Team  The Notre Dame football team, which has won 11 consensus
national championships and produced seven Heisman Trophy
winners, has agreed to play each ACC member at least once every
three years when it joins the league. The Fighting Irish, with a
2-0 record, have four current or future ACC opponents on this
season’s schedule, with games against Miami, Pittsburgh,  Boston
College  and Wake Forest.  Swarbrick said the move to the ACC doesn’t affect the
school’s partnership with Comcast Corp.’s  NBC Universal . At
least eight of Notre Dame’s 12 football games this season will
be televised by NBC.  The change in affiliation is “essentially revenue
neutral,” Swarbrick said. “Financial implications were not a
motivation.”  Notre Dame’s sports programs have won 116 league titles
during its 17-year Big East tenure, more than any other school
over that period. Notre Dame’s women’s soccer and combined
fencing teams won national titles in 2011, while the women’s
basketball team has played for the national championship the
past two years. The men’s basketball program has made three
straight appearances in the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament and the men’s lacrosse team has reached
the Final Four of its tournament two of the past three years.  Ice Hockey  Notre Dame’s ice hockey team will move to Hockey East from
the Central Collegiate Hockey Association in 2013 because the
sport isn’t sponsored by the ACC. Boston College is the only
school in the league with a Division I hockey program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  