-- To Look Cool, Wear $2,500 Manly Jackets, Says Coppens
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/to-look-cool-wear-2-500-manly-jackets-says-coppens.html
When Tim Coppens showed his first
menswear line,  Barneys  bought the entire collection on the spot.  Three seasons later, he’s won the 2012 Ecco Domani award
and his clothes are carried in fashion hotspots like Dover
Street Market in London and Isetan in  Tokyo : a regular bomber
jacket goes for $2,495, a turtleneck is $905, while a shirt will
set you back $435.  When we spoke in the SoHo offices of his agent just after
Coppens’s spring/summer fashion show, he was relaxed in a black
T-shirt, Acne jeans and Common Projects sneakers.  Tarmy: Are you happy with how your show went?  Coppens: Very happy. It’s only the third season. I like
that it’s going fast, but I’m also trying to pace it a little
bit.  I can’t develop 100 styles. You have to be contained,
because everybody is pulling -- it’s difficult to produce all of
these pieces. There’s a financial part to it that you have to
keep under control.  Tarmy: Are you worried about expanding too quickly?  Coppens: No. I have a commercial background. I worked for
 Ralph Lauren , for Adidas, so I think I’m mature enough to
maneuver through these obstacles.  Fashion Obstacles  Tarmy: What kind of obstacles?  Coppens: Making a collection and showing it is easy. You
can just go out to the garment district, buy some fabric and
make a jacket.  But then when someone orders it, there are a lot of other
things: You have to grade it, you have to offer sizes, there are
minimums, so it’s all these very bureaucratic things.  Tarmy: How much of your job is actual design?  Coppens: The presenting and the creative thing is so much
fun, but it’s so short. Delivering the line on time to stores so
they can actually sell it is the most important part.  Tarmy: When do buyers order your clothes?  Coppens:  New York  is tricky because we don’t really have a
men’s fashion week. Paris and Milan are in June and July, so
that’s when the menswear buyers go out and order. They come here
then, as well.  Tarmy: You completed the collection you just showed two
months ago?  Coppens: It’s annoying because you have your collection
finished, buyers see it and only then do you show it.  Young Soul  Tarmy: If you’ve already sold the clothing, why do a
fashion show?  Coppens: It’s important: You can view the clothes on a
rack, but nobody has really seen everything together. With the
hair, the styling, the music and the whole vibe, you can tell
your story. It’s super important to build that brand language.  Tarmy: Who are your clothes made for?  Coppens: It’s difficult for the young because it’s a very
high price point. I think it’s a young soul, definitely, but the
clothes are sophisticated. They speak to an older customer.  Tarmy: What items of clothing should a man invest in?  Coppens: The classics. Buy a good suit and then buy
jackets. I like making jackets because it’s something that
really makes a guy look cool.  Tarmy: Do you have financial backers?  Coppens: No. It’s not easy. You work hard, but I know that
I’m not an inventor who comes up with an amazing idea that makes
millions.  It’s something that has to grow and take time. So
everything I do right now -- the show, putting the clothes on
the right celebrities, selling in the right stores -- is super
important.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.  This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining  and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 