-- Obama Condemns Attack That Killed U.S. Ambassador in Libya
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-09-12T14:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/obama-condemns-attack-that-killed-u-s-ambassador-in-libya.html
President  Barack Obama  condemned
the attack on the U.S. consulate in  Libya  that left the U.S.
ambassador and three other American embassy staff dead. He
ordered tighter security at diplomatic posts across the world
and will address the situation at 10:35 a.m. Washington time
today in the Rose Garden.  “I strongly condemn the outrageous attack on our
diplomatic facility in Benghazi, which took the lives of four
Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens,” Obama said in a
statement this morning. “I have directed my administration to
provide all necessary resources to support the security of our
personnel in Libya, and to increase security at our diplomatic
posts around the globe.”  Violent protests erupted in Libya and Egypt over a film
made by an Israeli living in California about the  Prophet
Muhammad  seen as blasphemous by Muslims. The consulate in
Benghazi came under rocket attack, Libya’s deputy interior
minister, Wanis El-Sharif, said by phone today. The British
Broadcasting Corp. said attackers threw homemade bombs at the
compound and that Stevens died as a result of smoke suffocation.  Obama said he rejected “efforts to denigrate the religious
beliefs of others.” Still, “we must all unequivocally oppose
the kind of senseless violence that took the lives of these
public servants,” he said.  Presidential Politics  Obama’s rejection of religious denigration echoed a
statement released yesterday by the U.S. embassy in Cairo,
before the deaths of the ambassador or the diplomats were
confirmed, condemning “the continuing efforts by misguided
individuals to hurt the religious feelings of Muslim.”  Republican  Mitt Romney ’s presidential campaign seized on
the Cairo-issued statement as evidence that the Obama
administration’s first sympathies were with the attackers who
overran the Benghazi consulate and briefly took over parts of
the U.S. embassy in Cairo.  “It’s disgraceful that the Obama administration’s first
response was not to condemn attacks on our diplomatic missions,
but to sympathize with those who waged the attacks,” Romney
said in a statement last night. “I’m outraged by the attacks on
American diplomatic missions in Libya and Egypt and by the death
of an American consulate worker in Benghazi.”  Just after midnight, the Obama campaign responded, and
criticized Romney for making what they called a “political
attack.”  “We are shocked that, at a time when the  United States of
America  is confronting the tragic death of one of our diplomatic
officers in Libya,  Governor Romney  would choose to launch a
political attack,” Obama campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt  said in
an e-mail.  -- With assistance from Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo. Editors:
 Steven Komarow , Jodi Schneider  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  