-- Obama Discusses Iran Threat With Netanyahu Amid Tensions
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-09-12T09:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/obama-discusses-iran-threat-with-netanyahu-amid-tensions.html
President  Barack Obama  and Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  discussed  Iran ’s suspected
atomic weapons program amid a rift between the two nations over
how to confront the issue.  The two leaders spoke by phone last night for an hour, the
White House said. While providing no further details, the White
House said in a statement that Obama and Netanyahu “reaffirmed
that they are united in their determination to prevent Iran from
obtaining a nuclear weapon.”  Netanyahu declared earlier yesterday that the Obama
administration has no “moral right” to keep  Israel  from
attacking as long as the U.S. doesn’t set its own “red lines”
for Iran. His remarks reflect differences within his government
about an Israeli attack on Iran and a bid to pressure Obama less
than two months before the U.S. election. The call came after
Israeli media reports, denied by the White House, that
Netanyahu’s request to meet Obama later this month was snubbed.  “Strategically it’s not in either of their interests to
show the world they are not on the same page,” said  Aaron David Miller , a former State Department official who served under
Democratic and Republican presidents.  In addition to strategic concerns, there are political
implications for both leaders. The dispute hurts Netanyahu’s
efforts to convince divided Israelis of the merits of a strike,
Miller said in an interview. For Obama, locked in a tight race
with Republican challenger Mitt Romney who has been questioning
Obama’s commitment to Israel, the differences may affect his
appeal with voters in battleground states.  Close Election  “In a close election you don’t want to alienate anyone,”
said Miller, who’s now at the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, a Washington policy group.  Obama’s objective between now and the election is to avoid
an Israeli attack, Miller said, “because war introduces
uncertainties” that may include a doubling or tripling of  oil
prices , turmoil in European and American markets and public
division over a discretionary war.  Miller said his experience suggests last night’s call was a
“let’s put things back in the box” discussion and not a
breakthrough session.  Former Israeli prime minister  Tzipi Livni  said today that
the dispute between Obama and Netanyahu benefits the Iranians.  Israel ‘Isolated’  “They hear representatives of the U.S. say they are not
going to be partners in an Israeli adventure, and from that
moment they feel more secure,” Livni said in an interview on
 Army Radio . “Instead of Iran becoming isolated it is Israel
becoming isolated, and the stronger Netanyahu talks, the weaker
Israel becomes.”  Republican Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina expressed displeasure earlier yesterday
with the White House’s disclosure that Obama doesn’t plan to
meet Netanyahu later this month, when the Israeli leader visits
New York for the annual United Nations General Assembly meeting.  “If these reports are true, the White House’s decision
sends a troubling signal to our ally Israel about America’s
commitment at this dangerous and challenging time, especially as
Iran continues to work actively toward developing a nuclear
weapons capability,” they said in a statement.  Democratic Senator from New York  Charles Schumer  defended
the president’s record on Iran, telling CNN “that if the
sanctions fail, and military action is warranted, a re-elected
President Obama is far more likely to launch that kind of
military action, probably in concert with Israel, than would
 Mitt Romney .”  No Meeting  White House National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said yesterday that Obama and Netanyahu wouldn’t be in
New York at the same time, and that “contrary to previous press
reports, there was never any request for a meeting” between
Netanyahu and Obama.  The newspaper Haaretz was among media outlets in Israel
that reported earlier that the White House rejected a request by
Netanyahu for a meeting.  Romney and his campaign refrained from any immediate
reaction because Netanyahu’s comments coincided with the
anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks on New York and
Washington, and the candidates had pledged to set aside
partisanship for a day.  The Republican nominee made no mention of the U.S.-Israeli
dispute in a speech to National Guard members in Reno, Nevada.
That may change as soon as today.  ‘All Measures’  During a July trip to Israel, Romney said it is “right”
for the U.S. to stand with Israel and use “any and all
measures” to stop Iran from developing atomic capabilities.
Throughout the campaign, Romney has portrayed Obama as
insufficiently supportive of Israel.  Opinion polls show the majority of Americans favor a
cautious approach to Iran.  A survey by the Chicago Council on Global Affairs found 70
percent of Americans oppose a unilateral strike against Iran
while 59 percent don’t want the U.S. involved in a potential war
between Israel and Iran. The survey of 1,877 adults, conducted
May 25-June 8, has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8
percentage points.  While Iran is “an issue of concern” for voters, “I don’t
think this is the focal point for most people,” said  Dennis Ross , a former senior Middle East adviser to Obama and other
U.S. presidents of both political parties.  “The people who don’t support the president will be quick
to grab onto something like this,” Ross said. “Those who do
will think his overall approach to this is still a sound one.”  Florida Factor  Netanyahu’s criticism is unlikely to be a determining
factor in the election because Jews aren’t single-issue voters,
and most Jewish Democrats have supported Obama, Miller said.  Even so, he said, “in a close election, of course,
anything can happen.”  Obama won in 2008 with 78 percent support from Jewish
voters, according to a national exit poll, and he and his
surrogates have said he has an unbreakable bond with Israel and
a record of military and political support to prove it.  Florida is the biggest swing state with a large proportion
of Jewish residents, and Obama held a 0.6 percentage point lead
over Romney there, 47.3 percent to 46.7 percent, in an average
of six polls conducted Aug. 13-Sept. 2 and compiled by the Real
Clear Politics website.  Other battleground states where the Jewish vote may make a
difference in a close race this year include Nevada, Ohio and
Wisconsin.  ‘Red Lines’  Netanyahu’s remarks came two days after Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said in a Bloomberg Radio interview that the
U.S. is “not setting deadlines” on negotiations with Iran.
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  later said it is
“not useful” to set deadlines or “red lines.”  What Netanyahu wants is assurance that the U.S. will commit
its own military forces to destroy  Iran’s nuclear program  if
economic sanctions and diplomacy don’t have the desired effect,
Miller said.  Netanyahu’s aim is unrealistic, Miller said in a telephone
interview yesterday, and it “diminishes Israel’s credibility
and undermines its deterrent capacity.”  Netanyahu also is trying to build public support in his own
country in case Israel decides it must strike, said Emily Landau, director of the  arms control  and regional security
program at the Institute for National Security Studies at Tel
Aviv University. He and Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  “seem
increasingly isolated in their support for this option as more
and more top security figures come out against it,” she said.  Domestic Support  “Netanyahu may have a plan to build more domestic
political support for an Iran action, but whatever is hitting
the media and becoming part of the public debate is building up
a case against that,” she said.  Gabi Ashkenazi, a former Israeli military chief of staff,
said Israel shouldn’t jeopardize its ties with Washington. “I
strongly recommend that we preserve our strong relationship with
the  United States . Our strong bond is not only imperative to us
from a security perspective but also economically,” Ashkenazi
said at a conference in Tel Aviv yesterday.  Even Defense Minister Barak, one of the most hawkish
members of the Israeli security cabinet, yesterday stressed the
importance of maintaining Israel’s ties with the U.S.  “Despite these differences, and the importance of
maintaining Israel’s independence of action, we must also
remember the significance of our partnership with America and do
everything possible not to harm this,” the  Defense Ministry 
quoted Barak as saying in a private forum.  Political Motive  Ross, now at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy,
stopped short of ascribing a U.S. political motive to
Netanyahu’s remarks.  “If there wasn’t an election right now, I think he’d be
saying the same thing,” Ross said.  Ross said Netanyahu is concerned that, if Israel waits too
long, it will lose its own capability to strike. He is trying to
“motivate the rest of the world to act more seriously against
Iran,” an approach that led to sanctions that otherwise might
not be in place, Ross said.  While the disagreements between the U.S. and Israel should
be discussed, “it’s better that they happen behind closed
doors,” Ross said. “What you want is the focus to remain on
Iran.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  