-- Obama Says Romney ‘Didn’t Have His Facts Right’ in Criticism
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-12T20:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/obama-says-romney-didn-t-have-his-facts-right-in-criticism.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  “didn’t have his facts
right” when he criticized the administration’s response to the
attacks on U.S. diplomatic outposts in  Egypt  and  Libya .  Romney “seems to have a tendency to shoot first and aim
later,” Obama told CBS’s “60 Minutes” program today. “And as
president, one of the things I’ve learned is you can’t do
that.”  Asked whether Romney’s criticism was irresponsible, Obama
said, “I’ll let the American people judge that.”  The president spoke to CBS’s “60 Minutes” program in a
previously scheduled interview recorded shortly after Obama
condemned an attack that killed four U.S. embassy personnel in
Libya and following statements by Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor. Excerpts were posted on CBS’s website and White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  quoted for reporters from other
portions of the interview.  “There are times when we set politics aside,” Carney
quoted Obama as saying. “It appears that Governor Romney didn’t
have his facts right.”  In a campaign statement last night and in remarks earlier
today, Romney accused the Obama administration of issuing an
apology to Egyptian protesters. Romney was referring to a
statement issued by the U.S. embassy in Cairo that was intended
to ease tensions over an anti-Muslim film and was released hours
before attacks broke out there and in Libya.  ‘Terrible Course’  “It’s a terrible course for America to stand in apology
for our values,” the Republican presidential candidate said at
a press conference today in Jacksonville,  Florida . “Instead,
when our grounds are being attacked and being breached, the
first response of the Unites States must be outrage at the
breach of the sovereignty of our nation.”  The embassy statement condemned “the continuing efforts by
misguided individuals to hurt the religious feelings of Muslims
-- as we condemn efforts to offend believers of all religions.”
It also said, “Respect for religious beliefs is a cornerstone
of American democracy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  