-- Ohio Legislature Passes Benefit Changes for Five Pensions
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-09-12T18:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/ohio-legislature-passes-benefit-changes-for-five-pensions.html
The  Ohio  Legislature passed bills
meant to ensure that the state’s five public-pension systems can
pay all their obligations within 30 years as required by law.  The modifications include increasing employee
contributions, raising retirement ages and revising cost-of-
living adjustments for the systems’ 1.83 million retirees and
members, the bills’ sponsors said.  “These measures, as painful as they might be, will
stabilize the systems and preserve valuable retirement
benefits,” Representative Kirk Schuring, chairman of the House
Health and Aging Subcommittee on Retirement and Pensions, said
in testimony before the votes today in Columbus.  Ohio had 66.3 percent of what it needed to pay future
retiree obligations as of 2010, which ranked 15th worst among
U.S. states, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The legislation passed unanimously, with the exception of a
lone vote against the bill for the State Teachers Retirement
System of Ohio.  The Senate, which passed the bills in May, voted
unanimously this afternoon to concur with the House changes on
all the bills and to send them to Governor  John Kasich  for his
signature. The measures would take effect Jan. 7.  Painful Change  “The lingering economic downturn and several years of
inaction by the legislature have put additional strain on our
pension systems,” Republican Senate President Tom Niehaus, a
co-sponsor of bills with Senate Democratic Leader Eric Kearney,
said in Aug. 8 testimony before the House committee. “The
changes contained in these plans are not popular, but they are
necessary.”  The funds are the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund, School
Employees Retirement System of Ohio, State Teachers Retirement
System of Ohio, Ohio Public Employees Retirement System and Ohio
Highway Patrol Retirement System.  The Ohio Public Employees Retirement System is the largest
state pension fund and 12th largest in the U.S. It has net
assets of $74 billion and a 2010 funded status of 76.1 percent,
with its unfunded liabilities expected to be paid within 29
years, according to the system’s 2011  annual report .  Twenty-nine states changed their pensions in 2011, and
eight states have acted in 2012, according to the  National
Conference of State Legislatures .  William Batchelder, Ohio’s Republican House speaker, said
he expects the House to hold hearings this year on other changes
needed for long-term viability of the state funds.  He said that Ohio passed the bills after Illinois lawmakers
failed to act on a cost-cutting overhaul of the nation’s worst-
funded pension during a one-day session called Aug. 17 by
Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn .  “As people read the paper, watch the TV, they see these
funds that are just blowing up, and that will not happen in
Ohio,” Batchelder told reporters after the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  