-- Oil Trades Near Two-Day Low as U.S. Stockpiles Unexpectedly Gain
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-09-13T07:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-as-u-s-stockpiles-unexpectedly-gain.html
Oil traded near the lowest price in
two days in  New York  after stockpiles unexpectedly rose in the
U.S., the world’s biggest crude user.  Futures were little changed after dropping for the first
time in six days yesterday. Inventories rose  1.99 million
barrels  last week, the Energy Department said yesterday. They
were forecast to fall by 2.9 million barrels, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  may announce additional stimulus
measures for the economy at the end of a two-day  meeting today.  “The oil market couldn’t go higher because of the bearish
impact of the inventory data,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a derivative
sales manager at Newedge Group in Tokyo who expects West Texas
Intermediate crude to trade below $98.29 a barrel, the Aug. 23
intraday high that marked the peak of a rally since June. “The
lower side will be limited ahead of the FOMC meeting. It’s a big
event.”  Crude for October delivery was at $96.92 a barrel, down 9
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3 p.m. Singapore time. WTI slipped 16 cents to $97.01 a barrel
yesterday, the lowest close since Sept. 10. Front-month prices
are down 1.9 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement fell 1 cent to $115.95 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to WTI was at $19.03, from
$18.95 yesterday.  Gasoline Stockpiles  Oil in New York has technical resistance along the upper
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at around $99.20 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures have
halted advances near this indicator since July. Sell orders tend
to be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  U.S. gasoline inventories fell  1.18 million barrels  last
week, the Energy Department report showed. They were forecast to
decline by 1.7 million, according to the survey. Distillate
supplies, a category that includes heating oil and diesel, rose
1.48 million barrels, compared with a projected decline of
500,000.  The FOMC will probably announce a third round of bond
purchases after its meeting and extend the duration of its zero-
interest-rate policy into 2015, according to two-thirds of the
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Global oil inventories have become “more comfortable,”
the  International Energy Agency  said in a report yesterday.
Daily output by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries increased by 45,000 barrels last month to 31.55
million, or about 450,000 more than required this quarter and
950,000 more than next quarter, the Paris-based IEA said.  Emergency Reserves  The agency didn’t specify whether members should release
emergency reserves to tame prices, a move discussed last month
by leaders in the U.S., U.K. and France.  “We’ve got effectively an implied stockpile-build in the
fourth quarter, so we don’t see a need for an emergency stock
release,” said Alan Gelder, the head of downstream research at
Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in  London . “That supply’s mainly coming out
of non-OPEC. There’s some supply growth in the former  Soviet
Union  in the third and fourth quarters, and Europe coming off
North Sea maintenance.”  Iran ’s oil exports rebounded to 1.1 million barrels a day
in August from a record-low 930,000 in July, the IEA said.
Shipments to Turkey and Malaysia increased the most. Sales by
Iran, which is facing sanctions on its energy and financial
industries because of its nuclear program, may rise again this
month as nations including China,  South Korea  and  India  boost
loadings, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  