-- Oil Drops First Time in 6 Days on Unexpected Supply Gain
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-12T19:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/oil-fluctuates-after-german-ruling-and-inventory-gain.html
Oil in  New York  declined for the
first time in six days after an Energy Department report showed
an unexpected increase in U.S. crude inventories.  Futures dropped after  stockpiles  rose 1.99 million barrels
last week. Supplies were forecast to fall 2.9 million barrels in
a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Futures climbed earlier as
 Germany ’s top court cleared the way for ratification of the
European Stability Mechanism.  “There’s way too much oil available to support prices at
this level,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh
Trading Group in  Chicago . “We’ve put in $98 as a solid top.”  Crude oil for October delivery declined 16 cents to settle
at $97.01 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract touched $98.06, the highest level since Aug. 23, before
the release of the department’s report at 10:30 a.m. in
 Washington . Prices are down 1.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 56 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $115.96 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest close
since Aug. 16.  The European benchmark grade was at an $18.95 premium to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate oil, the most since Aug.
16 and up from $18.23 yesterday.  Crude  production  rose 0.7 percent to 5.53 million barrels a
day in the seven days ended Sept. 7, the report showed. That’s
up from the previous week when Hurricane Isaac sent output
plunging 12 percent to 5.49 million barrels a day, the lowest
level since September 2011.  Refinery Operations  Refineries operated  at 84.7 percent of capacity, down 1.4
percentage points from the prior week and the lowest level since
April, the report showed.  Total  fuel use  decreased 2.6 percent to an average 18.7
million barrels a day in the four weeks ended Sept. 7, the
biggest decline since September 2008.  Gasoline consumption  fell
1.7 percent to 9 million barrels a day during the same period.  “The unexpected drop in refinery runs and some really poor
demand numbers explain the inventory numbers,” said  Tim Evans ,
an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “I
didn’t expect to see a further drop in refinery utilization
rates. The previous report didn’t fully reflect the impact of
Hurricane Isaac on refineries.”  Gasoline inventories  fell 1.18 million barrels to 197.7
million last week, the lowest level since October 2008, the
report showed. Stockpiles were projected to drop 1.7 million
barrels, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates in the
Bloomberg survey.  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, increased 1.48 million barrels to 128.6
million, the highest level since April. Stockpiles were
projected to decline 500,000 barrels.  Court Ruling  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe
dismissed motions filed by groups that sought to block the
European Stability Mechanism while ruling Germany’s 190 billion-
euro ($245 billion) contribution can’t be increased without
legislative approval. The court said Germany can ratify the fund
if it includes binding caveats saying it won’t be forced to
assume higher liabilities without its consent.  Last week, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said the ECB was ready to buy unlimited quantities of short-
dated government bonds of nations signed up to rescues.  “The German court ruling is key,” said  Mike Wittner , head
of oil market research at Societe Generale SA in New York. “The
market reaction to the decision was muted because a lot of good
news on Europe has been priced in, especially after Draghi’s
decision last week.”  Stimulus Watch  Traders are watching to see if the U.S. and  China  will
announce further stimulus measures. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  started a two-day meeting today which may culminate in
additional efforts to boost the economy. The Fed bought a total
of $2.3 trillion in bonds from December 2008 to June 2011 in two
rounds of asset purchases known as quantitative easing.  “There’s some uncertainty about what will come out of the
FOMC meeting,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Their announcement
will be significant for the market. Expectations of further
stimulus have been a huge prop for the market.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said at the  World Economic Forum 
in Tianjin, China, yesterday that his government has more room
for fiscal and monetary measures to support growth.  Ambassador Killed  U.S. ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three other
Americans were killed in an attack on the consulate in Benghazi
amid protests in the North African country and neighboring Egypt
over a film about the  Prophet Muhammad  viewed as blasphemous by
Muslims. Libya holds Africa’s largest crude reserves.  “Under normal circumstances something like what occurred
in  Libya  would send prices higher, but there’s been no market
reaction because of ample supplies,” Horwitz said.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 444,985
contracts as of 3:11 p.m. Volume totaled 537,652 contracts
yesterday, 0.9 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.59 million, the highest level since May 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  