-- Oil Trades Near Three-Week High After Germany Approves Fund Plan
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-12T13:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/oil-rises-a-sixth-day-on-euro-fund-ruling-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil traded near its highest in
almost three weeks as  Germany ’s top constitutional court cleared
the way for a permanent euro-area rescue fund and speculation
grew that China and the U.S. will boost stimulate measures.  Crude rose above $98 a barrel for the first time since Aug.
23 after the Federal Constitutional Court in Germany dismissed
motions filed by groups trying to block the fund, known as the
European Stability Mechanism. The  International Energy Agency 
raised global oil demand forecasts for this year and next.
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said his government has more room for
fiscal and monetary policy to support growth. The U.S. Federal
Open Market Committee starts a two-day meeting today, which may
culminate in additional efforts to boost the economy.  “The German ruling is positive from a risk-appetite and
market-confidence point of view,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian ,
head of commodity markets at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “With
the ruling and anticipation of the announcement of a third round
of quantitative easing by the Fed, risky assets including oil
are getting a boost.”  Crude for October delivery advanced as much as 89 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $98.06 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , and was down 4 cents at $97.13 at 2:11
p.m. London time. The contract yesterday rose 0.7 percent to
$97.17, the highest close since Aug. 22. Prices are 1.7 percent
lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed 52 cents to $115.92 a barrel.
The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $18.77 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, up from $18.23
yesterday.  North Sea  The price difference between the world’s two most-traded
varieties of crude, which widened to $21.92 a barrel last month,
is narrowing as  North Sea  production rebounds from the lowest
level in five years. Daily exports of the four crude grades
comprising the Dated Brent benchmark will increase 24 percent in
October, the most in two years, as maintenance work ends, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  U.S. crude stockpiles  probably fell  2.9 million barrels, or
0.8 percent, to 354.2 million in the seven days ended Sept. 7,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts before an
Energy Department report today.  The U.S. ambassador to  Libya , Christopher Stevens, was
killed in an attack on the consulate in Benghazi as protests
flared in the North African country and neighboring Egypt
against a film about the  Prophet Muhammad . Libya holds Africa’s
largest crude reserves.  Ample Inventories  The Paris-based IEA predicts that world oil consumption
will increase by 800,000 barrels a day, or 0.9 percent, in both
2012 and 2013, reaching 90.6 million a day next year. That’s
about 90,000 a day more than estimated last month. The agency
said inventories have become “more comfortable” and didn’t
specify whether members should release emergency reserves to
tame prices, a move discussed last month by leaders in the U.S.,
U.K. and  France .  China  has “ample strength” for pre-emptive fiscal and
monetary measures, Wen said at the  World Economic Forum  in the
Chinese city of Tianjin yesterday. The government is trying to
prevent growth this year from slipping below the 7.5 percent
target set in March, which would already be the weakest since
1990.  Bernanke’s View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 that he
wouldn’t rule out more economic stimulus for the U.S. The
central bank bought a total of $2.3 trillion in bonds from
December 2008 to June 2011 in two rounds of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing.  “The market is waiting on the outcome of the FOMC meeting
and data from the Energy Department,” said  David Lennox , an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney.  Oil in  New York  has technical resistance along the upper
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, around $99.37 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures have halted
advances near this indicator since July. Sell orders tend to be
clustered near chart-resistance levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  