-- Moore Said to Reduce Positions Amid Equity Restructuring
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-09-13T15:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/moore-said-to-cut-positions-amid-equity-restructuring.html
Moore Capital Management LLC, the
$15 billion hedge fund run by Louis Moore Bacon, cut 10 to 15
investment jobs as it restructures one of its equity teams,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The portfolio managers and research analysts were let go on
Sept. 11, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Patrick Clifford , a
spokesman for New York-based Moore, declined to comment.  “Apart from a few  hedge funds , it’s not that typical to
see a large reduction in headcount in the industry,” said Ronen Schwartzman, founder of Ten Capital Advisors LLC, a  New York- 
based firm that advises clients on investing in hedge funds.
“Performance must be having an impact.”  Bacon, 56, hired his older brother, Zack Hampton Bacon III,
in February to oversee strategic planning, a person briefed on
the matter said that month. Bacon told clients last month that
he planned to return $2 billion, or about 25 percent of his main
fund, to investors, saying it may be too big for him to generate
returns in line with historic profits as “liquidity and
opportunities have become more constrained.”  Moore, which Bacon founded in 1989, had 208 employees
involved in investment-advisory roles, including research,
according to a regulatory  filing  in March. The firm had 426
workers, excluding clerical staff.  Equity trading at Moore is overseen by Matt Carpenter, who
joined the firm in 2010. He previously ran a unit at Citigroup
Inc. that traded U.S. stocks with more than $1 billion of the
New York-based bank’s own money.  Macro Strategy  Bacon, whose main fund has averaged gains of more than 18
percent annually, told clients performance in this year’s first
half was “disappointing” when he announced plans to give back
capital.  The Moore Global Investments Ltd. fund returned about 0.8
percent this year through August, according to investors. The
fund follows a macro strategy that seeks to profit from broad
economic trends by trading everything from bonds to currencies.
Such  funds  lost an average of 0.6 percent, while the hedge-fund
industry gained 2.6 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed  12 percent during
the first eight months of 2012 while the Stoxx Europe 600 rose 9
percent.  Moore isn’t the only hedge fund making changes to its
teams. Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based firm run by  Ken Griffin ,
this month merged its quantitative credit and convertible-bond
teams. The new Global Credit group is run by Ryan Garino,  David Grossman  and Jamey Thompson, according to the firm’s  website .  Moore has added to its roster of portfolio managers this
year. In May, the firm hired former Morgan Stanley executive
Patrick Lynch as a credit portfolio manager. Last month it added
 Stephen Hull , a currency specialist who had worked at Brevan
Howard Asset Management LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  