-- Zardari Orders Probe as Pakistan Factory Fire Kills 258
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-09-13T04:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/pakistan-factory-fires-in-karachi-lahore-leave-over-125-dead.html
Pakistan ’s President Asif Ali Zardari ordered an investigation after a fire in a garment
factory in the commercial capital of Karachi left 258 people
dead in the country’s biggest industrial accident.  The owners of Ali Enterprises, which exports garments, have
been barred from leaving the country, Ishrat-ul-Ibad, governor
of Sindh Province, told reporters at the site. Police conducted
raids across the city to locate the owners, ARY Television
reported.  Karachi , a city of 20 million people, is home to over
12,000 factories, many of which don’t comply with safety
standards. Thousands of industrial workers are employed as
casual labor and not insured for accidents.  “Inspection of industrial units by the provincial labor
department was mandatory under the rules until 1997 when it was
banned after demands by influential industrialists in the Sindh
and Punjab provinces,” Shujah-ud-Din, a senior research
associate at the  Pakistan Institute of Labour, Education and
Research , said by phone from Karachi. Factory accidents claimed
419 lives in 2008, the latest data available, he said.  “The death toll was initially thought to be 289 but there
was some double counting because bodies were being moved to
different hospitals,” Shabih Siddiqui, a spokesman for the
local government, said by phone.  Trapped Workers  The rescue effort continued through the night as
firefighters tried to reach the basement where workers are
thought to be trapped, Siddiqui said. There were over 2,000
people in the factory when the fire broke out. Phone calls to
the office of Ali Enterprises went unanswered.  “This company exported to the U.S. and  Europe  so they
would have had to comply with global safety standards under the
rules of the  World Trade Organization ,” Asad Nisar, senior vice
chairman of the SITE Association of Industry, a trade group
representing factories in the area, said by phone.  The fire broke out shortly after 6 p.m. on Sept. 11 when
the work shift usually changes, Zahid Ali, a worker at the
stitching department on the second floor of the four-storey
building, said by phone. A blast was heard when the generator
failed to switch on after an electricity failure and smoke
filled all the floors, he said.  Workers threw sewing machines at the windows in an attempt
to escape since all the main exits on each floor were locked,
said Ali. His brother, also a worker, suffered arm and leg
fractures while escaping from the second floor. Those who
couldn’t get out suffocated and collapsed, resulting in the
large number of bodies that were charred beyond recognition, he
said.  Emergency Doors  Cracks developed in the building after it caught fire,
slowing the rescue effort, Ihtesham Uddin, the chief fire
officer in Karachi, told reporters. “The number of casualties
is so large because there were no emergency doors or extra
stairways in the factory and the main doors were locked, which
is surprising.”  The fire resulted in the most casualties in a single
industrial incident in Pakistan’s history, according to the
Pakistan Institute of Labour Education and Research.  The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan called upon the
government to start criminal proceedings against the factory
owners and ensure safe working conditions and effective
monitoring, according to a statement.  The incident occurred the same evening as a shoe factory
caught fire in the eastern city of Lahore, killing 25 people,
Pakistani media reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Karachi at 
 Aanthony9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  