-- Pancontinental Falls Most Since 2004 on Kenya Well: Sydney Mover
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-09-12T06:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/pancontinental-falls-most-since-2004-on-kenya-well-sydney-mover.html
Pancontinental Oil & Gas NL (PCL) , an
Australian explorer focused on  East Africa , had its biggest drop
in eight years in Sydney after further drilling at a venture
with  Apache Corp. (APA)  failed to find to find oil or gas.  Pancontinental slumped 47 percent to 12.5 cents, the most
since June 7, 2004, while Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index increased 0.8 percent.  The Perth-based company rose 91 percent two days ago after
the partnership that includes Tullow Oil Plc and  Origin Energy
Ltd. (ORG)  said they discovered the first natural gas off Kenya in the
Mbawa-1 well. No hydrocarbons were found at a deeper, secondary
target, Pancontinental said today in a statement.  “The total amount of gas that has been found is not
sufficient in isolation to be seen to be commercial,”  Kenya ’s
Energy Minister Kiraitu Murungi told reporters yesterday. “The
results give us encouragement that the next well to be drilled
in the block will likely result in a bigger discovery.”  East Africa has become one of the most active exploration
areas since Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Eni SpA made the
decade’s biggest gas find off Mozambique, followed by BG Group
Plc and Statoil ASA’s gas discoveries off Tanzania.  Apache, the third-largest U.S. independent oil and natural-
gas producer by market value, may drill one more exploration
well in the block as soon as next year, the company said
yesterday. It said it will examine the drilling results and keep
open the option of re-entering the well.  Houston-based Apache, the operator, owns 50 percent of the
block, while Sydney-based Origin holds 20 percent. Tullow, based
in  London , and Pancontinental each hold 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  