-- Peregrine Bankruptcy Judge Approves Bulk Account Offers
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-12T23:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/peregrine-bankruptcy-judge-approves-bulk-account-offers.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s
liquidating trustee can consider bulk offers for futures client
accounts from other commodities firms, a U.S. bankruptcy judge
said.  While Judge Carol A. Doyle in  Chicago  today agreed with
Trustee Ira Bodenstein’s position that futures client funds may
most efficiently be distributed through the sale of accounts to
another firm, she deferred ruling on his request for approval of
a proposed interim distribution of $123 million.  “We understand how important it is to the customers to get
their money back,” Bodenstein’s lawyer, Robert Fishman, said
today while arguing in support of that plan.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Sept. 9
objected to the payout proposal under which the trustee would
hold back about $58 million in futures client funds as a hedge
against firm account records being falsified or incorrect.  Peregrine filed for  bankruptcy court  liquidation on July 10
after a National Futures Association audit revealed that about
$200 million in client funds reportedly on deposit with the
firm’s bank were unaccounted for.  The CFTC then sued the  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm and
founder Russell Wasendorf Sr., accusing them of misappropriating
that money. Wasendorf has since been charged with 31 counts of
making false statements to the regulators.  Plea Agreement  While he entered a plea of not guilty on Aug. 17, a U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation agent testifying at a Wasendorf
bail hearing in  Cedar Rapids  federal court yesterday said the
founder has signed a plea agreement admitting to mail fraud,
embezzlement and the making of false statements.  No change of plea date has been set nor has U.S. Magistrate
Judge Jon Scoles ruled on Wasendorf’s bail request.  CFTC attorney Anne Stukes argued in her Sept. 9 filing and
in court today that additional testing and analysis of the
accuracy of Peregrine’s records was needed.  “Distribution should be made as soon as possible and as
soon as practicable,” Stukes said today.  Fishman told the court that while the trustee agreed in
principal with the CFTC position and that many of the agency’s
recommendations had been implemented, some were simply not cost-
effective.  The attorney suggested that Doyle schedule an evidentiary
hearing at which he could show the court what steps had been
taken to test the accuracy of the firm’s financial records.  Doyle scheduled that hearing for Sept. 21.  Payout Plan  If the initial payout plan is approved first payments to
holders of some of Peregrine’s 17,000 futures accounts will be
made on or by Sept. 28, according to the trustee’s Sept. 5 court
filing.  Separately, Chicago attorney Michael Eidelman, who was
appointed as receiver of Wasendorf’s assets in the CFTC case,
told  Bloomberg News  today that he has been negotiating with the
founder’s son and firm president, Russell Wasendorf Jr., for the
turnover to creditors of his equity assets.  “I wouldn’t want to put a value on the equity,” which the
father and son own jointly, Eidelman said in a telephone
interview.  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago). The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-
cr-2021, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Iowa  (Cedar
Rapids).  The regulatory case is Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  