-- Philippine Peso Hits Four-Year High Before Interest-Rate Review
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-09-12T09:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/philippine-peso-hits-four-year-high-before-interest-rate-review.html
The Philippine peso reached a four-
year high ahead of a central bank meeting tomorrow at which
 interest rates  are forecast to be unchanged after three
reductions this year. Bonds weakened.  The currency climbed as much as 0.3 percent before a
Federal Reserve meeting that that may lead to a third round of
asset purchases, boosting the supply of dollars. The two-day
meeting concludes tomorrow.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  will
keep its overnight borrowing rate at a record-low 3.75 percent
tomorrow, according to 16 of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Four forecast a cut to 3.50 percent.  “The peso is supported by expectations that policy makers
will not cut the rate tomorrow,” said Radhika Rao, an economist
at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “Speculation that advanced
economies, including the U.S., will roll out more stimulus is
boosting  emerging markets . Given the  Philippines ’ strong
performance, we think it’s going to continue to benefit from
these inflows.”  The peso closed little changed at 41.575 per dollar from
41.570 yesterday, data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. It
touched 41.445, the strongest level since April 2008. One-month
implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to
price options, declined 20 basis points to 5.5 percent.  Inflation Forecasts  Authorities are worried about the impact of excessive
capital flows and the effects of a strong currency that the pace
of peso gains has been moderated by intervention, Rao said.  Bangko Sentral will probably raise inflation forecasts
during this week’s meeting after monsoon rains and flooding last
month disrupted the supply of some food items and pushed prices
higher, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said on Sept. 7.
Inflation accelerated to 3.8 percent in August, the fastest pace
in seven months, official data show.  The yield on the 5 percent bonds due August 2018 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.5 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  The Philippine central bank cut its policy rate for the
third time this year in July. The last two scheduled reviews in
2012 are Oct. 25 and Dec. 13. Barclays Plc predicts the Fed will
announce monthly bond purchases of $50 billion tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 