-- Piccadilly Restaurants Returns to Chapter 11
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-09-12T11:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/piccadilly-restaurants-returns-to-chapter-11.html
Piccadilly Restaurants LLC  filed
for bankruptcy to prevent the secured lender from having a
receiver appointed.  The  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based company has 86 restaurants
and 78 institutional food-service customers. Lender Atalaya
Capital Management LP started a lawsuit in state court last week
to appoint a receiver, Piccadilly said in a filing yesterday in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Lafayette, Louisiana.  Atalaya, based in New York, acquired the secured debt in
April, according to a court filing. Secured debt includes
$6.9 million on a revolving credit, $2.9 million on a letter of
credit facility, and $16 million on a  term loan .  Another $5.5 million is owed to trade suppliers, the
company said. Total assets and debt are both less than
$50 million, according to the Chapter 11 petition.  Atalaya officials didn’t immediately return a call for
comment on the bankruptcy filing.  Piccadilly has arranged for $5 million in financing from an
affiliate of the owner. If approved by the bankruptcy judge, the
new loan would have a lien on assets ahead of Atalaya.  Piccadilly has been in bankruptcy reorganization before. It
filed a Chapter 11 petition in October 2003 in  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida, sold the business, and confirmed a Chapter 11 plan in
October 2004.  The prior bankruptcy spawned a case that went to the U.S.
Supreme Court, establishing a rule that a company in bankruptcy
can’t escape paying transfer taxes unless a sale takes place as
part of a Chapter 11 plan.  The case is In re Piccadilly Restaurants LLC, 12-51127,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Western District of Louisiana
(Lafayette).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  