-- Pimco Sees Global Growth Slowing Amid Rising Recession Risks
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-09-12T16:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/pimco-sees-global-growth-slowing-next-year-amid-recession-risks.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which manages the world’s biggest bond fund, predicted the
global economy will weaken next year as it warned the likelihood
of widespread recessions across developed nations is increasing.  Global growth will slow to 1.5 percent to 2 percent after
2012’s 2.2 percent, according to a report published on the
 Newport Beach , California-based company’s website today by
Saumil Parikh, a managing director.  “While we do not expect recessions across all developed
countries in 2013, we certainly would caution that the
probability of more widespread recessions has increased, given
the coordinated slowdown in global aggregate demand we are
witnessing across the world,” Parikh said.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 1 percent to 1.5 percent next
year with “downside” risks, he said. While the prospect of a
recovery in housing will help, lawmakers will likely create a
drag on growth of about 1.5 percent of gross domestic product
with a compromise fix for the so-called fiscal cliff, he said.  “For an economy that is struggling to grow at 2 percent
per year, this will still be a significant one-time shock, but
one that through clear communication and planning can be handled
by the private sector,” Parikh said.  Pimco praised European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
for reducing the “probability of depression-like” risks and
providing “much-needed breathing room” by pledging to buy the
bonds of countries that accept austerity conditions. The euro-
area economy will still shrink 1 percent to 1.5 percent, it
said.  China ’s “easy growth” phase of 8 percent to 12 percent
expansion is over, Parikh said. It nevertheless has the balance
sheet and knowledge to maintain expansion of 6.5 percent to 7
percent in 2013, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 