-- Polyus Jumps as RTS Futures Extend Gain on Fed: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-09-13T03:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/polyus-jumps-as-rts-futures-extend-gain-on-fed-russia-overnight.html
Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PGIL) 
surged to a six-month high and Russian equity futures rose as
prospects of more U.S. stimulus spurred demand for commodities.  The  RTS stock-index futures  climbed as the [bn:WBTKR=RUS14BN:IND] Bloomberg|  Russia-US Equity [] Index of the most-traded Russian companies
in  New York  advanced to the highest level since May 3. Polyus
Gold,  Russia ’s largest producer of the metal, rose 2.7 percent
to $3.46. Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim Holdings Ltd.
said it’s looking at selling some or all of its $4 billion stake
in Polyus.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , the owner of Russia’s most-used search
engine, increased 4 percent to $23.40.  Commodities jumped to the highest level in four month and
Brent oil advanced for a fifth day as almost two-thirds of
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast the  Federal Reserve 
will announce a third round of bond purchases today. The central
bank will also likely commit to hold  interest rates  close to
zero into 2015, the survey showed. Russia, the world’s biggest
producer of nickel and palladium, received half of its budget
revenue from oil and gas last year.  “There is a strong demand for risky assets, including
Russian stocks, as investors expect the Fed will announce a new
round of stimulus measures,”  Alexander Morozov , chief economist
for Russia at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone from Moscow
yesterday. “The Russian market is dominated by  oil prices  and
expectation for new stimulus measures fuel bets of higher oil
and commodities prices.”  Russia ETF Gains  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, gained 0.4
percent to $29.28 yesterday, the highest level since May 1. The
RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the
index futures, advanced 1.7 percent to 30.66.  RTS futures rose less than 0.1 percent to 148,345 in New
York yesterday, climbing for a sixth consecutive session, the
longest winning streak since Dec. 5. The Bloomberg gauge of the
biggest Russian equities added 0.1 percent to 99.45.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  plans to release a
statement today at about 12:30 p.m. in  Washington  after a two-
day meeting. At 2 p.m., the Fed will release policy makers’
forecasts for unemployment, inflation and the expected path of
the federal funds rate over the next several years. Bernanke
plans to hold a press conference at about 2:15 p.m. in
Washington today.  Billionaire Prokhorov  Polyus Gold gained 0.6 percent to 1,055.80 rubles, or
$33.54, in Moscow yesterday, the highest level since July 4. In
 London , the  stock  climbed 0.6 percent to 216.25 pence, or $3,48,
the highest level since its listing in June.  Onexim is holding preliminary talks with two potential
buyers for stakes of less than 20 percent each in the London-
listed gold producer, Prokhorov’s company said yesterday.  Billionaire Suleiman Kerimov, whose Nafta Moskva holds 40.2
percent of the gold producer, and  Polymetal International Plc (POLY) 
are involved in discussions, two people with knowledge of the
matter said on Sept. 11. Nafta Moskva said yesterday it may back
a buyer.  “It’s too early to talk about any market impact yet,”
Valentina Bogomolova, an analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. in
Moscow, said by phone in Moscow yesterday. “Everything will
depend on who will buy the stake.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell 0.1 percent to
$1,733.70 an ounce on the Comex in New York yesterday. They
earlier rose to $1,749.50, the highest intraday level for the
contract since Feb. 29.  ‘Market Is Excited’  The central bank of Russia, the world’s biggest energy
exporter, is expected to hold the  refinancing rate  at 8 percent,
a quarter-point above the record low, at a meeting in Moscow
today, according to 12 of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Three forecast a quarter-point increase.  “The Russian central bank’s decision on the rates will
have only a secondary impact on the market,” HSBC’s Morozov
said yesterday.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Sept. 11 the Asian nation
still has “ample strength” to use monetary or fiscal policy to
boost growth in the biggest emerging economy.  “The market is excited by expectations for new stimulus
measures in the U.S. and  China ,” UralSib’s Bogomolova said
yesterday. “There is such a strong optimism in the market that
the Fed will announce new stimulus measures.”  Massive stimulus measures in China are unlikely and would
be “detrimental” to sustainable economic growth, the nation’s
official Xinhua News Agency wrote in a commentary yesterday.  Commodities, Oil  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
advanced 0.3 percent to 682.79 yesterday, to the highest level
since May 1.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 0.5 percent to
$115.96 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. It was the highest close since Aug. 16. Urals crude,
Russia’s chief export blend, advanced 0.8 percent to $113.32
yesterday, the highest level since Aug. 23.  Oil in New York declined for the first time in six days
after an Energy Department report showed an unexpected increase
in U.S. crude inventories. Crude oil for October delivery
declined 0.2 percent to $97.01 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices are down 1.8 percent this year.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 2.4 percent to HK$4.20 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:20
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent
as investors awaited results from the Fed’s meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  