-- Prince Harry’s Naked Escapades Expose Latest Vegas Remake
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-09-13T00:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/prince-harry-s-naked-escapades-expose-latest-vegas-remake.html
Prince Harry’s naked hotel romp in
Las Vegas has turned into a marketing opportunity for casinos
seeking to spotlight new nightclubs and pools for the growing
ranks of tourists seeking fun away from the craps tables.  The prince, third in line to the British throne, spent an
August weekend cavorting at  MGM Resorts International (MGM) ’s Wet
Republic “day club,” racing U.S. Olympic swimmer  Ryan Lochte 
at a late-night swim party and clowning with a young woman --
minus his clothing -- at  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s Encore. People
Magazine put the 27-year-old royal on its Sept. 10 cover and
said his suite, equipped with a pool table, cost $5,000 a night.  Harry’s wild weekend couldn’t have come at a more opportune
time for Las Vegas casinos, which face more competition from
gambling in others states and have yet to see their businesses
recover to pre-recession levels. To counter that, they’re
spending lavishly on faster-growing non-casino operations,
upgrading rooms, pools, bars and restaurants.  “Vegas and Madonna are the same, they know how to reinvent
themselves and focus on the trends,” said Jonathan Segal, whose
New York-based  The One Group  will manage the Bagatelle Beach &
Nightclub opening next month at the Tropicana  Las Vegas  Hotel
and Casino. “You can game on the Internet, game on the
reservations and in lot of U.S. states. So what does Vegas do?
They say, ‘OK we’re going to turn this into the greatest party
city in the world.’”  Next door, MGM Grand is building Hakkasan, a five-story
restaurant and disco that will be among the largest nightclubs
on the Strip.  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  is putting up Linq, an
outdoor promenade with a 550-foot Ferris Wheel dubbed the High
Roller. It’s one of two under construction on the Strip.
Bagatelle, featuring a complex of pools and volleyball courts,
will have its own entrance on Tropicana Blvd.  Harry Photos  Nude photos of Harry from his visit appeared on the
Internet, causing an international scandal that had U.K.
reporters scouring the city for news, according to the Las Vegas
Review Journal.  A spokeswoman for  Buckingham Palace  said the trip was a
private holiday before the prince’s return to military duty.  The Las Vegas Convention & Visitor Authority took out an ad
in  USA Today  and distributed others through social media, poking
fun at the scandal.  “Las Vegas is a place to celebrate adult freedom, freedom
that even celebrities and royals can enjoy,” Cathy Tull, the
authority’s senior vice president of marketing, said in a
statement.  The average Las Vegas gambler’s budget dropped to  $447  last
year from  $652  in 2006, according to authority surveys. The
number of  visitors  has increased 1.9 percent to 23.4 million
this year through July. At the same time, gambling on the Strip
has risen 3.2 percent to $3.62 billion. That includes a 28
percent rise in July sparked by volatile baccarat winnings.  Sure Bet  Spending on shopping, eating and shows continues to grow in
importance, contributing 62 percent of the Strip’s $14.5 billion
in revenue last year, up from 41 percent in 1984, according to
the University of Nevada Las Vegas Center for Gaming Research.
Resort owners are now tracking those expenditures, calculating
how to ply patrons with free meals and other promotions, as they
have for years with high-rollers.  “Some of these customers are small potatoes, but there are
people who come in and never gamble and drop $20,000 in a
weekend,” said Roy Student, a Las Vegas-based casino
consultant. “The casinos realize these are high revenue
opportunities with a lot less risk.”  MGM, the largest casino operator in Las Vegas, is spending
$180 million remodeling hotel rooms and other amenities at its
namesake resort. Night clubs and day clubs, their daytime
poolside kin, have been setting revenue records at the company
this year, according to James Murren, chairman and chief
executive officer.  Lifestyle Shift  “It’s been quite a lifestyle shift,” Murren said in an
interview. “Fewer people during the day are just hanging out by
the pool. They want to do something different and that’s why
these day clubs have been very profitable for us.”  Las Vegas accounted for eight of the 10 top-grossing bars
in the U.S. in 2011, according to the trade publication
 Nightclub and Bar  and the consulting firm Technomic Inc. At No.
1, the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas’s Marquee Day & Night Club,
generated revenue of as much as $80 million.  “People are spending differently,” Murren said. “The
$500 bottles, they’re less frequent, but the sheer volume of
people that are willing to spend quite a bit of money has
increased.”  MGM gained 1.7 percent to $10.96 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 5.1 percent so far this year. Wynn added
2.5 percent to $107.45 and is down 2.8 percent year-to-date.
Caesars added 1.8 percent to $7.26 and is off 19 percent since
its February IPO. All three companies are based in Las Vegas.  Top DJs  The Las Vegas club scene began to grow in significance in
the 2000s when venues such as Light, a now-defunct disco at
MGM’s Bellagio, and Rain at the Palms Hotel began collecting
cover charges and setting minimum food and beverage orders to
reserve tables, according to  Neil Moffitt , CEO of Angel
Management Group, which will run Hakkasan.  Lately the focus is on exclusive contracts with
internationally known disc jockeys. Wynn Resorts has signed
agreements with 36 DJs, charging fans as much as $100 for a
ticket to see Tiesto and deadmau5, who makes “more than Sinatra
at his peak,” CEO  Steve Wynn  told Rolling Stone magazine this
year.  Advanced ticketing gives club operators a sense of how many
people will show up on a particular night and makes the venues
more accessible to the masses, according to Sean Christie, who
manages such properties at Wynn Resorts. That’s important as the
size of the clubs and the number of people required to fill them
has grown.  “The old days of holding the door and having a huge line
to make the club look a certain way -- that drove people away,”
Christie said. The beach club at Wynn’s Encore cost $70 million,
including its outdoor showers with stripper poles.  Caesars’ Linq  No bet is bigger than Caesars’ Linq project, a $550 million
dining and entertainment destination located between the
company’s Flamingo and Imperial Palace hotels in the center of
the Strip. Almost $20 billion in debt after a 2008 leveraged
buyout, Caesars borrowed $450 million at 9.25 percent to fund
Linq and a new tower at Caesars Palace across the street,
according to filings.  Caesars expects as many as 4 million visitors to ride the
High Roller in its first year at a price of about $25, according
to Jon Gray, the vice president in charge. Guests have already
asked to be married in the ride’s 40-person pods. It will open
in the second quarter of 2014.  “Today, it’s hard to push up room rates,” said  Los
Angeles  mall developer Rick Caruso, a consultant to the project.
“You’ve got to find other revenue streams.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  