-- Prudential Targets 19% Returns Outside U.S in 2013
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-12T14:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/prudential-targets-19-returns-outside-u-s-in-2013.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, said it may achieve as much as
19 percent return on equity in its international business as it
integrates operations bought in Japan.  Return on equity may be at least 18 percent outside the
U.S. as Prudential trims expenses after its 2011 acquisition of
two Japan-based life insurers from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , the  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer said in a
 presentation  posted on its website today. That compares with
17.5 percent last year.  “Japan is such a key part of our strategic approach,”
Edward Baird, chief operating officer of Prudential’s
international operations, said today during a presentation to
investors in  Tokyo . As Prudential adds businesses in the
country, the insurer’s focus “has always been to not be
distracted or seduced by growth in the top line, but see it
rather more as a driver to get to growth in the bottom line.”  Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld, 58, is counting on
international expansion led by  Japan  as he targets return on
equity of at least 13 percent companywide next year. Prudential
is combining the former AIG units, Star Life Insurance Co. and
Edison Life Insurance Co., with a business it built in the
country for more than two decades.  “International insurance is benefiting from exceptional
business growth even while we continue to integrate Star and
Edison,” Strangfeld said on an Aug. 2 conference call with
analysts. “Expense synergies related to Star and Edison and the
broader financial impact of the strong momentum in international
will continue to be important drivers of performance.”  Stock Advance  Prudential climbed 0.4 percent to $56.90 at 10:31 a.m. in
New York trading. Strangfeld’s firm has gained about 14 percent
this year, compared with the 15 percent advance of the 75-
company Bloomberg World Insurance Index.  Adjusted operating income at Prudential’s international
insurance segment rose to $681 million in the second quarter
from $500 million a year earlier, the firm said Aug. 1. Profit
more than doubled on gains from derivatives, which Prudential
uses to guard against market risks such as interest-rate changes
and currency fluctuations.  Prudential entered Japan in 1987 and expanded its business
in 2001 with the acquisition of a failed Japanese carrier that
it renamed Gibraltar Life Insurance Co., which then merged with
Star Life and Edison Life this year.  Total pretax integration costs of the insurers is expected
to reach about $450 million, down $50 million from original
estimates, said Kei Sato, president and CEO of Gibraltar Life in
a presentation to investors made in Tokyo. Targeted annual cost
savings stand at $250 million, with about 65 percent realized by
2012 and 80 percent by 2013, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  