-- TransCanada Faces Texas Landowners in Court Over Pipeline
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-12T19:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/transcanada-faces-texas-landowners-in-court-over-pipeline.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  shouldn’t be
allowed to use eminent-domain laws to seize land to build the
southern leg of its Keystone XL Pipeline near Beaumont, Texas,
lawyers for property owners told a judge.  A recent Texas Supreme Court decision may give the
landowners the right to prevent TransCanada from taking land for
the pipeline, Terry Wood, an attorney for Texas Rice Land
Partners, said at a hearing in state court in Beaumont today.  That decision limited the ability of pipeline owners to
condemn property under certain circumstances. The landowners in
Beaumont are fighting to keep Calgary-based TransCanada from
immediately entering their properties and starting construction
before lawyers and lawmakers have explored what the ruling
means.  “This is a case of what’s expedient for the pipeline
company versus the constitutional rights of landowners,” Wood
told Jefferson County Court at Law Judge Tom Rugg Sr. Wood urged
Rugg to stall condemnation of  Texas  Rice Land’s property.  “You realize you might be asking me to delay the
resolution of this case for years,” Rugg told Wood.  “That is a possibility,” Wood replied.  The judge gave lawyers until Sept. 21 to provide additional
briefing and promised to rule by Sept. 24.  ‘Statutory Authority’  “I am concerned that the rights of landowners not be
trampled unless there’s clear statutory authority to do so,” he
said.  Tom Zabel, TransCanada’s lawyer, told Rugg the pipeline
operator believes it has the right under an 1899 Texas statute
to start construction without obtaining so-called writs of
possession through condemnation proceedings such as the ones
today in Beaumont. He said the company has filed the appropriate
paperwork and posted the required bonds and should be allowed to
proceed as pipelines have traditionally done in Texas.  “Once we’ve done that, we’re entitled to the easements
we’re seeking. It’s that simple,” Zabel told Rugg. “The Texas
Legislature came up with this scheme because it wanted to
encourage oil and gas exploitation, and you can’t have oil and
gas without pipelines. This is something that’s been determined
in Texas for more than 100 years.”  Zabel said the supreme court ruling doesn’t apply to the
type of pipeline TransCanada is planning with the Keystone XL.  ‘Game Changer’  The ruling, which also involved Texas Rice Land Partners in
a lawsuit against a different pipeline, was a “game changer”
with statewide implications for pipeline companies, Wood said in
an interview after the hearing.  “Before that decision, the pipelines just assumed that, if
they said it loud enough and enough times, they had the right”
to condemn private property for pipelines, Wood said.  TransCanada began construction last month on part of the
36-inch (91-centimeter) Keystone XL pipeline, which is designed
to bring oil from tar sands of western  Canada  to the Texas Gulf
Coast, Brad Johnson, a company spokesman, said in an interview
after the hearing. The initial stretch of pipeline will connect
Cushing,  Oklahoma , and Nederland, Texas, he said.  TransCanada told Rugg that county judges have a ministerial
duty to issue writs of possession if a pipeline fulfills
statutory requirements of the eminent-domain law. Zabel said
TransCanada doesn’t actually need the writs to access easements
and sought them only to bolster the company’s position should a
landowner bring in the sheriff to bar the gate.  ‘Common Carriers’  In an interview after the hearing, Rugg said the Texas
Supreme Court ruling, in part, requires pipelines to be “common
carriers” in order to use eminent domain where land owners have
balked at allowing easements.  Critics of the Keystone XL, some of whom were gathered with
protest banners outside the Beaumont courthouse today, claim the
ruling also requires that pipelines operate for the public good
in order to use eminent domain.  “One thing the ruling has done is open the eyes of the
more substantial landowners to say, ‘Hey, we really can fight
these people,’” Rugg said in the interview. “You don’t have to
be very bright to know that the bigger fight you put up, the
more money they will put on the table.”  The case is TransCanada Keystone Pipeline LP v. Texas Rice
Land Partners Ltd., 0118867, County Court at Law, Jefferson
County, Texas (Beaumont).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in state court in Beaumont, Texas, at
   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  