-- Transformed Security, Mortgage Putback, UBS: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-12T12:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/transformed-security-mortgage-putback-ubs-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of
America Corp.  are helping clients find an extra $2.6 trillion to
back derivatives trades amid signs that a shortage of quality
collateral will erode efforts to safeguard the financial system.  Starting next year, new rules designed to prevent another
meltdown will force traders to post U.S. Treasury bonds or other
top-rated holdings to guarantee more of their bets. The change
takes effect as the $10.8 trillion market for Treasuries is
already stretched thin by banks rebuilding balance sheets and
investors seeking safety, leaving fewer bonds available to
backstop the $648 trillion derivatives market.  As a solution, at least seven banks plan to let customers
swap lower-rated securities that don’t meet standards in return
for a loan of Treasuries or similar holdings that do qualify, a
process dubbed “collateral transformation.” That’s raising
concerns among investors, bank executives and academics that
measures intended to avert risk are hiding it instead.  The potential reward for revenue-starved banks is an
expanded securities-lending market that could generate billions
of dollars in fees. JPMorgan and Bank of America, which have the
 biggest derivatives businesses  among U.S. bank holding companies
with a combined $140 trillion of the instruments, are already
marketing their new collateral-transformation desks, people with
knowledge of the operations said.  The list also includes  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 State Street Corp. (STT) , said the people, who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Estimates for how much extra collateral participants will
need range from about $500 billion to $2.6 trillion, based on
data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. regulators implementing the
rules haven’t said how the collateral demands for derivatives
trades will be met. Nor have they run their own analyses of
 risks  that might be created by the banks’ bond-lending programs,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Steve Adamske , a
spokesman for the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and
 Barbara Hagenbaugh  at the Federal Reserve declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Mortgage Putback Threat Reduced for Lenders Under New Rules  The U.S. overseer of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , seeking to
reduce the threat that banks will have to buy back flawed
mortgages from the two firms, laid out new rules designed to
spur lending and ease the housing crunch.  The changes will apply to future loans, not those that are
the subject of current bank complaints that the taxpayer-owned
companies are being too aggressive in forcing them to buy back
loans made at the height of the housing bubble, the Federal
Housing Finance Agency said yesterday in a statement.  The new system, which takes effect on Jan. 1, should give
banks more certainty about future costs by flagging potentially
faulty mortgages earlier, FHFA said. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
will use data collected on the loans they buy to spot potential
defects, and will review samples within three months of purchase
instead of waiting until borrowers default.  Regulators including FHFA and the Federal Reserve have said
that banks are shutting out otherwise eligible borrowers and
demanding higher credit scores than necessary because they are
afraid Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will force them to repurchase
loans if they become delinquent.  David Stevens , president and chief executive officer of the
Mortgage Bankers Association, said the rules probably will give
banks more confidence that they won’t be forced to buy back
loans unless there are serious problems with origination.  For more, click here.  Feuding Dutch Politicians Agree on Toughening Banking Rules  Dutch politicians, who have clashed over the future of the
euro area and austerity measures before today’s parliamentary
elections, agree on one thing: toughening rules on banks.  The  Labor Party , vying for first place in recent polls,
favors boosting a bank tax and imposing a levy on transactions,
as does the Socialist Party, currently in third place. The
Liberal Party, led by Prime Minister  Mark Rutte , advocates
stricter supervision of new financial products, while all three
back a cap on bonuses. Whoever wins will probably have to forge
a coalition with at least two rivals to gain a majority.  Politicians across Europe have tapped into public ire
toward banks to woo voters after governments had to rescue
financial institutions in 2008 and 2009, swelling budget
deficits and curbing economic growth. In the Netherlands, a
central bank survey published in June found that public
confidence in the “competence and integrity” of the directors
of financial institutions fell in 2012, a sixth straight drop.  The Dutch for centuries have been leaders in global trade,
giving the nation of 16.7 million people a banking industry that
dwarfs the economy. The industry’s size was reflected in the
cost of the bailouts during the financial crisis that followed
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  In the Netherlands, measures already introduced to change
the financial industry include a deposit guarantee fund and
blueprints for splitting off and salvaging banks’ crucial
operations in a crisis. Lawmakers agreed to set up a commission
to consider structural changes, possibly including a separation
of consumer and investment banking.  For more, click here.  Regional Lenders Protest Japan Post’s Entry to Mortgage Market  Japan’s regional bank lobby opposed plans for the country’s
postal savings bank to begin residential and corporate lending,
saying the move would distort fair competition.  Hidetoshi Sakuma, chairman of the Regional Banks
Association of Japan, criticized the plan as unfair to regional
lenders.  Entry by state-owned Japan Post Bank Co., the nation’s
biggest deposit holder, to the already crowded domestic mortgage
market would undermine profitability for local lenders, Moody’s
Investors Service said this week. Falling  interest rates  in
Japan have done little to spur demand for  loans  as deflation
continues to plague the world’s third-largest economy.  Sakuma is also president of  Chiba Bank Ltd. (8331) , the country’s
third-largest regional lender by assets. His lobby, which
represents 64 local banks, joins U.S. and European business
groups in expressing concerns about Japan Post’s proposed
business expansion.  The American Chamber of Commerce in Japan and the European
Business Council last week urged the government to ensure a
level playing field before permitting Japan Post Bank and Japan
Post Insurance Co. to offer new products. Allowing Japan Post
Bank to enter into higher-risk lending areas will harm
competition and put its assets and capital at risk, they said in
a joint statement on Sept. 6.  The government will discuss the impact of Japan Post’s
proposal on competition, Financial Services Minister Tadahiro
Matsushita said on Sept. 4.  Compliance Action  UBS Whistle-Blower Birkenfeld Gets $104 Million IRS Award  Bradley Birkenfeld, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker who went to
prison after telling the  Internal Revenue Service  how the bank
helped thousands of Americans evade taxes, secured a whistle-
blower award of $104 million, the largest individual federal
payout in U.S. history.  Birkenfeld told authorities how UBS bankers came to the
U.S. to woo rich Americans, managed $20 billion of their assets
and helped them cheat the IRS. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy
in 2008, a year after reporting the bank’s conduct to the
Justice Department, U.S. Senate, IRS and Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Birkenfeld’s attorney Stephen M. Kohn said yesterday at a
news conference in Washington that he is seeking a presidential
pardon for Birkenfeld, who is under home confinement. Birkenfeld
left prison on Aug. 1.  Birkenfeld’s disclosures preceded UBS’s decision to pay
$780 million to avoid prosecution, admit it fostered tax evasion
from 2000 to 2007 and turn over data on 250 Swiss accounts. UBS
later agreed to provide information on another 4,450 accounts.
Since then, at least 33,000 Americans have voluntarily disclosed
offshore accounts to the IRS, generating more than $5 billion.  The UBS case led to an erosion of the use of Swiss bank
secrecy by wealthy Americans to cheat the IRS. At least 11 banks
are under criminal investigation in the U.S. Two dozen offshore
bankers, lawyers and advisers, as well as 50 American taxpayers,
have been charged with crimes.  The IRS confirmed the award in a statement.  For more, click here.  Feinberg Disputes AIG Account That U.S. Pay Curbs Hurt Insurer  Kenneth Feinberg , who oversaw compensation for  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  executives as part of a bailout that
swelled to $182.3 billion, disputed the insurer’s account that
pay curbs held back the firm.  Feinberg said in a telephone interview that the company was
not hurt, which is shown because they are “thriving and
repaying the taxpayer.” AIG was not “in any way at a
competitive disadvantage, and I think the proof of that is in
the results,” he said.  The government has recovered its full commitment of funds
to AIG’s rescue as Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche 
bought back shares, helping the U.S. cut its stake to about 21
percent in a Treasury share sale this week. The New York-based
insurer had bristled at the pay curbs, which will end after
Treasury sells its final share.  Harvey Golub , then chairman of AIG, said in 2010 that pay
limits can thwart employee-retention efforts, which “hurts the
business and makes it harder to repay taxpayers.”  AIG is nearing an end to Treasury Department compensation
limits as Benmosche winds down a taxpayer bailout.  The U.S. stake fell to about 16 percent from 53 percent in
the largest sale of the insurer’s stock, the Treasury said
yesterday. The department said it will raise $20.7 billion in
the sale after underwriters bought additional shares, with AIG
repurchasing $5 billion.  Treasury can restrict pay for top managers until the U.S.
sells its final AIG share, said  Matt Anderson , a department
spokesman.  For more, click here.  UBS Credit-Swaps Trade System Shows Clients Like Live Prices  Credit-default swaps traders are executing more of the
derivatives on an electronic UBS AG system than at any time
since it was started six months ago, according to the bank.  Monthly volumes of index trading on the firm’s Price
Improvement Network rose to an average $11 billion in July and
August, compared with an average $7.5 billion in the four months
ended in June, according to the Zurich-based lender. More than
$50 billion of the swaps, tied to credit benchmarks including
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index and the
Markit iTraxx Europe Index, traded through the end of August,
UBS said.  Switzerland’s biggest bank is pushing a greater share of
transactions onto the automated platform even as the industry’s
two-biggest lobbying groups resist regulators seeking to mandate
exchange-like systems. UBS’s platform lets customers directly
post prices with a so-called order-book model where bids and
offers are shown before the trade.  The Dodd-Frank Act that became law in 2010 requires most
swaps to be processed by clearinghouses and traded on exchanges
or similar electronic systems after the contracts complicated
efforts to resolve the financial crisis four years ago. As
regulators continue to write the details of the rules in Dodd-
Frank, platforms are springing up to serve the evolving market.  The automated trading is a shift in a market where
transactions historically have been negotiated over the phone
after dealers, acting as a go-between for clients, send out
indicative prices by e-mail. The dealers offer to buy a swap
from a client at one price and sell the same contract to another
for a higher amount, profiting from the gap known as the bid-
offer spread.  In another process that banks and industry groups have more
readily embraced, dealers can show negotiable prices on a
request-for-quote, or RFQ, system.  For more, click here.  Finnish Banks Must Add Liquidity, Long-Term Funding, FSA Says  Banks in Finland need to boost liquidity and focus on
adding long-term financing to comply with Basel III regulations,
the  Financial Supervisory Authority  said.  “Finnish banks need to considerably build up their liquid
funds and increase the share of long-term funding,” the
Helsinki-based regulator said in a report today, citing impact
assessments. Finnish banks comply with minimum solvency
standards and have the required core capital, the FSA said.  Basel III global regulations aim to improve banks’ quality
of capital by 2015 and ensure lenders hold adequate buffers to
counter losses. Banks must also make sure they don’t rely solely
on short-term capital. Some details of the banking regulations
remain open, the FSA said.  Courts  German Court Backs Permanent Rescue Fund With Liability Cap  Germany’s top constitutional court rejected efforts to
block a permanent euro-area rescue fund, handing a victory to
 Chancellor Angela Merkel , who championed the 500 billion-euro
($646 billion) bailout.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe dismissed
motions that sought to block the European Stability Mechanism,
while ruling Germany’s 190 billion-euro contribution can’t be
increased without legislative approval. The court said Germany
can ratify the ESM if it includes binding caveats it won’t be
forced to assume higher liabilities without its consent.  The legal challenge delayed efforts by Merkel and other
euro-area policy makers to stem the region’s debt crisis. Stocks
and the euro rose after the ruling. Much of the effort to
resolve the crisis hinges on the permanent ESM, which is
designed to go into operation when the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility is phased-out next year. The
bailout fund would work in tandem with the European Central
Bank’s bond buying to lower yields for states such as Spain and
Italy.  For more, click here and click here.  Interviews  Jain Says Deutsche Bank Strategy Is a ‘Recalibration’  Deutsche Bank AG co-chief executive officers Anshu Jain and
Juergen Fitschen spoke at a news conference in Frankfurt about
the company’s strategy and business outlook, including current
regulations and the bank’s global model.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  