-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Reaches 3-Week High Amid Auction, Fed
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-09-12T21:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/treasuries-fall-for-2nd-day-as-u-s-sells-10-year-notes.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose
to a three-week high as the U.S. sold $21 billion of the debt
while investors bet the  Federal Reserve  will add more stimulus
at the conclusion of its two-day policy meeting tomorrow.  Thirty-year bonds slid for a second day as a gauge of
 inflation expectations  in the U.S. reached the highest level
since March. Demand for refuge waned after  Germany ’s top
constitutional court backed the ratification of  Europe ’s
permanent bailout fund. Treasuries extended losses as the U.S.
debt auction, the second of three note and bond sales this week,
drew lower-than-average demand.  “You’ve got Treasury supply at a time when optimism is in
play,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government and agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a
fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors.
“The market is clearly anticipating more accommodation from the
Fed.”  The yield on the benchmark  10-year note  climbed six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 5 p.m. in
New York trading, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It
touched 1.77 percent, the highest level since Aug. 22. The price
of the 1.625 percent note due in August 2022 dropped 1/2, or $5
per $1,000 face amount, to 98 25/32.  The 30-year bond yield increased seven basis points to 2.92
percent after advancing five basis points yesterday.  Inflation Bets  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
traders’ outlook for consumer prices, touched 2.41 percentage
points, the widest since March 21. The average over the past
decade is 2.16 percentage points.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, reduced
his holdings of U.S. Treasuries to the lowest since October
while warning that more stimulus from the Fed will lead to a
resurgence of inflation.  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $272 billion Total
Return Fund to 21 percent of assets in August, from 33 percent
the previous month, according to a report on the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s website today. Mortgage assets were
trimmed to 50 percent, from 51 percent. Pimco doesn’t comment
directly on monthly changes in portfolio holdings.  “QEs lower real  interest rates  and raise nominal rates
because their intent is to reflate,” Gross wrote in a Twitter
post earlier today, referring to the Fed’s two rounds of bond
purchases since 2008 under the stimulus strategy called
quantitative easing.  Weaker Demand  At today’s auction, the  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.85, versus an average of 3.09 at the past 10
sales. The offering drew a  yield  of 1.764 percent, matching the
average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of the
Fed’s 21 primary dealers.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 36.2 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 42 percent for the past 10 sales. Direct
bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, bought 11.6 percent, versus an
average of 17 percent at the past 10 offerings.  “It was weaker than anticipated, which caused Treasuries
to trade off a bit,” said Milstein of Pressprich.  Tomorrow’s Auction  The government will auction $13 billion of 30-year debt
tomorrow. It sold $32 billion in three-year notes yesterday,
drawing a yield of 0.337 percent and a bid-to-cover ratio of
3.94, the highest on record.  “Dealers kind of welcomed the back-up this week in terms
of setting up a concession for what will be a tougher auction
still,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2 billion as
chief investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union
in New York, referring to tomorrow’s sale.  Treasuries were the least expensive in three weeks,
according to the 10-year term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for interest
rates, growth and inflation. It was at negative 0.84 percent,
the least costly level since Aug. 21. A negative reading shows
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value. This year’s average is negative 0.73 percent.  Fed Policy  The Fed is scheduled to issue a policy statement tomorrow
at about 12:30 p.m. in  Washington . Almost two-thirds of
economists in a Bloomberg survey projected it will announce a
third round of debt purchases, while also extending into 2015
its pledge to keep  interest rates  low.  Policy makers will probably start an open-ended plan tied
to a sustained improvement in the economy rather than specify an
amount of purchases and an end-date, according to 32 of the 73
economists in the survey. Twenty-two respondents expect a fixed
duration and amount.  Two rounds of Fed bond purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
have failed to breathe life into the labor market, which
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month is a “grave concern.”
Unemployment has been stuck above 8 percent for 43 straight
months, while the  U.S. economy  grew less than 2 percent in the
second quarter.  The central bank is also in the process of swapping
shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to
30 years to put downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.
It sold $7.8 billion of securities today maturing from April
2014 to November 2014 as part of the program.  German 10-year bund yields touched 1.65 percent today, the
highest level since June 29, as demand for refuge ebbed.  The German Federal Constitutional Court stipulated that a
cap of about 190 billion euros ($246 billion) be placed on the
country’s liabilities before the region’s permanent bailout
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, is ratified, unless
parliament decides to back extra funds.  The court dismissed motions filed by groups seeking to
block the fund, ending legal challenges that delayed efforts by
euro-area leaders to contain the debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  