-- Red Sox Top Yankees 4-3, Orioles Again Tie New York Atop AL East
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-12T05:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/red-sox-top-yankees-4-3-orioles-again-tie-new-york-atop-al-east.html
The Boston  Red Sox  defeated the
Yankees 4-3 to drop  New York  back into a tie with the  Baltimore
Orioles  atop the American League East division.  The host Red Sox, who at 64-78 are not in playoff
contention this season, won in the ninth inning on Jacoby Ellsbury’s run-scoring single, his fourth hit of the game.  The loss left the Yankees and Orioles, who won 9-2 at home
against the Tampa Bay Rays, tied for the division lead at 79-62.  Ellsbury’s winning single came off  David Robertson  (1-7),
the fourth New York pitcher.  Andrew Bailey  (1-0) pitched one
inning for the win at Fenway Park.  Dustin Pedroia drove in two runs for the Red Sox with a
run-scoring single and a solo home run.  Derek Jeter  had a two-
run double for the Yankees.  J.J. Hardy drove in five runs for the Orioles with a pair
of two-run homers and a run-scoring single. He also had a double
at Oriole Park at Camden Yards.  The Rays are two games behind the Yankees and Orioles in
the AL East, and also are two games back in the race for the AL
wild card. The Oakland Athletics (81-60) are atop the AL wild-
card standings after beating the Los Angeles Angels 6-5 last
night. The top two non-division winners in each league earn
wild-card spots in the postseason.  The Detroit Tigers won 5-3 at the White Sox to pull within
two games of Chicago in the AL Central. Austin Jackson and
 Miguel Cabrera  homered for the Tigers.  In the National League, East division leader Washington won
5-3 at the Mets as New York pitcher R.A. Dickey allowed three
runs in seven innings to drop his record to 18-5 this season.
The Mets have lost five straight games.  Central leader Cincinnati won 5-3 at home against the
Pittsburgh Pirates, who lost their fifth straight game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  