-- Related to Start Second Hudson Yards Portion by Mid-2013
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-09-12T20:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/related-to-state-second-hudson-yards-portion-by-mid-2013.html
Related Cos., developer of New
York’s Time Warner Center, expects to start work on a second
portion of its Hudson Yards project in the city by the middle of
next year, Chairman Stephen Ross said.  Construction on the first tower, the future headquarters of
Coach Inc., will begin by November. Ross is confident that he
will have enough lease commitments to begin the next section in
mid-2013, he said today in an interview. Related is “far along
with several  tenants  that really want to be there,” he said
separately on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with
 Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker .  “When you build a project that size, you need a critical
mass,” Ross said on the show, without naming potential tenants.
“We’re looking to really give a value proposition to the
tenants, like at cost, to bring them in, because we have the
rest of the project to amortize, where we’ll make our profits.
We’re making a proposition where it’s hard for them to say no.”  Related, based in New York, has rights to build more than
12.7 million square feet (1.2 million square meters) of mixed
development over the New York Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s west side rail yards in  Manhattan . The eastern
portion of the project, which will be developed first, is
expected to cost $6 billion, according to the company.  The 46-story  Coach (COH)  tower, at 10th Avenue and West 30th
Street, is one of two buildings planned for an eastern section
of the project that doesn’t require a platform over the railroad
tracks. Construction of the decking for the second portion
should cost about $800 million, Related Hudson Yards President
L. Jay Cross said in an interview last year.  Retail, Hotel  Ross isn’t worried about financing the project, he said in
the interview.  The portion of the project to start next year will include
a second  office tower  and a 750,000-square-foot retail complex,
along with a hotel and some residential units, he said. Both
eastern sections should be completed by 2017, according to Ross.  The western rail yards, closer to the  Hudson River , would
be dominated by high-rise housing. The entire development will
include 6.3 million square feet of offices, about 5,000
residences, 1 million square feet of retail, a hotel, a school
and a cultural center, according to the project’s  website .  Related’s partner on the project is Toronto-based Oxford
Properties, a real estate investment unit of Ontario Municipal
Employees Retirement System.  Related said on Sept. 7 that Ross, 72, would turn over his
position as chief executive officer to Jeff Blau, 44, the
company’s president. Ross remains as executive chairman,
with responsibility for global business strategy and overseeing
the 26-acre Hudson Yards project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  