-- Reserve Fund Lawyer Tells Judge He ‘Hopes’ for SEC Accord
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-12T23:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/reserve-fund-lawyer-tells-judge-he-hopes-for-sec-accord.html
A lawyer for the failed Reserve
Primary Fund told the federal judge presiding over a lawsuit
filed by the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  that he was
hopeful the parties may come to a settlement in the case.  The SEC sued managers of Reserve Primary in May 2009,
accusing them of misleading shareholders about the safety of the
fund after it suffered losses on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
debt. Reserve’s net asset value fell below $1 a share on Sept.
16, 2008, making investors vulnerable to losses and triggering a
run on money-market funds that worsened the global financial
crisis.  A three-week trial is set to begin Oct. 1 before U.S.
District Judge Paul Gardephe in  Manhattan . At a pre-trial
hearing today, the judge asked both sides whether they had held
settlement discussions.  Nancy Brown, a lawyer with the SEC, said, “No, Your
Honor.”  John Dellaportas, a lawyer for Reserve Partners Inc., told
the judge, “It is our hope” that if he ruled on issues pending
before the court, “the parties are close enough” to reaching a
settlement “between now and the trial.”  Fund’s Collapse  After court, Dellaportas declined to comment when asked
about his statements to the judge about a possible accord.
Dellaportas also represents Bruce R. Bent, the founder and chief
executive officer of Reserve Partners, which ran Reserve
Primary, and his son, Bruce Bent II, the firm’s president.  The SEC accuses the Bents of violating federal securities
laws by making misleading statements to investors and trustees
in the run-up to the collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund in September 2008.  The fund, which held $785 million in debt issued by Lehman,
became the first money fund in 14 years to expose investors to
losses, when Lehman filed for  bankruptcy protection .  Bent and his New York-based firm deny they made false or
misleading statements and say that the Lehman bankruptcy on
Sept. 15, 2008, precipitated a wave of redemptions by investors
that continued through the following day.  ‘Extreme Turmoil’  “The enormous number or redemptions, which coincided with
a period of extreme turmoil in the nation’s credit markets, left
the fund unable to sell assets sufficient to pay redemptions as
they came due,” Dellaportas said in court papers. “As a
result, the fund had to suspend trading, and thereafter
underwent a court-supervised liquidation.”  Gardephe has issued a series of rulings in the case before
trial. The defendants had argued they should be permitted to
introduce evidence demonstrating that investors recouped
“most” of their investment after the fund’s collapse,
demonstrating that “this is not a Madoff situation.”  The judge yesterday denied the request saying that neither
side would be permitted to present evidence of shareholder loss
or lack of loss.  The case is SEC v. Reserve Management Co. Inc. 09-cv-04346,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  