-- Roadbuilders Stall on Bottlenecks: Corporate India
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2012-09-12T18:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/roadbuilders-stall-on-bottlenecks-corporate-india.html
Indian builders of roads are
struggling to revive flagging sales as regulatory bottlenecks
and the highest borrowing costs in  Asia  prevent them from
bidding for new projects.  Ramky Infrastructure Ltd. (RMKY) , a company based in the southern
city of Hyderabad, expects no growth in revenue in the year
ending March 31, Chairman Ayodhya Rami Reddy said in an
interview.  Madhucon Projects Ltd. (MDHPJ) ’s finance director S. Vaikuntanathan said it is a “bad time” for the industry as
delays in land acquisitions and environmental clearances have
stalled development.  “Our priority right now is to protect our bottom line from
rising interest costs even if it is at the expense of growth,”
Reddy said. “Unless there is an improvement in the business
environment in the country, we would like to go easy on bidding
for some time.”  A slump in road and highway construction may hinder Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to upgrade the nation’s public
utilities, crucial to turning around Asia’s third-biggest
economy from the slowest pace of expansion in three years.
McKinsey & Co. estimates poor amenities may shave off 1.1
percentage points from gross domestic product growth, or $200
billion in 2017.  India ’s infrastructure is ranked below
Kazakhstan and  Guatemala  by the  World Economic Forum .  Maoist Rebellions  Ramky Infrastructure’s  shares  have tumbled 79 percent since
the company’s initial public offering at 450 rupees apiece in
September, 2010. Sales rose 22 percent to 38.5 billion rupees
($698 million) in the year ended March 31, slowing from a 54
percent gain in the previous 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Total debt  surged sixfold in four years
to 19.4 billion rupees as of March 31.  Singh’s government, dealing with graft probes and coalition
allies unwilling to back proposals to open up the economy, is
attempting to rewrite a century-old land acquisition law that
may help speed up road projects.  Abuse of the colonial-era law that allows the state to
seize land at cheap rates has led to clashes between farmers and
local authorities, and fueled Maoist rebellions in some mineral-
rich provinces. Singh is struggling to win approval for the
bill, first presented to parliament about a year ago.  Behind Schedule  A daily average of 4.5 kilometers (2.8 miles) of roads was
added in 2011, according to estimates by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, falling short of the government’s 2009 target of 20
kilometers a day. A quarter of 226 highways commissioned by the
 National Highways Authority of India  are behind schedule because
of challenges in acquiring land, according to Road Transport
Minister C.P. Joshi.  “This is a bad time for the infrastructure sector,”
Madhucon’s Vaikuntanathan says. “For road builders, the biggest
challenge is land acquisition. With the government not turning
words into action, funds are stuck in projects that are not
going anywhere as land is not available.”  Sales growth at Madhucon slowed to 5 percent last financial
year, from an average 32 percent in the previous three years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Total debt has quadrupled from
four years ago to 8.2 billion rupees as of June 30.  Builders are also reeling from borrowing costs that are the
highest among investment-grade economies. An  inflation rate  that
has remained above the central bank’s comfort level has prompted
the monetary authority to raise its benchmark  interest rate  13
times in 2010 and 2011,  cooling growth .  Shrinking Output  GDP rose 5.5 percent last quarter, following a 5.3 percent
gain in the previous three months, which was the smallest rate
of expansion since 2009, according to the  Central Statistical
Office .  Factory output  shrank three months this year, and grew
0.1 percent in July, the government said yesterday.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut the
 repurchase rate  for the first time in three years in April,
signaling no further reductions until inflation slows. The
benchmark rate of 8 percent is the highest among the 10 biggest
economies in Asia.  Five-year bond  yields  for AAA rated Indian companies have
risen 2.16 percentage points to 9.43 percent from a three-year
low touched on April 22, 2009.  “Road builders are in for some tough times,” said Mangesh Bhadang, an analyst at Quant Broking Pvt. in Mumbai. “They are
essentially facing longer working capital cycles and execution
delays. A way out for these companies would be to monetize their
assets and free up some capital.”  ‘Hard Bargain’  Some companies are already doing that to fund projects
after exhausting bank credit limits.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) ,
Asia’s largest engineering company by market value, is reducing
its holding in a unit to raise cash, while  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  said in its annual report that it plans to
offer as much as 25 percent of its shares.  Punj Lloyd Ltd. (PUNJ)  will
sell assets, including property, early next year, Director of
Corporate Affairs Luv Chhabra said Aug. 8.  The value of assets owned by construction companies has
been going down even as debt on their books has been rising,
which may lead to debt servicing issues for some,  GVK Power &
Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) ’s Chief Financial Officer Isaac George said
in an interview.  “Though selling a stake in projects may seem the obvious
way out, the problem is the valuations aren’t encouraging,”
Sudhir Reddy, chairman of Hyderabad-based  IVRCL Ltd. (IVRC)  said in an
interview. “Buyers are driving a hard bargain as there are lots
of choices available in the market, with many companies trying
to hive off stakes in their projects.”  On a Break  Reddy told reporters on Sept. 10 that IVRCL is on a
“temporary holiday” from bidding for highway projects. The
builder has total debt of 50 billion rupees and expects to
reduce it by 10 billion rupees by March.  Ramky Infrastructure’s Reddy said his company is looking at
expanding its operations  outside  India and offering other
services to help tide over the challenges in  road construction .  Ramky will be bidding for more contracts in West Africa
after winning an order for a special economic zone in Gabon, he
said. It will also consider bolstering its waste management
business as growing awareness of environmental issues spurs
demand for such services, Reddy said.  “We can’t put all our eggs in one basket, especially in
the present scenario,” he said. “What is happening in the
infrastructure sector is just the tip of the iceberg. The worst
is yet to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net  