-- Romney’s Immigration Policy Can Start Now
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-12T13:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/romney-should-embrace-reprieve-for-immigrant-youth.html
The door is open for  Mitt Romney  to
do a bundle of good for his campaign, his party and his nation.  This week, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
reported that about 72,000 people have registered for its
 deferred action program , which enables illegal immigrants who
arrived in the U.S. as children and meet certain criteria to
remain here legally. This number is disappointingly small,
considering that perhaps 1 million or more people are eligible
for the program. It’s also understandable.  The administration’s  policy , announced June 15 by
Department of Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano ,
amounts to a promise not to deport qualified registrants.
Applicants must be younger than 31, have arrived in the U.S.
before age 16, and meet educational and residency requirements.
If their application is successful, they can obtain work-
authorization papers, although the papers must be renewed every
two years.  That requirement is only an inconvenience, however. A far
more pressing concern is politics. If a new administration
enters office in January, it could rescind the deferral policy,
scuttling the hopes of a generation and exposing those young
immigrants who have already registered to harsh legal
consequences, including deportation. Fear of just such an
outcome is almost certainly depressing the number of applicants.  Enter the Republican candidate for president. In order to
win his party’s nomination, Romney made an unfortunate lurch to
the right on immigration, promising to veto the Dream Act (of
which the Obama administration’s executive action is a rough
approximation) and attacking Texas Governor  Rick Perry  for
allowing illegal immigrants to attend Texas colleges at in-state
tuition rates.  Romney’s courtship of nativists has helped produce a
huge  deficit  for his campaign among Hispanic voters, who in
multiple polls prefer President  Barack Obama  by more than 2-to-1.
A paucity of Hispanic support could sink Romney’s presidential
run. He could help hundreds of thousands of aspiring Americans
and, at the same time, shore up his campaign with a vow to
continue the deferred action program as president. By removing
uncertainty and risk, he could clear a path for young immigrants
with deep roots in the U.S. to build productive lives and
livelihoods.  He could also help the  U.S. economy . According to the
Kauffman Foundation, in 2010, immigrants were more than  twice as
likely  as native-born Americans to start a new business.
 Standard & Poor’s  research found that cities with high
immigration levels  experience improvements  in their credit
ratings, tax bases and per-capita incomes.  Thwarting the deferred action program would be economically
counterproductive -- the U.S has already invested in these
immigrants’ education and potential. The nation gains nothing by
crushing their aspirations and opportunities. Romney now has a
chance to rise above the pronouncements that marred the
Republican primary. Obama made the right call in easing
deportations until a Dream Act passes Congress. Romney should
second it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 