-- Romney Said Set to Blame Obama for U.S. Credit Downgrade
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2012-09-12T10:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/romney-said-set-to-blame-obama-for-u-s-credit-downgrade.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  today plans to target President  Barack Obama ’s
handling of the U.S.  national debt  and  job creation , according
to a Romney campaign official.  The former Massachusetts governor, who discussed defense
policy yesterday during a stop in Nevada, will argue that Obama
bears the responsibility for the August 2011 downgrade of the
U.S. government’s credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s , according
to the Romney campaign official, who described the candidate’s
plans on condition of anonymity.  The government’s creditworthiness returned as a campaign
issue following a statement yesterday by Moody’s Investors
Service that it may downgrade the U.S. credit rating unless
Congress finds a way to reduce the percentage of debt-to-gross
domestic product.  “For nearly four years, President Obama has presided over
reckless spending and runaway debt,” Andrea Saul, a Romney
campaign spokeswoman, said in a statement. “Now it’s clear that
all Americans will pay the price, with another potential credit
downgrade and over $5 trillion in new debt that the next
generation will be forced to repay.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said
yesterday he was “not confident at all” that Congress would
reach a deal on avoiding $1.2 trillion in spending cuts set to
take effect in January.  Boehner blamed the Democratic-led Senate and a lack of
leadership by Obama for inaction on finding an alternative to
the spending cuts to meet the deficit target and avoiding the
Dec. 31 expiration of tax cuts initially enacted in 2001 and
2003.  Romney and his running mate, Representative  Paul Ryan  of
Wisconsin, also plan to say that Obama’s handling of the economy
has led to the loss of 400,000 jobs held by women, according to
the campaign official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  