-- Perelman, Gagosian Gallery Sue Each Other Over Art Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-12T22:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/ronald-perelman-sued-by-gagosian-gallery-for-breach-of-contract.html
Ronald Perelman  and  Gagosian
Gallery Inc.  sued each other over payment for the billionaire’s
purchases of contemporary art.  Perelman twice failed to pay an agreed-upon price after
delivery of a sculpture and a painting and refused to meet a
payment schedule for an unfinished sculpture, according to a
lawsuit filed today by the New York-based gallery in  New York 
State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  Perelman, 69, also filed suit against the gallery and its
owner, Larry Gagosian, in the same courthouse today, accusing
them of concealing material information and using their position
in the art world to manipulate the price of artwork.  Gagosian “raced to the courthouse with his suit in a
failed attempt to take the focus off the lawsuit we filed today
accusing him of fraud, breach of duty and breach of contract,”
 Christine Taylor , a spokeswoman for Perelman, said in a
statement. “Gagosian has used his dominance of the market for
contemporary art to enrich himself at the expense of his
customers. His complaint is frivolous -- the works he identifies
are fully paid for, and we will seek redress for this improper
filing at the appropriate time.”  Lower Sum  The gallery said in its complaint that on Jan. 6, it
entered into a contract that was personally guaranteed by
Perelman for a sculpture by an unidentified living artist for
$12.6 million that was delivered on June 8 to Perelman’s home in
 East Hampton , New York. Perelman offered a “much lower sum”
than was agreed upon in addition to pieces of art from his
collection, the gallery said in the complaint.  Perelman also refused to pay for a $10.5 million painting
by another contemporary artist that he had asked the gallery to
acquire and that was delivered to his home, according to the
gallery’s complaint. He also refused to return the artwork,
again offering pieces from his collection in exchange, according
to the complaint.  One of the works offered by Perelman for credit was a
contract for an unfinished sculpture that hadn’t been delivered,
for which he owed the gallery $1.6 million, according to the
complaint.  The gallery said in its complaint it agreed to give
Perelman about $18 million in credits for the art from his
collection to “mitigate damages.”  ‘Sham Settlements’  Perelman’s actions have cost the gallery millions of
dollars, forced it to pay the artists out of its own capital and
forgo commissions, the gallery said in its complaint. Gagosian
is seeking the original purchase price of the sculpture and the
painting, minus the net sales price of any of the bartered
pieces from Perelman’s collection that were sold, and to return
the works that haven’t been sold.  “Following the non-payment, defendants engaged in a series
of sham settlements and deceptive maneuvers designed to force
the gallery into spending tremendous capital to cover
shortfalls, to cloud the title of artworks defendants forced the
gallery into accepting as barter, and to otherwise render
impossible the gallery’s ability to mitigate damages including
continual threats of baseless lawsuits,” the gallery said in
its suit.  Koons Sculpture  The gallery said it didn’t identify the artists to protect
its clients’ privacy.  “The gallery prides itself on its relationships and has
never sued a client in its over 30 years of business,”  Gagosian
Gallery  said in the complaint. “Such suits are damaging to
clients, to artists and to the artworks themselves, often
causing negative publicity.”  Perelman said in his suit that Gagosian “took advantage of
his position of trust” to force him to buy a granite sculpture
by artist  Jeff Koons  titled “Popeye,” for $4 million, to be
paid in five installments of $800,000.  Gagosian failed to tell him that the dealer’s contract with
Koons entitled the artist to 70 percent of any amount over the
original sale price of $4 million if the gallery resold the work
-- and 80 percent of any sale if Gagosian bought the sculpture
back before it was finished, delivered and fully paid for,
according to Perelman’s suit.  ‘Secret Provisions’  “Such information would have materially and substantially
altered plaintiffs’ view of the transaction, as these secret
contract provisions detrimentally affected Gagosian’s ability
and willingness to repurchase or resell Popeye above the price
paid by plaintiffs,” Perelman said in his suit. “Given
Gagosian’s role as Koons’ representative and the foremost dealer
in Koons’ work, such restrictions effectively crippled
plaintiffs’ ability to resell Popeye at its fair market value.”  Perelman agreed to trade the Koons sculpture, along with
three other works of art and $250,000 in cash, in exchange for
an unspecified painting, according to Perelman’s suit.  Larry Gagosian  has been a “constant and trusted art
advisor and mentor” for more than 20 years to Perelman, who
relied on his advice when buying and selling works of art,
according to Perelman’s complaint.  The two are friends and business partners outside the art
world, visiting each other’s homes, attending the same social
events and investing in the Blue Parrot restaurant in East
Hampton, according to Perelman’s complaint.  Perelman is ranked 63rd in the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index 
with a net worth of $13.1 billion.  The Gagosian case is Gagosian Gallery Inc. v. Perelman,
653181/2012; the Perelman case is MAFG Art Fund LLC v. Gagosian,
653189/2012; New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 