-- Russia to Refrain From Rate Increase on Growth Concerns
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-09-12T14:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/russia-to-refrain-from-rate-increase-on-growth-concerns.html
Russia ’s central bank will probably
refrain from raising  interest rates  to contain surging consumer
prices as economic expansion comes under pressure from
deteriorating global demand.  Monetary-policy makers will hold the  refinancing rate  at 8
percent, a quarter-point above the record low, at a meeting
tomorrow, according to 12 of 15 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Three forecast a quarter-point increase. The overnight
auction-based repurchase rate and deposit rate will also be left
unchanged, two separate surveys showed.  Growth in the world’s largest energy exporter slowed to 4
percent from a year earlier in the second quarter as  China ’s
cooling expansion and  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped demand for
Russian commodities exports. Inflation accelerated in August as
droughts in the U.S. and Russia stoked  food prices , threatening
to push price growth beyond the central bank’s 6 percent target.  “Inflation is rising purely because of non-monetary
factors,” said  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at Moscow-based
 Renaissance Capital . “Raising rates in such an environment
would take some heroic reasoning to justify.”  Forward-rate agreements used to bet on borrowing costs in
the next three months show the three-month MosPrime interbank
rate may rise 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 7.25
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost to fix floating interest payments in rubles for a
year fell to 7.51 percent today, the lowest since June 11, from
7.72 percent at the start of the month.  BRIC Easing  Russia has held rates unchanged this year even as the other
so-called BRIC economies --  Brazil , India and China -- have
reduced borrowing costs to stimulate growth. Brazil lowered its
benchmark Selic rate to a record 7.5 percent last month, while
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said slowing inflation in his country
offered policy makers room to bolster the economy after signs of
weakening growth.  Economic expansion in Russia may cool to less than 3
percent on an annual basis in the second half, down from 4.5
percent in the first six months, as energy exports stagnate,
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov told lawmakers in Moscow today.  “These are not the easiest times for financial markets,
the situation with liquidity in the country and the impact on
the real sector, industry,”  German Gref , chief executive
officer OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, told reporters
today. “For the first time we’ve entered a period of positive
interest rates.”  Russia’s growth will slow next year from 2012, said Gref, a
former economy minister.  Acceptable Level  While Russia’s central bank kept the refinancing rate at 8
percent at its last meeting on Aug. 10, policy makers dropped
wording in their statement that money-market rates were at an
acceptable level for the “nearest future.”  The overnight MosPrime rate, which the biggest Moscow banks
say they charge to lend to one another, fell to 5.25 percent
yesterday from as high as 6.89 percent May 31.  Consumer prices advanced 5.9 percent from a year earlier in
August, the biggest increase this year, as droughts from the
U.S. to Russia damaged crops and drove up food prices. Bank
Rossii is seeking to hold inflation at 5 percent to 6 percent
this year before cutting that range by a half-point in each of
the next two years.  Inflation will be “about” 6 percent, central bank
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev told President  Vladimir Putin  at a
government meeting in July.  Putin, who returned to the Kremlin for a third term in May,
has touted last year’s record-low 6.1 percent inflation rate as
a major economic success and told investors and foreign leaders
at an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit last week that
Russia would continue cutting inflation.  ‘Alternative Means’  The government may resort to “alternative means” of
subduing inflation without monetary-policy tightening, according
to Jenia Ustinova, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  Washington .
The authorities may instead impose price caps or limit exports
of grain in a bid to reverse the slump in approval ratings for
Putin and Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev , Ustinova said in an e-
mailed report yesterday.  “Stagnating salaries and pensions, rising consumer prices,
and higher unemployment may catalyze street action and even
boost opposition performance at the regional and gubernatorial
elections,” Ustinova said. “The current political and
macroeconomic environment suggests the government is likely to
consider using alternative means to stem inflation and thus
avoid a potential tightening cycle. The authorities, for
example, are likely to put pressure on retailers and producers
of  consumer goods , in particular focusing on food products.”  Political Pressure  The central bank would only consider increasing rates this
week because of political pressure to show action over
quickening inflation, Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at
Otkritie Capital in Moscow, said by phone.  “Inflation is mostly from food prices, and raising rates
wouldn’t do anything to solve that problem,” he said.  This year’s grain harvest will reach 70 million to 75
million tons, down from 94.2 million tons in 2011 because of
drought, the  Agriculture Ministry  said in August.  Inflation Risks  “Worsening conditions on the global and Russian food
markets, as well as forecasts for the main agricultural crops
this year, are a significant source of inflation risks,” Bank
Rossii said in the Aug. 10 statement.  Retail sales  remain high, with  consumer lending  and low
unemployment bolstering demand, while a worsening industry
outlook wasn’t seen as showing broader risks to the economy,
Bank Rossii said in its statement.  The inflation rate will probably advance to 6.5 percent in
September and 6.7 percent by year-end, Vladimir Osakovskiy,
chief economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Moscow, said
yesterday by phone. Still, the case for raising rates is weak
because inflation stems from a weather-related supply shock on
food prices and the economy is decelerating, he said.  “The economy is actually slowing quite fast,” Osakovskiy
said. “Investment demand and liquidity demand from the real
economy is slowing already.”  Russia’s  gross domestic product  may expand 3.5 percent this
year, less than the 4.3 percent increase in the past two years,
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said last month. The
economy grew 2.6 percent in July from a year earlier, according
to a preliminary estimate from the ministry.  The ministry also raised its 2012 inflation forecast to 7
percent from 5 percent to 6 percent, Klepach said. Inflation may
be 5 percent to 6 percent next year, a half-point more than the
prior forecast and the central bank’s current target range.  “Whether the central bank continues fighting for its
current target or adjusts it to reality is yet to be seen,”
Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia and  Kazakhstan  at ING
Groep NV in Moscow, said yesterday by e-mail. The government
needs “realistic” forecasts for budget planning and other
official purposes, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  