-- Russia Stocks Rise on Stimulus Speculation, Rates Meeting
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-09-12T16:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/russia-stocks-rise-on-stimulus-speculation-rates-meeting.html
Russian stocks rose as investors
awaited further stimulus measures from global policy makers and
a German court allowed ratification of a bailout fund for
 Europe .  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained less than 0.1 percent to 1,478.54 by
the close in Moscow, after adding as much as 0.4 percent
earlier. The  RTS Index (RTSI$)  rose 0.2 percent to 1,482.51, the highest
since May 10. Polyus Gold International Plc rallied as much as
4.6 percent on the Micex after  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim
Holdings Ltd. confirmed it’s in talks with two potential buyers
for the Russian billionaire’s stake in the gold producer. OAO
Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel rose 2.4 percent. OAO MRSK Holding
fell 3.1 percent, while OAO RusHydro dropped 2.4 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  started a two-day meeting
today amid speculation it may announce measures to stimulate the
 U.S. economy . Russia’s central bank holds a monetary policy
meeting tomorrow. Stocks climbed to their highs of the day after
 Germany ’s top constitutional court cleared the way for
ratification of a European bailout fund intended to contain the
debt crisis.  “The Russian market is waiting for the Fed committee’s
decision tomorrow,” Viktor Markov, an analyst at Kapital Asset
Management LLC, said by phone from Moscow. “Before we see any
clear stimulus decisions, the market will be hanging in limbo.”  The dollar-denominated RTS gauge advanced for a fifth,
closing on Sept. 10 more than 20 percent above this year’s low
and surpassing threshold of a so-called  bull market .  German Court  Russian monetary-policy makers will hold the refinancing
rate at 8 percent, a quarter-point above the record low,
according to 12 of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Three
forecast a quarter-point increase. The overnight auction-based
repurchase rate and deposit rate will also be left unchanged,
two separate surveys showed.  Growth in the world’s largest energy exporter slowed to 4
percent from a year earlier in the second quarter as  China ’s
cooling expansion and Europe’s debt crisis sapped demand for
Russian exports. Inflation accelerated in August as droughts in
the U.S. and Russia stoked food prices, threatening to push
price growth beyond the central bank’s 6 percent target.  MTS, Uralkali  OAO Mobile TeleSystems dropped 1.6 percent to 245.82
rubles.  Russia ’s largest mobile-phone operator declined the most
since Aug. 23 after Vedomosti reported rival OAO Megafon may
hold an initial public offering of shares in  London  next month.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials declined less
than 1 percent to 680.64. Crude fell 0.3 percent to $96.89 in
 New York . Oil and gas contribute about 50 percent to Russia’s
state revenue.  The Micex trades at 5.6 times  estimated earnings  and has
rallied 5.4 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times and a 6.7 percent advance for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  