-- HHS Secretary Sebelius Violated Law With Political Speech
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-09-12T22:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/hhs-secretary-sebelius-violated-law-with-political-speech.html
Kathleen Sebelius , the secretary of
the U.S. Health and Human Services Department, broke a law that
restricts political activity by government employees when she
called for President  Barack Obama ’s re-election in a February
speech, government lawyers found.  The U.S. Office of Special Counsel didn’t recommend any
punishment for Sebelius, who apologized and met with ethics
experts “to ensure this never happens again,” White House
spokesman  Eric Schultz  said in an e-mail.  During a speech in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , hosted by the
Human Rights Campaign, a gay-rights advocacy group, Sebelius
called for Obama’s re-election and for the election of a
Democratic governor in the state. The Office of Special Counsel
received complaints about the remarks in March and began an
investigation, it said in a report.  “I clearly made a mistake,” Sebelius told investigators,
according to their report. “I was not intending to use an
official capacity to do a political event. I think it veered
into political space at an official event and I regret that it
occurred.”  Sebelius said in a  letter  to Carolyn Lerner, the special
counsel, that after her agency received media inquiries about
the speech she directed that her travel be reclassified as
political. The  Democratic National Committee  reimbursed the  U.S.
Treasury  for the expense, the special counsel said.  Comments ‘Off-Script’  Sebelius said her remarks were “off-script” and her
violation of the law, known as the Hatch Act, was “technical
and minor.”  Richard Painter , a law professor at the  University of
Minnesota  in  Minneapolis , said he couldn’t remember a Cabinet
official ever being found in violation of the law. The potential
for a violation has increased as presidents have more often
deployed their Cabinet secretaries as political emissaries, he
said.  “Once the Cabinet officials are rolled out for the
political events, they have very busy schedules, it’s very
difficult for them to keep their political and official roles
separate,” said Painter, who was the top ethics lawyer for
former President  George W. Bush  from 2005 to 2007.  “Obviously the whole point of sending a Cabinet official
to the Human Rights Campaign is political, to let them know you
support their agenda. It’s very easy for her to slip then into a
discussion of the partisan election,” Painter said.  Issa’s Requests  U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican
and chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform, asked in a March letter that the special counsel’s
office investigate Sebelius’s remarks.  Issa praised the office for its investigation and said
Obama “should consider the important leadership of Cabinet
secretaries and the example they must set for the entire
Executive Branch,” in deciding any further action against
Sebelius.  Schultz wouldn’t say whether Sebelius would face further
punishment. “This error was immediately acknowledged by the
Secretary, promptly corrected, and no taxpayer dollars were
misused,” he said in the e-mail.  Violations of the Hatch Act by lower-level federal
employees aren’t uncommon. The Office of Special Counsel issued
164 “warning letters” to federal employees, or state and local
government employees funded by the federal government, for
alleged violations of the law in fiscal 2011, according to the
office’s annual  report .  Local Campaigns  Most were federal employees who ran for local and state
elected offices, said Ann O’Hanlon, a spokeswoman for the Office
of Special Counsel.  “It is rare for someone to lose their job because of a
Hatch Act violation,” she said in a telephone interview.  The most recent high-ranking federal official to run afoul
of the Hatch Act was Bush’s General Services Administration
boss, Lurita Doan. The  Office of Special Counsel  recommended
Doan be disciplined in May 2007 after alleging she had asked her
employees in a meeting to help Republican candidates win
elections. She resigned in April 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  