-- Samsung, Nike, InBev, Apple, Warhol: Intellectual Propert
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-12T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/samsung-nike-inbev-apple-warhol-intellectual-propert.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s request
for a judge to lift a preliminary ban on U.S. sales of its
Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer was opposed by Apple Inc.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose,  California ,
issued an order temporarily blocking sales of the Tab 10.1
computer in June, almost two months before a jury found Aug. 24
that Samsung infringed six of seven Apple patents at stake in a
trial between the two companies and awarded Apple $1.05 billion
in damages.  Apple, in a court filing Sept. 10, argued that Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung’s effort to lift the ban should be denied
because Samsung’s appeal of Koh’s June order “divests this
court of jurisdiction.” Koh has set a Sept. 20 hearing to
consider Samsung’s request.  “Dissolving the injunction only to reinstate it shortly
thereafter would cause confusion in the market and is not
necessary to prevent irreparable harm” to Samsung, Cupertino,
California-based Apple argued in the filing. “Indeed, Samsung
admitted that the injunction is not likely to have a significant
impact on its business, given that it is already selling a
successor to the Galaxy Tab 10.1.”  Koh also scheduled a Dec. 6 hearing to consider Apple’s
request for a permanent U.S. sales ban of eight Samsung
smartphone models and the tablet following the jury verdict.
Seven of the eight smartphones that Apple seeks to ban are part
of Samsung’s Galaxy line.  Koh said previously that Apple has indicated it may seek to
broaden the scope of Samsung products it wants banned in a
permanent injunction. Apple said in an Aug. 27 court filing that
Koh should also bar U.S. sales of a version of the tablet that
runs on mobile networks, even though that product wasn’t covered
by the Aug. 24 verdict.  Samsung sought to have the ban on the Tab 10.1 lifted on
Aug. 26 after the jury found the device didn’t infringe the
Apple design patent on which the June 26 court-ordered sales ban
was based. The jury instead found that the Tab 10.1 infringed
three of Apple’s software patents.  Adam Yates , a Samsung spokesman, declined to comment on
Apple’s filing.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  New Nike Patent Covers Golf Clubs With Data-Collecting Sensors  Nike Inc. (NKE)  wants to make improving your golf game easier.  The world’s largest producer of sporting goods on Sept. 4
received patent 8,257,191 , which covers the use of data-
collecting sensors on golf clubs to improve personalization. In
one scenario, the analysis of a swing is shown on a display
screen embedded on the back of the club’s head. That would make
getting fit for golf clubs faster and more precise, the company
said.  Nike has been integrating digital technology into sports
equipment as a way for users to measure and improve results. It
also increases the time consumers spend with the brand, which
can increase loyalty and sales. The company this year introduced
a wristband that tracks daily activity and shoes equipped with
sensors that can record such metrics as how high a basketball
player jumps during a dunk.  Mary Remuzzi, a spokeswoman for Nike, declined to comment
on the patent and when such products might come to market.  The Beaverton, Oregon-based company also received patent
8,258,941, which covers a data collection system that places
sensors and transmitters in shoes that automatically track the
distance and time of a run or walk. The data would then be
shared with the user by sending it to a mobile device or
computer.  While golf equipment has become more sophisticated,
including balls designed to cater to a player’s strengths,
fitting is largely a trial-and-error process, Nike said.  Technology covered by this patent would remove that
uncertainty by using accelerometers and gyroscopes to measure as
many as 100 data points to record such measurements as the angle
of the club face, Nike said.  Last month Nike obtained a patent for a computerized radar
system that places sensors on soccer balls and other equipment
as a way to offer data analysis for team sports. Other products
in Nike’s digital sport unit include a watch that can track
location, distance and heartbeat and a video game workout for
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Kinect for  Xbox 360 .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  AB InBev’s Claim to ‘Bud’ Name Based on Fraud, Czech Brewer Says  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s claim to the European Union-wide
trademark on the word “Bud” for beer and other products is
based on a fraud that began more than a century ago, Budejovicky
Budvar NP told a European court.  “Anheuser-Busch’s claim to the name is based on a fraud
that goes back to 1894,” Fabienne Fajgenbaum, a lawyer
representing Budvar, told a three-judge panel of the EU’s
second-highest court in Luxembourg yesterday. “When Mr. Busch
discovered an extremely interesting beer in the town of Budweis,
Czech Republic, he went back to the U.S. and brewed a beer in
the way it had been done in the region since the 13th century.”  The hearing was part of a fight that started 16 years ago
with Anheuser-Busch’s bid to get an EU trademark for the name
Bud. The EU General Court may have the final say on whether the
world’s biggest brewer can get the sole rights to the name
across the 27-nation bloc.  The EU’s top court last year told the lower EU court to re-
examine the case after making a number of mistakes in an earlier
ruling that upheld Czech competitor Budvar’s challenge.  “Budvar had over 100 years to start using the term Bud and
it didn’t start doing so until 1997,” said Verena von Bomhard,
a lawyer representing AB InBev. “Bud is certainly not original
of our Czech friends.”  The EU’s trademark agency -- where Anheuser-Busch sought
the EU trademark rights in yesterday’s case in 1996, 1999 and
2000 -- rejected Budvar’s opposition on lack of evidence for its
prior rights to the name. The Czech company markets its brew as
Budvar in some places with the word Budweiser in smaller print
and in others it sells beer as Bud, adding “original Czech.”  Budvar claims so-called appellation of origin or
geographic-indication rights, an EU protection for products
associated with a certain region, arguing its beer comes from
Ceske Budejovice, which is called Budweis in German. Anheuser-
Busch, founded by a German-born immigrant to the U.S., Adolphus
Busch, said it started using the Budweiser trademark in 1876, 19
years before Budvar was formed.  The cases are: T-225/06 RENV, T-255/06 RENV, T-257/06 RENV,
T-309/06 RENV, Budějovický Budvar v. OHMI - Anheuser-Busch.  Apple Accuses Polish Grocery Website of Trademark Infringement  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed a complaint with the Polish patent office,
accusing an online grocery website of trademark infringement,
the Montreal Gazette  reported .  The Cupertino, California-based company objects to the
alleged use of the apple icon’s inclusion in the store’s logo,
according to the newspaper.  An executive for the accused store -- A.pl -- called the
infringement allegation “ludicrous,” the Gazette reported.  According to the newspaper, no hearing date has been set
for the dispute.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Copyright Elements Tossed Out in Velvet Underground Banana Suit  The  Velvet Underground , a pop band from the 1960s, has no
“realistic prospect of injury” from the owner of copyrights to
a number of the late  Andy Warhol ’s works, a federal judge in
 Manhattan  ruled.  The dispute between the band and the estate is related to a
cover Warhol designed for the 1966 album “The Velvet
Underground and Nico,” which featured a banana and the artist’s
signature.  Even after the band broke up, it continued to use the
banana design, according to court papers, and licensed it for a
variety of  consumer goods , from  t-shirts  to  key chains  and
pillowcases. The copyright owner, the  Warhol Foundation for the
Visual Arts Inc. , also licensed the banana design, and in 2009,
told the band its use of the cover design infringed the
copyright.  The band responded, claiming that the design had acquired
what is known under U.S. copyright law as “secondary meaning”
associated with the  Velvet Underground . It, in turn, objected to
the foundation’s licensing of the image for use with iPhone and
iPad cases and sleeves.  A suit was then filed by the band in January, seeking a
declaration that the foundation had no copyright in the design,
and accused it of infringing the Velvet Underground trademarks.  The parties then signed an agreement in which the
foundation agreed not to sue the band for copyright
infringement. Afterward, the foundation asked the court to
dismiss the case.  In her Sept. 7 order, U.S. District Judge Alison J. Nathan
said there was no controversy over the copyright, and dismissed
Velvet Underground’s request for a non-infringement declaration.
The band’s trademark infringement allegations against the
foundation remain alive.  The case is The Velvet Underground v. The Andy Warhol
Foundation for the Visual Arts Inc., 1:12-cv-00201-AJN, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Minnesota Song Downloader Loses Appeal, Again Owes $222,000  A Minnesota woman accused by the music industry of
illegally downloading songs was ordered to pay $222,000 in
damages after an appeals court overturned a lower-court ruling
that had reduced the amount.  The St. Louis-based  U.S. Court of Appeals  said in a Sept.
11 opinion that the  record companies , which appealed the
district court’s decision to assess $54,000 in damages against
Jammie Thomas-Rasset, were entitled to the larger amount. The
case has been tried before three juries.  U.S. District Judge Michael Davis in July 2011 reduced the
third jury’s $1.5 million damage award to $54,000, or $2,250 for
each of 24 recordings infringed. The music labels appealed to
reinstate the first jury’s award of $222,000. The U.S. also
appealed, to defend the assessment of damage awards under the
federal Copyright Act.  “The evidence against Thomas-Rasset demonstrates an
aggravated case of willful infringement by an individual
consumer who acted to download and distribute copyrighted
recordings,” the court said. “We conclude that the record
companies are entitled to the remedies that they seek on
appeal.”  “We are pleased with the appellate court’s decision and
look forward to putting this case behind us,” the  Recording
Industry Association of America , the record companies’ trade
group, said in an e-mailed statement.  Thomas-Rasset was sued in 2006 and accused of downloading
1,702 songs without authorization from the file-sharing website
Kazaa and making them available for free to other computer
users. For the case, the judge approved a sample of 24 songs to
reduce the time and expense of researching copyrights.  Andrew Mohraz, a lawyer for Thomas-Rasset, didn’t
immediately respond to a message seeking comment.  Three juries reached verdicts in favor of the record
companies. The judge granted a second trial after the first
because of an improper jury instruction. A third trial was set
after the record companies refused to accept the judge’s
reduction of the jury’s $1.92 million award in the second trial.  The Minnesota suit was brought by labels owned by the
world’s four largest recording companies, Sony Corp.’s  Sony
Music Entertainment , Access Industries Holdings Inc.’s Warner
Music Group Corp., Vivendi SA’s  Universal Music Group  and
Citigroup Inc.’s EMI Group.  The appeals case is Capitol Records v. Thomas-Rasset,
11-2820, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit ( St.
Louis ). The lower-court case is Capitol v. Thomas-Rasset,
06-01497, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  Bible College Acknowledges Making Unauthorized Textbook Copies  An Australian Bible college admitted in that country’s
federal court that it made at least 1,900 unauthorized copies of
textbooks produced by  smallPrint Australia  and removed the
branding information, the Australian newspaper  reported .  Although  TBM Training Pty Ltd.  of  Melbourne , which offers
ministry and theology courses through the Total Bible Ministry,
acknowledges removing copyright information from the texts, it
denied allegations that it substituted its own brand, according
to the newspaper.  In a court filing, the school said its staff thought
because it wasn’t charging students for the copies, it didn’t
infringe anyone’s copyright, the Australian reported.  SmallPrint General Manager John Loveday, which filed the
case against the college, told the Australian that this kind of
copyright infringement had become more common in  Australia  and
that his company had sued several other educational institutions
for similar actions.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 