-- Sanofi CEO Sees Opportunities for Deals in Vietnam, Colombia
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-09-12T16:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/sanofi-ceo-sees-opportunities-for-deals-in-vietnam-colombia-2-.html
Sanofi Chief Executive Officer
 Chris Viehbacher  sees opportunities for deals in countries such
as Vietnam and Colombia as France’s biggest drugmaker continues
to target purchases and partnerships in developing nations.  “Prices of assets haven’t come down,” leading Sanofi to
scout for targets in countries beyond  China  and India where
prices are more reasonable, Viehbacher said today in an
interview at the  World Economic Forum  in Tianjin, China.  “Places like Vietnam, Indonesia, places like Colombia have
become extremely interesting in terms of growth,” the 52-year-
old CEO said.  Drugmakers have been turning to Asia and  Latin America  for
investments to reduce their reliance on slower-growth markets
such as Europe. The purchase of Medley SA in 2009 gave Paris-
based  Sanofi (SAN) , the maker of Lantus insulin and the Plavix blood-
thinner, ownership of Brazil’s third-largest pharmaceutical
company and the country’s biggest maker of generic medicines.  Boosting Sanofi’s presence in China, where the French
company probably will increase its workforce in the coming year,
also remains a priority, Viehbacher said. The Chinese government
is trying to prevent growth from slipping below a 7.5 percent
target this year, which would already be the weakest since 1990.  “I am confident, in the long term, on the growth outlook
for China,” the CEO said. “We are moving from made in China to
created and discovered in China. It’s just a normal part of an
economic development process that as wages rise, companies have
to seek higher value out of the industries.”  Generic Competition  Since taking over in December 2008, Viehbacher has been
building up Sanofi’s business through acquisitions and
partnerships to make up for lost revenue on best-selling
products such as Plavix that face generic competition.
Viehbacher reiterated in July that Sanofi is open to
“bolt-on” transactions of as much as 2 billion euros
($2.58 billion) this year.  “We could clearly spend a lot more, but our objective is
to do bolt-on acquisitions” that will add to Sanofi’s seven so-
called growth platforms, Viehbacher said today. The platforms
include businesses ranging from diabetes and vaccines to animal
and consumer health care. He declined to talk about specific
deals in the pipeline.  The company spent $20.1 billion last year to buy the U.S.
biotechnology company Genzyme Corp.  Sanofi  shares  have risen almost 19 percent this year in
Paris trading, compared with gains in Zurich of 9.4 percent for
 Roche Holding AG  and 3.7 percent for Novartis AG.
GlaxoSmithKline Plc has declined 3.1 percent in  London .  The  European debt crisis  has been costing Sanofi 200
million euros to 300 million euros a year, as governments cut
the prices of medicines, Viehbacher said.  “We don’t see that getting any worse, but we don’t see
that getting any better,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  