-- Savings From California Pension Rollback May Take Years
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-09-12T19:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/savings-from-california-pension-rollback-may-take-years.html
The broadest rollback in public-
employee pension benefits in  California  history may bring little
short-term savings to the strapped state and local governments,
a municipal finance consultant said.  A  bill  signed by Governor Jerry Brown today caps pension
benefits and requires new employees to pay for half of their
pension costs. The same savings will be sought from current 
employees through bargaining with their unions to lower costs
as much as $55 billion over 30 years.  “There will be an impact in the long term, in 20 or 30
years when most of the employees are in the lower benefit tier,
but not before then,” said Irwin Bornstein, a consultant based
in Laguna Hills, near  Los Angeles . “That’s in the long run.”  The most-populous U.S. state, where three municipalities
have filed for bankruptcy since June, faces rising retiree
obligations. At the same time, like states and cities across the
U.S., budgets are still straining under the loss of income- and
sales-tax revenue from the longest recession since the 1930s.  Asked whether the savings might be too small to relieve
stress on state and local governments, Brown, 74, told reporters
in Los Angeles: “It changes the direction. Think of this as a
big battleship in the ocean. This begins to move it in the right
direction.”  For most new civil servants who aren’t police officers or
firefighters, the minimum  retirement age  for full benefits will
rise to 67 from 55. New state and local government employees
under the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or
Calpers, will be required to pay for half of their benefits.  Largest Pension  Calpers, the largest pension in the U.S., said the changes
may save $42 billion to $55 billion over 30 years for retirement
plans it administers. Cities and counties with their own pension
plans, including Los Angeles,  San Diego  and  San Jose , aren’t
affected.  “One of the biggest benefits will be at the local level
where they will negotiate based on what their fiscal situations
are,” Brown said.  “With this bill, we take the handcuffs off local
government,” the Democratic governor said. “Of course, they
need the spine of management presence at the bargaining table.”  Senator Mimi Walters, a Republican from  Irvine  who voted
for the bill, said it contained positive changes such as barring
workers from buying service credit to enhance their pensions and
stripping benefits from convicted felons.  The bills fall short of addressing an unfunded pension
liability estimated at more than $250 billion, she said
yesterday in a statement.  The changes “will do very little to address California’s
growing debt problem,” she said. “The majority of the changes
will only impact new employees hired after Jan. 1, 2013. That
means most of the identified savings will only slow the growth
rate of our debt problem.”  Calpers, with assets of at $241.5 billion, had 72 percent
of the assets needed to cover obligations to its 1.6 million
beneficiaries as of June 30, 2011, according to a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  