-- Serbia Seeks New IMF Deal in October, Deputy Minister Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-09-12T15:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/serbia-seeks-new-imf-deal-in-october-deputy-minister-says-1-.html
Serbia  is seeking to agree a new
loan program with the  International Monetary Fund  next month,
before the nation’s parliament adopts the 2013 budget.  Serbia needs the funds to lower the cost of borrowing as
the cabinet of Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  tries to avoid
bankruptcy and foster growth after a second recession in three
years. The country is also struggling with the highest
 unemployment rate  in Europe of 25.5 percent.  “It is our ambition to have the IMF loan deal before the
2013 budget is adopted,” Deputy Finance Minister Vlajko Senic
said in a news briefing in Belgrade today. “Ideally, that
should happen in October.”  Serbia is host to an IMF fact-finding mission this week,
which is assessing the country’s economy and fiscal position as
well as changes to central bank law which established
parliamentary control over the National Bank of Serbia.  The fact-finding mission has no mandate to negotiate a new
loan program, Senic said. The country needs to prove it’s
committed to improving its finances over the medium term before
the IMF can be persuaded to return to Belgrade for new loan
talks, he said.  Open Discussion  The government is “open to discussing” either a loan to
help with its budget or a precautionary loan program, he added.
msg  The IMF suspended a $1.3 billion precautionary loan with
Serbia in February on evidence it was slipping on agreed deficit
and debt targets.  The economy is expected to contract by as much as one
percentage point this year, while the  budget deficit  rose to 7.2
percent of gross domestic product at the end of June and public
debt to 54.7 percent of GDP. The government wants to bring the
deficit down to 4 percent of GDP next year.  Serbia’s fiscal rules limit the gap at 4.5 percent of GDP
and debt at 45 percent of GDP.  Serbia also wants to slow the pace of public debt expansion
in 2013 and start lowering it in 2014, Senic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  