-- Sharp Losses May Widen on Delayed Panels for Phones, Tablets
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-09-13T03:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/sharp-losses-may-widen-on-delayed-panels-for-phones-tablets.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  may lose more money
than it forecast this year, analysts predict, increasing
pressure on the struggling Japanese electronics maker to raise
funds and complete a stake sale to Foxconn Technology Group.  The company likely will report a  net loss  of 295 billion
yen ($3.8 billion) for the year ending March 31, according to
the average estimates of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Sharp last month forecast a 250 billion-yen net loss, eight
times greater than originally predicted, because of its
unprofitable TV and display units.  Shipments of smartphone panels were delayed after a defect
was found during testing, the Osaka, Japan-based company said in
August. The company also is experiencing lower-than-expected
operation rates at a plant making displays for tablet computers,
prompting analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank
AG to lower their earnings estimates as Sharp prepares a revival
plan for lenders.  “It’s possible that the company will cut forecasts,”
Yasuo Nakane, a Deutsche analyst in  Tokyo , said by phone. “If
Sharp was to cut forecasts during the next quarter, rather than
this quarter, that may cause troubles with its banks.”  Sharp’s net loss will probably total 324 billion yen this
fiscal year, said Nakane, who previously estimated a 77.3
billion-yen loss.  Takashi Watanabe, a Goldman Sachs analyst, widened his
estimates for Sharp’s operating loss to 161 billion yen this
fiscal year, he said in a Sept. 11 report, citing lower-than-
estimated panel output. The company last month projected a 100
billion-yen operating loss.  ‘Harsh Business Circumstances’  Sharp said Sept. 11 it may revise earnings estimates
because of “harsh business circumstances.”  “Changes in the forecasts for fiscal 2012 consolidated
financial results will be announced separately once revisions
are decided necessary,” the company said in a statement
announcing payroll reductions.  Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Sharp, declined to
elaborate.  Sharp found a defect in its smartphone displays during a
“dropping test,” Tetsuo Onishi, the senior executive managing
officer in charge of accounting, said last month, declining to
name the client. The defect is minor and probably won’t delay
the client’s product release, he said.  Tablet Displays  “The unexpected delay in shipping suggests it would be a
negative factor for Sharp’s earnings,” said Keita Wakabayashi,
a Tokyo-based analyst at Mito Securities Co.  Sharp has started shipping screens for Apple Inc.’s iPhone
5, Marketwatch said today, citing an unidentified person.
Hiroshi Takenami, a Sharp spokesman, declined to comment on the
report. Apple unveiled the latest iPhone, which will go on sale
Sept. 21, yesterday in the U.S.  Sharp’s plants making medium-sized displays also continue
to be underutilized, Watanabe said. The factories may run at
about 50 percent next fiscal year and 60 percent the year after,
he said, lowering his estimates from 60 percent and 75 percent,
respectively.  Sharp’s shares plunged to a 37-year-low after the company
widened its loss forecast, prompting Foxconn to renegotiate a
deal reached in March in which the Taiwanese group agreed to pay
67 billion yen for a 9.9 percent stake in Sharp. The companies
haven’t announced a new agreement.  Sharp rose 1.4 percent to 212 yen as of the 11:30 a.m.
break in Tokyo trading. The shares have declined 69 percent in
Tokyo trading this year, making them the biggest percentage
loser among more than 1,600 companies in the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   Mechanical Pencils  The most pessimistic of the seven estimates for Sharp since
Aug. 23 is for an annual loss of 350 billion yen, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The most optimistic is for a 260
billion-yen loss in the year ending in March.  The electronics maker widened its full-year loss forecast
from 30 billion yen. Sharp posted a 376 billion-yen net loss in
the year ended March 31 as earnings were eroded by a  strong yen 
and competition from TVs and phones made by Samsung Electronics
Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   The 100-year-old inventor of mechanical pencils is seeking
to raise cash and cut costs as it faces a total of 706 billion
yen in bonds, commercial paper and borrowings maturing within
one year. The company is cutting  5,000 jobs , its first  workforce
reduction  since 1950, as part of plans to reduce fixed costs by
100 billion yen.  ‘Recovery Won’t Happen’  Sharp is in talks with unions to cut wages and will reduce
managers’ salaries and bonuses to trim another 14 billion yen in
costs, it said Sept. 11. The company said last month it plans to
return to operating profit in the fiscal second half, beginning
Oct. 1.  “Sharp’s expected second-half recovery won’t happen,”
Jeff Loff, a senior analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities in
Tokyo, wrote in a report last week.  Losses from Sharp’s LCD business may total 137 billion yen
this fiscal year, compared with the company’s August projection
of 105 billion yen, Loff said, citing lower yields of displays
using the technology known as IGZO. Those panels are thinner,
have a higher resolution and use less energy than conventional
models.  Sharp said last month it will improve the operation rate of
its medium-size IGZO displays for tablet PCs by increasing the
number of orders from large clients.  “There are risks that demand for its IGZO panels aren’t as
much as the company had expected,” Deutsche’s Nakane said.
“Sharp hasn’t found any other clients.”  Contingency Plan  Sharp is working on a contingency plan to present to banks
as the company seeks help to refinance debt, Onishi said last
week. The company has submitted a plan for returning to an
operating profit in the second half and hired a specialist to
evaluate assets and business plans, Onishi said.  The electronics maker is in talks with lenders including
life insurance companies to raise funds through a new syndicated
loan, a person with knowledge of the matter said this month.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , Sharp’s two main banks, provided the company with a
short-term facility of 60 billion yen in July and an
approximately 150 billion-yen credit last month to help the
company refinance commercial papers, according to another person
with knowledge of the matter.  ‘Zero’ Value  Sharp’s  liabilities  reached 2 trillion yen at the end of
June -- the most since at least 2003, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The company put up its headquarters and some
plants as collateral to win bank loans after its credit ratings
were cut to junk by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s .  Sharp may have additional collateral capacity of as much as
480 billion yen, taking into account buildings and structures,
machinery and equipment and marketable securities, Deutsche Bank
AG analyst Akihito Murata said in a report yesterday. That may
not be sufficient to cover Sharp’s more than 820 billion yen in
bank loans and outstanding commercial paper as of the end of the
first quarter, he said.  “We still do not believe that Sharp has sufficient fund
procurement capacity,” Murata said in the report.  Loff at Macquarie downgraded the  rating  on the stock to
underperform, or sell, from neutral, and cut the 12-month share-
price estimate to 90 yen from 680 yen.  “If Sharp cannot turn around its display business, then we
believe operating losses and weaker prospects for reducing debt
could render the value of the equity zero,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  