-- Sharp Shorts Jump to Record as Investors Doubt Survival
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-09-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/sharp-shorts-jump-to-record-as-investors-doubt-survival.html
Bearish bets on  Sharp Corp. (6753)  climbed
to a record high as  Japan ’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal
panels works to complete a capital tie-up with  Taiwan ’s Foxconn
Technology Group to stave off the threat of bankruptcy.  Short-interest on Sharp, an indication of bets that its
share price will fall, climbed to 73.2 million shares, or 6.6
percent of stock outstanding, on September 7, the highest in
more than two decades, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The maker of Aquos televisions and screens for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad has  tumbled  69 percent this year, closing at a
record low last month, after predicting an annual loss of 250
billion yen ($3.2 billion).  The decline has prompted Foxconn, whose flagship is Apple’s
No. 1  supplier , to renegotiate terms for a capital tie-up agreed
to in March. Sharp President Takashi Okuda must raise funds as
the company burns through cash.  Total liabilities  reached 2
trillion yen at the end of June, the highest since at least 2003
and more than four times sales in that quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You can’t rule out the possibility of the company going
bankrupt,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees the equivalent
of $600 million in assets in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “For overseas companies looking to invest in
Sharp, it would be to their advantage if the company goes
bankrupt because they’ll be able to buy it cheaper.”  Appropriate Price  Foxconn Group, through its two Taipei-listed units,  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the world’s largest contract
manufacturer of electronics, and Foxconn Technology Co., a maker
of computer cases, agreed in March to buy 9.9 percent of Sharp
for 67 billion yen in a sale of new shares. Foxconn founder
Terry Gou has invested 66 billion yen of his own money into a
Sharp TV panel factory in Japan.  Gou said on Aug. 5 he would put money into Sharp “at the
most appropriate time and most appropriate price.” He ended a
visit to Japan last month without announcing a deal. Speculation
the Taiwanese company won’t proceed with the investment mounted
after Gou didn’t attend a scheduled media briefing in Tokyo on
Aug. 30, Amir Anvarzadeh, a Singapore-based manager for Asia
equity sales at BGC Partners Inc., said by phone.  It’s unlikely Gou’s companies will proceed with the
investment now that Apple decided not to buy screens for new
iPads from Sharp, BGC’s Anvarzadeh said. Apple will use panels
from  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  and  LG Display Co. (034220)  for a smaller version
of the iPad to be released in October, four people familiar with
the plans said on Aug. 31.  Miyuki Nakayama, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Sharp, and
Simon Hsing, a spokesman for Hon Hai, both declined to comment.  Debt Due  Concern that volatility of the company’s stock price will
continue drove the number of shares held in Japanese  margin-
trading accounts  to a record high on Aug. 29. Shares in accounts
that profit if the stock falls reached 27.93 million on Sept.
11, three times more than those that make money if the stock
gains, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  “There’s a lot of short selling as the market is pricing
in the high probability of Sharp going bankrupt within the next
one to two years,” Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer at
Myojo Asset Management Japan Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund
advisory firm. “Sharp’s financial state is becoming a huge
problem, it doesn’t even have all the  funds  they need to repay
its debt due this financial year.”  Sharp needs to repay 205 billion yen of  debt  in the current
financial year and 130 billion yen the year after, according to
data compiled by  Bloomberg News . The company has already put up
its Osaka headquarters and some factories as debt collateral
after its credit ratings were cut to junk.  Deepening Losses  Adding to signs of Sharp’s deepening financial woes, the
electronics maker said Sept. 11 it’s discussing additional
salary cuts with its labor unions, reducing managers’ salaries
by 10 percent starting next month and lowering bonuses by half
to save a total of 14 billion yen in fixed costs.  Sharp’s  losses  may exceed its own forecast in the current
financial year ending March 31. The company is expected to
report a net loss of 261 billion yen, according to the average
estimate by 18 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Of the seven
estimates made since Aug. 23, the average was a loss of 295
billion yen.  None of the 23 brokerages covering Sharp that are  tracked 
by Bloomberg have a buy rating, with 12 recommending sell and 11
telling investors to hold the stock, the data show.  “People have realized there’s a strong possibility Foxconn
could walk away from this deal,” BGC’s Anvarzadeh said. “I
would be very surprised if Sharp doesn’t go bankrupt by the end
of this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  