-- ShawCor Bid Seen at Highest Value on Gas Demand: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-09-12T20:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/shawcor-bid-seen-at-highest-value-on-gas-demand-real-m-a.html
Record natural- gas prices  in  Asia 
mean that a takeover of  Canada ’s  ShawCor Ltd. (SCL/A)  at the most
expensive valuation ever in the gas-services industry would be
worth every penny.  ShawCor, which makes  coatings  to help pipelines resist
corrosion and handle high pressures, said last week that its
controlling shareholder would consider supporting a sale. While
ShawCor would be the priciest oil- and gas-services takeover in
 North America  relative to trailing 12-month profit, the Toronto-
based company is projected to more than double its  earnings 
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to a
record by next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With profit driven by rising fuel demand in Asia and a
backlog of orders to coat pipes that transport liquefied natural
gas to the region, ShawCor is trading at the industry’s cheapest
2013 Ebitda multiple. Royal Bank of Canada says the C$2.95
billion ($3.03 billion) company may appeal to  Tenaris SA (TEN)  or
Vallourec SA, while shareholder Bluewater Investment Management
Inc. said its rising free cash flow could also draw private-
equity bids. ShawCor may fetch C$47 to C$60 a share, according
to Toronto-Dominion Bank, as much as a 43 percent premium.  “ShawCor is in the sweet spot right now,”  John Goldsmith ,
vice president of Canadian equities at Montrusco Bolton
Investments Inc., which oversees C$5.1 billion including ShawCor
 shares , said in a telephone interview from Toronto. The company
“has built up a massive backlog on the back of these very large
LNG projects in Asia Pacific. By coating the pipes, ShawCor
provides a key link.”  Controlling Shareholder  Today, ShawCor shares rose 2.4 percent to C$43.06, the
highest closing price since at least 1988.  ShawCor, which  evolved  from a construction company in the
1930s, makes coatings that protect and add weight to pipelines
used to ship fuel from deepwater drilling sites. Its customers
include major oil and gas producers and pipeline owners.  The board formed a committee to review alternatives after
Chairman Virginia Shaw, who controls almost 92 percent of the
class B shares that have 10 times the  voting power  of the class
A stock, told directors that she’s prepared to consider selling
her stake as part of a sale of the entire company. The class A
shares rose 20 percent on Sept. 6 after the news was disclosed
in a press release, bringing the stock’s gain to  71 percent  in
the last year.  As it canvasses for interested bidders, ShawCor said it has
yet to hold any talks and no proposals have been made. The
company also said it hired Credit Suisse Group AG as a financial
adviser. Gary Love, ShawCor’s chief financial officer, yesterday
declined to comment beyond the statement.  Asian Demand  “This comes as a bolt out of the blue,” Dennis Starritt,
a Toronto-based  money manager  at Bluewater, which oversees about
C$1.25 billion including ShawCor shares, said in a phone
interview. “They seem to be just about at the top of their game
right now.”  ShawCor stock accounts for 5.6 percent of the  Mackenzie
Universal Canadian Growth Class (MKUCGCCL)  fund that Starritt co-manages.
That’s the largest percentage of any fund that owns ShawCor,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As  China  requires more sources of energy to support the
world’s fastest-growing economy, there is a greater need for
pipelines that can transport liquefied natural gas, said
Montrusco Bolton’s Goldsmith. That also means demand is on the
rise for ShawCor’s services, he said.  “ShawCor coats the steel pipes so that they’re quasi-
indestructible at extreme depths,” Goldsmith said. “They’re
benefitting the same way that energy drillers are benefitting
from demand. The idea is to get this natural gas to China, Japan
and  Korea .”  Gas Prices  The increased demand has led to peak prices for the fuel,
in U.S. dollar terms.  Japan ’s average import  price  for natural
gas in June, the latest month for which data is available for
the Asian benchmark, was $17.30 per million British thermal
units, the highest on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg that dates back to 1999.  With ShawCor’s order backlog for new pipe-coating contracts
at an all-time high of C$749 million, analysts project that
Ebitda will rise 126 percent to a record C$334 million in 2013
from the level in the most recent 12 months, estimates compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a very appealing asset,” Dan MacDonald, a Calgary-
based analyst at RBC, said in a phone interview. The potential
growth “helps de-risk the earnings stream that the acquirer
would be paying for in a cyclical business.”  Highest Multiple  MacDonald said a takeover offer would likely have to top
his share-price estimate of C$45, which he projects the stock
can reach if ShawCor remains a standalone company.  Based on takeout multiples in comparable transactions,
ShawCor could be acquired for C$47 to C$60 a share, Scott Treadwell, a Calgary-based analyst with Toronto-Dominion, wrote
in a note to clients on Sept. 10. That implies a premium of 12
percent to 43 percent to yesterday’s close of C$42.05.  A takeover at C$47 a share would value ShawCor at about
C$2.92 billion after subtracting  net cash , or 19.8 times its
Ebitda in the last 12 months. That would be the highest multiple
on record of any deal in the North American oil- and gas-
services industry valued at more than $1 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “It would look expensive on trailing multiples because
2011 and the first half of 2012 has been a slower time as it
waited to ramp up on the projects it has captured,” RBC’s
MacDonald said. Still, “I would think it’s worth it for a buyer
to be paying up,” he said.  Private Equity  The company’s projected earnings growth makes a deal more
affordable. Its current  enterprise value  is only 7.7 times
estimated 2013 Ebitda, the cheapest among every North American
midstream oil and gas company with a market value higher than $1
billion, the data show.  Shaw, who succeeded her father as chairman in 2007, will
need to agree to any buyer or takeover price, and she hasn’t
made a final decision on selling her shares, the company said in
last week’s statement. Analysts also project that the stock can
rise to C$47.20 on its own in the next 12 months, based on the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While those may be obstacles to a deal, Bluewater’s
Starritt said  private-equity  firms may be lured by ShawCor’s
balance sheet and the amount of cash its operations generate
after deducting capital expenses. The business also doesn’t
require a lot of capital, he said.  ‘Cash Cushion’  ShawCor had  no long-term debt  and only C$8.65 million in
short-term borrowings at the end of the second quarter, leaving
it with about $C381 million in net cash, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The business throws off  more cash  relative to its stock
price than 98 percent of its peers, the data show. Only Sunoco
Logistics Partners LP’s free-cash-flow yield of 8.76 percent
topped ShawCor’s 8.75 percent.  “They have quite a cash cushion,” Starritt said in a
phone interview. “They don’t have huge investment needs
compared to the kind of profitability they can generate.”  ShawCor may be an appealing acquisition target for Tenaris,
the world’s largest maker of seamless pipes, and  Vallourec (VK) ,
which makes steel pipes for the oil and gas industry, said RBC’s
MacDonald.  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the largest U.S. maker
of oilfield equipment, would also be among the logical buyers,
according to MacDonald and a Sept. 6 note from Bank of Montreal
analyst Bert Powell.  Representatives for Luxembourg-based Tenaris and  Boulogne
Billancourt , France-based Vallourec didn’t respond to requests
for comment outside normal business hours. A spokesman for
Houston-based National Oilwell also didn’t respond.  “ShawCor is the global leader in pipe coating,” MacDonald
said. “That makes it a very appealing asset, and then
specifically its exposure to the subsea offshore development,
which in our view is likely the best secular growth trend within
oilfield services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net . 