-- Singapore Billionaire Family Bets on Hotels, Plans REIT Listing
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   M a t t h e w   G .   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/singapore-billionaire-family-bets-on-hotels-plans-reit-listing.html
RB Capital , which is bidding for 42
Marriott hotels in the U.K., is seeking to acquire other assets
in Europe and expand in Southeast  Asia  as it prepares to list a
hospitality trust in Singapore.  “We are accumulating assets, we are bulking up,” Kishin
RK, chief executive officer of Singapore-based property company,
said in an interview. “We are waiting for the right time to go
out to the markets; we have a sizeable amount of development
pipeline under construction.”  The 29-year-old developer is betting on gains in tourism as
Singapore has attracted about a million  visitors  a month since
2010, when its two casinos opened, and as more budget airlines
fly to the city-state. Shares of  Far East Hospitality Trust (FEHT)  and
 Ascendas Hospitality Trust (ASHT)  have gained since their initial stock
sales in the country this year.  “Hospitality REITs have done phenomenally well here,”
Kishin said. “The market is looking for more products.”  RB Capital plans to list its hospitality trust in the next
two years, once the hotels that it’s developing generate a
stable  cash flow , Kishin said.  Kishin, who is building about 1,300 hotel rooms in
Singapore and  Kuala Lumpur , is betting on growing demand for
international chains by budget-conscious travelers. He will open
next year a 460-room hotel in Singapore and another 210-room
property in Kuala Lumpur under the Holiday Inn Express brand.  Budget Travel  “Budget travel in the last 24 months has increased
substantially,” he said. “In three to five years, you’re going
to see a peak in  Southeast Asia .”  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  responded to the rising demand for
discount carriers by starting budget long-haul operator Scoot
this year. Jetstar, the budget arm of  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , is
building up a network of low-cost carriers across Asia.  Kishin set up RB Capital’s hospitality business in 2010
after he struggled to find an international hotel in Singapore
that charged between S$150 ($122) and S$190 a night.  “We saw a vacuum that was not filled,” he said. “The
next category down are local brands which foreigners may not be
able to relate to in terms of  brand recognition .”  Singapore had the highest average daily hotel room rate in
Asia in the first half of this year after  Hong Kong , according
to a CBRE Group Inc.  report  in August. The average daily rate in
Singapore was at $230, bolstered by visitor arrivals into the
city-state, CBRE said.  The hotels that RB Capital is developing will appeal to
budget-conscious travelers from Asia, said Nicholas Mak,
 executive director  at SLP International Property Consultants, a
real estate consulting company. “The outlook for this segment
is bright,” he said.  Little India  The developer, which acquired a hotel site above a train
station in Singapore’s Little India district after making a
record bid in April, plans to announce at least one more hotel
project in the “near future,” Kishin said. RB Capital offered
S$1,078.80 a square foot based on how much space it could build
on the site, beating nine other bidders, including Far East
Organization,  Singapore ’s biggest closely held developer.  Kishin plans to grow RB Capital’s assets to S$5 billion in
three years, from about S$3 billion, he said, without specifying
how much debt the company has. The company, which plans to
expand in Indonesia and Thailand, currently has about S$1 
billion in hotel assets, he said.  “For us to go out to market and for a REIT structure to
make sense, we would need at least S$1 billion in assets
today,” he said. “Moving forward as the REIT market in
Singapore develops, size would play an important role; we
continue with our acquisition plans moving ahead.”  Marriott Hotels  RB Capital has been in the running for the Marriott
properties being offered by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
the last nine months, one of a few deals the developer is
pursuing in  Europe , Kishin said.  RBS, Britain’s largest publicly held lender following its
2008 bailout, has been seeking a buyer for the U.K. hotels
managed by  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  to recover 700 million
pounds ($1.1 billion) after the borrowers defaulted a year ago.
Erfan Hussain, a spokesman for RBS, declined to comment in an e-
mail about RB Capital’s bid.  “If you’re focused on Singapore, it’s a highly competitive
market because every developer is looking to buy ready-made
assets here,” Kishin said. “That’s the reason why we’ve
started to look at Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  