-- Genting Singapore Declines After Casino Fine: Singapore Mover
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-09-13T01:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/singapore-s-resorts-world-casino-fined-for-reimbursing-fees.html
Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  dropped for
the first time in five days after its Resorts World Sentosa
Pte.’s casino was fined S$600,000 ($488,599) by the Singapore
regulator for breaching laws against reimbursing entry fees.  Staff at Resorts World, operated by the  subsidiary  of Kuala
Lumpur-based  Genting Bhd. (GENT) , provided hotel accommodations,
concert tickets and free admission to its Universal Studios
theme park to about 3,400 people when they purchased or renewed
the S$2,000 annual entry levies, the Casino Regulatory Authority
said in a press  release  yesterday.  The fine yesterday “reinforces the view of the government
tightening up regulations that would discourage local
patronage,” UOB Kay Hian Research Pte analysts  Vincent Khoo  and
Moey Su-En said in a report today, adding that “we would
underweight Singapore within our regional gaming coverage as the
market not only continues to struggle to produce growth, but
could contract year-on-year in certain quarters.”  The fine exceeds those imposed on Singapore’s casinos that
the regulator announced less than a month ago.  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS) , which operates the city state’s other gaming resort, and
Resorts World were fined S$357,500 and S$140,000, respectively
for “breaching social safeguard requirements” from May to
October last year, the authority said Aug. 22.  Genting Singapore dropped 1.1 percent to S$1.37 as of 9:49
a.m. in Singapore trading, the first decline in five days.  Further Drop  UOB Kay Hian also maintained its hold recommendation for
Genting Singapore, and said the shares may slide “ without
near-term visibility for much growth and expansion strategy.”
The stock has slumped 9.3 percent this year, the second-worst
performer on the Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) , which
advanced 14 percent.  Singapore citizens and permanent residents are required to
pay a daily S$100 levy or the S$2,000 yearly fees to enter each
of the city-state’s two casinos.  “Casino operators are prohibited from refunding or
reimbursing the entry levy, whether directly or indirectly,”
the regulator said in its release.  Resorts World said it set up an independent investigation
when it became aware of the breaches.  “Measures put forth by the board of inquiry have since
been implemented, including staff training on compliance
policies, and the setting up of a compliance committee,”
Resorts World said in a statement yesterday. “The company is
fully committed to uphold Singapore’s social safeguards to
protect locals from problem gambling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  