-- Sirius CEO Karmazin Says Malone May Remove Him With Takeover
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-09-12T20:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/sirius-ceo-karmazin-says-liberty-may-remove-him-after-takeover.html
Sirius (SIRI)  XM Radio Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Mel Karmazin said he assumes Liberty Media
Corp. will remove him as CEO as part of its plan to take over
the satellite radio broadcaster.  “My instincts today are that Liberty does not need me at
the company,” Karmazin said today at the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference
in  Beverly Hills ,  California . “I have historically been
expensive. It’s very clear to me that if I were Liberty, I would
sit there and say, ‘I’m not sure we need Mel.’”  Karmazin’s contract with Sirius is up on Dec. 31. Liberty
said in an Aug. 16 filing with the Federal Communications
Commission that it plans to increase its stake to more than 50
percent of Sirius to take control of the company.  Liberty raised its stake in Sirius by 30.9 million shares,
the Englewood, Colorado-based company disclosed in a regulatory
filing yesterday. The purchases bring Liberty’s common-stock
holding to 558.6 million shares, in addition to preferred shares
that are convertible into about a 40 percent stake.  Liberty Media CEO Greg Maffei said in June that Liberty
liked Karmazin and wanted him to be CEO.  No Discussion  Karmazin said he hasn’t spoken with Liberty about his
contract status. His 2011 compensation was about $10.7 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sirius fell 3 percent to $2.43 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 33 percent this year. Liberty Media, up
31 percent this year, fell 0.8 percent to $102.52 today.  Liberty intends to spin off Sirius as a publicly traded
company once he gains a controlling stake, Chairman  John Malone 
said in July. Gaining control of the company will allow Liberty
to execute a Reverse Morris Trust, which involves splitting off
Sirius as a separate entity. Liberty Media could then distribute
the shares to Liberty shareholders while avoiding paying taxes
on the separation.  Maffei said last month that a Reverse Morris Trust is
unlikely to happen in the next six months. Karmazin’s contract
would expire by then. Karmazin said today he would consider
staying if Liberty spins off the company to public shareholders.  “There is no question eventually Sirius will be an
independent company,” Malone said in July. “The question is,
in what time frame and in what circumstances?”  Liberty Media is a holding company with a range of
investments, including stakes in the cable-TV programmer Starz
LLC and  Major League Baseball ’s  Atlanta Braves .  Malone got the Sirius stake after providing a $530 million
loan in 2009 that kept the satellite broadcaster out of
bankruptcy. The investment agreement barred Malone from
attempting to gain control of the radio provider for three
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  