-- SocGen’s Chief Oudea Sees Lower Likelihood of Euro Breakup
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-09-12T16:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/socgen-s-chief-oudea-sees-lower-likelihood-of-euro-breakup-1-.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA Chief Executive
Officer  Frederic Oudea  said recent policy decisions demonstrate
the “commitment of  Europe  to move forward” and make a
splintering of the euro area less likely.  “I never believed very much” in a euro breakup scenario,
Oudea said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in  New
York . “Certainly today the probability is even lower than what
it was a year ago.”  Germany ’s top constitutional court in Karlsruhe today
rejected efforts to block a 500 billion-euro ($644 billion)
permanent euro-area rescue fund. The decision hands a victory to
policy makers seeking to stem the debt crisis and comes days
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  laid out
plans to support bond markets in distressed euro-area countries.  The European Stability Mechanism, which will succeed the
European Financial Stability Facility, would work in tandem with
the ECB’s bond buying to lower yields for countries such as
Italy and Spain. Draghi said last week the ECB was ready to buy
unlimited quantities of short-dated government bonds of nations
seeking aid.  The steps to shore up the euro bolstered banks since late
July, when Draghi stated that he would do whatever it takes to
save the currency.  Societe Generale  surged 59 percent in Paris
trading since then, to 24.73 euros, compared with a 51 percent
advance in the 28-company  Euro Stoxx Banks Index. (SX7E)   Capital Target  European banks, hurt last year by a drought in short-term
funding and by losses on Greek government debt, have sold assets
to help reach stricter  capital requirements , known as Basel III.
Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank, sold about 28
billion euros in corporate- and investment-banking assets in the
12 months through June 30, according to its website.  “The bulk has been done” in adjusting the balance sheet,
Oudea said today. “We will make money going forward and we’ll
meet our objective to be at 9 percent plus at the end of 2013,”
he said, reiterating the bank’s capital goal under Basel III.  Societe Generale is “on target” in refocusing its
corporate- and investment-banking business after cutting about
1,600 jobs at the unit worldwide, the CEO said. “It’s behind
us, and we should benefit in the second half from the full
impact of this cost reduction.”  Profit Goals  Oudea said banks need to “be realistic” in their outlook
for return on equity, a common measure of profitability. Banks’
ROEs will probably be around 10 percent to 12 percent, Oudea
said, without making a specific forecast for Societe Generale.  Return-on-equity levels should cover the industry’s cost
of capital, said Oudea, 49. “The model will be very different,
very resilient,” he said. “Especially in a low-rate
environment, the cost of capital should also go down for those
business models.”  Oudea said European companies will rely less on loans and
more on  capital markets  to finance operations and investment.  “There will be less loans in the balance sheet, more
bonds, more high-yield to finance the economy,” Oudea said.
“Banks which will take advantage of that transformation will be
able to show some growth. It will be moderate, but I think at
least they should be able to deliver a decent profitability to
their shareholders and serve efficiently their clients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net  