-- Youku Leads Internet ADR Rally on Citigroup Buy: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-12T20:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/sohu-leads-internet-adr-rally-on-citigroup-buy-china-overnight.html
Chinese Internet equities traded in
New York rose, as  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  surged to a one-month high,
after Citigroup Inc. recommended buying the industry’s stocks.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York rose 0.6 percent to a three-week
high of 89.94 yesterday. Youku, which runs the country’s most
popular video websites, climbed to the highest since Aug. 7 and
 Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , China’s fifth-most visited website, rallied 3.7
percent as Citigroup started coverage of the stocks with a buy.
 China Eastern Airlines Co. (CEA)  advanced after announcing a share
sale plan to reduce debt.  Youku has strengthened its No. 1 position in video content
and user traffic in China through a merger with Tudou, Muzhi Li,
an analyst at Citigroup in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-mailed
report yesterday. Sohu’s online search business is undervalued
and shares should trade at $63.7, 55 percent higher than the
closing level on Sept. 11, he said. The recommendation comes as
Morgan Stanley cut its economic growth forecast for China to 7.5
percent after imports slid and industrial production cooled.  “Equity investors can’t be too bearish on China because
they’ll lose the upside on consumption-driven Internet stocks,”
Michael Ding, lead portfolio manager of the China Regional Fund
at U.S. Global Investors, which oversees about $2 billion, said
in a phone interview from Hong Kong yesterday. “The Internet is
a part of the economy that has nothing to do with exports or
infrastructure spending.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1.1 percent to a two-
week high of $33.78. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the
biggest U.S. shares added 0.2 percent in its second day of gains
to 1,436.56, as a German court cleared the way for  Europe ’s
bailout fund and investors weighed prospects for stimulus
measures from the  Federal Reserve .  Youku, based in Beijing, surged 5.3 percent to $18.79,
extending its rally to 5.7 percent since Aug. 23, when its
acquisition of Tudou Holdings Ltd. was completed. Shares of Sohu
leaped to $42.50, the highest level since Aug. 24.  Sohu’s businesses include a website portal, an online
search engine called Sogou, a video division and the U.S.-listed
 Changyou.com Ltd. (CYOU) , its online games unit.  “Traditionally, investors have viewed Sohu’s portal as the
core asset – the traffic distribution channel for video, search
and others,” Li wrote in the report. “However, we believe the
reality is exactly the opposite: Sogou and video are the core
strategic assets.”  Raising Funds  China Eastern, the nation’s second-largest carrier by
passenger numbers, advanced 4.5 percent to $15.77, the most
since July 27. Trading in the shares was suspended for four days
ahead of the announcement.  The airline’s board approved a plan on Sept. 11 to sell
698.9 million Shanghai-listed shares priced at 3.28  yuan  apiece
and 698.9 million Hong Kong-listed shares costing HK$2.32 each,
it said in a stock-exchange filing.  China Eastern  will raise
2.29 billion yuan ($361 million) from the Shanghai stock sale
and HK$1.62 billion ($209 million) in the Hong Kong offering, it
said.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , which operates a real-name social networking
website in China, declined 1.1 percent to $3.81 after Citigroup
started coverage with a sell rating, estimating a fair value of
$2.94 for the stock, 22 percent lower than its Sept. 11 level.  Beijing-based Renren needs to redefine its strategy to
drive value, Citigroup said.  Solars Advance  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, advanced 5.6 percent to 85 cents in New York trading.
 Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the fourth-largest, increased for a third day,
rising 5.7 percent to $4.47. LDK Solar Co. gained 0.8 percent to
$1.28.  China  aims to have installed solar power generation
capacity of more than 21 gigawatts by the end of 2015, according
to the industry’s five-year plan posted yesterday on the website
of National Development and Reform Commission, country’s top
planning agency. China targets an annual power output of 25
billion kilowatt hours from solar generations by 2015, it said.  Separately, Wu Hailong, China’s ambassador to the European
Union, said in Brussels yesterday the EU should consider the
impact that trade investigations have on its relations with
China. The EU last week opened a probe into allegations that
European producers of solar panels, including Germany’s
Solarworld AG, are harmed by Chinese rivals selling below cost.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  