-- Spain Says No Urgency to Seek Bailout as ECB Eases Yields
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-09-12T14:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/spanish-bond-rally-shows-bailout-may-not-be-needed-rajoy-says.html
Spanish leaders said they can delay
a decision on seeking a bailout as its bond yields ease, with
their focus on ensuring any rescue doesn’t roil markets.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told Parliament it’s not clear
if  Spain  needs help as the  European Central Bank ’s crisis plan
has cut borrowing costs. There’s no “urgency” because the
ECB’s move put the Treasury in a more “comfortable” position,
Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said.  “The important thing is that when whatever assistance that
is needed is requested, that it should be well received in the
markets,” Jimenez Latorre told reporters in  Madrid  today.  Spanish 10-year bond yields have fallen about 80 basis
points since ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Sept. 6 the bank
could buy cash-strapped nations’ debt if they seek help from the
region’s government-run rescue mechanism first. Rajoy, who
denied the nation would need a rescue for its banks two weeks
before asking for one, risks undermining the rally by postponing
the decision.  “His tactics throughout the crisis have always
backfired,”  Harvinder Sian , a fixed income strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“They risk the bond auctions of next week and October being the
place where the market forces them to seek help.”  Spanish Yields  Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond yield fell to 5.6 percent
today from 5.69 percent yesterday. That compares with 7.17
percent before Aug. 2, when Draghi first said the bank would buy
bonds to stem the crisis, and 6.41 percent on Sept. 5, the day
before he fleshed out the proposal. Rajoy has been saying since
early August that he needs time to assess the details of the
plan.  “The recent rally has been very much based around a
promise of support,” Mark Dowding, a senior portfolio manager
at BlueBay Asset Management, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “If there is procrastination, if no deal is done at
the weekend, then I’m very fearful that Spanish yields may start
rising quickly again.”  Spanish bonds extended their gains after  Germany ’s top
constitutional court rejected bids to block ratification of the
euro region’s permanent rescue fund.  Regional Election  Rajoy, who is suffering a plunge in popular support after
raising taxes and cutting spending in breach of campaign
pledges, dismissed suggestions from opposition Socialist leader
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba that he may postpone the decision on aid
until after regional elections on Oct. 21. Rubalcaba urged Rajoy
not to risk losing credibility by delaying, and cited the
government’s decision to postpone the publication of the 2012
budget until after elections in Andalusia in March.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said last
week that the decision couldn’t be taken quickly and European
finance ministers would continue to analyze a possible rescue at
their meeting in Cyprus on Sept. 14-15.  “The fall in  interest rates  in Spain is predicated on the
market’s expectation of an ECB intervention, which entails a
request for support, not on any intrinsic development in
Spain,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at
Deutsche Bank in London. “Rajoy has limited room for maneuver
to play for time and discuss the conditions.”  The Treasury, which faces redemptions of about 29 billion
euros in October, is scheduled to sell bills on Sept. 18 and
Sept. 25. The agency has already sold 77 percent of the bonds it
plans to sell this year, the  Economy Ministry  said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  