-- Springboks Change Two to Face All Blacks, Genia Has Knee Surgery
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-12T05:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/springboks-change-two-to-face-all-blacks-in-rugby-championship.html
South Africa made two changes to
its starting lineup for this weekend’s Rugby Championship game
against tournament leader  New Zealand  in Dunedin.  Flip van der Merwe replaces lock Eben Etzebeth, who is
suspended after being found guilty of headbutting an opponent
during the Springboks’ 26-19 loss to Australia four days ago.
Francois Louw takes over at openside flanker from Marcell
Coetzee, who drops to the replacements’ bench, where Andries
Bekker provides second-row cover.  “The New Zealanders are good on the ground, which is why
we decided to go for a specialist openside flank in Francois,”
Springboks coach Heyneke Meyer said in a team statement.  Prop Jannie du Plessis was named to start in the Sept. 15
match after injuring his hamstring against the Wallabies. Meyer
said today that du Plessis will be given until the eve of the
match to fully shake off the injury, with Pat Cilliers on
standby if he fails to recover in time.  Australia  captain Will Genia today underwent a full
reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament in his right
knee, which the scrum-half ruptured during the match against the
Springboks in Perth.  “Genia will now been sidelined for an estimated six months
of rehabilitation before he can return to the field of play,”
the team said in an e-mailed statement.  Second-rower Nathan Sharpe was named as Australia’s third
on-field captain of 2012 yesterday after Genia joined David Pocock on the sidelines. Regular skipper  James Horwill  is also
unavailable after rupturing his hamstring in May.  World champion New Zealand tops the southern hemisphere
championship standings with 12 points after three of six rounds,
a lead of five over South Africa, with Australia on four points
and Argentina on two.  SOUTH AFRICA: Zane Kirchner,  Bryan Habana , Jean de Villiers
(captain),  Frans Steyn , Francois Hougaard, Morne Steyn,  Ruan
Pienaar , Duane Vermeulen, Willem Alberts, Francois Louw, Juandre
Kruger, Flip van der Merwe, Jannie du Plessis, Adriaan Strauss,
 Tendai Mtawarira .  Reserves: Tiaan Liebenberg, Dean Greyling, Andries Bekker,
Marcell Coetzee, Johan Goosen, Juan de Jongh, Pat Lambie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  