-- State-Local Government in Best of Times for Finance: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/state-local-government-in-best-of-times-for-finance-muni-credit.html
The longest-maturity U.S. municipal
debt is rallying the most since 2009, giving local governments
the chance to lock in borrowing costs for decades at the lowest
 interest rates  in a  generation .  In a boon to localities still rebounding from the recession
that ended three years ago, investors looking for extra yield
are adding the most money to longer-dated muni mutual funds
since 2009. Those buyers face a shortage as issuers are
refunding at the fastest pace since 1993, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. Many of those financings have maturities
of 20 years or less.  The phenomenon is helping push tax-exempts due in more than
22 years to a gain of 9.3 percent this year, compared with 6
percent for the broader market, in the biggest advantage since
2009, Bank of America data show. Yields on 30-year munis have
fallen about 12 times more than those on similar-maturity
Treasuries this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The performance has been great on the long end because of
descending rates and the lack of supply,” said John Hallacy,
head of muni research at Bank of America. “The demand for long
bonds has been strong, and there are fewer of them.”  Job Cuts  Interest rates on state and city debt are near 45-year lows
as investors seek the bonds as a haven from  Europe ’s financial
crisis. Yields on 20-year general obligations fell to 3.73
percent last week, according to a Bond Buyer index. The gauge
touched 3.6 percent in January, the lowest since 1967.  Local governments have cut about 550,000  jobs  since a peak
in 2008 as officials reduced costs amid declining revenue,
Bureau of Labor Statistics data show. Municipalities hesitant to
take on new projects just as tax receipts recover to pre-
recession levels are instead saving money by retiring more
expensive borrowings.  Of the $250 billion of sales this year through August,
about 62 percent have been for refunding, on pace for the most
in two decades, Hallacy said.  Most municipalities have maintained the maturities of the
debt they refunded, said  Paul Brennan , a senior portfolio
manager in  Chicago  at Nuveen Asset Management.  Maturity Bias  “A lot of supply has been biased toward shorter maturities
because a lot of the issuance has been refunding,” said
Brennan, whose company oversees about $90 billion in munis. “On
most of the refundings we’re seeing, if the bonds have 15 years
or 20 years to go, they’ll just replace them with bonds that
match those maturities.”  Municipalities from King County,  Washington , to Dublin,
 Ohio , will sell general-obligation refunding bonds this month,
according to Bloomberg data. King County’s debt extends to 2034,
while Dublin’s goes to 2027, the data show.  Bonds maturing in 20 or more years have composed about 53
percent of issuance in 2012, down from an average of 64 percent
in the past decade, according to Bank of America. That’s as
$10.7 billion has flowed into long-term muni funds, the most
since 2009, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  The  Federal Reserve ’s policy of replacing short-term debt
on its balance sheet with longer-term bonds, dubbed Operation
Twist, has also curbed yields on later-dated munis, Brennan
said. The central bank has said it anticipates keeping its
benchmark overnight rate near zero through at least 2014,
boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  Bigger Drop  Yields on 30-year tax-exempts rated AAA have dropped about
0.6 percentage point  this year , to 3.01 percent as of yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The benchmark 30-year Treasury
has declined about 0.05 percentage point, to about 2.84 percent.
In trading yesterday, the benchmark 10-year muni was little
changed at 1.75 percent.  While issuance of debt for new projects has shrunk as a
ratio of sales, it still exceeds last year’s pace, Bank of
America data show.  Municipalities including  Arkansas  and  California  have
offered about $95 billion for that purpose through August,
compared with about $83 billion in the same period of 2011, the
data show.  Arkansas in July sold debt due as far off as 2047 for
water-waste disposal and pollution-abatement facilities.
California issued about $519 million of 30-year bonds in April
for public improvements such as highways and universities.  “With the limited supply and the tremendous amount of muni
inflows we’ve seen in the past year, you’ve seen outperformance
in the longer part of the curve,” said Dexter Torres, head
trader in New York at Samson Capital Advisors, which oversees
more than $6 billion of munis. “Refundings will probably still
be the dominant portion of issuance through year-end.”  Following are pending sales:  OMAHA PUBLIC POWER DISTRICT in  Nebraska  plans to sell $550
million of tax-exempt bonds as soon as next week to refund debt,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. (Updated Sept. 12)  CONNECTICUT is set to issue $570 million of general-
obligation debt as soon as next week for capital projects,
according to offering documents. (Added Sept. 12)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  