-- Steiner Set King Kong, Clark Gable to Music: Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/steiner-set-king-kong-clark-gable-to-music-rainer-file.html
     Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) - Max Steiner, composer of the
quintessential American film score for “ Gone With the Wind ,”
was born Maximilian Raoul Steiner in 1888, in Vienna. One of his
earliest memories was sitting on Emperor Franz Joseph’s lap.  Steiner’s show-biz lineage was stellar: His grandfather was
a powerful theater manager who convinced Johann Strauss to write
“Die Fledermaus.”  His father was one of  Europe ’s great theatrical impresarios
and was responsible for the giant Ferris wheel in the Prater,
the same one that airlifts Joseph Cotten and  Orson Welles  in a
classic scene from “ The Third Man .”  His godfather was  Richard Strauss . A child prodigy in
composing, Steiner studied with Brahms and Mahler. At 16, he
wrote and conducted his first operetta, “The Beautiful Greek
Girl.” Emigrating in 1914 to  New York , he became a sought-after
conductor and orchestrator of operettas and musicals by George Gershwin, Jerome Kern and Victor Herbert.  When sound came in, he went to Hollywood, becoming one of
the most prolific and honored film composers of all time with
more than 200 scores in all, including three Oscars and 15 other
nominations.  Background Noise  Until he arrived on the scene, most movie scores were
glorified background noise. Steiner, often called the “father
of film music,” changed all that. His lush, early score for the
Dolores Del Rio-Joel McCrea South Seas romance “ Bird of
Paradise ” (1932) is like a trip to the tropics.  For “ King Kong ” (1933), a movie he declared “made for
music,” he threw in cymbals, timpani, gongs. It’s a great
pounding score, so ominous and out-there that it became the
template for almost every film of its kind ever since. (You can
even hear snippets of it in the 1945 John Wayne movie “ Back to
Bataan .”)  Steiner won his first Oscar for John Ford’s “ The
Informer ” (1935), with its memorable choral finale in which the
hounded Victor McLaglen, in church, asks for forgiveness. He
left RKO, where he was music director on several Astaire-Rogers
movies, for Selznick International Pictures and then went to
Warner Brothers, where he spent most of the next three decades.  Of course, there was that loan-out to Selznick in 1939 for
“Gone With the Wind.” According to most accounts, he was hired
before  Clark Gable  and Vivien Leigh.  Signature Tunes  Steiner gave all the leading players their own Wagnerian
leitmotif. He even gave Tara its own theme. A great big soaring
cornball mood enhancer, it’s perhaps the most famous score in
film history. (The sound quality on the Warner Home Video
DVD/Blu-Ray anniversary disc is especially fine).  Steiner’s music was sometimes criticized for battling
rather than enhancing the imagery. There’s a marvelous anecdote
in Jon Burlingame’s terrific 2009 NPR tribute to the composer,
where Bette Davis, playing the socialite-with-tumor in “ Dark
Victory ” (1939), halts production as she ascends a staircase to
inquire if Steiner is going to score the scene.  “Either I’m going up the stairs or Max is going up the
stairs,” she said, “but we’re damn well not going up
together.”  Bette Davis  But it was also Davis -- for whom Steiner composed the
music for such classics as “ Of Human Bondage ” (1934),
“ Jezebel ” (1938), “ The Letter ” (1940) and “ Now, Voyager ”
(1942) -- who said, upon his death in 1971, that “Max
understood more about drama than any of us.”  Steiner himself had this to say about his methods: “When I
started, everybody said a good picture score is when you don’t
notice. I’ve always said, ‘What good is it if you don’t notice
it?’”  Although Steiner worked in an essentially 19th-century
romantic idiom, he was highly versatile. The Fredric March-Janet
Gaynor “ A Star is Born ” (1937) owes much of its pathos to the
composer. He scored over a dozen movies for  Humphrey Bogart ,
sexing up the confabs with  Lauren Bacall  in “ The Big Sleep ”
(1946) and heightening the south of the border paranoia of “ The
Treasure of Sierra Madre ” (1948).  His skills as orchestrator came into play with
“ Casablanca ” (1942), incorporating everything from “La
Marseillaise” to Herman Hupfeld’s “As Time Goes By.”  Steiner’s score for Ford’s western “The Searchers”
(1956), with its flutes and folk tunes, is uncommonly delicate.
He doesn’t try to go all Indian on us. His last, improbable
hurrah was the Troy Donahue-Sandra Dee melodrama “ A Summer
Place ” (1959). The love theme, arranged by Percy Faith, became
one of the most successful instrumental singles of all time.  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Peter Rainer  at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  