-- Stem Cells Helped Restore Hearing in Gerbils, Nature Study Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-09-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/stem-cells-helped-restore-hearing-in-gerbils-nature-study-says.html
Stem cells  helped restore hearing
in a study of gerbils, suggesting the approach may help some
deaf people who currently have no treatment options, according
to a study published in the journal Nature today.  Human embryonic stem cells helped improve hearing in 18
gerbils, as measured by auditory-evoked response thresholds, by
46 percent, according to a study by researchers at the
 University of Sheffield  in  England . Further investigation is
necessary before the approach can be tested in humans, which may
be “a few years” away, according to researchers.  The approach targets the 10 percent to 15 percent of the
deaf population with damage to sensory neurons, which can’t be
addressed by cochlear implants. Those devices, which may be
combined with the stem cell therapy, help restore hearing in
people with lost sensory hair cells.  “Our priority is on the neurons since for hair cells, you
already have the cochlear implants,”  Marcelo Rivolta , one of
the study authors, told reporters in London today. “A lot more
work needs to be done in vitro and in animals” before the
approach can be studied in humans.  In the study, about 50,000 cells were implanted per
injection at the base of the cochlea portion of the rodents’
chemically damaged ears. Compared with other stem cell
applications, the relatively small number of cells needed to
treat hearing loss makes the approach feasible, Rivolta said.  Gerbils were used in the study as they have a hearing range
closer to humans than mice, which have a higher pitch range,
Rivolta said.  The study was funded by the U.K. research charity Action on
Hearing Loss, Deafness Research U.K., the Wellcome Trust and the
Medical Research Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  