-- Stokes Pay-Television Bid Raises Antitrust Concerns
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-09-13T07:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/stokes-s-potential-pay-tv-offer-raises-concern-with-regulator.html
Kerry Stokes  may gain an unfair
advantage for sports rights if he takes over an Australian pay-
television business for which  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. has
offered A$1.94 billion ($2 billion), the regulator said.  Stokes, who controls the country’s most watched free-to-air
broadcaster, may gain confidential information from rivals if he
buys  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ)  and its pay-TV interests,
the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission said in a
 statement  on its website. It’s seeking more information before a
final ruling on Oct. 11.  The decision squeezes the timetable on News Corp.’s A$3.45-
a-share offer for Consolidated, which has already been backed by
its 50 percent shareholder  James Packer . Stokes’s  Seven Group
Holdings Ltd. (SVW) , which could use its 25.3 percent stake in
Consolidated to block the deal, has yet to say whether it’s
going to make a counter-bid ahead of a shareholder meeting set
for Oct. 31.  “If Stokes is going to do anything with his stake or push
his leverage he’ll have to play his hand,” Jason Beddow, chief
executive officer of  Argo Investments Ltd. (ARG) , said by phone from
Sydney before the announcement. Argo is Consolidated’s third-
largest shareholder with a  0.3 percent stake , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stokes controls  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) ,  Australia ’s most
watched free-to-air television broadcaster, through a 33 percent
stake held by Seven Group Holdings Ltd. He owns about 67 percent
of Seven Group and is chairman of both companies, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Fox Sports  Buying Consolidated would give Seven Group 25 percent of
the Foxtel pay-TV business and 50 percent of Fox Sports
Australia, which regularly buys rights to broadcast sports
matches alongside free-to-air networks such as Seven West.  A combination of Seven and Consolidated may “create
difficulties” for rival networks in their dealings with Fox
Sports or Foxtel, the regulator said.  “It could have a significant effect on their businesses by
making them less competitive in the acquisition of sporting
rights,” the ACCC said.  The regulator has less concern about the impact on non-
sports broadcast rights as joint bids are rare, it said.  “We will continue working through the issues with ACCC in
an effort to resolve their concerns,” Simon Francis, a Sydney-
based spokesman for Seven, said in an e-mail today.  Consolidated  shares  fell 0.3 percent to A$3.41 at the close
of trading in Sydney. Seven Group dropped 0.7 percent to A$7.65.  News Cleared  The ACCC said Aug. 2 that it had no objections to News
Corp.’s takeover offer for Consolidated. A successful deal would
double News Corp.’s stake in Foxtel to 50 percent and give it
full ownership of Fox Sports. Unlike Seven, News Corp. doesn’t
own a free-to-air broadcaster in Australia.  Telstra Corp. (TLS) , Australia’s largest phone company, holds the
other 50 percent of Foxtel, which the ACCC said has a “near-
monopoly” on subscription TV in Australia.  The pay-TV businesses would form part of the newspaper and
book publishing company which Murdoch is considering separating
from News Corp.’s entertainment divisions, said  Mark McDonnell ,
an analyst at BBY Ltd. in Sydney.  Seven Group doesn’t have the financial capacity to make a
rival bid and the company will look for benefits such as a deal
on television rights in return for giving up its foothold in
pay-TV, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. analyst Fraser McLeish
said in an Aug. 21 note to clients.  “Seven Group will try to use its position to extract some
concessions,” he wrote. Stokes “is unlikely to simply want a
higher price. We still see a risk that Seven Group will not be
willing to sell.”  Court Case  Stokes fought one of Australia’s longest-running corporate
suits over his claim that the Packer and Murdoch families had
colluded to exclude him from the pay-television industry.  The five-year litigation, dismissed by Australia’s Federal
Court in 2007, showed Stokes to be “extremely resolute and
persistent in pursuit of his and Seven’s business objectives,
sometimes to the point of obstinacy,” Judge Ronald Sackville
said in his ruling.  Stokes, a friend of Packer, hasn’t yet said what he thinks
of the  News Corp. (NWSA)  bid. There wasn’t a proper offer from News to
evaluate, he said at an Aug. 30 event in Newcastle, Australia
also attended by Packer.  If Stokes agrees to sell out, News’s takeover offer would
release about A$970 million to Packer to help his company  Crown
Ltd. (CWN)  lift its stake in casino operator  Echo Entertainment Group
Ltd. (EGP)   Crown has applied for permission to buy a further 15
percent of Echo, worth about A$509 million at today’s closing
price, in addition to the 10 percent it already owns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  