-- Facebook Study Post May Have Sparked 340,000 Votes
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-09-13T18:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/study-s-facebook-post-may-have-sparked-340-000-votes-in-2010.html
(Corrects company name in the 21st paragraph in story
published Sept. 12.)  A single message sent to 60 million
people on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social networking site by  University
of California  researchers may have encouraged 340,000 more votes
in the 2010 election, a study suggests.  The work, co-authored by two Facebook data scientists,
tracked the effects of the nonpartisan message from the point
when it was first seen by individuals, through their personal
network and into the voting booth. When the first recipients
passed on the message, it included their pictures, a note that
they had voted and a link allowing the next-in-line to find a
nearby polling place.  The research, reported today in the journal Nature, is the
first in which scientists directly intervened in the lives of
online subjects to measure social effects, said  James Fowler , at
the University of  California ,  San Diego . It found that 80
percent of those who voted were influenced to do so by someone
they knew online. The result may be important in the current
presidential election, the researchers said.  “If we’d only measured the direct effect on the
recipients, we’d have missed the whole story,” said  Fowler , a
study author and political scientist, in a conference call.
“The network is key. The online world and the real world affect
one another. This message that started online, that spread
online, actually affected real-world behavior.”  While it’s not clear from the data how many of the 340,000
voters might have done so whether they received the message or
not, the statistical evidence, backed by voting records,
strongly suggests the influence of the message grew and had a
concrete effect as it was handed along, Fowler said.  Voter Turnout  Only 37 percent of eligible voters went to the polls in the
2010 congressional election, according to the  U.S. Census
Bureau . Today’s finding suggests that political strategists
should aim their outreach more at networks than individuals in
the future, according to Fowler, who said he isn’t affiliated
with either of the current presidential campaigns.  The researchers’ message was displayed at the top of the
“News Feed” to 60 million Facebook users, encouraging users to
vote. It provided a link to their local polling place and a
clickable button that said “I Voted.” This post also showed as
many as six small photos of other so-called Facebook “friends”
who had also clicked “I Voted.”  The study was broken down into three groups. A second
group, involving 600,000 people, received a similar notice that
didn’t include pictures of their friends, and a third group of
about the same size didn’t receive any post.  Three Groups  The researchers then checked the publicly available voter
rolls to see what effect their postings had on individual
turnout. The announcement featuring friends’ photos were linked
to 60,000 votes, and the follow-through messages were tied to
another 280,000, the study found. There was no statistical
difference in turnout between those who got no message and those
who got the purely informational message.  Close friends mattered most for the effect, the research
suggested. The average Facebook user has 150 friends, and about
10 of those -- the ones the user interacts with the most --
accounted for the difference in voting, Fowler said. The effects
were equal among self-described liberals and conservatives.  Cameron Marlow, the head of data science at Facebook, said
that the posts were put up on Election Day in 2010.  “Each campaign cycle brings new technologies that enhance
civic engagement and we’re excited that this research suggests
that social influence and the power of friends may impact voter
turnout,” Marlow said.  Largest Service  Facebook -- which didn’t contribute funding to the study
beyond the time of their two employees, according to an e-mailed
statement -- has grown to become the world’s largest social-
networking service with more than 950 million users. Members of
the service can share messages, photos, videos and other
activities on the service.  Still, the company, which makes most of its money from
advertising, has come under investor scrutiny since its initial
public offering in May amid concerns about its growth prospects.
Since its first trading day, the stock has failed to close above
its IPO price of $38.  With the presidential election in full swing, the company
is benefiting from political advertising from both Democrats and
Republicans. At the same time, the company has been trying to
more closely tie advertising with interaction from friends on
the service. It’s rolled out advertising features called
“Sponsored Stories” in which buyers pay for content in the
News Feed after members or friends indicate they like a company.  Campaign Influence  Marcus Messner , an assistant journalism professor who
teaches on social media at Virginia Commonwealth University in
Richmond, said the study shows why social media is so important
in the presidential campaign.  “It’s a heavy emphasis for both campaigns, and the fight
for the Senate and House of Republicans in high-profile races,”
Messner said in a telephone interview. “There’s hardly an hour
where you don’t get a posting from Obama and Romney. It’s
especially important in this campaign, which is so close, and
because it comes to turn out and who can get people to vote.”  Obama has had an advantage, he said, because he has more
younger supporters and has had a longer, established social
media campaign, Messner said. Obama also engages social media
audiences, by posting a “ this seat’s taken” picture  after
 Clint Eastwood  talked to an empty chair, pretending to address
Obama, during a Republican National Convention speech.  In a Sept. 4 survey by the  Pew Research Center’s Internet
and American Life Project , about a third of social networking
site users say social networking sites are very or somewhat
important to them in keeping up with political news.  Earlier Work  Today’s study builds on  other work  that’s shown behavior,
such as obesity, smoking and drinking, and emotional states
spread through networks of friendships.  “The Holy Grail is how do you find evangelizers who pass
it along,” said Todd Van Etten, managing director of the
Washington office of Crowdverb, a Seattle-based social
mobilization company for corporations and campaigns. “How do
you sway people on the fence? You always want to be part of
something larger than themselves.”  The study was supported by the James S. McDonnell
Foundation and the University of  Notre Dame  and the John
Templeton Foundation as part of the Science of Generosity
Initiative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  