-- Swiss Farmers Clash With Traders as Bubble Builds in Town of Zug
-- B y   S t e f a n i e   K n o l l
-- 2012-09-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/swiss-farmers-clash-with-traders-as-bubble-builds-in-town-of-zug.html
It took  Philipp Freimann  just a few
seconds to know he didn’t want apartment blocks built on his
farmland in Zug,  Switzerland ’s richest canton, a decision that
meant he would give up at least 30 million francs ($32 million).  “I’m healthy and I can work, what more do I need?” said
Freimann, 36, sitting on his tractor surrounded by 45 cows and a
cherry orchard. “The boom in Zug has reached its limits. Zug
doesn’t belong to the Zugers anymore.”  The cost of living has surged in the region, with the
average price of a single-family house rising to about 1.56
million francs, twice the national average, according to Zuger
Kantonalbank. Today, almost one in three residents in the town
of Zug, the canton’s capital, doesn’t have a Swiss passport, a
larger share than in Zurich.  The transformation began in the 1950s when  Marc Rich  and
Philipp Brothers started trading commodities on the top floor of
the local bank. Since then, low corporate  tax rates  have helped
attract almost 30,000 companies, including  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , to the area. Neighboring
cantons have started to lure companies with lower rents and
salaries as Zug is getting more expensive.  The area is a reflection of Switzerland’s economic success,
where companies from across the globe kept unemployment levels
at less than 3 percent in August, data compiled by the Swiss
government show. The jobless rate in the neighbouring euro area
was 11.3 percent in July, according to Eurostat.  Fire Brigade  The influx of foreigners also has created frictions in
Swiss communities where democratic participation and voluntary
work at the fire brigade or the brass band are viewed as more
important pillars of society than trading commodities or working
for a private equity firm.  “With Zug’s international focus and appeal, it’s obvious
that we need to start addressing the question of integration,”
said Gregor Kupper, a member of the cantonal parliament of Zug,
who helped draft the first integration law of the canton.  Favorable  tax laws  for the rich and a discreet society have
enabled Switzerland to become a haven for affluent
internationals. As more Swiss feel overrun by foreigners, the
atmosphere has somewhat soured. Cantons like Zurich have cut
down on some tax privileges for wealthy individuals, and other
regions including Bern and Geneva discuss similar measures.  Quota Introduction  The anti-immigration  Swiss People’s Party  is campaigning to
limit the numbers of foreigners coming to the country. The
inflow of less affluent migrants has already prompted the Swiss
government to  reintroduce quotas  for citizens of eight European
Union member states.  About 115,000 people live in the Zug region, including
27,096 in the regional capital, which is located about 26
kilometers (16.2 miles) south of Zurich, Switzerland’s biggest
city with more than 390,000 residents. As recently as 2008, Zug
had the highest income per capita of all 26 Swiss cantons at
74,781 francs, compared with the national average of 48,744
francs, according to  Credit Suisse Group AG . Zug still has the
top position today, the Zurich-based bank estimates.  Freimann, who produces organic beef for individual
customers and the inn run by his sister, was asked in 2009
whether he would want to have his meadow re-zoned so apartments
could be built on his land to meet the canton’s surging demand
for housing. Freimann said no.  “I recently counted 14 building cranes when looking out my
living room window,” he said in an interview on his farm last
month. “That’s enough.”  Boom Town  More and more locals share Freimann’s unease about the
growing number of new residents. The canton is debating whether
recent arrivals should have a personal conversation with local
officials about the Swiss view of the citizen-state relationship
and public services such as schools.  “We want limited growth, we don’t want a simple boom,”
said  Peter Hegglin , the finance minister of Zug, whose office
faces the construction site for the soon-to-be tallest building
in the city at 81 meters (266 feet).  The increase in construction prompted the region to last
month overhaul its development plans and lower its population
growth target for the next eight years to 124,000 from an
earlier projected 127,000.  While the canton enjoys its high salaries, smooth
transportation links and attractive jobs, locals “are scared
that the rolling train can’t be stopped anymore,” said Urs
Bertschi, a member of the town’s legislative body and the
speaker of the  Social Democratic Party .  Taxation Rules  Zug laid the foundation for its success in 1930, when it
introduced special taxation rules for some companies. The
strategy started to pay off when the global economy improved
after World War II and Zug was able to lure international
companies. As tax receipts grew, the canton further cut levies
for individuals and companies in the 1960s.  “Zug used to be the tax hell of Switzerland,” said town
archivist Christian Raschle, as he sat near Lake Zug in
Wirtschaft  Brandenberg , an inn opened in 1891. “Today, it is
known as its tax paradise.”  The effective average corporate tax rate in Zug was 13
percent in 2011, compared with 18 percent in Zurich and 22
percent in Geneva, according to the BAK Taxation Index. By
contrast, median rates were 26 percent in the U.K. and 35
percent in the U.S.  A  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  study from 2011 declared Zug the most
attractive Swiss canton for doing business. It includes factors
such as transportation and taxation. A group that has long
recognized the advantages of operating in Zug are commodities
traders. About 1,500 people were employed in the industry in Zug
in 2008, according to the latest official figures available.  Political Environment  “From a business standpoint, Zug is a really unique
environment,” said Chris Sam, who moved from  California  last
year to join Sidel International, a packaging unit of Tetra
Laval. “It’s a highly educated and skilled workforce. It’s also
an immensely stable political environment, which can’t be
underestimated in  Europe  now.”  Global companies such as  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, and  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Germany ’s biggest
engineering company, have added staff in the Swiss canton,
pushing up property prices.  Willy Joos, 30, founded a home renovation company in Zug
three years ago. Against his wishes, he is moving at the end of
September to Goldau, 17 kilometers from Zug.  “I have a great social life here,” Joos said in a phone
interview. “My wife and me, we both work full time, but there
was no affordable home for us.”  Affordable Housing  The house he bought for 715,000 francs just outside the
canton would have sold for at least 1 million francs in Zug,
Joos said.  In an effort to provide  affordable homes  to less wealthy
residents, the town built 40 apartments in 2010 and started to
rent them out in May. Families and citizens committed to the
voluntary fire brigade were given priority. Rents for the
apartments, which have all been assigned, were set by the city
council based on cantonal law.  Zug voters backed an initiative in June aimed at boosting
affordable housing. While more locals leave Zug, the influx of
wealthy foreigners has benefitted farmers, car dealers and
restaurant owners.  Ferrari Sales  “We cater a lot to the expat community,” said Lianke
Thermann, the marketing manager of the Ferrari store where new
cars sell from 249,000 francs. “About 30 percent of our clients
aren’t native German speakers.”  The number of international employees moving to Zug was
expected to decline because of the global economic crisis, said
Natalie Albrecht, who offers relocation services to companies
and individuals.  “I didn’t experience a drop at all,” she said. “I had
more to do than ever.”  The number of students attending the  International School 
of Zug and Lucerne rose by 40 percent over the past five years.
The bilingual Swiss International School had long been
interested in opening a campus in the region.  “We were looking for a place for almost five years,” said
headmaster Jarrod Brauer. “We just couldn’t find the right site
in or around the area.”  Urs Bertschi, the politician in the Zug town parliament, is
concerned by the flood of new residents.  Swiss German  “Zug is so small and transparent, big masses of foreigners
don’t just blend in,” he said. “When the standard language in
the restaurant’s garden where I go on Saturday afternoons is
suddenly English, it’s irritating.”  Newcomers are finding it difficult to integrate in Swiss
society. Their reluctance to learn and speak German to
understand local customs and rules has led to misunderstandings
between Swiss and foreigners.  “The atmosphere between locals and internationals is
getting worse,” said  Urs Raschle , the managing director at Zug
Tourism, an organization that is more focused on helping new
arrivals rather than attracting new tourists. “There is a
growing number of internationals who come to Zug alone and don’t
see a reason to mingle with the local population.”  Many foreigners meet for an after-work beer in the  Mr.
Pickwick Pub  next to the station.  “We have Swiss and international customers,” said 35-
year-old Camilo Soldano, the Argentinean bartender of the pub as
he was drawing beer for a British customer sitting at the bar.
“The groups sit and drink on opposite sides of the room. They
don’t mix.”  Beer Prices  A pint of lager is 8.40 francs, compared with 4.10 pounds
or 6.20 francs in the “Fleetwood,” next to the UBS building in
the  City of London .  Neighbouring cantons are working to increase their appeal
as Zug reaches its capacity limits. Bordering Lucerne cut its
corporate tax rate below that of Zug.  “A few years ago, companies like Amgen were moving from
Lucerne to Zug,” said Walter Stalder, the head of business
development in  Lucerne . “Today, we see companies moving from
Zug to Lucerne. When it comes to the total cost of ownership,
real estate prices, salaries, costs and quality of life, Lucerne
is very competitive.”  It’s not only the tax rate that’s prompting companies to
rethink their allegiance to Zug.  “Zug is reaching its saturation point”, said 32-year-old
Vladimir Langhamer, a managing director for oil company  OMV AG (OMV) ,
who moved from Vienna 1 1/2 years ago. “In the future, it will
be difficult to find  office space , difficult to find people,
difficult to find apartments in Zug, so that companies will
consider other places.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefanie Knoll in Zurich at 
 sknoll3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthias Wabl at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net  