-- U.K. Jobless Claims Decline Most in 2 Years in August
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-09-12T10:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-k-jobless-claims-fall-most-in-2-years-defying-recession-1-.html
U.K.  jobless claims  unexpectedly
fell the most in more than two years in August as the economy
continued to create jobs in the face of a recession.  Unemployment-benefit claims fell 15,000 to 1.57 million,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London . The
median of 30 forecasts in a Bloomberg News Survey was for no
change. The jobless total measured by International Labor
Organization methods fell 7,000 in three months ended July to
2.59 million. Employment increased 236,000 to 29.6 million, the
biggest gain in two years.  The continued rise in payrolls after three quarters of
economic contraction has left the  Bank of England  and economists
perplexed and raised concerns about the productivity of British
workers. In the euro area, unemployment may reach 11 percent
this year compared with 8.5 percent in the U.K., according to
the European Commission. Some economists say Britain’s
improvement is unsustainable and unemployment may rise in coming
months.  “I wonder whether the strength in the labor market is as
robust as the evidence suggests,” said  Peter Dixon , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “Today’s data is not
compatible with real economy numbers.”  In August, London accounted for 5,500 of the drop in
jobless claims, suggesting the  Olympic Games  provided a boost in
the British capital. The ILO unemployment rate rose to 8.1
percent in the quarter through July from 8 percent in the period
through June.  Productivity Puzzle  The pound remained higher against the dollar after the data
were published. It traded at $1.6113 as of 10:59 a.m. in London,
up 0.3 percent on the day. Sterling jumped 0.5 percent
yesterday. It declined versus the euro, depreciating 0.3 percent
to as low as 80.24 pence, the weakest level since July 5, after
 Germany ’s top constitutional court today rejected bids to halt
German ratification of the 500 billion-euro ($644 billion)
European Stability Mechanism.  While the labor market is typically slow to respond to
economic downturns as companies hoard skilled workers,
economists are at a loss to explain its resilience. Explanations
include a rise in self-employment as people struggle to find
jobs and the pressure on wages, which is helping companies to
hold down labor costs.  Average earnings  rose just 1.5 percent in the quarter
through July from a year earlier, down from 1.8 percent in the
second quarter. Excluding bonuses, pay growth was 1.9 percent,
compared with  inflation  of 2.6 percent.  ‘Not Complacent’  The fall in jobless claims last month left the claims rate
at 4.8 percent. In July, jobless claims fell 13,600 instead of
the 5,900 originally reported.  “We are not complacent,” Business Secretary Vince Cable
told BBC television. “There are very real problems with people
who are long-term unemployed.” Today’s figures showed the
number of people without work for more than a year climbed
22,000 to 904,000 between May and July, a rate of 34.9 percent.  A separate report showed public-sector employment fell
235,000 to 5.66 million in the second quarter, although almost
200,000 of the decline was due to the reclassification of some
colleges to the private sector. The switch also boosted private-
sector employment, which rose 471,000 to 23.9 million.  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.5 percent in the three months
through June, the third straight quarter of contraction. The
Bank of England sees the economy contracting about 0.2 percent
this year.  Gauges of services and manufacturing improved in August,
according to reports this month, indicating some signs of
strength after the economy shrank in the second quarter. Still,
Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said yesterday that
growth is “anemic,” which may limit any improvement in the
labor market.  Industrial Production  In  Europe ,  industrial production  increased more than
economists forecast in July, as increasing output in Germany
helped offset decreases in countries from  Spain  to the
Netherlands.  Output in the 17-nation euro area advanced 0.6 percent from
June, when it fell 0.6 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had projected a gain
of 0.1 percent, the median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. From a year ago, production fell 2.3 percent.  In  Asia , South Korea’s weakest inflation in 12 years may
encourage the central bank to cut  interest rates  tomorrow for
the second time this year, while the statistics office said that
the country’s jobless rate was at 3.1 percent in August,
unchanged from the previous month and less than economists’
median forecast of 3.2 percent.  Indonesia  and the  Philippines  may keep their benchmarks
unchanged at record lows tomorrow after price gains accelerated
and  New Zealand  will leave its key rate at 2.5 percent,
Bloomberg News surveys show.  A U.S. report on mortgage applications is due today from
the  Mortgage Bankers Association , a Washington-based trade
group. The Labor Department will release import price data and
the Commerce Department may say inventories at U.S. wholesalers
rose in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  