-- U.K. Stocks Decline for Third Day as Vodafone Retreats
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-09-12T16:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-k-s-ftse-100-advances-as-german-court-ratifies-esm.html
U.K. stocks  fell for a third day,
with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  pulling the FTSE 100 Index lower, as
investors awaited tomorrow’s announcement by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Vodafone sank to a three-month low as people familiar with
the matter said Verizon Communications Inc. will take longer to
approve a dividend.  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  tumbled 6 percent
after the homebuilder didn’t pay an annual dividend.  BAE Systems
Plc (BA/)  jumped the most in nine years after entering talks to
combine with European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  The FTSE 100 slipped 10.11 points, or 0.2 percent, to
5,782.08 at the close in London, erasing gains of as much as 0.5
percent. The gauge has still rallied 9.9 percent since the 2012
low on June 1 as European Central Bank policy makers agreed on
an unlimited bond-buying program and speculation grew the Fed
will boost stimulus. The FTSE All-Share Index fell 0.1 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose less than 0.1 percent.  “The FTSE 100 has surrendered its gains, as all eyes turn
to the Fed decision tomorrow,” Rupert Osborne, a futures dealer
at IG Index in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments. “The meeting
is the first real chance for Mr Bernanke to step up and announce
another stimulus programme. There is of course the potential
that he will disappoint, which perhaps accounts for the nerves
we are seeing this afternoon.”  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100 companies
was 70 percent greater than the 30-day average today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  FOMC Meeting  The two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting began in
 Washington  today. The Fed is likely to announce a third round of
bond purchases tomorrow, according to almost two-thirds of
economists in a Bloomberg survey, while also extending the
duration of its zero-interest-rate policy into 2015.  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe today
allowed the country to ratify the European Stability Mechanism,
while imposing some conditions on its use.  The court dismissed motions filed by groups including a
conservative lawmaker and an opposition political party that
sought to block the 500 billion-euro ($644 billion) permanent
bailout fund. It stipulated that Germany’s 190 billion-euro
contribution can’t be increased without legislative approval.  U.K.  jobless claims  unexpectedly sank the most in more than
two years in August as the economy continued to add jobs in the
face of a recession. Jobless-benefit claims fell 15,000 to 1.57
million, the  Office for National Statistics  said today. The
median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for
no change in claims.  Vodafone Drops  Vodafone fell 1.5 percent to 174 pence, the lowest since
June 15, after two people familiar with the matter said  Verizon
Wireless ’s board doesn’t plan to discuss a potential dividend at
a Sept. 19 meeting. A decision could still be made at a December
gathering or at an unscheduled board meeting anytime, one of the
people said.  Separately, Apple Inc.’s introduction of a new version of
the iPhone today may lead to a price war among European telecom
operators. Subsidies cost the region’s carriers 12 percent to 14
percent of their wireless revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  Barratt plunged 6.4 percent to 158.8 pence as the U.K.’s
largest homebuilder by volume didn’t pay a  dividend . The
company, which last made a payment to shareholders in 2008, was
projected to disburse 0.7 pence a share to investors, according
to Bloomberg Dividend Forecasts that account for earnings and
options prices.  BAE Jumps  BAE surged 11 percent to 363.6 pence, the biggest gain
since January 2003, as people familiar with the talks said the
arms company is in discussions with EADS on a combination.
BAE confirmed the talks in a statement after the close of
trading, saying it would own 40 percent of the merged company
and EADS would control the rest.  A  gauge of banking shares  listed on the FTSE 350 Index
advanced 1.2 percent to the highest since April. Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc gained 3.8 percent to 274.7 pence, while  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  added 3.9 percent to 38.51 pence.  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
rose 1.6 percent to 217 pence.  Sage Group Plc (SGE)  climbed 3.1 percent to 315.3 pence, the
highest since March 2001. The  Daily Mail  said the shares gained
yesterday amid speculation that private-equity firms led by KKR
& Co. and Blackstone Group LP will make a 5.58 billion-pound ($9
billion) bid for the U.K.’s largest software maker. The
newspaper didn’t cite anyone. Lucy Legh, an outside spokeswoman
for Sage, declined to comment.  Laura Ashley  Laura Ashley Holdings Plc (ALY)  jumped 9.3 percent to 25 pence
after the U.K. fashion retailer said first-half pretax profit
excluding exceptional items rose 14 percent to 8.3 million
pounds. Chief Operating Officer Sean Anglim said in a phone
interview he’s comfortable with the full-year  profit estimate  of
about 20 million pounds forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Lonrho Plc (LAF)  climbed 9.2 percent to 9.83 pence, a fifth day
of gains. The investment holding company with businesses in
mining, transportation, agribusiness and infrastructure in 17
African countries said its Oceanfresh unit won exclusive tuna
fishing rights in  Mozambique  for five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  