-- U.S. Holiday Sales Expected to Rise on More Store Visits
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-12T04:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-s-holiday-sales-expected-to-rise-on-more-store-visits.html
Holiday retail sales in the U.S.
may rise 3.3 percent as more confident consumers increase their
trips to the mall, according to researcher ShopperTrak.  Store visits during the busiest shopping period of the year
are expected to rise 2.8 percent after declining last November
and December, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Chicago-based firm that tracks so-called foot traffic in
thousands of U.S. stores. Sales gained 3.7 percent during the
same period in 2011, the company said.  The projected increase in store traffic would be the first
gain since 2007 and offers retailers a chance to drive more
impulse purchases and convert shoppers who aren’t regular
customers into buyers,  Bill Martin , chief executive officer of
ShopperTrak, said.  “Consumers are feeling more comfortable, and now they are
taking their time and going to a few more stores,” Martin said
in an interview yesterday. Retailers offering quality in-store
experiences and service should have an opportunity to boost
sales, he said.  The forecast comes after sales during the back-to-school
shopping season rose more than expected. Excluding drugstores,
same-store sales in August advanced 5.9 percent, topping
estimates for a 4.2 percent increase, according to Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics. Foot traffic rose 11 percent
last month, according to ShopperTrak.  Calendar Shift Helps  The  holiday shopping season , which accounts for about 20
percent of annual retail activity, will be helped by a shift in
the calendar, ShopperTrak said. There is a full weekend of
shopping before Christmas, which falls on a Tuesday compared
with Sunday last year. Hanukkah beginning on Dec. 8 after
starting on Dec. 20 last year will also boost sales.  While  consumer confidence  has been volatile from month to
month, it’s been on an upward  trend  this year, which will help
holiday sales, Martin said. Foot traffic has gained since
Presidents’ Day in February, according to ShopperTrak.  Changes in gas prices, which correlate directly to how many
store visits people make, won’t have a profound effect on
holiday shopping because they’ve stayed in the same range for a
long period of time, Martin said.  Last holiday shopping season retailers used deep discounts
earlier than ever to lure shoppers. That pulled more purchases
into November leading to robust sales. Those early purchases
made December more promotional than previous years as stores
fought for customers, leading chains such as  Target Corp. (TGT) , J.C.
Penney Co. and  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  to lower their
profit forecasts.  Such promotions in late October and early November will be
more difficult to execute with the public focused on the
presidential election, Martin said. The election would also make
advertising more expensive in some areas, which could encourage
retailers to hold off until closer to Thanksgiving, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  