-- U.S. Beats Jamaica 1-0, Mexico Advances in World Cup Qualifying
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-s-beats-jamaica-1-0-mexico-advances-in-world-cup-qualifying.html
The U.S. beat  Jamaica  1-0 to move
into a share of first place in its qualifying group for the 2014
soccer  World Cup  as Mexico sealed a place in the next phase.  Herculez Gomez got the only goal in Columbus, Ohio, last
night as the U.S., which has played in every World Cup since
1990, avenged a 2-1 defeat to Jamaica in Kingston on Sept. 7.  “It was important for us to regroup after what happened in
Jamaica,” Gomez told ESPN in a televised interview. “With the
help of the crowd, we persevered.”  The win lifted the U.S. to seven points through four of six
games in the third round of the regional qualifying competition.
The Americans are tied atop the  standings  with Guatemala, which
beat  Antigua and Barbuda  1-0 last night. Jamaica is third, also
with seven points, while Antigua and Barbuda has one point.  From the ninth through the 11th minute of the game at
Columbus Crew Stadium, the capacity crowd of almost 24,000
applauded and waved U.S. flags to mark the 11th anniversary of
the worst terrorist attack on American soil.  The game was scoreless after the first half, even as the
U.S. had 79 percent of possession and struck the frame of the
Jamaican goal three times in the opening 30 minutes.  The U.S. got the breakthrough after 55 minutes, when Gomez
scored with a free kick from about 22 yards (20 meters).  U.S. coach  Jurgen Klinsmann  made five changes to the team
that lost in Kingston four days earlier.  Kingston Defeat  In that game,  Clint Dempsey  scored after 35 seconds -- the
fastest goal in World Cup qualifying for the U.S. -- before
Jamaica rallied to log its sole win in 20 meetings between the
countries. It was only the third time in 40 years that the U.S.
lost a World Cup qualifier after leading, according to the Elias
Sports Bureau.  The U.S.’s next qualifier is away against Antigua and
Barbuda on Dec. 12 before it completes this stage of games four
days later at home against Guatemala, which beat Antigua and
Barbuda last night on a 25th-minute goal from  Carlos Ruiz .  In Group B yesterday,  Javier Hernandez  got the only goal as
Mexico beat  Costa Rica  to move to 12 points and guarantee first
place in the group with two games to spare. El Salvador is in
second place with five points after a 3-2 win at last-place
Guyana, while Costa Rica has four points.  Canada relinquished first place in Group C with a 2-0 loss
in Panama, while  Honduras  beat Cuba 1-0 to move into second
place on goal difference. Panama leads the standings with nine
points, two more than Canada and Honduras, while Cuba has lost
all four games so far.  The top two teams from each of the three pools advance to
the final round of qualifying for the North and Central America
and Caribbean region, to be played from February through October
2013. The top three countries from that stage claim a place at
the World Cup, which is scheduled for June 12 to July 13, 2014,
in Brazil.  The team that finishes fourth enters a two-game playoff
against the winner of the Oceania group, which comprises New
Zealand, Tahiti,  New Caledonia  and the  Solomon Islands .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  