-- U.S. Underwater Homeowners Regain Equity as Prices Climb
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-09-12T12:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-s-underwater-homeowners-regain-equity-as-prices-climb.html
More than 1.3 million U.S.
homeowners regained equity in their properties this year as
prices rose after the worst real estate collapse since the
1930s, according to  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)   About 600,000 borrowers who had been underwater, or owed
more than their homes were worth, reached positive equity in the
second quarter, the  Santa Ana , California-based data provider
said today. That added to the tally of more than 700,000 in the
first three months of the year. About 22.3 percent of homeowners
with a mortgage had negative equity at the end of June, down
from 23.7 percent three months earlier.  Real estate prices are climbing as demand increases, giving
homeowners more equity in their properties and the flexibility
to sell or reduce their borrowing costs by refinancing. U.S.
home prices increased 3.8 percent in July from a year earlier,
the biggest annual gain in almost six years, according to a
CoreLogic index released Sept. 4.  “Prices are snapping back quickly and it’s having a
material impact on reducing negative equity,” Sam Khater,
CoreLogic’s senior economist, said in a telephone interview.
“Equity comprises the largest component of homeowner wealth,
and their wealth is finally rising.”  Almost 2 million more borrowers with negative equity would
be above water if  home prices  nationally increased by 5 percent,
Anand Nallathambi, president and CEO of CoreLogic, said in
today’s statement.  Fastest Gains  Home  prices  are rising faster than the U.S. average in many
of the states that have the largest shares of underwater
borrowers, Corelogic said.  In  Nevada , 59 percent of homeowners with a mortgage were
underwater, the biggest share in the U.S., followed by Florida
with 43 percent, Arizona with 40 percent,  Georgia  at 36 percent
and  Michigan  with 33 percent. Those states combined account for
34 percent of the total amount of negative equity in the U.S.  Home prices in Arizona jumped 17 percent in July from a
year earlier, the largest increase, according to CoreLogic. They
climbed 6.6 percent in Florida, 5.1 percent in Nevada and 4.8
percent in Michigan. Prices fell 0.2 percent in Georgia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  