-- U.S. Judge Denies Bid to Stay Ohio Ruling on Early Voting
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-12T22:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-s-judge-denies-bid-to-stay-ohio-ruling-on-early-voting.html
Ohio  Secretary of State Jon Husted
lost a bid for a U.S. court order delaying enforcement of an
Aug. 31 ruling equalizing the number of early voting days for
all the state’s citizens before the Nov. 6 national election.  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign organization and the Ohio
and national Democratic parties sued Husted in July arguing it
was unconstitutional for the state to grant three more early or
absentee voting days to those residents in the armed forces or
living overseas than to all other voters.  U.S. District Judge Peter Economus agreed, ruling that all
the state’s citizens must be allowed to cast pre-Election Day
ballots through Nov. 5. Husted then asked the judge for an order
delaying enforcement of his decree until the federal appeals
court in Cincinnati and then, potentially, the U.S. Supreme
Court reviews the case.  “Defendant Husted has not provided sufficiently compelling
reasons in support of a stay,” Economus said in a ruling today,
rejecting the secretary of state’s argument that voter confusion
would result if the ruling were later reversed.  Republican Party candidate  Mitt Romney  or Obama must
accumulate at least 270 Electoral College votes to win the
presidency on Nov. 6. Ohio controls 18 of those votes and no
Republican nominee has won the office without also carrying the
state.  Follow Ruling  The judge was appointed to the federal bench by President
 Bill Clinton , a Democrat, in 1995. Husted and state Attorney
General Mike DeWine, who was named as a co-defendant in the
case, are Republicans.  “The secretary does intend to follow the judge’s ruling,”
Matt McClellan, a spokesman for Husted, said today in a
telephone interview.  While the court’s ruling cited the secretary of state’s
desire for certainty so he can set uniform polling place hours
during the early voting days in question, McClellan said he had
no information as to when those times would be set.  The case is Obama for America v. Husted, 12-cv-00636, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  