-- U.S. Solar Industry Bracing for Utility Backlash Over Metering
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-09-12T21:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-s-solar-industry-bracing-for-utility-backlash-over-metering.html
Growing installations of rooftop
solar panels are increasing concern that U.S. utilities may
refuse to buy power generated by the systems, according to the
 Solar Energy Industries Association .  Utilities are required to purchase electricity generated by
solar panels installed on consumers’ homes under so-called net-
metering policies, an arrangement that may become less viable as
solar systems become more common, said  Rhone Resch , chief
executive officer of the Washington-based trade group.  California , the largest solar market, capped the amount of
panels utilities are required to connect to their grids and
other states are considering similar policies. Some utilities
see the requirement to buy solar power from every rooftop system
as a threat to their profitability, Resch said.  “Net metering works for us now, but we’re going to see a
backlash from utilities as solar penetration increases over the
next few years,” Resch said today in an interview at the Solar
Power International conference in  Orlando ,  Florida .  California regulators capped the amount of rooftop solar
that may be connected to the grid at 5 percent of a a utility’s
power needs, and is studying the long-term impact upon their
profits. Other states may consider similar actions, said Tony
Clifford, chief executive officer of Standard Solar Inc., a
closely held developer based in Rockville,  Maryland .  “I’m really concerned about a utility pushback on net-
metering,” Clifford said in an interview. “What we need is an
honest assessment of the true costs and benefits of managing
distributed generation and I don’t think we’ve seen that yet.”  Utilities are considering ways to offset the cost of buying
solar, including  Sempra Energy (SRE) ’s San Diego Gas & Electric, which
proposed a  fee  for residential solar customers, said Aaron Hall,
president of the San Diego-based developer Borrego Solar Systems
Inc. Regulars blocked the proposal in January.  “That would have made almost every installation lose money
and prevent new projects from getting financing,” Hall said.  Developers installed 98.2 megawatts of residential rooftop
solar panels in the second quarter, according to SEIA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  