-- U.S. Biomedical Listings Targeted by Tel Aviv: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-12T14:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-s-biomedical-listings-targeted-by-tel-aviv-israel-overnight.html
The  Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange is
preparing to offer analyses of its biomedical stocks to lure
listings from the U.S. and encourage institutional investors to
buy shares lagging behind the bourse’s benchmark index.  The exchange is in talks with two companies and will pick
one to roll out the program in early 2013, Chief Executive
Officer Ester Levanon said. The bourse’s chief has met with four
U.S. companies in the sector to persuade them to list their
shares in Tel Aviv, she said.  “It’s very good for the market if we have analysts’
reports because no one really knows how to read reports for
biomed companies,” Levanon said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York  yesterday. “Institutional investors
are worried they don’t understand enough. Once they have analyst
reports they will be able to invest more in the companies.”  The CEO aims to spur investors’ interest in a sector that
accounts for 42 percent of all high-tech companies in the
country, according to Levanon. The Tel Aviv Biomed Index has
gained 2 percent this year through yesterday, almost half the
4.2 percent advance by the benchmark TA-25 Index. The  Bloomberg
Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli companies traded in
New York increased for the first time in three days, led by
 Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)   The share of the government’s research and development
budget allocated to health-related companies almost doubled in
the last decade to 26 percent from 14 percent, according to the
Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor.  ‘Wake Up’  The bourse will serve as the intermediary between the
company delivering analyst reports and the publicly traded
biomedical company, and will be responsible for setting the
price for the analysis, she said.  The move is one of the strategies being employed by the CEO
to help revive trading volumes on the stock exchange, according
to Gilad Alper, an analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment
House Ltd.  Trading (TA-25)  on the TA-25 Index has slumped to 18.1 billion
shekels ($4.6 billion) in the last year, compared with 30.3
billion shekels in the preceding 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “One of things she is trying to do is wake up the stock
market,” Alper, a  Ramat Gan , Israel-based analyst with Nessuah,
said by phone yesterday. “One has to wonder how neutral, how
objective, and how serious can the research be if it is designed
to increase interest.”  Levanon said measures will be put in place to ensure no
conflict of interest exists and companies are locked in a two-
year contract to pay for the reports, regardless of the tone of
the research.  ‘Attract European Investors’  The TASE, as the Israeli exchange is known, is seeking to
list derivatives of Israeli stocks on a European bourse early
next year, Levanon said, without giving more details.  “The idea is to have an instrument popular in  Israel  to be
traded in another exchange in  Europe ,” she said. “That will
attract European investors to Israeli products.”  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
stock market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index increased 0.7 percent
yesterday to 85.03, with Cellcom rising 6 percent to $7.92. The
mobile operator’s shares in Tel Aviv climbed 4.3 percent today
to 31.53 shekels, or $7.99. The TA-25 Index advanced 0.3
percent.  Mellanox Rebounds  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , an Israeli maker of technology
used to transfer and store data, stemmed a two-day, 15 percent
loss, with its shares in New York advancing 0.7 percent
yesterday to $102.41. The Tel Aviv shares gained 0.4 percent to
409.3 shekels, or $103.78.  The Yokneam Elit, Israel-based company slumped last week
after Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  cut  its recommendation on Aug. 7 to
hold from buy, while  Intel Corp ., a bellwether for the
semiconductor industry, reduced its sales forecast. Mellanox
said Sept. 10 that Chief Financial Officer  Michael Gray  will
retire in November and be replaced by Jacob Shulman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  