-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Sept. 7 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-09-12T14:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-sept-7-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 14.3 million barrels per
day during the week ending September 7, 287 thousand barrels per
day below the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
84.7 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production decreased last week, averaging 9.0 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging 4.4 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 8.6 million barrels per
day last week, up by 530 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged just under 8.6 million barrels per day, 298 thousand
barrels per day below the same four-week period last year. Total
motor gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and
gasoline blending components) last week averaged 799 thousand
barrels per day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 144 thousand
barrels per day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 2.0 million barrels
from the previous week. At 359.1 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
1.2 million barrels last week and are in the lower half of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories increased while
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories increased by 1.5 million barrels last week and
are below the lower limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 0.2 million
barrels last week and are above the upper limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 3.4
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 18.7 million barrels per day, down by 2.7 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged 9.0 million
barrels per day, down 0.1 percent from the same period last
year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged 3.4 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 11.9 percent
from the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 4.4
percent lower over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  