-- U.S. Funds Have Pension Industry’s Lowest Real Estate Returns
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-09-12T14:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-s-funds-have-pension-industry-s-lowest-real-estate-returns.html
U.S. funds have had the lowest real
estate returns in the global pensions industry because they rely
on costly external managers and made risky bets before the
financial crisis, according to a study by  Maastricht University .  Property investments generated an average net annual return
of 5.7 percent for U.S. pension funds from 1990 through 2009,
according to research by the Netherlands-based university. That
compares with 7.2 percent returns for Canadian funds and a
typical return of more than 7 percent for other funds.  The average cost of managing U.S. pension funds’ real
estate investments is 64 percent higher than for Canadian funds,
which have the second-highest costs, the study showed. Just 7.6
percent of U.S. funds’ real estate assets are managed
internally, which costs the least. The study surveyed 884 funds
with more than $4.6 trillion of total assets under management.  “U.S. pension funds are reluctant to make in-house
choices, and one of the main reasons for this is their concern
about potential litigation,” said  Nils Kok , a co-author of the
study, in an interview in Berlin last week. He presented the
report at the European Public Real Estate Association’s annual
conference.  U.S. state and local government pension programs with total
assets of $2.8 trillion returned 1.2 percent in fiscal 2012,
according to a study released last month by  Santa Monica ,
California-based investment adviser Wilshire Associates Inc.
That’s less than the 7 percent to 8.5 percent returns needed to
pay retirement benefits, leaving programs with a funding
shortfall to be met by participants and through public-service
cutbacks.  ‘Foolish’ Choices  “Many of the pension plans are under-funded, and when
these funds see an opportunity to juice up their returns, they
go for it,” said Kok. “From 2004, a large number of these
sophisticated investors made foolish investment choices that
were no different from the exuberance of retail investors.”  In fiscal 2009, the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System  had a 48 percent drop in the value of its real estate
portfolio, the culmination of a decade-long loosening of risk
controls and large leveraged bets on housing made by external
money managers before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. roiled markets.  Calpers, as the U.S.’s largest public pension plan is
known, has since reduced debt, fired underperforming managers
and focused its investments on less risky real estate. Its
property investments returned 16 percent in the 12 months ended
June 30, the fund reported in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  