-- U.S. Five-Year NotesOutperform on Record Butterfly Spread
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-12T04:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/u-s-five-year-notesoutperform-on-record-butterfly-spread.html
U.S. 5-year notes are the most
expensive ever relative to 2- and 10-year securities based on
the so-called  butterfly spread  measure of value.  The spread formed by yield gaps between the securities is
tumbling, reflecting demand for the middle security over either
end. The figure fell to negative 54.86 basis points on Sept. 10,
the lowest closing level on record based on data that go back to
2006, and it was negative 54.61 basis points today.  The  Federal Reserve  has cut benchmark  borrowing costs  to
almost zero percent, meaning holders of short-term Treasuries
that track the central  bank rate  won’t benefit from further
reductions. Meanwhile, yields show inflation expectations are
rising, sparking concern long-term bonds will suffer.  “There’s limited room for short-term securities to gain,”
said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in Tokyo at CIBC World
Markets  Japan  Inc., a unit of  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender.
“There’s a risk in the long end because there might be
inflation. You’d like to sell the wings.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, has widened to 2.39 percentage points from 1.95 percentage
points at the end of 2011. The average over the past decade is
2.16 percentage points.  The  gap  between 10- and 30-year U.S. rates widened to as
much as 1.18 percentage points on Sept. 10, the most since May.
Thirty-year bonds, because of their long maturity, are more
sensitive to inflation than shorter-term Treasuries. The
difference was as much as 1.16 percentage points today.  ‘Little Risk’  “There’s little risk in five-year Treasuries for the rest
of this year,” said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $76.1 billion in  Tokyo  as chief fund investor at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which is part of Japan’s
largest publicly traded bank.  Fed policy makers will gather today and tomorrow amid
speculation they will begin a third round of debt purchases
under the bank’s quantitative-easing strategy or extend their
pledge to keep  interest rates  at virtually zero to late 2014.  Five-year notes returned 0.2 percent in the past month,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Ten-year securities
fell 0.3 percent, while two-year securities rose 0.1 percent,
the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  