-- UBS Whistle-Blower, Skadden, Hunton: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/ubs-whistle-blower-skadden-hunton-business-of-law.html
Bradley Birkenfeld, the former  UBS
AG (UBSN)  banker who went to prison after telling the  Internal Revenue
Service  how the bank helped thousands of Americans evade taxes,
secured a whistle-blower award of $104 million, the largest
individual federal payout in U.S. history.  Birkenfeld told authorities how UBS bankers came to the
U.S. to woo rich Americans, managed $20 billion of their assets
and helped them cheat the IRS. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy
in 2008, a year after reporting the bank’s conduct to the
 Justice Department ,  U.S. Senate , IRS and Securities and Exchange
Commission. He left prison on Aug. 1.  “The IRS sent 104 million messages to whistle-blowers
around the world -- that there is now a safe and secure way to
report  tax fraud ,” Birkenfeld’s attorney  Stephen M. Kohn ,
executive director of the National Whistleblowers Center, said
yesterday at a news conference in  Washington . He is seeking a
presidential pardon for Birkenfeld, who is under home
confinement.  Birkenfeld’s disclosures preceded UBS’s decision to pay
$780 million to avoid prosecution, admit it fostered  tax evasion 
from 2000 to 2007 and turn over data on 250 Swiss accounts. UBS
later agreed to provide information on another 4,450 accounts.
Since then, at least 33,000 Americans have voluntarily disclosed
offshore accounts to the IRS, generating more than $5 billion.  “Today the IRS sent a message to every American taxpayer
who still has an illegal offshore account,” Kohn said. “Turn
yourself in while there is still an amnesty program. Turn
yourself in before your banker does.”  The IRS confirmed the award in a statement.  For more, click here.  AB InBev’s Claim to ‘Bud’ Name Based on Fraud, Czech Brewer Says  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s claim to the European Union-wide
trademark on the word “Bud” for beer and other products is
based on a fraud that began more than a century ago, Budejovicky
Budvar NP told a European court.  “Anheuser-Busch’s claim to the name is based on a fraud
that goes back to 1894,”  Fabienne Fajgenbaum , a lawyer
representing Budvar, told a three-judge panel of the EU’s
second-highest court in Luxembourg yesterday. “When Mr. Busch
discovered an extremely interesting beer in the town of Budweis,
 Czech Republic , he went back to the U.S. and brewed a beer in
the way it had been done in the region since the 13th century.”  The hearing was part of a fight that started 16 years ago
with Anheuser-Busch’s bid to get an EU trademark for the name
Bud. The EU General Court may have the final say on whether the
world’s biggest brewer can get the sole rights to the name
across the 27-nation bloc.  The  EU’s top court  last year told the lower EU court to re-
examine the case after making mistakes in a ruling that upheld
Czech competitor Budvar’s challenge.  “Budvar had over 100 years to start using the term Bud and
it didn’t start doing so until 1997,” said Verena von Bomhard,
a lawyer representing AB InBev. “Bud is certainly not original
of our Czech friends.”  The EU’s trademark agency -- where Anheuser-Busch sought
the EU trademark rights in yesterday’s case in 1996, 1999 and
2000 -- rejected Budvar’s opposition on lack of evidence for its
prior rights to the name. The Czech company markets its brew as
Budvar in some places with the word Budweiser in smaller print
and in others it sells beer as Bud, adding “original Czech.”  The cases are T-225/06 RENV, T-255/06 RENV, T-257/06 RENV,
T-309/06 RENV, Budějovický Budvar v. OHMI - Anheuser-Busch.  News  Vatican Hires Swiss Lawyer to Help Battle Money Laundering  The Vatican hired a Swiss lawyer to help make its finances
more transparent and address concerns about money laundering.  Rene Bruelhart, 40, who has served for eight years as
director of the Financial Intelligence Unit of Liechtenstein,
will consult on financial crime issues, the Vatican said on its
website.  “The fact that the  Holy See  has decided to avail itself of
the systematic collaboration of an international expert in the
fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is
a strong signal,” a Vatican spokesman, Father Federico Lombardi
said yesterday in an interview with Vatican Radio.  The Vatican bank has been at the center of several
financial scandals in recent years. Paolo Cipriani, director
general of the Vatican Bank, known as IOR, and its former head,
Ettore Gotti Tedeschi, were placed under investigation by
Italian prosecutors in 2010 for allegedly omitting data in wire
transfers from an Italian account. Prosecutors seized 23 million
euros ($29 million) from a Rome bank account registered to the
IOR amid suspicion of  money-laundering  violations. The Italian
probe triggered calls to bring the city-state in line with
European Union financial rules and become more transparent.  Deals  Transocean to Quit Shallow-Water Rig Industry It Invented  Baker Botts LLP advised Transocean Ltd. , which agreed to
sell most of its shallow-water drilling fleet for $1.05 billion
as part of the company’s exit from the market for rigs propped
up on steel legs that it created more than 50 years ago.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP advised Shelf
Drilling International Holdings Ltd., a newly formed company
owned by private equity investors and management, which will pay
$855 million in cash and $195 million in preferred shares for 38
rigs that can drill in seas shallower than about 400 feet (122
meters), Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean said Sept. 10 in
a statement.  Baker Botts partners included lead corporate lawyerGene Oshman; James Mayor, corporate; Derek Green, tax; Gail Stewart,
employee benefits; and Luke Weedon, finance.  The Skadden team is led by partners Marc Packer, mergers
and acquisitions; and Frank Bayouthand Ann Hawkins, corporate.  Transocean Chief Executive Officer Steven L. Newman is
shedding shallow-water rigs to focus on deep-water and
specialized drilling gear that commands higher rates from oil
producers. Transocean vessels that can operate in 10,000 feet of
water and drill several miles into the Earth can garner more
than $400,000 a day, four times the going rate for so-called
jackup rigs that have retractable legs that can reach the
seafloor.  Transocean expects to recognize a “significant” loss on
the sale, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The company valued the assets at about $1.4
billion at the end of the second quarter.  The company plans to sell its seven remaining standard
jackups and exit that business in the third quarter.  For more, click here.  Moves  Consumer Financial Protection Lawyer Joins Hunton & Williams  Ronald L. Rubin joined Hunton & Williams LLP’s bankruptcy,
restructuring & creditor’s rights practice as a partner in
Washington. Rubin was previously an enforcement attorney at the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  He will be part of the firm’s 30-member bankruptcy,
restructuring and creditors’ rights team. As one of the earliest
employees in the CFPB’s Supervision, Fair Lending and
Enforcement Division, Rubin played a role in building the new
agency’s enforcement capabilities.  Rubin began his career as a criminal prosecutor. He also
spent seven years investigating and prosecuting securities law
violations as senior special counsel at the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, and was a managing director in the legal
and compliance department of Bear Stearns & Co., the firm said.  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers in 19 offices
around the world.  Brown Rudnick Hires Washington and London White-Collar Partners  Brown Rudnick  LLP hired Thomas A. Ferrigno as a partner in
the Washington office and Mark Beardsworth as a partner in the
London office. Ferrigno, formerly of Fullbright & Jaworski LLP,
and Beardsworth, who moved from  Kingsley Napley LLP , both join
the white collar defense & government investigations practice.  Ferrigno has focused his practice on securities enforcement
matters. Beardsworth defends serious fraud and criminal matters,
with expertise in prosecutions brought by the  Serious Fraud
Office , the Financial Services Authority and HM Revenue and
Customs.  Brown Rudnick has seven offices in the U.S. and U.K.  Sheppard Mullin Hires Immigration Lawyer in Washington  Dawn M. Lurie joined Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton
LLP as a partner in the firm’s labor and employment practice
group and leader of the business immigration and compliance
practice. She will be based in the Washington office.  She previously practiced at Greenberg Traurig LLP, Sheppard
Mullin said. A special counsel who practiced with her at
Greenberg also joined Sheppard Mullin’s labor and employment
practice group in the Century City office in  Los Angeles .  Lurie has advised high-net worth individuals on the EB-5
Entrepreneur Investment visa program for two decades, Sheppard
Mullin said.  Sheppard Mullin has 50 attorneys in its Washington office
and 50 in its Century City office. The firm’s labor and
employment practice group includes 90 attorneys firmwide.
Sheppard Mullin has almost 600 attorneys in 16 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Pryor Cashman Adds Corporate and China Partner in New York  Pryor Cashman LLP announced the addition of M. Ali Panjwani
to its corporate and China practice groups as a partner in  New
York . Panjwani joins from Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP,
where he was a member of that firm’s corporate and securities
practice.  Panjwani’s practice involves advising investment banks,
investment funds, publicly listed issuers and startup companies
in corporate and securities matters, including underwritten
offerings, registered direct transactions, venture financing,
reverse mergers and private placement transactions.  Pryor Cashman has more than 120 attorneys in its main
office in  New York City  and an office in Los Angeles.  Greenberg Traurig Lawyers Join Edwards Wildman in New Jersey  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP said Charles R. Berman, who has
more than three decades of experience in commercial lending,
regulatory and corporate work, and Timothy A. Kalas, whose
practice focuses on commercial lending and transactional real
estate, have joined the firm as partners in the business law
department in Madison,  New Jersey . Both were with the New Jersey
office of Greenberg Traurig LLP.  Edwards Wildman has 625 lawyers in 14 offices in the U.S.,
U.K, and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 