-- Hungary External Rate Setters Outvote President in Rate Cut
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-09-12T13:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/hungary-external-rate-setters-outvote-president-in-rate-cut-1-.html
Hungary’s non-executive policy
makers outvoted the central bank’s president and his two
deputies in August to cut the main  interest rate  for the first
time in almost 2 1/2 years as the economy slid into recession.  Central bankers voted 4-3 to lower the cost of borrowing by
a quarter of a percentage point to 6.75 percent on Aug. 28 with
Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor and the two deputy
governors supporting unchanged rates, minutes of the Budapest
meeting showed today.  Hungary’s deepening  recession  prompted policy makers to
unexpectedly cut the European Union’s highest rate last month
amid divisions in the Monetary Council on when to start easing.
The economy shrank 0.2 percent in the second quarter from the
previous three months and 1.2 percent from a year ago.  Further cuts may follow if “supply shocks to the economy
and the upward impact on prices of government measures don’t
lead to the buildup of second-round inflationary effects and
perceptions about the Hungarian economy continue to improve,”
according to the minutes, which were published on the bank’s
 website  today.  Weaker Forint  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 283.11 per euro by 2:31
p.m. in Budapest. The currency has advanced 11.3 percent against
the single currency this year, the best performance among more
than 20 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as
investors bet the country would obtain an international bailout.  Policy makers disagreed on how much monetary easing would
help boost economic growth, according to the minutes.  “The majority view of the Council was that it was time to
act in the interests of growth,” while others argued that
“premature” monetary easing would not have a material impact
on the economy, the minutes showed.  ‘Technical’ Recession   The report on gross domestic product showed the economy is
“technically” in recession and the slowdown in external demand
hurts the growth outlook, the Monetary Council said after the
Aug. 28 meeting.  Inflation, the fastest in the EU, accelerated to 6 percent
in August, the fastest in more than 2 1/2 years. The gauge is
expected to remain “significantly” above the central bank’s 3
percent target in 2013, according to the minutes.  Hungary is seeking to resume talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union on a credit line of about
15 billion euros ($19.3 billion) to protect the economy from
euro-area contagion and to lower financing costs.  The government may complete a deal by the end of this year,
chief aid negotiator Mihaly Varga said in an interview in Warsaw
yesterday. Negotiations may resume after the IMF’s October
annual meeting, rather than this month, Varga said.  An IMF deal would be “beneficial” for the country,
however the government only wants a “good” agreement, Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  