-- UniCredit’s Asset-Backed Securities Buyback to Boost Capital
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-09-12T11:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/unicredit-offers-to-buy-back-asset-backed-securities-correct-.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  offered to pay as
much as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) to buy back asset-backed
securities in the first deal of its kind by an Italian bank in
more than two years.  Investors have until Sept. 24 to accept a cash offer
equating to 37 percent to 96 percent of the 6 billion-euro face
value of 22 securities, the Milan-based lender said in a
statement yesterday. If acceptances exceed the offer, holders
will be treated on a pro-rata basis,  Italy ’s biggest bank said.  Banks in peripheral European countries, including  Spain ’s
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA and Portugal’s Banco
Comercial Portugues SA, repurchased about 11 billion euros of
asset-backed bonds this year, according to Barclays Plc. Buying
back the loans for less than face value allows UniCredit and
other lenders to book  capital gains  similar to the discount.  “We can imagine similar deals for other strong banks out
of Italy and the other peripheral countries,” said Dalibor Jarnevic, an asset backed securities trader at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt .  UniCredit Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is
reducing risk and cutting costs as part of the bank’s five-year
plan to restore profit. The bank posted a capital gain of 477
million euros after buying back 3 billion euros of Tier 1 and
Tier 2 bonds in January.  “UniCredit has a strategic goal to optimize its balance
sheet structure by offering investors the possibility to tender
such securities in exchange for cash,” the bank said.  Unicredit repurchased asset backed securities with a face
value of 2.1 billion euros in February 2010, the last such
buyback by an Italian lender, according JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  