-- Vestas Plunges Amid Cash Shortage Concerns: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-12T07:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/vestas-plunges-amid-cash-shortage-concerns-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  fell the
most in six weeks in Copenhagen trading after Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. cut its recommendation and price target saying
the world’s largest wind turbine maker is running out of cash.  Vestas fell as much as 9.7 percent, the most since Aug. 1.
The stock lost 8.8 percent to 39.94 kroner at 9:49 a.m. in the
Danish capital, making it today’s  biggest decliner  in the  OMX
Copenhagen 20 index (KFX)  and in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Vestas, hurt by increased competition and lower government
subsidies for green energy, said July 31 its banks have allowed
it to draw on credit lines as its  cash flow  deteriorated. The
company has since accelerated job cuts. Vestas on Aug. 27 said
it was in “strategic” talks with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. without elaborating on the nature of a possible
partnership.  A tie-up with Mitsubishi Heavy is “unlikely to provide
sufficient cash to Vestas,” Martin Prozesky, a London-based
analyst at  Sanford Bernstein , said in a note today. “The market
outlook remains negative. The steps that management has taken
are not enough to sustainably turn around performance.”  Prozesky cut his recommendation on the share to
underperform from market-perform and lowered his share price
estimate by 23 percent to 20 kroner, which is  the lowest  of the
26 Vestas analysts tracked by Bloomberg.  Before today, the shares of the Aarhus, Denmark-based
company had jumped 29 percent since the announcement on the
Mitsubishi Heavy talks.  “Vestas’ stock has experienced  wild swings  over the past
weeks as worries about the balance sheet and press reports about
a potential strategic investor grabbed the headlines,” Prozesky
said. “Our view has been that the stock is largely ‘un-
investable’ given these two potential extreme outcomes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  