-- Wahaha Hunts for Global Deals on More China Competition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/wahaha-hunts-for-global-deals-on-more-china-competition.html
Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co., the
beverage business owned by  China ’s richest man, is hunting for
global acquisitions to build an overseas distribution network as
economic growth slows and competition heats up at home.  The company is working with investment banks to identify
food and beverage deals in  Europe  and  Australia , Kelly Zong,
head of international business and daughter of billionaire owner
 Zong Qinghou , said in a Sept. 11 interview. It is interested in
companies that can help it source raw materials more efficiently
and share distribution systems, she said.  In pursuing global deals, closely-held Wahaha follows
Shanghai-based Bright Food Group Co. which agreed in May to buy
a stake in U.K. cereal maker, Weetabix Ltd. Wahaha gets almost
all its revenue from China, where economic growth is slowing and
cost pressures are rising.  “The competition within the food and beverages sector in
China remains pretty intense,” said Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International Ltd. “If Wahaha
wants to leapfrog bigger rivals such as Tingyi, Uni-President,
or Coca-Cola, it may need to rely on making overseas
acquisitions.”  Wahaha reported a profit of $1 billion on $11 billion in
sales last year. Its overseas drinks business, which sells tea
products in  South Korea  and the U.K., generated about $20
million of annual sales last year, according to Zong.  Larger Competitors  By contrast, Tingyi ( Cayman Islands ) Holding Corp., which
last year entered into a deal to become  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s China
bottler, had 2011 sales of $7.9 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Uni-President China Holdings Ltd. (220) , which
sells both food and drinks, had 2011 sales of $2.6 billion.  “Acquisitions are a step we must take if we want to become
a global company because it’s a fast track,” Zong said during
the interview at a World Economic Forum conference in Tianjin,
China. Her father founded the company 25 years ago with a
$22,048 loan.  The company’s profits have helped boost the fortunes of
founder Zong Qinghou, who owns more than 80 percent of Wahaha
and is the 22nd richest man in the world with a net worth of
$22.6 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  The company may boost net income to $1.6 billion in 2012 on
sales of $13.4 billion, bolstered by the Chinese government’s
push to boost domestic consumption, he said in a March
interview.  ‘Tremendous Opportunities’  Wahaha, based in Hangzhou in eastern China, makes soda,
food, baby formula and children’s apparel in its 60 factories
located in 29 provinces across China. It wants to sell more
nutrition drinks and sees “tremendous opportunities” in
selling its tea brands overseas, Zong, the daughter, said in the
interview.  An overseas deal “could help the company to improve
quality control, brand image and even securing the supply of raw
materials,” said Xia, the analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi.  Bright Food in May agreed to buy a 60 percent stake in
Weetabix from private equity firm  Lion Capital LLP  in a deal
that valued the cereal company at 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9
billion).  That is the largest of 20 food and beverage acquisitions
worth $2.74 billion that Chinese firms have announced over the
last three years in Europe,  North America  and developed Asia
Pacific markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wahaha is looking overseas as growth slows in the world’s
second-largest economy, which expanded 7.6 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in three years.
Inflation in China accelerated for the first time in five months
in August, according to government data.  Government policies designed to boost domestic demand,
including wider medical insurance plans, will shore up business,
Zong said. “For the long term, I think we’ll still have very
good growth because we have a large population in China.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  