-- Wal-Mart, Costco Lead U.S. Businesses in Solar, SEIA Says
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-09-12T19:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/wal-mart-costco-lead-u-s-businesses-in-solar-seia-says.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  lead U.S. businesses in
generating electricity from the sun, according to the Solar
Energy Industries Association.  U.S. businesses, government agencies and non-profit groups
have installed more than 2.3 gigawatts of solar systems to date
and will add another 7 gigawatts over the next five years, the
Washington-based industry group said today in a  statement .  Commercial solar is surging as the cost of installing the
systems falls. The average price of a completed commercial
project declined 14 percent in the year ending in June, making
it a cost-effective tool to cut expenses, said David Ozment,
senior director of energy for Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-
Mart.  The world’s largest retailer is the top U.S. commercial
solar-energy producer, with 65 megawatts of capacity atop its
stores and warehouses, and eventually expects to get all of its
electricity from renewable sources, Ozment said in an interview.
“What’s been driving us is this aspirational goal,” he said.
“Adding more renewable energy is also controlling energy
expenses.”  Wal-Mart said today it completed a 3.3-megawatt project at
a distribution center in Buckeye,  Arizona , its largest system.
The company has installed 144 systems among its more than 4,500
U.S. stores. “We’re accelerating our efforts and that’s going
to help us drive scale,” he said.  Costco, based in Issaquah, Washington, has 38.9 megawatts
of solar power. Kohl’s, based in  Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin, has
36.5 megawatts at 124 of its sites and expects to reach 150
locations by the end of this year.  “Managing energy consumption and using, where possible,
renewable energy sources like solar, makes sense both in terms
of cost savings and being a good environmental steward,” John Worthington, Kohl’s chief administrative officer, said in an e-
mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  