-- West Nile Outbreak May Be Deadliest in U.S. History
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-09-12T17:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/west-nile-outbreak-may-be-deadliest-in-u-s-history.html
The West Nile virus spreading
throughout the U.S. is expected to be the deadliest on record as
the number of fatalities increased 36 percent in the past week
to 118 people, U.S. health officials said.  There have been 2,636 infections reported, 53 percent of
which were the most severe form of the disease, according to the
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Every state other
than Alaska and  Hawaii  has reported cases of the virus with 40
percent occurring in  Texas , the agency said.  The outbreak may have peaked in late August, though
unseasonably warm weather in some parts of the U.S. may continue
driving new infections, said Lyle Petersen, director of the
CDC’s division of vector-borne infectious disease. The record
year for West Nile may be a result of warmer-than-usual weather
as well as environmental factors, like the bird populations and
rainfall patterns, he said. All of the major outbreaks in the
U.S. have occurred when the weather was hotter than usual.  “This year’s outbreak is the most serious to date,”
Peterson said. “The longer the weather stays warm, the more
transmission that is going to occur. It is certainly possible
that in some areas of the country the outbreak may not have
peaked yet.”  West Nile virus, first detected in the U.S. in 1999, is
passed to people by diseased mosquitoes. Four of five people
infected with the virus show no symptoms. Most cases are mild
with less than 1 percent of people infected developing a severe
illness with symptoms such as a high fever, disorientation and
convulsions,  according  to the Atlanta-based agency.  Previous High  The 118 deaths reported so far this year are expected to
exceed the previous high mark of 284 in 2002, given the number
of severe cases already reported, Petersen said. Researchers
believe there is no evidence that the virus is more deadly this
year and that the increase in deaths is due to the increase in
total infections.  Of the infections, 1,405 were of the most deadly form of
the disease in which it has  spread  to a person’s nervous system,
the CDC said. Only about 2 to 3 percent of people who come down
with a fever from the virus are reported to the government, the
CDC said last week.  The outbreak is concentrated in Texas,  South Dakota ,
 Mississippi ,  Oklahoma ,  Louisiana  and  Michigan , the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  