-- Whitworth Said to Have Pressed Abercrombie for Spending Cuts
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/whitworth-said-to-have-pressed-abercrombie-for-spending-cuts-1-.html
Activist investor Ralph Whitworth
has pressed  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  to cut back store openings
overseas and spending, prompting the teen retailer to hire
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to advise on talks with him, said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Whitworth has told the company it could be worth $50 a
share if spending came in line with its rivals, said this
person, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.
Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC owned 3.8 percent of
Abercrombie’s shares as of June 30, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  The two sides have met a couple times and Abercrombie has
asked Whitworth for another meeting, said this person. In
response to Whitworth’s complaints, Abercrombie has slowed the
building of new stores in Ireland and other countries, the
person said. The investor isn’t pressing the retailer to shop
itself around to private-equity firms or other retailers, though
he could do so later, said this person.  An official for Relational declined to comment. Joseph Teklits, a spokesman for Abercrombie who works for ICR Inc.,
declined to comment.  CNBC reported earlier that Abercrombie hired Goldman Sachs
amid pressure from Whitworth, 56. Abercrombie  climbed  5.4
percent to $37.92 at the close in  New York  yesterday, the
biggest gain since Aug. 15. The  New Albany , Ohio-based company’s
shares have  lost  22 percent this year.  Relational’s Tactics  Relational typically tries to engage the management of
companies it invests in and may start a proxy fight if it is
rebuffed, John Kernan, an analyst at Cowen & Co., said in May,
after the firm disclosed a 2.5 percent stake in Abercrombie.  “Abercrombie’s depressed valuation and very low levels of
profitability in their domestic business is probably attracting
activist investors, as well as what we see as some low-hanging
fruit in improving the inventory management in the domestic
business,” Kernan said in a telephone interview yesterday. An
activist “could accelerate some well-needed changes in a
strategic direction.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  Abercrombie’s U.S. revenue has  slipped  2.5 percent this
year, and the retailer said in August it is bracing for overall
same-store sales to decline 10 percent in the second half. The
company is run by 68-year-old Chief Executive Officer Mike Jeffries, who reinvented the company as a teen retailer in 1992.  Executive Pay  Whitworth has complained about the CEO’s compensation,
saying it is excessive given the under-performance of the shares
over the past few years, said the person familiar with the
situation.  Jeffries, referred to as Abercrombie’s “brand visionary
and chief creative talent” in a May regulatory  filing , had a
salary of about $4.9 million last year, excluding the value of
certain  stock options , according to the filing.  Including those awards, triggered if the company’s share
price reached a certain level, the annual payout would be valued
at about $48 million, the filing shows. Jeffries’s personal use
of the company’s aircraft was capped at $200,000 a year as part
of an agreement entered on April 12, 2010, the proxy shows.
Jeffries was given a lump-sum cash payment of $4 million for the
concession.  Whitworth has also told Abercrombie that its selling,
general and administrative expenses are higher than rivals, the
person said, without providing specifics.  Abercrombie traded at an 8.9 percent  discount  to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index on a price-to-earnings
basis as of Sept. 11, down from more than double the index’s
valuation in April 2010. Rival  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) ,
which has seen same-store sales soar this year, traded at a 3.7
percent premium to the index.  Relational had 3.16 million shares of Abercrombie as of
June 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Activist investor
 Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point LLC exited its position in Abercrombie
in the second quarter, selling 1.85 million shares, the data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  