-- Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Climb 0.7%, More Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-09-12T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-climb-0-7-more-than-forecast.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers
rose in July by the most in five months as sales fell,
indicating production may cool.  The 0.7 percent increase in stockpiles followed a 0.2
percent drop in the prior month, Commerce Department data showed
today in  Washington . The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey
called for a 0.3 percent July gain. Sales declined 0.1 percent,
the third straight decrease.  At the current pace of sales, wholesalers had enough goods
on hand to last 1.21 months, the most since November 2009, the
report showed. A global slowdown and looming U.S. tax and
government spending changes may prompt companies to temper
orders to factories as they work off any unintended build-up of
stockpiles.  “Companies will want to stay lean because of the
outlook,”  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD
Securities in  New York , said before the report. “The
uncertainty is a constraint on demand.”  The median forecast for wholesale inventories was based on
a Bloomberg survey of 29 economists. Estimates ranged from no
change to an increase of 0.8 percent.  Businesses trying to keep stockpiles in line with demand
include  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest maker of agricultural
equipment, which in August cut its full-year profit forecast as
sales slowed.  “The sales shortfall is reflected in higher inventories in
the third quarter and at year-end,” James Field, president of
the Moline, Illinois-based company’s agriculture and turf unit,
said on an Aug. 15 teleconference. “Actions have been taken to
manage the inventories.”  Durable Goods  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.7 percent, boosted by machinery,
computers, lumber and automobiles, today’s report showed. Sales
of big-ticket items dropped 0.8 percent after a 0.9 percent
decrease.  The value of unsold non-durable goods also rose 0.7 percent
as sales climbed 0.5 percent.  The inventory-to-sales ratio climbed from 1.20 months in
June.  Labor Department figures last week indicated consumers may
restrain their spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy. Payrolls slowed, rising by 96,000 workers in August
after a revised 141,000 increase. The  unemployment rate  fell as
more people left the  labor force , while wages stagnated.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.5 percent in July, Commerce Department data
showed. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest, will be
included in the business inventories report due on Sept. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  