-- Whooping Cough Vaccine Loses Strength After Fifth Dose
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/whooping-cough-vaccine-loses-strength-after-fifth-dose.html
Children fully inoculated against
whooping cough become more susceptible to the disease as the
vaccination wanes over time, contributing to outbreaks in the
U.S., a study found.  Each year after receiving the fifth dose of the vaccine,
children had a 42 percent increased risk of acquiring whooping
cough, also known as pertussis, according to research in the  New
England Journal of Medicine . The vaccine, known as DTaP, which
also inoculates against diphtheria and tetanus, is sold in the
U.S. by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Sanofi.  About 25,000 cases of whooping cough have been reported in
the U.S. this year through Aug. 24. The totals have almost
reached the 27,550 cases for all of 2010, which included an
epidemic in  California  and was the most since 1959, according to
the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
Strengthening the current vaccine or developing more effective
shots are needed to help stop the spread of the bacterial
infection, said  Nicola Klein , the lead study author.  “A large part of the reason the epidemics have been
occurring here and in other states around the country has to do
with this waning immunity in this school-aged population,”
Klein, a research scientist and co-director of the Vaccine Study
Center at  Kaiser Permanente , an Oakland, California-based health
plan, said in a Sept. 10 telephone interview.  “The long-term solution is we need new vaccines that have
long-lasting immunity or to reformat the current vaccines to
provide long-lasting immunity. The current vaccines are safe and
effective and some protection is better than no protection. They
just don’t perhaps last as long as we would probably like.”  Easily Spread  Pertussis is a highly contagious disease that causes
violent coughing, making it difficult to breathe. It may lead to
permanent disability or death, particularly in young children,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . Patients
struggling to take a breath make a “whooping” sound that gives
the disease its name.  The study released yesterday is the first to include
children who have been fully inoculated with the current
pertussis vaccines, which are given in five doses starting at 2
months through 4 to 6 years old. Klein said it is challenging to
find a cure for pertussis because getting it once doesn’t stop a
person from becoming infected again.  Tom Clark, a medical epidemiologist at the Atlanta-based
CDC, said it may take 10 years before a change is made to the
current vaccines or new vaccines are developed to fight
pertussis.  ‘Best Protection’  “The news that protection from the vaccines wears off
should not make people doubt the vaccine,” Clark said in a
Sept. 10 telephone interview. “The vaccine is the best
protection we have.”  Researchers have known the effectiveness of the vaccine
wanes over time, which is why the CDC recommends a booster shot
for adolescents and adults, Michael Szumera, a spokesman for
Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN) , said in a Sept. 10 e-mail. The company is
studying several new and improved pertussis vaccines in clinical
trials, he said.  GlaxoSmithKline is working with the CDC and other public-
health authorities to better understand what is causing the
increased number of U.S. pertussis cases, Rob Perry, a spokesman
for the London-based drugmaker, said in a Sept. 11 e-mail. It’s
premature to develop new pertussis vaccines before fully
understanding what is causing the current outbreaks, he said.  Researchers in the study compared 277 children ages 4 to 12
who were positive for whooping cough with 3,318 children who
were negative and 6,086 controls. They looked at pertussis in
children from 2006 to 2011 in California and measured the time
since their fifth vaccination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  