-- Woodward Says Obama, Boehner Didn’t Understand Budget Debate
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-09-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/woodward-says-obama-boehner-didn-t-understand-budget-debate.html
Almost every bookshelf in the U.S.
capital holds a thin volume called “13 Days,” Robert F.
Kennedy’s account of the Cuban Missile Crisis.  Memo to  Washington : Make room on those shelves for  Bob Woodward ’s latest behind-the-scenes book, “ The Price of
Politics ,” which might as well have been called “44 Days.”  The centerpiece is a riveting account of the tedious
negotiations to reach a “grand bargain” on the  federal budget 
as the U.S. faced default last summer. Woodward’s implicit theme
is that the price was too high -- for the economy, for the
political system, for the country.  Like the author’s other books, this is the product of
thousands of pages of transcripts from scores of interviews,
including in this case 85 minutes each with the two principals,
President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner , neither
of whom emerge as heroes in a chronicle conspicuously, even
tragically, devoid of heroism.  If its 380 pages were to be distilled to one sentence it
would surely be this: “It was increasingly clear that no one
was running Washington.”  First Week  The entire trajectory of the administration -- frustrated
hope, unrealized change -- was foreshadowed in its first week:  The president called a budget meeting. Representative  Eric Cantor , then the minority whip, expressed skepticism about the
president’s stimulus plan.  Obama lectured the young Republican: “Elections have
consequences. And Eric, I won.” Three days later the president
introduced an $800 million stimulus bill.  “We have the votes,” White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  said, adding a trademark expletive.  And away they went -- and by “away,” we mean the two
sides moved, furiously and fast, away from each other. The
administration pressed ahead. Cantor insisted Obama’s plan
wouldn’t get a single Republican vote. It didn’t.  “Obama had demonstrated that he believed he didn’t need
any other input,”  Woodward writes . “The Republicans were
outsiders, outcasts. The president and the Democratic majorities
in the House and Senate would go it alone. There was no
compromise.”  Fight Story  But Woodward’s story is not merely the tale of Republicans
versus Democrats.  It is the story of infighting between Democrats from the
Northern Plains (Senate Finance Committee chairman  Max Baucus  of
 Montana  against budget hawk  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota ) and
distrust among Republicans (Cantor versus Boehner).  It pits Obama against, variously, business leaders, both
chairmen of the Simpson-Bowles debt-reduction commission, House
Democrats (including former Speaker  Nancy Pelosi ), the
pharmaceutical lobby that sided with him on Obamacare and,
fatefully, House Budget Committee chairman  Paul Ryan , now the
GOP vice-presidential nominee.  The president’s attack on the Ryan plan with the
congressman sitting only 25 feet away in a George Washington
University auditorium became a defining D.C. moment, widening
the partisan divide.  “The contrast between the cool bipartisan talk at the
White House in the morning and the attack on the Republicans was
stark,” Woodward says.  Political Calculus  Later the disputes would be over the calculations --
political, not mathematical -- made in the heat of debate. Would
there be $800 billion (or, later, $1.2 trillion) in revenues,
and could the Republicans swallow that? Would there be changes
in entitlements, and could the Democrats swallow those? If the
Medicare eligibility age rose, would that begin in 2017, as
Boehner proposed, or in 2022, as Obama insisted?  Woodward might find himself attacked for rooting for
compromise in an era that dishonors compromise. He certainly
won’t be accused of skimping on details in an age that rewards
skimming along the surface, particularly in political reportage.
Some might find all the detail tough going, but if you’re the
kind of person who’s desperate to know the vote in a  Ways and
Means  subcommittee hearing, you’ll find the book fascinating.  Ultimately Woodward blames both Obama and Boehner, not for
insincerity but for ineffectiveness, and for letting too much of
the negotiations be conducted by staff. He asserts, shockingly,
that neither man “fully understood” what he was debating.  Playing Telephone  There’s more. In an era when an entire generation eschews
the telephone, these two conducted much of their negotiations on
the phone, producing “a monumental communications lapse between
the president and the speaker at a critical juncture. They still
disagree about what was said and what it meant.”  Woodward criticizes Obama for failing to do the hard things
presidents are elected to do, and he criticizes Boehner for a
failure of leadership, for failing to bring Cantor to heel --
and for trying to “sneak a debt ceiling bill past Cantor.” In
all, he calls Washington political leaders “risk averse.”  Often books like this, peering deeply into the
relationships that animate the capital and the maneuvers that
characterize Congress, are praised for illuminating how
Washington works. This one describes how Washington doesn’t
work.  The phrase “the price of politics” is often used to
describe the cost -- birthdays and soccer games missed,
marriages bent and often broken -- leaders pay for power. This
time the phrase means something bigger. The lingering economic
crisis is the price we have paid for our politics.  “The Price of Politics” is published by  Simon & Schuster 
(428 pages, $30). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on gadgets and
 Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 