-- World’s Baddest Man Tyson Looks to Spread Music, Not Violence
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-09-12T09:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/world-s-baddest-man-tyson-looks-to-spread-music-not-violence.html
Mike Tyson , known in his boxing
days as “the baddest man on the planet,” said he’s no longer
interested in fighting, and all he wants is to dance and sing.  The former world champion, who has appeared in celebrity
dancing shows in Argentina and  Italy , wants to pursue a career
as a performer, and there’s no chance of him boxing again, he
said today in Hong Kong, where he was the guest speaker at the
annual  CLSA Investors’ Forum .  “I don’t want to spread no more of that violence in the
air,” Tyson said. “I want to do some musicals.”  Tyson, talking to the media after addressing about 1,500
bankers, investors and decision-makers gathered at a luncheon,
said it was the first time he had delivered a speech to this
type of audience, and it was “pretty cool.” His advice to
the business world: always have your own fiduciary lawyers
with you and always trust your partners.  Tyson, who became the youngest-ever world heavyweight
champion at 20, doesn’t care about the fortune he squandered
as a boxer.  “I didn’t care about my business; I only cared about my
glory,” he said. “It’s not paid-for glory -- it’s made from
blood, sweat and tears.”  Tyson said he was a great admirer of kung fu icon Bruce Lee.  “You can’t be a student of fighting and not like Bruce
Lee,” he said.  When asked how he would have fared in a fight with the
 Hong Kong  martial arts idol, Tyson shook his head and grinned.  “I’m not gonna fight Bruce Lee,” he said. “The guy
would be kicking me in the head.”  Tyson spoke to the CLSA audience for 90 minutes about
his life before and after boxing, his time in prison and his
acting career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  