-- TMX’s Kloet Says Alpha to Continue After Takeover
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-12T20:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-12/tmx-s-kloet-says-alpha-to-continue-after-takeover.html
(Corrects to IntraSpread product in third paragraph)  TMX Group Inc. (X)  Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Kloet  said Alpha Trading Systems, the competing
exchange TMX gained after its C$3.73 billion ($3.83 billion)
takeover by a group of banks and pension funds, has a future
under the Toronto Stock Exchange owner.  “We see value in the Alpha marketplace continuing to be
there as a product in the TMX Group,” Kloet, 54, said today in
an interview after a special shareholders meeting in Toronto.  Kloet cited Alpha’s continuous limit order book and
IntraSpread product as “valuable” parts of  Canada ’s capital
markets.  TMX investors today approved the takeover and a share swap
as part of the transaction that combines Canada’s main stock
exchanges and derivatives bourse with the country’s securities
clearing house. The takeover by Maple Group Acquisition Corp. is
expected to close by Sept. 14, subject to court approval, the
Toronto-based company said.  Alpha began in November 2008 as an alternative trading
platform and evolved to become a full-fledged stock exchange
earlier this year, with about 17 percent of the Canadian market
for trading. Its CEO, Jos Schmitt, has stayed on through the TMX
takeover process.  “Jos is a valuable member of the Alpha team, he’s worked
both proactively and constructively with us,” Kloet said.
“He’s still a part of the team.”  Acquisitions  TMX will consider acquisitions including takeovers of other
exchanges as long as it makes “strategic” sense and adds to
earnings, Kloet said. He reiterated his interest in expanding in
the U.S. with an exchange for smaller companies.  “I think it’s something obviously we think we’re pretty
good at,” Kloet said. “So we’ll look at opportunities like
that, and broader.”  Assimilating Alpha and the Canadian Depository for
Securities Ltd. remain TMX’s “first order of business,” Kloet
said. “We must keep our eye on the ball on getting the
synergies and really achieving what we want to achieve by this
aggregation of companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  