-- ‘Girls Gone Wild’ Ruled in Need of Trustee to Run Company
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-10T20:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/-girls-gone-wild-ruled-in-need-of-trustee-to-run-company.html
The company behind the “Girls Gone
Wild” videos will be run by a federal bankruptcy trustee, a
judge ruled after creditors accused the founder of the soft-core
pornography franchise of using the business to dodge his debts.  Creditors of GGW Brands LLC, including  Steve Wynn ’s Wynn
 Las Vegas  LLC, requested the trustee to stop the company from
diverting cash to Joe Francis, who started the video series that
features college-age women drinking, stripping and having sex in
reality-TV style shows.  GGW Brands, which claims it has no formal ties to Francis,
filed for bankruptcy in Los Angeles in February, listing debt of
$16.3 million and assets of less than $50,000.  The company claims GGW has no responsibility to pay
millions of dollars in court judgments against Francis that were
won by Wynn Las Vegas and a woman who says a “Girls” video
featured naked images of her without her permission.  GGW paid more than $800,000 in Francis’s American Express
credit card bills so the video maker could maintain his “bad
boy” image, the company said in court papers. Francis’s image
and lavish lifestyle are necessary to sell GGW products,
according to the company.  Creditors said in court filings that those payments and
other evidence prove Francis controls GGW. Therefore, the
company, based in the  Los Angeles  area, should pay the
judgments, they said.  ‘Mega Titans’  “What is before the court is a creditor of Mr. Francis
trying to gain control of the debtor,” Robert Yaspan, a lawyer
for GGW, told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sandra Klein today. He asked
Klein to let “mega titans” Francis and Steve Wynn fight their
battle outside the Chapter 11 proceedings.  Klein said Wynn Las Vegas had provided compelling evidence
that the current company manager is a “figure head” and that
Francis controls GGW.  Last year, Wynn and his company won a $7.5 million slander
ruling against Francis when a Nevada judge found the video maker
lied when he claimed to have proof that Wynn tricked high-end
gamblers.  The case is In re GGW Brands, LLC 13-15130,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Central District of California (Los Angeles)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  