-- Manhattan’s Hudson Yards Gains L’Oreal, SAP as Tenants
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-04-10T21:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/l-oreal-sap-join-coach-as-tenants-at-first-hudson-yards-tower.html
Related Cos. signed two tenants for
the first tower of Hudson Yards, the 26-acre complex planned on
 Manhattan ’s west side, and said it lined up financing for the
project as construction advances.   L’Oreal SA (OR) , the Paris-based cosmetics company, will take
402,000 square feet (37,300 square meters) at the south tower
for its U.S. headquarters, Related said in a statement today.
German software company  SAP AG (SAP)  agreed to lease 115,000 square
feet on the top four floors. The developer also completed deals
for $1.4 billion in financing for Hudson Yards, including a
construction loan led by  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD)   Related, the New York-based company founded by Stephen Ross, is planning to build a 13.3 million-square-foot complex
including offices, retail space and residences in what Mayor
Michael Bloomberg called one of the largest private developments
ever undertaken in the country. The south tower will rise 895
feet (273 meters) at the corner of 30th Street and 10th Avenue
and is slated for occupancy in 2015.  Coach Inc. (COH)  purchased about
740,000 square feet for its global headquarters.  “The Hudson Yards area is well on its way to becoming a
top-tier destination,” Bloomberg, the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, said in the
statement. “These commitments from leading corporations L’Oreal
USA, SAP and Coach represent an important vote of confidence in
our city’s future.”  Coach Headquarters  Coach, the largest U.S. luxury-handbag maker, said its new
headquarters will cost about $750 million over the next three
years. The company intends to finance the purchase with cash,
borrowings from its credit line and proceeds from the $130
million sale of its current building on West 34th Street,
according to a regulatory filing today. That building is being
sold to an entity called ERY 34th Street Acquisition LLC, a
consortium that includes Related and Oxford Properties Group,
its partner on Hudson Yards.  Coach’s purchase came three years after its initial
meetings with the developer, according to Gregory Tosko, a vice
chairman at brokerage CBRE Group Inc. who represented Coach.
Office occupancies rarely take that long to negotiate, he said.  “It was a pretty complicated deal in terms of just the
Coach deal itself,” Tosko said. Then “a lot of things had to
come together at one time,” including the L’Oreal and SAP
agreements, financing and leases on the land.  SAP Offices  Coach, whose offices have been on the west side for about
70 years, remained “resolute” in pursuing the purchase even as
longtime Chief Executive Officer Lew Frankfort decided to give
up that job and remain as executive chairman, and it faced
increasing competition from  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  and  Ralph
Lauren Corp. (RL) , Tosko said.  SAP is transferring employees to Hudson Yards from two New
York locations -- a marketing office in the West Village and the
Midtown home of Sybase Inc., a software company it bought in
2010, said Jim Dever, an SAP spokesman. Its space on the top
floors of the south tower will offer sweeping views of the city
and the Hudson River waterfront and include “places where we
can showcase SAP technology” to customers, he said.  The company will keep its North American headquarters in
Newtown Square,  Pennsylvania , a Philadelphia suburb, Dever said.  Financing Deal  Starwood Property, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based real
estate investment trust founded by Barry Sternlicht, is leading
a syndicate of lenders for the 1.7 million-square-foot south
tower. The group includes Oxford and affiliates of the United
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners, according to Related’s
statement.  Debt on the portion of the building that Coach isn’t
purchasing will total $475 million, with $350 million of that
coming from Starwood, the company said in a statement. Oxford
and the carpenters fund are covering the rest. Oxford is the
Toronto-based real estate arm of Ontario Municipal Employees
Retirement System.  Starwood’s loan will mature in four years, with an option
to extend for a fifth year.  A unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is providing about $100
million of the $380 million of equity being invested, said a
person with knowledge of the deal, who asked not to be named
because the details are private. An unidentified sovereign
wealth fund is providing $240 million and Related and Oxford are
providing about $40 million combined, the person said.  Darin Oduyoye, a JPMorgan spokesman, said he had no
immediate comment.  Residential Tower  Unidentified “selected investors are also making equity
investments” in a residential tower to be built on 30th Street
and 11th Avenue, Related said in its statement.  New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which
owns the Hudson Yards land, also today announced that Related
had completed a $1 billion, 99-year lease of the eastern portion
of the site, where the south tower will be built.  Some of the structures planned for the site require a
platform over the Long Island Rail Road yards that dominate the
property. The south tower and the residential building would be
constructed on areas that don’t require decking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  