-- A Pioneer’s Unfinished Struggle to Give Women Equal Pay
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u r g a n
-- 2013-04-10T17:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/a-pioneer-s-unfinished-struggle-to-give-women-equal-pay.html
Most Americans know that for every
dollar a man earns, a woman doing the same job still makes
significantly less. As a reminder,  Equal Pay Day  is commemorated
every year on a Tuesday in April. The date -- this year it was
April 9 -- is selected to illustrate how long into the current
year a woman must work to match what a man earned the previous
year.  Few Americans are aware, however, that there is a  Women’s
Bureau  in the U.S. Labor Department devoted to such issues. Nor
do they realize that it played a crucial role in enacting the
Equal Pay Act of 1963, which prohibited wage discrimination on
the basis of sex. The law reflected years of work and commitment
by one woman in particular:  Esther Peterson .  Peterson might have seemed an unlikely reformer.  Born  to a
Mormon family in Provo,  Utah , she once recalled that she was
raised to believe that striking workers “had bombs in their
pockets and were communists.” It was only after she finished
college and moved east that she became more sensitive to
workers’ needs -- especially those of female workers. During the
1930s, while teaching night-school classes to garment workers,
she witnessed women’s struggles as they tried to make ends meet.  Kennedy Administration  Peterson’s interest in labor’s concerns grew, and by 1957
she was the first female lobbyist for the AFL-CIO. By then, she
had worked with John F. Kennedy on labor issues while he served
in Congress. After he was elected president, he chose Peterson
to head the Women’s Bureau and serve as an assistant secretary
of labor.  With her new titles and her connection to the president,
Peterson was determined to help women receive equal pay for
equal work. The postwar era brought dramatic changes in
workplace  demographics , as more married women with children
entered the labor pool. Most held traditional “women’s jobs,”
such as nurses, teachers or clerks. And when women had the same
kinds of jobs as men, they often faced wage discrimination. Some
states had laws barring the practice, but Peterson wanted
federal protection.  Dwight Eisenhower’s administration had supported such
legislation but faced opposition from key members of Congress.
During his time as a lawmaker, Kennedy had paid lip service to
the idea, though he never took any forceful action to support
it. When new equal-pay legislation was proposed in 1961, Kennedy
allowed Peterson and her staff to spearhead the effort.  In 1962, a bill passed the House, to the consternation of
the business community. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce was able to
derail the measure in the Senate for a time, but ultimately the
upper house also passed a version of the legislation. Still, the
delaying tactics led to procedural blocks that prevented the
bill from reaching the president for his signature into law.
Peterson wasn’t deterred. She and her staff began drawing up a
new bill. This time, the obstacles weren’t just business
interests and the lawmakers sympathetic to them, but also union
leaders and Kennedy advisers. Peterson later described
“undercover lobbying” against the law by some unions.  And for a time, members of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers suggested there was no need for the law;
Peterson showed them otherwise. Then, Labor Secretary William
Willard Wirtz said the law would cost too much to enforce. In
her book, “On Account of Sex: The Politics of Women’s Issues
1945-1968,”  Cynthia Harrison  reports Peterson’s response: “It
does not seem unreasonable to spend approximately the same
amount of money the government now spends on paper clips and
stapling machines in order to protect 24 million women members
of the labor force.”  Seniority Exemption  Peterson won her case with the administration, and on
Valentine’s Day 1963, she took the equal-pay proposal to the
Capitol, where it was introduced in both houses. Over the next
two months, business groups spoke out against the bill. Even so,
after some wrangling over a few provisions, the  Equal Pay Act 
was passed in May and signed into law in June. While it
guaranteed equal pay for equal work, it also allowed some
exceptions for pay differences, including seniority or merit.  Peterson saw her and her bureau’s work as an important
first step in achieving equality for women. “We’re not in the
basement anymore,” she said. But in a letter to the  New York 
Times she lamented that many Americans, and particularly the
news media, still failed to “treat the plight of the woman
worker with the seriousness it deserves.” At the time, women
were paid 60 cents for every dollar that men earned.  Today, women earn  77 cents  for every dollar earned by men -
- it’s even lower for minority women -- making Peterson’s plea
as relevant as it was almost a half-century ago.  (Michael Burgan is a freelance writer and editor of the
Biographer’s Craft, the newsletter for Biographers International
Organization. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this post:
Michael Burgan at  mburgan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  