-- Abe’s Weak Point Will Be Rising Japan Bond Yields, Hirano Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-04-10T02:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/abe-s-weak-point-will-be-rising-japan-bond-yields-hirano-says.html
Rising Japanese bond yields may
become the biggest challenge for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
campaign to revive the world’s third-biggest economy, a former
 Bank of Japan (8301)  official said.  “The weakest point of Abenomics will be when the economy
recovers, up-tick pressure on yields will rise and bonds will be
sold,” Eiji Hirano, who was in charge of international affairs
at the BOJ from 2002 to 2006, said in an interview this week.
“If that happens, the BOJ may not be able to stop rising yields
by buying more bonds, and increasing purchases could cause
concern that the central bank is financing the government.”  The central bank last week unleashed unprecedented monetary
stimulus, planning to double the nation’s monetary base within
two years to boost prices and wages and end a deflationary
malaise. Abe needs to maintain investor confidence as he
struggles with fueling growth while limiting increases in the
world’s biggest public debt burden.  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s pledge to buy bonds at an
unprecedented pace has boosted stocks and pushed the yen to the
lowest level in four years.  Ten-year benchmark bond yields were at 0.55 percent in
 Tokyo  at 10:40 a.m. after touching a record low of 0.315 percent
on April 5. The yen was at 99.05 per dollar after yesterday
touching 99.66, the lowest since May 2009. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average was up 0.7 percent, extending a more than 50 percent
rise since mid-November.  “The most important thing for  Japan  is Abe’s growth
strategy but implementation takes a strong cabinet with high
approval ratings,” Hirano, 62, executive vice president at
Toyota Financial Services Corp. said in Tokyo. The BOJ’s easing
will bolster public support for Abe, Hirano said.  Abe won December’s election by pledging to fire “three
arrows” to end deflationary torpor: monetary stimulus, fiscal
spending and cutting regulation to increase investment and
hiring.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  