-- Madoff Investors Can’t Sue SEC, U.S. Appeals Court Rules
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-10T17:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/madoff-investors-can-t-sue-sec-u-s-appeals-court-rules.html
Bernard Madoff’s investors can’t
sue the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for failing to
uncover his massive Ponzi scheme, a federal appeals court ruled.  The regulator’s “regrettable inaction” is shielded by
law, the New York-based appeals panel said today, upholding a
lower-court decision to dismiss suits in which investors accused
the SEC of negligence.  The three-judge panel ruled that the “discretionary
function” exception to a law permitting people to sue the U.S.
government applies in cases filed by Madoff victims.  “Despite our sympathy for plaintiffs’ predicament (and our
antipathy for the SEC’s conduct), Congress’s intent to shield
regulatory agencies’ discretionary use of specific investigative
powers” defeats the investors’ claims, the court said.  In April 2011, U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in
Manhattan threw out a $2.5 million suit filed two years earlier
by investors Phyllis Molchatsky and Steven Schneider, who blamed
what they described as the SEC’s grossly negligent oversight of
Madoff’s firm for their losses.  In a similar decision in January, the federal appeals court
in San Francisco ruled against a Madoff investor suit against
the SEC.  The SEC’s inspector general found in a 2009 report that the
agency had failed to make a “thorough and competent”
investigation of Madoff’s firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Inc., despite having received detailed complaints.  ‘Financial Illiteracy’  Those who tried to alert the SEC to Madoff included Harry Markopolos, who said he tried for years to warn the regulator
that the returns Madoff claimed to generate for investors were
impossible. In congressional testimony, Markopolos accused the
SEC of “investigative ineptitude and financial illiteracy” for
failing to follow up on complaints and uncover the Madoff fraud.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history, which defrauded individuals, charities
and financial institutions out of an estimated $17 billion in
principal. Madoff, who was arrested in 2008, is serving a 150-
year sentence in federal prison in North Carolina.  “We believe that our clients were wronged (both by Madoff
and the SEC), and their rights needed to be vindicated,” Howard Elisofon, a lawyer for some of the investors, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “We recognized that challenging the SEC
would be difficult, but this was a case that needed to be
fought.”  The case is Molchatsky v. U.S., 11-02510, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  