-- Maersk Targets Korea as Antidote to European Sclerosis: Freight
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2013-04-10T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/maersk-targets-korea-as-antidote-to-european-sclerosis-freight.html
As Europe’s economic slowdown
reshapes global trade patterns, the world’s biggest container
line is accelerating its strategy to tap into Asian growth by
starting a new direct route to  South Korea .   A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  this month began shipping from the
port of Gothenburg, Scandinavia’s largest, to Busan, the world’s
fifth-busiest port. The route will support growing Asian demand
for European imports almost two years after  Korea  and the
European Union signed a free-trade agreement.  “Europe is standing still and doesn’t help outgoing
volumes, while  Asia  is capturing a larger share,” Magnus
Karestedt, chief executive officer of the Gothenburg port on
 Sweden ’s west coast, said in a phone interview. “We expect
strong growth in the next two years or so.”  Asia is moving away from just supplying cheap exports as
the region’s economic success provides the wealth to import more
from  Europe . Shipping companies that realign their business to
profit from the shift are set to outperform rivals that don’t,
according to Stig Frederiksen, an analyst at Carnegie Bank A/S
in Copenhagen. He says that will place Maersk at an advantage.  On the Europe-to-Asia leg shipping lines have had to leave
some containers behind for the next trip because ships are full,
Frederiksen said in a phone interview, adding that Maersk is
running at full capacity at times.  All that “provides some evidence that the trade is
becoming more profitable,” he said. He has a buy recommendation
on Maersk shares.  Shares Outperform  Shares of the Danish group have risen 5.9 percent in the
past 12 months. That compares with a 10.3 percent decline for
 Kuehne + Nagel International AG (KNIN) , the world’s biggest sea-freight
forwarder.  The  Shanghai  Containerized Freight Index, which tracks spot
prices on containers exported from  China ’s South Eastern
industrial hub, dropped 14 percent in the year through March 22,
when the latest reading was published.  Maersk estimates trade to Asia’s growth economies will
increase this year as shipments to crisis-stricken Europe
decline.  “Whereas the  Far East  to North Europe trade is still
declining year over year, the other direction is growing,”
Peter Martin Leschly, who manages Maersk’s Asia-Europe office
from Copenhagen, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. The
company expects about 4 percent growth in eastbound traffic this
year over last year and a slight decline in the other direction.  Busan-Bound  Some of those shiploads will go to Busan, while others will
go on to other countries, Karestedt said. Most containers
shipped to  Japan  from Gothenburg travel through Busan, while the
Korean port is also a nucleus of the high-volume, high frequency
trade between ports in China, Japan and Korea.  Korea itself also is importing more goods from the EU. The
free trade agreement with South Korea, which took effect July 1,
2011, is the EU’s first with an Asian country. The 27-member
bloc’s trade deal is expected to expand the two sides’ almost
$100 billion of annual commerce by $4.7 billion a year over the
next 15 years, according to a 2010 study led by state-run Korea
Institute for International Economic Policy.  Imports from the EU were 10.8 percent of total imports
during the first 20 days in March, compared with 9.2 percent in
the same period a year earlier, according to an April 1
statement from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. The
import portion from Japan, U.S. and ASEAN nations fell at the
same time.  China Growth  Transport machines arriving in Korea from the EU increased
57 percent while import of European mineral extracts and
machinery grew 36 percent and 32 percent each in the period, the
statement said.  The economy of the 17-nation euro area will shrink 0.3
percent this year after contracting 0.6 percent in 2012, the
European Commission said on Feb. 22.  China’s economy  will grow
8.2 percent in 2013, the  International Monetary Fund  said in
January. The group of countries the Washington-based fund calls
Developing Asia will grow 7.1 percent this year, it estimates.  “Consumers decide where the trade goes, and with Asian
consumers rising, more goods will have to flow into those
markets,” said Peter Sand, an analyst at shipping association
BIMCO in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark .  Maersk Chief Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen
said in an interview in November he estimates China’s consumers
will dominate the world’s second-largest economy within a
decade. To prepare for the shift, Maersk is already expanding in
Asia, including investing in Chinese port capacity, “to be
ready to help customers who want to export to China,”
Smedegaard said. Maersk owns seven container terminals there.  Analyst Advice  Frederiksen says adjusting business to benefit from Asian
demand is especially critical now as lackluster global growth
jeopardizes shipping profits. Of the 31 analysts who provide
recommendations on Maersk to Bloomberg, 16 suggest buying the
stock, eight are telling customers to hold and seven say sell.  Governments in Northern Europe are also responding to the
shift in trade patterns. Sweden, the largest Nordic economy,
says its exporters should rely less on demand from Europe and
instead target  emerging markets . The nation ships half its $500
billion annual output abroad and estimates exports to Asia will
surge 30 percent by 2016. That’s double the growth to Europe.  SSAB AB (SSABA) , a Swedish maker of sheet and plate steel that has
so far relied most on the ports of Gaevle and Oxeloesund to send
goods to Asia, sees the new route between Gothenburg and Busan
as a “very positive opportunity,” Per Bondemark, head of the
company’s logistics office for Europe, the  Middle East  and
 Africa , said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Being There  Sweden’s state-backed lender to the export industry is also
backing a shift in trade toward the east. Asian import demand is
“on a roll,” Marie Giertz, chief economist at SEK, said in an
interview. “It’s important that we’re there.”  Maersk Line cut capacity on the Asia-to-Europe route -- its
biggest -- by about 21 percent last year. The shipping line said
Feb. 22 that profit this year will be higher than the $461
million reached in 2012 as the company cuts costs and as growth
in global container demand accelerates. An April 2  note  on its
website says it is seeking an increase in freight rates of $100
per 20-foot container from northern Europe to Far East Asia
including Japan as of May 1.  Maersk Line operates 600 ships with capacity of 2.6 million
standard containers, making it the world’s No. 1, according to
Paris-based Alphaliner.  According to Leschly, the Port of Gothenburg to Busan route
-- which also includes  stops  at European ports including
Rotterdam and such Asian ports as  Hong Kong ,  Singapore  and
Shanghai -- will attract exporters that had previously relied on
other hubs. Goods from the Nordic region’s largest harbor had
typically been transported on smaller feeder ships to larger
European ports transfer to bigger ships bound for Asia.  “We hope and expect customers will want to make use of
this opportunity going forward,” Leschly said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  