-- African Minerals May Seek China Debt for $2.1 Billion Mine
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-04-10T16:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/african-minerals-may-seek-china-debt-for-2-1-billion-expansion.html
African Minerals Ltd. (AMI) , the Sierra
Leone iron-ore producer that got a $1.5 billion investment from
a Chinese steel mill last year, may seek debt funding from the
Asian nation for a mine expansion scheduled for 2016.  “We have a range of different options,” Chief Executive
Officer  Keith Calder  said in a phone interview from  London ,
referring to the $2.1 billion development plan. “We have the
opportunity for project-level debt, which would be a combination
of perhaps Chinese and western banks.”  African Minerals began shipments from the Tonkolili mine in
November of 2011 and today said it expects to reach its targeted
production rate of 20 million metric tons annually this quarter.
The stock  jumped  the most in almost four years, surging 14
percent in London trading.  The company also issued its first forecast for exports this
year of 13 million tons to 15 million tons. That estimate “is
well above market expectations,” according to Jefferies Group
Inc. analyst Seth Rosenfeld, who had predicted 12 million tons.  “We are close to a major cash flow pick-up,” Rosenfeld
wrote today in a report. “While investors were disappointed by
a series of delays to ramp-up targets in the last year, reaching
the end of a bumpy ride should help African Minerals gradually
rebuild some investor confidence.”  The stock, which fell to its lowest level since June 2009
on April 8, closed at 257 pence. The shares have dropped 19
percent  this year , giving the company a market value of 851
million pounds ($1.3 billion).  Chinese Interest  The company may need about $1.5 billion of debt on top of
about $500 million of its current cash to fund the expansion,
known as Pepel, that will increase capacity to 35 million tons,
Chief Financial Officer Miguel Perry said today in an interview.
 China ’s Shandong Iron & Steel Group Co. owns 25 percent of the
Sierra Leone mine.  “We’ve got interest coming from the Chinese to put in
project funding debt,” Perry said. “That really proves the
strength of the relationship and the benefits of the
relationship from partnering with Shandong.”  African Minerals produced 5.1 million tons last year and
shipped 4.3 million tons, with sales of $242 million.  It posted an operating loss of $225.6 million, from a 2011
loss of $41.5 million. That included a $51.1 million charge for
breaching an accord with its Chinese partner relating to missing
production and sales targets. The company is seeking to recover
losses from an estimated $18 million fuel theft, it said today.  Fuel Theft  “Management is continuing with efforts to recover losses
incurred and to identify more accurately the exact amount of
fuel theft,” African Minerals said. It has “also strengthened
controls around the delivery and issue of fuel supplies to
prevent the recurrence of fuel loss.”  The company reported a profit after tax of $4.3 million,
from a loss of $40.4 million a year earlier.  The profit was largely due to a $288.4 million fair value
financial gain on a  put option  with Shandong relating to an
agreement where Shandong can sell back its 25 percent interest
in the company’s Tonkolili project “in the unlikely event”
Chairman Frank Timis chooses to resign from the board. That
option liability is now estimated at $706.1 million, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  