-- Lagarde Boosting China IMF Clout Requires New Allies
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-04-10T15:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/lagarde-boosting-china-imf-clout-requires-new-allies.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
 Christine Lagarde  used the word “challenging” to describe the
Cyprus rescue to which she pledged $1.3 billion. She might say
the same about where the IMF stands with the  U.S. Congress .  Lagarde, the fund’s managing director, is relying on
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to persuade lawmakers to
approve a 2010 global agreement that would double the amount the
IMF has available for lending, to about $717 billion. The
support of the U.S., which pushed for the package that also
gives China and other emerging economies more voting power at
the organization, is essential under the lender’s rules.  The U.S. would contribute its share to the fund’s expanded
lending authority by shifting about $63 billion from an existing
 credit line . Obama requested the transfer in his 2014 budget
today, timing that’s less than ideal as Congress grapples with
the effects of automatic spending cuts known as sequestration.
What’s more, the IMF needs new champions on  Capitol Hill  after
the departure of two longtime supporters, Republican Senator
 Richard Lugar  and Democratic Representative  Barney Frank .  “There’s not a lot of appetite on Capitol Hill to be seen
as supporting international organizations,” said Timothy Adams,
a former Treasury Department undersecretary who is now managing
director of the Washington-based  Institute of International
Finance . Now “the sequestration issue makes everything that
appears to be a spending proposal all the more difficult to
achieve,” and the IMF request is “an easy target to
demonize.”  Former Secretaries  Over the past month, former U.S. officials including Adams
and former Treasury Secretaries Henry Paulson and  Lawrence
Summers  have  written  to congressional leaders urging lawmakers
to pass the agreement. The measures would preserve U.S.
influence at the Washington-based institution and help continue
promoting U.S. objectives such as growth and financial
stability, they said.  After bailing out economies from South Korea to Brazil in
the late 1990s, the IMF has shifted the focus of its loans over
the past three years to the debt turmoil in Europe, where it is
co-funding bailouts to Portugal, Greece, Ireland and soon
Cyprus. The IMF estimates that the 17-country euro region
accounts for 64 percent of total credit outstanding as of March
28, up from 40 percent a year earlier.  That’s a concern for some lawmakers.  “The euro-zone monetary crisis has added a new wrinkle to
these international funding mechanisms,” said  John Campbell , a
Republican from California who chairs the House subcommittee
with oversight of the institution, in a February interview. “In
the past the major economies put money in these things and a lot
of it went out to some of the smaller economies around the
world. Now you have at least one of those major economies under
considerable stress.”  Neutral Observer  Campbell, who called a hearing on the U.S. role at the IMF
this month, said the lender needs to “consider me a neutral
observer at the moment.” Christopher Bognanno, a spokesman for
Campbell, said yesterday the lawmaker’s position hasn’t changed.  One lawmaker who has expressed willingness to expand the
IMF’s resources is California Representative Maxine Waters, who
replaced Frank as senior Democrat on the Financial Services
Committee.  “I look forward to working with the administration to both
ensure that the IMF is well-equipped and that developing nations
are given a greater voice in its operations,” she said in an e-
mailed statement.  Waters was among Democrats who voted in 2009 against a
spending bill that included the temporary credit line to equip
the IMF to respond to the global financial crisis. She signed a
letter to appropriators asking that the IMF not be given a
“blank check.”  Embarrassing Delay  Delays are embarrassing for an administration that had
spearheaded efforts to give  emerging markets  more voting power
at the fund at the expense of Europeans, said Whitney Debevoise,
a former U.S. representative on the World Bank board of
directors from 2007 to 2009.  “We were the leaders for this reform and now we’re the
laggards,” Debevoise said in a phone interview. With elections
last year “the administration hasn’t really pushed hard,” and
now “will have to find some new champions,” said Debevoise, a
senior partner at Washington law firm Arnold & Porter LLP.  The delay is blocking nations such as South Korea and
Brazil from getting a voting share that better reflects their
rising economic weight. Failure to implement the measures first
agreed to by the Group of 20 nations would also hurt the IMF,
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  Losing Relevance  “Without implementation of reforms already negotiated, or
the continuity of reforms in the IMF, the institution runs the
risk of losing relevance and the capacity to influence the world
economy, with losses for everyone,” Mantega said in a statement
e-mailed to Bloomberg.  The administration failed to get the IMF measures included
in legislation funding the government through September.  “The U.S. is committed to implementing the 2010”
agreement, Treasury spokeswoman Holly Shulman said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “We are actively working with
Congress to get this completed as soon as possible.”  The agreement requires an authorization to transfer about
$63 billion from the temporary credit line of about $100 billion
agreed to by the U.S. in 2009. It will be up to Congress to
decide whether to appropriate any funds as loan-loss reserves
for the $63 billion. Four years ago, the  Congressional Budget
Office  determined an appropriation of about $5 billion was
necessary to cover the new commitments under the temporary line
of credit.  Lugar’s Vote  Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a Republican from
Washington state, sought to limit U.S. participation in IMF
bailouts to European Union countries. She and  Jim DeMint , then a
South Carolina Republican senator, introduced legislation to
rescind the temporary 2009 credit line, agreed to in the midst
of the global recession.  In 2011, the DeMint amendment was  defeated  55-44, helped by
four Republican votes including that of Lugar, who had also
backed increasing IMF lending resources. Lugar, then the top
Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, lost his
party’s primary in Indiana to a Tea Party-backed candidate last
year after 36 years in the Senate.  “Who’s going to be the new Lugar, who’s going to be the
new Barney Frank?”  Edwin Truman , who was a U.S. assistant
Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, said in an
interview. “There’s a vacuum there.”  Republican  Bob Corker  of Tennessee replaced Lugar on the
committee. His record on the recent IMF votes is mixed. While he
voted in favor of the credit line, which was attached to a war-
spending bill, he also backed the DeMint amendment.  Corker said in an e-mailed statement yesterday he “will
carefully review” the request in Obama’s budget.  Meanwhile, the new chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee, New Jersey Democrat  Robert Menendez , is facing a
Senate Ethics Committee investigation into allegations that he
received improper gifts from a Florida doctor whose office was
raided by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  earlier this year.
Menendez’s office said in January the gifts, involving 2010
trips on a private jet, had been reimbursed.  Menendez wasn’t available to comment yesterday about the
IMF issue, a spokeswoman said.  Frank’s Commitment  In 2009 Massachusetts Representative Frank, then the
chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, faced
opposition from Republicans and some Democrats over the credit
line. To secure more Democratic votes, Frank, who retired this
year, obtained from Treasury and the IMF a commitment that part
of the proceeds from the fund’s gold sales would be used to
finance aid to poor countries, Truman said.  “We will miss them,” Lagarde said of Frank and Lugar in a
November interview. She said she meets with lawmakers “once a
month on average, from both sides of the aisle” on Capitol Hill
or in informal settings.  The delay is complicating negotiations for another round of
shifts in  voting rights  taking place this year and weakening the
U.S.’s voice during such talks, said  Jacob Kirkegaard , a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington.  “Why should other governments do something that is perhaps
controversial on a number of levels for them domestically?” he
asked. “They’re just going to say, ‘Look guys, stick to your
commitments. Come back when you’ve done your homework.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  