-- Agrium Plans to Expand After Fending Off Jana Challenge
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-04-10T15:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/agrium-plans-to-expand-after-fending-off-jana-challenge.html
Fresh from beating back a proxy
challenge from activist investor Jana Partners LLC, fertilizer
maker  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  plans to refocus on expansion in the face of a
commodities slump.  Agrium said at its annual meeting yesterday that investors
rejected five Jana-backed nominees to the board. Agrium’s
largest  shareholder  with a 7.5 percent stake, Jana has been
pushing the Calgary-based company to spin off its retail
division, a network of agricultural outlets that sells seeds,
fertilizer and crop-protection chemicals to farmers.  Jana “obviously chose the wrong target,” Agrium Chief
Executive Officer Mike Wilson said after the meeting in Calgary.
“Now we can go and focus on what’s important to shareholders
and that’s growing the company.”  Agrium’s victory allows Wilson to proceed with his strategy
of building the company’s retail network to help counterbalance
volatile fertilizer prices.  “Everyone would agree that now it’s all about execution,
doing what the company can do to improve results,”  Mark Gulley ,
a New York-based analyst at BGC Partners LP, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Now the debate is all about operational
excellence, it’s about the nitty-gritty.”  Agrium is the latest Canadian company to face activist
shareholders aiming to boost returns. Last year billionaire
hedge fund manager William Ackman succeeded in unseating board
members and installing a new CEO at  Canadian Pacific Railway
Ltd. (CP)   Shareholder Pressure  Other company’s shares, including those of  SNC-Lavalin
Group Inc. (SNC) , have rallied after minority investors sought to
shake up management to boost earnings or spin off businesses.  Jana, which was founded in 2001 and invests in companies
undergoing changes such as mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies,
promised to keep up the pressure on Agrium’s management.  Jana Managing Partner  Barry Rosenstein , accompanied by two
bodyguards yesterday, declined to say what his New York-based
hedge fund planned as he left the meeting, which was attended by
more than 200 people.  “This is the worst example of entrenched, power-hungry-at-
any-cost behavior I have ever witnessed,” Rosenstein told
investors before the vote. He said Agrium’s board lied to
shareholders and labeled him a “ New York  hedge fund
billionaire.”  Rosenstein said he plans to “investigate” how
shareholders changed their votes after the deadline on April 5.  Falling Prices  Agrium fell 0.3 percent to C$96.24 at 11:01 a.m. in
Toronto.  The shares  have gained 14 percent in the past 12
months.  Agrium faces the headwind of falling grain prices that may
leave farmers with less money for agricultural chemicals and
other farm inputs.  “In the short term, we believe the stock will be
challenged as the activism story that had driven so much
interest in Agrium now transitions to one of ‘‘What now?’’”
Matthew Korn, a New York-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said
yesterday in a note to clients.  Corn, soybeans and wheat, the biggest U.S. crops along with
hay, have slid into bear markets with drops of more than 20
percent from 2012 highs.  “Agrium’s got long-term value,” Bob Schulz, a professor
at the University of Calgary business school, said in an
interview. “The shares aren’t going to surge up in the next
couple of days, but in the long-run there’s value there.”  Retail Unit  Agrium’s farm retail division accounted for 66 percent of
 Agrium’s revenue  last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 31 percent at the company’s
wholesale fertilizer business, which makes nitrogen, potash and
phosphate-based products.  Jana contends the full value of the retail unit is lost
within Agrium, while Agrium has argued it provides a useful
offset to downturns in commodity markets.  Since Jana first approached Agrium in May, the Canadian
company has improved transparency, bought back shares, increased
its dividend and added directors with experience in bulk
agricultural-chemicals distribution.  “Our integrated strategy is working,” Wilson said
yesterday. “We don’t expect any changes to our strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  