-- Thain CIT Redux Makes Bankrupt Lender a Target: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-04-11T20:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/thain-cit-redux-makes-bankrupt-lender-a-target-real-m-a.html
John Thain, who sold Merrill Lynch
& Co. for a premium at the height of the financial crisis, has
transformed the once-bankrupt lender  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  into an
enticing takeover target for some of the largest banks.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , both flush
with deposits and boasting high credit ratings, could be drawn
to the commercial lender as a way to make more money by
providing financing to non-Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies, said Ely & Co. CIT, which has a market value of $8.7
billion, would give a buyer more corporate customers at a time
of growth in commercial and industrial lending, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  While still hobbled by a  junk rating  and a share price
that’s  trailed  other financial stocks during the last two years,
CIT earns more on its loans than 99 percent of U.S. banks and is
projected by analysts to post its  biggest profit  this year since
emerging from bankruptcy in 2009, the data show. The New York-
based company now trades for just 1.1 times its tangible asset
value, and Compass Point Research & Trading LLC said CIT could
fetch $55 a share in a sale, 27 percent more than yesterday.  “It makes sense strategically and the math works,” Mike Turner, a Washington-based analyst at Compass Point, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a very, very attractive target.”  Curt Ritter , a spokesman for CIT, said the company doesn’t
comment on market speculation, when asked whether Thain is
considering selling CIT or if he’s been approached by acquirers.
The company also declined to make Thain available for an
interview.  In September, Thain, 57, said on CNBC that he’s
“absolutely not” seeking a buyer.  ‘Mr. Fix-It’  When Thain was named chief executive officer of CIT in
February 2010, the firm had just emerged from bankruptcy and he
was reeling from a high-profile exit from Merrill Lynch. In the
crisis that brought down Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, Thain had succeeded in persuading Bank of
America Corp. to pay $29 a share for Merrill Lynch, a 70 percent
premium to its stock price.  Merrill Lynch’s losses accelerated after the sale, and
Thain was fired three weeks after the deal closed. Criticized
for the losses, bonus payments and a $1.2 million office
redecoration, Thain’s record of success, including previously
running NYSE Euronext after spending more than 20 years at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., was tarnished.  “We view Thain’s tenure at CIT not only as another
opportunity for him to demonstrate his ability to turn around an
enterprise, but also an opportunity for him to rehabilitate his
reputation,” Mark Palmer, a New York-based analyst at BTIG LLC,
said in a phone interview. “Prior to his experience at Merrill
Lynch, he had developed a reputation as a Mr. Fix-It on Wall
Street. His experience at CIT has helped him to regain that
moniker.”  CIT Turnaround  At CIT, Thain has led a turnaround under which the lender
refinanced or eliminated almost $31 billion in debt, reducing
funding costs. Analysts estimate the company -- which lends
money to a range of businesses in industries including
manufacturing, retailing and transportation -- will record $797
million in  net income  this year, the most since  before  the
financial crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CIT has been a rumored takeover target since emerging from
bankruptcy, said Jeff Davis, managing director of the financial
institutions group of Mercer Capital, an advisory firm in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee .  Its appeal for larger banks lies in its portfolio of high-
yielding commercial loans, Davis said.  “Banks are making a huge push into leveraged finance,” he
said in a phone interview. “CIT has a lot of industry
expertise.”  Good Assets  CIT’s average $41.6 billion in loans, leases and other
assets that pay interest had an average yield of 6.98 percent in
2012, according to its year-end filing. That tops 99 percent of
U.S. lenders that have market values exceeding $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The average yield on earning assets
at banks with more than $10 billion in assets was  3.82 percent 
last year, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Lenders with “good assets, they have something that is
really desirable at the moment,” Ralph F. MacDonald, a partner
in Atlanta with law firm Jones Day that advises on bank mergers,
said in a phone interview. “Good assets, earning assets, are
hard to come by.”  A bank with higher debt ratings and lower funding costs
could buy CIT and boost the profitability of its commercial-
lending business, BTIG’s Palmer said. CIT’s debt is rated three
levels below investment grade at Ba3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BB- by Standard & Poor’s.  The list of companies capable of acquiring CIT isn’t long,
Bert Ely, an independent bank analyst with Ely & Co. in
Alexandria,  Virginia , said in a phone interview.  ‘Big Buyer’  “It has to be a big buyer,” with a high credit rating and
large number of deposits, he said, citing Toronto-Dominion,
Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp and Bank of Montreal. Wells Fargo, the
biggest U.S. home lender, had more than $1 trillion of customer
 deposits  at the end of December, the third-most among North
American banks larger than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Rated AA- by S&P, Toronto-Dominion,  Canada ’s second-largest
bank by market value, is tied with Royal Bank of Canada for the
highest credit standing among North American lenders, the data
show. Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp and Bank of Montreal rank one
level lower at A+.  Representatives at Toronto-Dominion and  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,
both based in Toronto, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo and
Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp declined to comment on whether
they want to buy CIT.  Takeover Hurdles  While CIT might attract interest from banks, there are
potential hurdles to a takeover, Mercer Capital’s Davis said.
For one, regulators are wary of letting large banks get any
bigger, he said.  Refinancing CIT’s  debt  as part of any takeover also could
be costly, Davis said. Even after it reduced its borrowings,
CIT’s $22 billion in long-term debt is more than twice its
market value, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, buyers willing to strike now and risk possible
regulatory scrutiny can get CIT as it trades for 1.1 times its
tangible book value, a measure of how much shareholders would
receive if the firms’ assets were sold and liabilities paid off.
That multiple is a 33 percent discount to the industry median,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With CIT shares up 12 percent this year, BTIG’s Palmer and
Compass Point’s Turner said a takeover bid in the mid-$50 range
would be fair. At $55 a share, an acquirer would be paying a 27
percent premium to CIT’s closing price yesterday of $43.34.  Today, CIT shares fell 0.2 percent to $43.27.  “The main driver at this point, in our view, is the price
of the stock,” Palmer said. “It has now appreciated to the
point that the current price plus a premium could translate into
an acceptable bid for CIT’s management and board. And so it’s
more likely that a deal could get done here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  