-- Alibaba Shortlists Nine Lenders for Up to $8 Billion of Loans
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g
-- 2013-04-10T07:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/alibaba-shortlists-nine-lenders-for-up-to-8-billion-of-loans.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
biggest e-commerce company, shortlisted banks for a loan of as
much as $8 billion, three people familiar with the matter said.  Nine lenders are seeking internal approvals to underwrite
at least $500 million each, said the people, naming  Australia  &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse
Group AG, DBS Bank Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Morgan
Stanley. No mandates have been issued, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the details are private.  Formed in 1999 as an  online marketplace  for Chinese
companies, Alibaba has grown as economic liberalization spurred
a boom in manufacturing and trade. It has expanded its workforce
to more than 24,000 and added services including cloud
computing, online payments and consumer auctions. Billionaire
founder Jack Ma said in January he would step down as chief
executive officer on May 10, stoking speculation the company may
be preparing for an initial public offering.  A Hong Kong-based Alibaba official declined to comment on
the progress of the loan today.  About $4 billion of the loan proceeds will refinance a
facility of that size signed last year for the privatization of
Alibaba’s Hong Kong-listed entity Alibaba.com and a buyback of a
stake in itself owned by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , two other people familiar
with the matter said on March 5. The remainder would be used for
general corporate purposes, one of those people said.  Last year’s $4 billion borrowing was split into $2 billion
of three-year and four-year loans from China Development Bank
Corp. and $2 billion of three-year and four-year loans from
international lenders, other people familiar with the matter
said at the time.  An $8 billion facility would be the biggest syndicated loan
in the Asia-Pacific region outside  Japan  since Inpex Corp.
signed $20 billion of loans for its Ichthys project in Australia
in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Foster Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  