-- Alibaba to Appoint New CFO Ahead of Anticipated IPO
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-11T01:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/alibaba-to-appoint-new-cfo-ahead-of-anticipated-ipo.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. named a
new chief financial officer as part of a  management 
reorganization that has fueled speculation  China ’s largest e-
commerce company is preparing for an initial public offering.  Alibaba will promote deputy CFO Maggie Wu to replace Joseph Tsai on May 10, the same day billionaire Jack Ma relinquishes
the post of chief executive officer, according to a company
 statement  yesterday. Tsai will become executive vice chairman
and oversee strategic investment.  The management  changes  come after the June delisting of a
Hong Kong unit and the buying back of a stake held by  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO)  in a deal valuing Alibaba at $35 billion. The Hangzhou-
based company started in 1999 as an online marketplace for
Chinese companies, growing as liberalization spurred an economic
boom in a country with more Web users than the population of any
other nation except  India .  “Maggie has been the CFO of the listed company, she knows
how to handle investors well,” said Victor Yip, an analyst at
 UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)  in Hong Kong. Her appointment is part
of the preparation for an initial share sale, Yip said.  Wu has been with the company since July 2007 and helped
lead the privatization last year of the company’s B2B unit that
was listed in Hong Kong. She previously was an audit partner at
KPMG LLP in Beijing.  ‘No Timetable’  Ma said in June the company could sell shares in an IPO
within five years. Alibaba has “no timetable for an IPO,”
Florence Shih, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday.  The company has shortlisted banks for a loan of as much as
$8 billion, according to three people familiar with the matter.
Nine lenders are seeking internal approvals to underwrite
at least $500 million each, said the people, asking not to be
identified because the details are private.  China had 564 million  Internet users  at the end of 2012, 10
percent more than the year before, according to the government-
run  China Internet Network Information Center .  The country also has more online shoppers than the U.S.,
and the value of its online retail sales may triple to $360
billion by 2015,  Boston Consulting Group  estimated last year.  Alibaba agreed in May to buy back about half of Yahoo’s 40
percent stake for about $7.1 billion. Yahoo acquired the shares
in 2005 in exchange for $1 billion and ownership of Yahoo’s
Chinese operations.  Alibaba delisted its Hong Kong unit last year after paying
HK$18.3 billion ($2.4 billion) to buy back the 27 percent stake
held by minority investors.  “We have built up a team of strong leaders who are ready
to step up and take the company into its next phase,” Tsai said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  