-- Amundi Trimmed Europe Debt Buys Last Quarter on Crisis
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-04-10T05:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/amundi-trimmed-europe-debt-buys-last-quarter-on-crisis.html
Amundi, the combined investment arm
of Credit Agricole SA and Societe Generale SA that oversees $1
trillion, trimmed purchases of higher-yielding European assets
last quarter as  euro-zone  risks damped sentiment.  Amundi decreased its “overweight” position on assets
including Italian debt and notes by European financial
companies, and scaled back its “underweight” position on U.S.
Treasuries and German bunds in the period ended March 31,
according to Eric Brard, Paris-based global head of fixed
income. Euro-area yields climbed last quarter as a bailout in
Cyprus and a leadership deadlock in Italy reignited investor
fears of a resurgence in the region’s credit crisis.  “We’ve reduced high levels of risk in our portfolio,”
Brard said yesterday in an interview at Amundi’s Singapore
office. “There’s been renewed pressure on the euro zone, with
Italian elections and the Cyprus issue.”  Italy has been left without a leader since inconclusive
elections in February. President Giorgio Napolitano named a 10-
man committee to start work on building consensus toward a new
government before his term expires on May 15.  Cyprus imposed losses last month on uninsured depositors at
the country’s two biggest banks as part of a deal with European
governments in exchange for a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion)
bailout. Cyprus banks were shut for nearly two weeks to avoid
capital flight, reopening on March 28 with controls limiting
financial transactions.  Yield Hunt  Amundi will keep its weightings for now as stimulus
measures by global central banks drive demand for higher yields,
according to Brard.  “High liquidity levels and the search for yield will
continue to support riskier assets,” Brard said. “For the time
being, there is no other choice but to go along with the
market’s direction.”  Italy ’s  10-year yield  closed at 4.35 percent yesterday
after climbing to a three-month high of 4.96 percent on Feb. 27.
Italian  government bonds  returned 0.16 percent in the three
months ended March 31, the least since a loss in the second
quarter of 2012, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  A Bank of America gauge tracking euro-denominated notes by
financial companies including Deutsche Bank AG and BNP Paribas
SA rose 0.42 percent last quarter, almost an eighth of the 3.22
percent return in the three months ended December 31. The
average yield on the securities was 2.1 percent yesterday, down
from this year’s high of 2.41 percent reached on Jan. 31, the
index figures show.  Malaysia, Thailand  In  Asia , Amundi favors the debt of Malaysia and  Thailand 
because of the nations’ stable economic fundamentals and yields,
according to Raymond Lim, the company’s Singapore-based head of
Asian bonds.  “Investors are still looking for returns at reasonable
risk,” Lim said yesterday. “They’re looking to balance
liquidity with inflation.”  Malaysia’s 10-year yield has fallen 11 basis points this
year to 3.40 percent and compares with an inflation rate of 1.5
percent, handing investors a so-called real yield of 1.9
percent. The rate on Thai debt due in a decade has declined 11
basis points since Dec. 31 to 3.43 percent, compared with a 2.69
percent rate for consumer-price gains.  The asset manager also likes South Korean bonds amid
potential for further rate cuts, said Lim, who expects the  Bank
of Korea  to lower borrowing costs by 25 basis points to 2.5
percent at a gathering tomorrow. That matches the median
estimate of 20 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . A decline
in a nation’s benchmark interest rate heightens the prospects
for gains in its debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  