-- Dividing Hunters From Ideologues
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-10T17:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/manchin-toomey-gun-deal-divides-hunters-from-ideologues.html
“This is common sense,” Democratic
Senator  Joe Manchin  said today as he and Republican Senator  Pat Toomey  announced their proposal to subject gun sales online and
at gun shows to background checks. In the politics of guns,
common sense counts as a major breakthrough. The bipartisan deal
might even be enough to help background-check legislation pass
in Congress. If not, the long-term implications of the
compromise are still important.  The deal would require background checks -- and sales
records, which help law-enforcement agencies track crimes -- on
many gun purchases that now escape scrutiny. While still
exempting some private transactions, including those between
family members, the compromise would drastically expand
background checks, in particular by closing the gun-show
loophole. If the proposal survives a gantlet this week in
Congress, it may well save lives.  The deal may also set the stage for future success. Both
Manchin, of  West Virginia , and Toomey, of  Pennsylvania , have “A”
ratings on the  National Rifle Association ’s legislative report
card. Their support for background checks represents a political
divorce of sorts, separating American gun culture, which both
senators champion, from the extremism that characterizes the
NRA, the Gun Owners of America and other elements of the
professional gun lobby.  The culture and practice of hunting and sportsmanship
deserve protection. As  polls show , few hunters or sport shooters
object to expanded background checks or other sensible
legislation. The real impediment to safer laws is the gun lobby,
which advances its ideological passions and marketing agenda
with appeals to fear.  The gun lobby’s pretension to speak for hunters and
sportsmen has grown increasingly specious. The support of
Manchin and Toomey for background checks highlights the
distinction between gun culture on one hand and ideology on the
other. It also could mark a meaningful step in the too-slow
journey toward sensible regulation.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 