-- Maoists-Hit Steelmaker to Reopen Iron Ore Mine: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-04-10T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/maoists-hit-steelmaker-to-reopen-iron-ore-mine-corporate-india.html
Steel Authority of India Ltd. ,
which is struggling with a $13.2 billion expansion plan in the
face of Maoist rebel attacks and government red tape, will
reopen an  iron ore  mine key to capping costs.  India ’s second-largest steelmaker will resume work at the
Gua mine in eastern Jharkhand state this week after authorities
renewed an environmental permit four years after expiry, A.K.
Singh, spokesman for the raw materials division, said in a phone
interview. The mine will initially supply a new $3 billion plant
being set up in neighboring West Bengal and help boost the
state-run company’s  output by 60 percent .  New Delhi-based Steel Authority, whose competitive edge
lies in having its own mines, has been beset by delays in
forestry clearances and land acquisitions, and threats from
Maoists who have sworn to “chop off a head for every tree”
should jungle cover be removed to start new mines in their
hideouts. The hurdles faced by Indian steelmakers have come amid
slowing economic growth and mining bans that have led to
shortages of raw materials.  “Iron ore security has been the saving grace for  Steel
Authority (SAIL) ,” said Abhisar Jain, an analyst with Centrum Broking
Ltd. in Mumbai, who recommends investors sell their shares.
“High wage costs, slowing infrastructure orders and importing
coking coal with a weakened rupee are  pressuring margins .”  Wages, Rupee  A 6.2 percent decline in the local currency against the
dollar in the past year has made shipments from abroad more
expensive, while Steel Authority spent 12 percent more on wages
in the quarter to Dec. 31 than a year earlier. Earnings margin
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization narrowed
to 13.1 percent for the 12 months ended March 31, 2012, the
least in at least seven years.  Steel Authority gained 0.7 percent to 60.85 rupees in
Mumbai yesterday. The shares have declined 33 percent this year,
compared with a 5.2 percent drop in the key  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)   Tata
Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s biggest maker of the alloy, has fallen 29
percent since January.  Steel Authority plans to increase its crude steel capacity
to 21.5 million metric tons a year, spending about 721 billion
rupees ($13.2 billion), according to its website, which doesn’t
mention a timeline. The investment will include improving the
product mix, upgrading machinery and expanding output at its
iron ore and coking coal mines.  Quadrupling Capacity  The company expects to increase annual iron ore output to
39 million tons from 22 million tons to feed its enlarged
operations. Coking coal production is expected to quadruple to
4.3 million tons, according to the website.  Gua’s capacity will rise fourfold to 10 million tons in
three years, allowing the mines to also feed Steel Authority’s
expansion in Durgapur in West Bengal and Bokaro in Jharkhand. A
plan to develop its biggest iron ore mine in the central state
of  Madhya Pradesh  has stalled because the company failed to
remove forest cover that would have allowed mining in a 5,016
acre area.  Assured iron ore supplies have provided a buffer to Steel
Authority’s cost of coking coal, another key raw material,
almost all of which the company has to buy locally or overseas.
The steelmaker consumes 12.6 million tons of coking coal
annually, 70 percent of which is imported.  Ore Cost  Steel Authority spends about $25 to produce a ton of iron
ore from its mines, half the cost it would incur on buying the
lowest grade from  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC)  Benchmark coking coal prices for the
three months ending June 30 settled at $172 a ton, an increase
of 4.3 percent from the previous quarter.  Owning iron ore and coking coal mines in India has helped
Tata Steel’s local operations counter a demand slump in  Europe ,
where about 75 percent of its capacity is located and the entire
raw material requirement has to be bought. The company is
expanding in India, where all the iron ore needs and about half
the coking coal requirement are met from its mines.  Mining curbs in Karnataka and Odisha to protect the
environment have led to shortages of iron ore, eroding output at
mills.  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , the nation’s third-biggest producer, had
to cut output by 70 percent in 2011 after the  Supreme Court 
banned mining in the southern state, where its biggest plant is
located. Plant use improved to 80 percent after the court
partially lifted the ban and allowed  state-controlled  NMDC,
India’s biggest miner of the commodity, to auction stockpiles.  Project Delays  Delays in construction of infrastructure projects,
including  power plants , have crimped India’s steel demand, which
grew at the slowest pace in four years. The nation’s $1.8
trillion economy probably expanded 5 percent in the year ended
March 31, the least in a decade, according to government
estimates.  Steel use in the year ended March 31 is estimated to have
risen 3.3 percent to 73.3 million tons from a year earlier,
according to initial data on the steel ministry’s joint plant
committee website. Production rose 2.5 percent to 77.58 million
tons.  The mining curbs on iron ore have also led to idling of
equipment and a drop in the demand for transport vehicles. Truck
and bus sales last month dropped 6 percent, while demand for
cars fell 23 percent, the New Delhi-based  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers  said yesterday.  “There’s substantial idling of machinery equipment, which
is causing a severe strain on prices of mining services,”
Subhas Pramanik, managing director at Gulf Oil Corp., said in an
interview on April 5. The mining services unit of the company,
which sells automobile lubricants, contributes about 12 percent
to its revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  