-- Apple, Google Not Interested in Settlement, Judge Says
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-04-10T20:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/apple-google-not-interested-in-settlement-judge-says.html
Apple Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility unit are more interested in using litigation
as a business strategy than in resolving disputes over the use
of patented technology, a federal judge in Florida said.  “The parties have no interest in efficiently and
expeditiously resolving this dispute; they instead are using
this and similar litigation worldwide as a business strategy
that appears to have no end,” U.S. District Judge Robert Scola
in Miami said in an order dated yesterday. “That is not a
proper use of this court.”  The handset makers have accused each other of infringing
patents related to wireless technology and the case has grown
with additional patents since first filed in 2010. It’s part of
a global battle for market share as Apple challenges what it
considers copycats of its iPhone that run on Google’s Android
operating system.  The case in  Florida  involves more than 180 claims related
to 12 patents and disputes over the meaning of more than 100
terms, Scola said in his order. Cupertino, California-based
Apple and Mountain View, California-based Google were unable to
streamline the case, he said, calling the companies’ actions
“obstreperous and cantankerous conduct.”  “Without a hint of irony, the parties now ask the court to
mop up a mess they made by holding a hearing to reduce the size
and complexity of the case,” he wrote. “The court declines
this invitation.”  Four Months  He gave them four months to narrow the case’s scope. If
they don’t, he said, he will put the case on hold until he
resolves all of the disputes over the definition of patent
terms.  Matt Kallman, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment.
Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  Other judges have complained about the hardnosed legal
fighting between the two. A federal judge in  Wisconsin  last year
threw out breach-of-contract claims brought against Motorola
Mobility. U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb had planned to set a
royalty rate on certain Motorola Mobility patents until Apple
said it would agree to take a license only if the judge set the
rate at $1 or less for each iPhone.  In November, Apple and Google said in a filing to Crabb
that they were talking about a way to resolve part of their
dispute over patents related to critical smartphone technology.
The holdup, they said, was that they couldn’t agree on how the
arbitration would work.  Apple is appealing Crabb’s decision to dismiss the contract
case. Both companies are seeking to revive other patent-
infringement claims that were tossed by a federal judge in
 Chicago .  Apple also is trying to revive claims it filed against
Motorola Mobility at the U.S. International Trade Commission in
 Washington , while fighting off a case against it at the agency.  The case is Motorola Mobility LLC v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12cv20271,
U.S. District Court for the District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  