-- Arsenal Leads Chase to Sign Stoke Goalie Begovic: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-10T08:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/arsenal-leads-chase-to-sign-stoke-goalie-begovic-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Begovic Bid  Arsenal is best-placed to sign goalkeeper Asmir Begovic
provided it meets Stoke’s 15 million-pound ($23 million)
valuation, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Gunners inquired about Begovic during the January
transfer window and have made further contact in recent weeks,
the newspaper added. Arsenal’s negotiating position has been
boosted by Manchester United’s decreasing need to sign a new
first-choice goalkeeper following David de Gea’s improved form,
the Telegraph said.  Leeds Teenager  Manchester City  is prepared to spend as much as 10 million
pounds to sign 19-year-old Leeds United right-back Sam Byram,
the  Daily Mail reported .  Byram is top of a list of English players wanted by City
manager  Roberto Mancini  and the Premier League club plans to pay
about 6 million pounds up front and the rest in “add-ons,” the
newspaper reported.  Lukaku Lure  League Cup champion Swansea will use the incentive of
playing in the Europa League to tempt Chelsea striker Romelu
Lukaku to join on loan next season, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Belgium international, who’s scored 13 goals at West
Bromwich Albion this campaign, will ask the Blues to loan him
out for a second straight season, the newspaper added.  Deals Delayed  Aston Villa  will delay contract talks with Christian
Benteke and Andreas Weimann so it doesn’t distract them as the
club fights for Premier League survival, the  Sun reported .  Striker Benteke has three years remaining on his deal and
is set to be offered more money and an extra year, while
Austrian forward Weimann’s agreement expires at the end of next
season, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  