-- Martha Stewart Gets One Claim Tossed in Macy’s Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-10T21:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/martha-stewart-living-gets-one-claim-dismissed-in-macy-s-case.html
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc. (MSO)  persuaded a judge to reject a “secondary” claim in a
breach-of-contract lawsuit by Macy’s Inc. over the exclusive
right to sell Martha Stewart-branded products in its stores.  Martha Stewart Living didn’t violate the confidentiality
requirement of its Macy’s contract by disclosing it to rival
J.C. Penney Co.,  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Oing ruled today. The judge is hearing motions by the three
retailers after the conclusion of Macy’s case. If any part of
the lawsuit survives, Martha Stewart Living and J.C. Penney may
be forced to present a defense. Afterwards, the judge will
deliver a verdict in the non-jury trial.  Tomorrow, Oing is to hear Martha Stewart Living’s arguments
that he dismiss Macy’s more central contract claim.  J.C. Penney (JCP) ,
which is also being sued by Macy’s for carrying some Martha
Stewart products, will seek dismissal of Macy’s claims, and
Macy’s will seek to extend Oing’s preliminary injunction.  Macy’s seeks to include a bar on the retailers’ sale of
unbranded products, in certain exclusive categories, designed by
Martha Stewart Living.  The three sides returned to court this week to resume a
trial of Macy’s lawsuits following a month-long break, during
which mediation efforts ordered by Oing were unsuccessful. The
trial, which began Feb. 20, has featured testimony from Martha
Stewart, Macy’s Chairman Terry Lundgren and former J.C. Penney
Chief Executive Ron Johnson, who was ousted the same day the
trial resumed.  Contract Term  In ruling on the contract term, the judge said Martha
Stewart Living’s disclosure of details of its contract with
Macy’s was “proper” as it was obligated to provide J.C. Penney
with the information because of its $38.5 million investment in
the company.  “The Macy’s contract had to be turned over under those
circumstances,” Oing said, adding that Martha Stewart Living
took steps to limit disclosure of sensitive details.  The judge’s ruling is “clearly in error,” Theodore Grossman, an attorney with Jones Day representing Macy’s, said
after today’s hearing.  Macy’s plans to appeal as soon as tomorrow and expects
“clear, prompt and certain reversal,” he said.  “This as the judge indicated was a secondary matter but is
nonetheless important to us,” Grossman said.  Acquired Stake  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million.  Macy’s, which has sold Martha Stewart-branded home goods
since 2007, sued her company in January 2012, saying it had the
exclusive right to sell items in certain categories including
bedding and cookware. Macy’s sued J.C. Penney about three months
later.  Lawyers for Macy’s have argued that J.C. Penney is trying
to “reap the rewards” of its work with the Martha Stewart
brand, which the chain said it rebuilt after Stewart’s release
from prison in 2005, when her products were sold at Kmart.  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands.  Martha Stewart Living also said Macy’s couldn’t have
exercised a five-year renewal option in January 2012 because of
the breach.  Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney rose 16 cents to $14.09 in
New York Stock Exchange trading. Cincinnati, Ohio-based Macy’s
rose 69 cents to $44.36. New York-based Martha Stewart Living
rose 10 cents to $2.42.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  