-- Ashton Says Fed Doesn’t Cede Regulatory Duties to Consultants
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-10T22:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/ashton-says-fed-doesn-t-cede-regulatory-duties-to-consultants.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s use of
consultants isn’t a delegation of regulatory authority,
according to testimony from Richard Ashton, the Fed’s deputy
general counsel.  “The Federal Reserve does not cede its regulatory
responsibilities or judgment to those consultants,” Ashton said
in testimony for a hearing tomorrow on independent consultants
held by the Senate Banking Committee’s Subcommittee on Financial
Institutions and Consumer Protection.  The Government Accountability Office said in a report last
week that a search by regulators and consultants for U.S.
foreclosure errors was hampered by poor planning. The review
process was supposed to compensate borrowers, some of whom lost
their homes to foreclosures that relied on poor documentation.  The review process was halted in January without providing
compensation to any wronged borrowers. According to the GAO,
third-party consultants hired by the servicers complained that
the loan files and scope of the file review made the process
“complicated and time-consuming.”  For all but three servicers, the review was replaced with a
$9.3 billion settlement with banks including JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.  Ashton said the foreclosure review process was “more
expansive, time-consuming, and labor-intensive than what is
typically required of consultants in Federal Reserve enforcement
actions.”  “The result was significant delays in providing funds to
consumers,” Ashton said in his prepared  remarks , which were
posted on the Fed’s website today. “Accordingly, the decision
to replace the review of individual foreclosure files by the
consultants with agreements to pay cash and provide other
assistance to borrowers was based on the specialized and
unprecedented nature of the particular reviews the consultants
were required to undertake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  