-- Asian Stocks Rise Third Day as Japan Banks Advance
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-10T11:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/asian-stocks-rise-as-yen-weakens-before-china-trade-data.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the
benchmark regional equities gauge heading for its longest
winning streak in seven weeks, as investors speculated stimulus
measures will boost economic growth and increase profits.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest miner, climbed 1.7
percent to advance for a fourth day in Sydney, its longest
winning streak in more than two months. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest bank, rose to the highest since May
2009 as speculation grew that Bank of Japan stimulus measures
will boost earnings at financial-services firms.  Billabong
International Ltd. (BBG)  slumped 27 percent after the Australian
surfwear maker said it will hold talks on a A$287 million ($300
million) takeover deal.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 0.9 percent to 135.97
as of 8:36 p.m. in  Tokyo . More than two stocks rose for each
that fell. The measure has risen for three days as Chinese
economic reports point to reduced chances of further tightening
in the world’s second-largest economy.  “The global economic recovery is gradually coming through
and most of the big systemic risks are behind us,”  Daphne Roth ,
Singapore-based head of Asia equity research at ABN Amro Private
Bank, which oversees about $207 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “The cycle has become more normalized and it will be
good for Asia as a whole. Central-bank policy makers have done
their part and that’s good for equities.”  Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, who succeeded Wen Jiabao last
month in a once-a-decade leadership transition, has signaled his
government will take steps this year to loosen state control
over interest rates as part of efforts to sustain economic
growth.  Imports Jump  China ’s imports rose by a better-than-forecast 14.1 percent
in March while export growth slowed to 10 percent from a year
earlier, the customs administration said today in Beijing.
Weaker trade growth adds to Li’s challenges in sustaining a
rebound while he tries to limit nontraditional banking and damp
housing prices.  “The tail risks have dissipated and that gives you some
form of optimism when you look at the growth numbers,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd.
in  Melbourne . “There’s reason to be optimistic, but don’t get
too ahead of yourself. The transition under the new leadership
in China is progressing well.”  Regional Gauges  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.7 percent, to the
highest level since August 2008. The broader Topix Index rose
1.7 percent, a sixth day of gains, for the longest winning
streak this year.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.2 percent
and  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index slipped 0.2 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi index added 0.8 percent, Taiwan’s Taiex
Index rose 0.3 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index advanced
0.6 percent. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.8 percent and
China’s Shanghai Composite closed little changed.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, climbed the past five months on speculation
Japan would unleash more stimulus and amid signs the U.S.
economy is recovering. That left the measure trading at 13.7
times average estimated earnings yesterday compared with 14.2
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.4 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Minutes  Economic conditions in the world’s largest economy are far
from where Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke would like,
he said April 8. The Federal Open Market Committee releases
minutes of its March 19-20 meeting today. After that meeting,
Bernanke said further gains in the U.S. labor market were needed
for the Fed to consider reducing its monetary easing.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.2 percent. The gauge
rose 0.4 percent yesterday and the Dow Jones Industrial Average
climbed 0.4 percent to 14,673.46, its highest-ever closing
level, on optimism over earnings and as commodities gained after
a report showing China’s inflation rate slowed.  Raw-material firms and  Japanese banks  contributed most to
gains on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. BHP Billiton advanced 1.7
percent to A$33.68. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest
mining company, added 2.7 percent to A$58.28 in Sydney after
saying it is making progress in talks about a copper project in
Mongolia.  Mitsubishi UFJ rose 5 percent to 655 yen and  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  advanced 6.7 percent to 4,620 yen in
Tokyo.  Billabong lost 27 percent to 53.5 Australian cents. That’s
an 11 percent discount to the 60 Australian-cents non-binding
offer that Billabong is discussing with a group including
Sycamore Partners Management, and values the retailer at less
than the inventory in its stores and warehouses as of Dec. 31.  Cosmo Oil Co. (5007)  surged 11 percent to 220 yen in Tokyo after
the Nikkei newspaper reported profit at the refiner may increase
50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  