-- Asian LNG Set to Rise as Premium at Two-Year Low: Energy Markets
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-04-10T16:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/asian-lng-set-to-rise-as-premium-at-two-year-low-energy-markets.html
Liquefied natural gas prices in
 Asia  are poised to reverse an eight-week drop that brought them
to a two-year low  relative  to cargoes for Europe as  Japan  faces
delays in starting nuclear reactors.  LNG for northeast Asia has fallen 22 percent from a record
in February, cutting its premium to shipments for southwest
Europe to as little as $1.40 a million British thermal units,
data from World Gas Intelligence show. Asian prices may soar
about $5 to more than $20 per million Btu by September,
according to Sabine Schels, an analyst at Bank of America Corp.
in  London .  The current Asian premium isn’t high enough to attract LNG
cargoes from Nigeria and Trinidad, the biggest suppliers of spot
shipments behind  Qatar , away from  Europe , according to data from
Poten & Partners Inc., a New York-based consultant. Japan, once
the world’s third-biggest nuclear power producer, probably won’t
start any of 52 reactors still halted since the March 2011
earthquake as new safety rules take effect and will have to burn
LNG for power generation, according to Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  “I’d expect to see an Asian premium of at least $3 per
million Btu as you need that to lure Atlantic cargoes into the
East, with a widening of that differential in summer and
winter,” said Tony Regan, an energy consultant with Tri-Zen
International Inc. in  Singapore , which counts Royal Dutch Shell
Plc and OAO Lukoil as clients. “Supply will be tight this year
and so expect to see greater price volatility in Asia.”  LNG for delivery in four to eight weeks in northeast Asia
cost $15.15 a million Btu on April 8, the least since November
and down from a record $19.40 on Feb. 4, data from  New York- 
based WGI show. That compares with $12.90 in southwest Europe,
where colder-than-usual weather has kept prices near the Jan. 28
level of $14.70, the highest in at least two years.  Nigeria, Trinidad  It cost $1.94 a million Btu more to ship Nigerian LNG to
South Korea than to  Spain  in February with a comparable figure
for Trinidadian LNG of $2.75, Poten & Partners data show.
Nigeria and Trinidad together supplied 23.9 percent of spot
cargoes last year, the  International Group  of Liquefied Natural
Gas Importers, or GIIGNL, said in its annual report last month.  Japan, the world’s biggest LNG buyer, shut nuclear
generators after the 2011 tsunami and earthquake caused a
meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. New safety rules that
go into effect in July may require years of reinforcement work
for some reactors, requiring LNG imports for power generation.  The Asian country imported a record 87.3 million metric
tons of LNG in 2012, according to Ministry of Finance data.
Japanese demand will be 89 million tons in 2020 assuming nuclear
restarts and 94 million tons without, Akira Miyamoto, an Osaka
Gas Co. executive researcher, said last month in Amsterdam.  Market Tightness  “The tightness in the market is likely to persist,” said
Schels, who forecasts U.S. gas will rise to $4.30 per million
Btu in the fourth quarter, the second-highest among 20 analyst
projections made in the past six months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “We will see the market rebound again.
Demand from Asia is staying very strong.”  Asian LNG prices surged to a record this year as utilities
faced with colder-than-usual weather competed for shipments with
South American buyers hit by a drought. The bidding war
increased costs for importers from Petroleo Brasileiro SA to
Tokyo Electric Power Co. Qatar ran liquefaction plants at full
capacity to meet demand, Energy Minister Mohammed Al-Sada said
on March 5 in Doha.  Argentina ’s  YPF SA (YPFD)  continued to hunt for spot cargoes,
closing a buy tender today for 10 shipments delivered in the
second half of 2013. The country has no long-term supply
contracts according to data compiled by Bloomberg. YPF and
Energia Argentina SA, the state-run energy company, have issued
six spot purchase tenders seeking as many as 143 cargoes from
December last year.  In Europe, gas is too expensive and “tepid” demand this
summer will weigh on prices, Thierry Bros, a Societe Generale SA
analyst in Paris, said in a March 25 report.  June Snow  U.K. next-month gas, the European benchmark, rose to a
four-year high of 76.15 pence a therm on March 26 on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London amid colder-than-usual
weather. That’s equivalent to $11.65 a million Btu. The contract
settled at 67.94 pence today.  “I can’t see Europe coming up significantly unless there
is still snow on the ground in the U.K. in June,” Regan said.  Japan may start half a dozen reactors by the end of this
year in addition to the two that resumed operations in 2012,
Areva SA Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel said March 4. That
would reduce demand for LNG in power generation.  Spot LNG prices will fall as low as $12 by the third
quarter amid “much-anticipated Japanese nuclear restarts,” Rob
Smith, a Dubai-based consultant at FACTS Global Energy, said in
a Feb. 13 e-mail.  Typical Decline  Japan,  China  and  South Korea , which together buy more than
half of the world’s LNG, use inventories to meet heating demand
during the peak winter season and typically seek spot cargoes in
April, May and June to top up stocks before summer, when air
conditioning use drives demand. A quarter of LNG was sold on a
spot or short-term basis last year, GIIGNL said in its report,
with the rest sold under long-term contracts tied to  oil prices .  “A decline in Asian LNG prices at this time of year is
typical,” Noel Tomnay, head of global gas research for Wood
Mackenzie in Edinburgh, said by e-mail yesterday. “A further
decline in Asian prices is likely to reduce the differential
further before the Asian summer cooling demand kicks in and the
differential will likely rise again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  