-- Stocks Advance While Treasuries Retreat With Gold, Yen
-- B y   L u   W a n g ,   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-04-10T22:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/asian-stocks-rise-for-third-day-as-yen-oil-fall-kospi-climbs.html
Stocks jumped, sending the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index to a record, as China’s imports grew, Japan
reiterated its stimulus plans and investors speculated earnings
will beat estimates. Treasuries fell after minutes showed the
 Federal Reserve  debated the end of its bond purchases.  The S&P 500 advanced 1.2 percent to 1,587.73 at 4 p.m. in
New York and is up 2.2 percent this week, its best three-day
rally since the beginning of January. National benchmark indexes
climbed in all of the 18 western European markets except
Iceland. The 10-year Treasury yield rose five basis points to
1.80 percent. Gold slid 1.8 percent after Cyprus said it plans
to sell the metal to raise money. The yen fell to the weakest
level versus the dollar since 2009 as  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor
 Haruhiko Kuroda  reiterated a pledge for all necessary steps to
meet a goal of 2 percent inflation in two years.  Imports to China rose 14.1 percent in March from the year
earlier, leaving the nation with an unexpected trade deficit.
Several Fed officials said the central bank should taper its
bond-buying program later this year and stop it by the end of
2013 if labor market conditions improve, according to minutes
from the March meeting before government data showed the weakest
jobs growth in nine months.  “The opportunity to make money in the long term lies in
the equity markets,” Ewen Cameron Watt, the London-based chief
investment strategist at the BlackRock Investment Institute,
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“The longer you hold cash at zero rates, the longer you stand
no chance of securing your financial future.”  Earnings Season  The Nasdaq-100 Index jumped 1.9 percent for the biggest
gain since January. U.S. technology and financial shares, the
largest industries in the S&P 500, climbed more than 1.1 percent
collectively to help lead the rally in all 10 of the index’s 
main industries  today.  Since the  bull market  began four years ago, the two groups
have gained 2 percent on average in the first two weeks after
Alcoa Inc. marked the start of the quarterly earnings season,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The entire S&P 500 has
gained 1.7 percent on average in those weeks.  Analysts predict earnings fell 1.8 percent in the first
three months of the year, according to a Bloomberg survey on
April 5. The projection compared with an estimate for a 1.9
percent drop seen on April 1, marking the first improvement in
the survey this year. Three straight years of profit growth
helped propel the index up more than 133 percent since 2009. The
benchmark gauge of American stocks is trading for  15.6 times 
reported adjusted earnings, the highest in more than two years.  Market Movers  Constellation Brands Inc. and Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. are
among six companies in the  S&P 500  scheduled to report earnings
today.  Equities have risen in 2013 as individual investors made
deposits with money managers and professional speculators closed
bearish bets. A gauge of hedge-fund bullishness measuring how
much they’re betting on rising shares stands at 51.6 percent
today, up from 47.3 at the end of 2012, according to data
compiled by International Strategy & Investment Group.  “A lot of it is sentiment,” Rex Macey, who oversees $20
billion as chief investment officer at Wilmington Trust
Investment Advisors in Atlanta, said by telephone. “People who
were not in the market and people who had been nervous are
starting to feel as if it’s safe to go back in the water.”  Apple, Yahoo  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Yahoo! Inc. climbed more than 1.5 percent as
the companies were said to discuss ways to collaborate more
closely on mobile software. Pfizer Inc. rallied 2.8 percent
after saying its palbociclib compound gets breakthrough
designation as the potential treatment for breast cancer. Tenet
Healthcare Corp. slipped 5.5 percent following an analyst
downgrade.  President  Barack Obama  sent a $3.8 trillion budget to
Congress today calling for more tax revenue and restraints on
Social Security benefits in a political gamble intended to
revive deficit-reduction talks. The president is proposing to
replace across-the-board budget cuts known as sequestration with
what White House budget officials say is $1.8 trillion in
additional deficit reduction over 10 years that includes
collecting more taxes from the wealthy and trimming some federal
programs.  Fed Minutes  S&P 500 futures remained higher before the open of
exchanges as the Fed released its minutes ahead of the
previously scheduled 2 p.m. time because they were mistakenly
sent to some people yesterday afternoon. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  left the pace of government and mortgage debt purchases
at $85 billion a month at that meeting and said further
improvement in the U.S. labor market is needed to consider
reducing its monetary easing.  Several Fed officials “thought that if the outlook for
labor market conditions improved as anticipated, it would
probably be appropriate to slow purchases later in the year and
to stop them by year-end,” according to the record of the
Federal Open Market Committee’s March 19-20 meeting. Fed Bank of
Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said before the official
release of the minutes that it’s too early for the central bank
to consider reducing its pace of bond purchases following a
weakening in the labor market.  The Fed minutes are “a synopsis of what we’ve been hearing
from policy makers,”  Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for
Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc., which
oversees more than $1 trillion, said in a phone interview.
“Yes, it’s worrisome, but it’s not a new worry,” she said.
“Earnings estimates have been brought down to the point that
it’s a pretty manageable process for the companies to beat
estimates,” she said.  Low Rates  The  European Central Bank  will keep rates low and continue
injecting liquidity into the banking system, Governing Council
member  Christian Noyer  said today on Europe 1 radio. Bailout
loans to Portugal and Ireland should be extended by seven years
to aid each country’s return to the market, international
creditors recommended in a joint report.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1.8 percent for a third
straight advance, the longest stretch of gains since January.
Air France-KLM Group and EasyJet Plc gained more than 6.5
percent as analysts upgraded the airlines. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index rose 1.2 percent, while France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  added 2
percent and Germany’s DAX Index gained 2.3 percent.  Solar Stocks  Solar companies rallied, with Solarworld AG, Wacker Chemie
AG and SMA Solar Technology AG rising at least 5.8 percent.
First Solar Inc., the world’s largest thin-film solar
manufacturer, surged 46 percent in New York trading yesterday
after its sales forecast topped analyst estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose for a second day,
advancing 0.9 percent, with benchmark gauges in India, the Czech
Republic, Thailand and the Philippines gaining more than 1
percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies increased 0.8 percent. Data from the customs
administration showed exports rose less than forecast as imports
topped estimates in March, leaving an unexpected trade deficit
of $880 million.  South Korean stocks rose for a second day and the won
strengthened against the dollar. South Korean and U.S. forces
upgraded their joint surveillance “Watchcon” status by one
level to monitor an imminent ballistic missile test, South
Korea’s Yonhap news agency reported, citing unidentified
military officials.  North Korea’s threats are raising the odds of the first
 interest-rate cut  by its southern neighbor since October as they
threaten to damp sentiment in Asia’s fourth-largest economy.
Eleven of 20 economists forecast the Bank of Korea will reduce
borrowing costs tomorrow, according to a  Bloomberg News  survey.  Weakening Yen  Japan’s currency weakened against all 16 major
counterparts. Australia’s currency rose as high as $1.0552, the
strongest since January, and climbed against all but one of its
16 major peers.  Japanese  government bonds  slid, with the yield on the five-
year note rising to 0.28 percent, the highest in about a year.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said in parliament that the BOJ’s
stimulus is boosting stock prices and weakening the yen, though
Japan is not intentionally debasing its currency.  Japanese stocks rose, with the Topix Index capping a six-
day rally for its longest win streak this year, on optimism the
yen’s weakness will improve the earnings outlook for exporters.  ‘Exporting Sugar’  “Japan is now exporting sugar, the monetary kind,” said
Howard Ward, chief investment officer at Rye, New York-based
Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees $36.7 billion. “The Street
has become much more positive on Japan and its growth prospects
this year. The rally in Japanese equities helps sentiment and
the sense that yield-starved Japanese investors may increase
their purchase of euro debt has helped support the euro too.”  Gold for June delivery lost 1.8 percent to $1,558.80 an
ounce for the biggest loss in five months. Cypriot authorities
have committed to sell “the excess amount of gold” owned by
the state, yielding an estimated 400 million euros ($522
million), according to a draft of a European Commission report
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Gasoline, silver and copper also dropped at least 0.7
percent to help lead the S&P GSCI Index of commodities down 0.2
percent. Wheat futures fell the most in more than a week, with
the July contract down 1.5 percent, after the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said global inventories will be bigger than forecast
last month.  World stockpiles of wheat before this year’s Northern
Hemisphere harvest will total 182.26 million metric tons, more
than the 178.23 million forecast in March, the USDA said.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected 178.82 million. Prices
have plunged into a  bear market , down 25 percent from last
year’s peak, on signs that global demand is slowing and that
farmers will boost output in the next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  