-- Thatcher’s London Funeral Route to Be Lined by 700 Troops
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-04-10T14:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/thatcher-s-london-funeral-route-to-be-lined-by-700-troops.html
More than 700 troops from U.K.
regiments that fought in the 1982 Falklands War will line the
route of  Margaret Thatcher ’s funeral procession, giving the
event a martial feel.  During the procession, just short of a full state ceremony
on April 17, her coffin will be drawn on a gun carriage of the
King’s Troop Royal Horse Artillery from St. Clement Danes Church
on the Strand in central London to  St. Paul’s Cathedral  with the
Royal Navy, the Army and the Royal Air Force lining the route,
said Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray.  Both Houses of Parliament broke their Easter vacation today
to pay tribute to Thatcher, who was prime minister from 1979 to
1990. Some lawmakers from the opposition  Labour Party  refused to
attend, citing her record on closing Britain’s mines and
unemployment that hit 3 million in the mid-1980s.  Cameron told lawmakers her premiership had “rescued”
Britain from economic decline. “They say cometh the hour,
cometh the man,” the prime minister said. “Well in 1979, come
the hour, came the lady.”  Thatcher “made the political weather. She made history.
And let this be her epitaph: that she made our country great
again,” Cameron said.  ‘Felt Stigmatized’  Labour leader  Ed Miliband , while praising her personal
qualities and political abilities, said that coalmining
communities felt “abandoned” by her policies and that “gay
and lesbian people felt stigmatized.”  “Whatever your view of her, Margaret Thatcher was a unique
and towering figure,” he told lawmakers. “I disagreed with
much of what she did. I respect what her death means to the
many, many people who admire her, and I honor her personal
achievements. A prime minister who defined her age.”  The U.K.’s only female prime minister, who died on April 8
at the age of 87, will be given the same type of ceremonial
funeral as was accorded to the Queen Mother in 2002 and Diana Princess of  Wales  in 1997. The government has given the funeral
the codename “True Blue,” after the  Conservative Party ’s
color.  The occasion, with full military honors, contrasts with
lower-key services without a formal military element for
previous premiers who served with distinction in wartime, such
as Harold Macmillan.  Falklands Conflict  The Falklands War was one of the key events of her first
term in office. After  Argentina  invaded the islands, which it
has claimed for more than 150 years, Thatcher sent a  task force 
8,000 miles to reclaim them. The fighting cost the lives of 255
British soldiers, 649 Argentinians and three women from the
islands, killed accidentally by British fire.  Currently at an undisclosed location, Thatcher’s coffin
will initially be taken to the  Chapel of St. Mary Undercroft,  a
private church used by lawmakers in the 11th-century  Westminster
Hall , the oldest part of Parliament.  At the funeral, the gun carriage will be drawn by six
horses with a sergeant riding alongside, an officer riding in
front and three dismounted troops on foot. Outside the cathedral
will stand a guard of honor and the band of the 1st Battalion
Welsh Guards. While the ceremonial procession takes place, the
Honourable Artillery Company will fire guns from the
Tower of  London .  A bearer party of 10 will carry her coffin into the
cathedral. Its members will be drawn from the Royal Navy, Royal
Marines and Royal Air Force, as well as Army units that saw some
of the fiercest fighting in the Falklands campaign, including
hand-to-hand fighting and bayonet charges.  Chelsea Pensioners  Positioned on the steps of the cathedral will be a “step-
lining party” made up of 18 service personnel and a contingent
of veterans from the Royal Hospital Chelsea, known as the
Chelsea Pensioners.  Giles Fraser, a Church of England minister who resigned his
position at St. Paul’s in 2011 after the cathedral authorities
began legal action to remove anti-capitalist protesters from the
building’s precincts, told the  BBC  that it was “problematic”
to hold the funeral there. “St Paul’s Cathedral was designed to
be a place of national unity,” he said. “It’s difficult to get
the tone right. It can’t be Elgar and flag-waving. It has to be
less triumphalistic than that.”  The cost to the public of the funeral will be published
after next week’s service has taken place. The  Daily Mirror 
reported today it could reach 10 million pounds ($15 million).  Royal Attendance  Queen Elizabeth II  plans to attend the funeral accompanied
by her husband, Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, her office
said. It is the first time she will have attended a service for
a former prime minister since the funeral of Britain’s wartime
leader,  Winston Churchill , in 1965.  Thatcher’s family is “enormously proud and deeply
grateful” the queen will attend, Mark Thatcher, her son, told
reporters outside her house in London today. “I know my mother
would be greatly honored as well as humbled by her presence.”  Former Labour Prime Ministers  Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown 
will attend, their spokesmen said.  Former Soviet President  Mikhail Gorbachev , a man Thatcher
said she “could do business with,” won’t be there.
“Unfortunately, he can’t come because of his health
condition,” his spokesman, Vladimir Polyakov, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net 
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  