-- Aussie, Kiwi Rise After China Imports Expand More Than Forecast
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-04-10T06:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/australian-n-z-dollars-hold-gains-before-china-trade-data.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose against most major peers after a report showed
Chinese imports grew more than economists estimated, boosting
the South Pacific countries’ trade prospects.  Data yesterday showed inflation in  China  slowed, reducing
prospects for monetary tightening by the nation’s central bank.
The so-called Aussie held a two-day gain against the greenback
before the  Federal Reserve  releases minutes of its March
meeting. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said today the Australian dollar
is “defying gravity” as commodity prices fall. Local bonds
dropped as stocks gained worldwide.  “The market is putting more focus on the fact that imports
have rebounded very strongly,” said Khoon Goh, a senior
strategist at  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Ltd. in  Singapore .
“Given that China imports from Australia, that is seen as
benefiting Australia. Near term, there’s scope for the Aussie to
go higher.”  The Australian dollar advanced 0.2 percent to $1.0507 as of
4:11 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, after gaining 1 percent over
the previous two sessions. It touched $1.0517, the strongest
since Jan. 24. The Aussie climbed 0.3 percent to 104.13 yen from
yesterday, when it touched 104.36, the highest since July 2008.  New Zealand ’s dollar reached 85.38 U.S. cents, the
strongest since September 2011, before trading at 85.29, little
changed from yesterday. The currency rose 1.9 percent in the
previous six sessions. It strengthened 0.1 percent to 84.52 yen.  China Trade  Shipments to China climbed 14.1 percent in March from a
year earlier, the customs administration reported today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected a 6 percent increase.
Exports grew 10 percent last month, for a trade deficit of $880
million. China is the biggest trading partner of both Australia
and New Zealand.  Data yesterday showed  consumer prices  in China rose 2.1
percent in March from a year earlier, down from the 3.2 percent
growth a month earlier. Economists in a Bloomberg poll expected
a 2.5 percent increase.  Australian bonds fell, pushing the yield on 10-year debt up
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.27 percent.  New Zealand sold NZ$2 billion ($1.7 billion) of bonds
maturing in April 2020 to yield 3.15 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks climbed 0.9 percent.  ‘Firm’ Kiwi  “Increasing foreign demand for New Zealand government
bonds and ongoing re-insurance inflows associated with the
Christchurch earthquake have been a key feature behind the firm
NZD,” Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based currency economist
Commonwealth Bank, Australia’s largest lender, wrote in a report
to clients today. “There appears to be a growing probability
the New Zealand capital flows story will be given a further
boost, driven by New Zealand’s possible inclusion in the
benchmark World Government Bond Index.”  The kiwi dollar gained 5.4 percent this year, the best
performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The Australian dollar
has risen 3.2 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has cut  interest rates  more
than it otherwise would have because of the local currency’s
strength, Assistant Governor Christopher Kent said at the
Bloomberg Economic Summit in Sydney today.  Impact Felt  “There are signs that the low level of interest rates is
having some of the expected effects and these are likely to have
further to run,” Kent said.  The RBA lowered the benchmark interest rate by 1.75
percentage points in the 14 months through December. The
nation’s currency has held above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for
more than nine months, the longest stretch above the threshold
since it was freely floated in 1983.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 19 percent chance the RBA will cut the benchmark at its
next meeting on May 7.  In the U.S., minutes of the Fed’s March meeting are due for
release today. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  left the pace of
government and mortgage debt purchases at $85 billion a month
and said further improvement in the U.S. labor market is needed
for the central bank to consider reducing record monetary
easing.  “It looks like the Aussie has positive momentum at the
moment,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-biggest lender. “If the Fed
looks like it won’t taper off quantitative easing, that would be
positive for risk. Equities will go up further and the Aussie
will rise.”  Westpac expects the currency to rise above $1.0510 over the
next few days, according to Speizer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  