-- Australia Housing, Loan Growth to Be Modest, Banks Forecast
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-10T05:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/australian-home-prices-set-for-modest-gain-westpac-nab-say.html
Australian home prices will see a
modest improvement as consumers remain conservative about their
level of indebtedness,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  forecast.  “We’re not looking for another huge surge in prices or
activity that we saw in, say 2009, or that we saw in 2001,”
 Bill Evans , chief economist at Westpac, said at the  Bloomberg
Australia Economic Summit  in Sydney today. “The housing market
will improve but it won’t improve to the point that people are
becoming over-leveraged or we’d start to see real issues in our
loan book.”  Home prices in  Australia ’s eight state and territory
capitals have climbed 4.7 percent from their lowest point in May,
Brisbane-based researcher RP Data said on April 2. That compares
with a 11.1 percent surge in 2009, partly driven by government
measures to boost demand in the wake of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Australian home loan payments more than 90 days late fell
to the lowest level since December 2010 in the fourth quarter of
2012,  Fitch Ratings  said today. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
1.75 percentage point cut in  interest rates  since November 2011
has reduced the debt burden on borrowers, Fitch said.  Market Improving  “Clearly the market is starting to improve and I would
expect it to increase,”  Alan Oster , chief economist at NAB,
said at the summit. “Australia’s default rates are very, very
small and they’re not going up.”  Westpac forecasts a further 25 basis point cut in the RBA’s
cash rate in June to 2.75 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows. NAB forecasts a 25 basis point cut in June and another in
the fourth quarter, which would lower the benchmark rate to 2.5
percent.  Among Australia’s biggest cities, Sydney has the best
prospects for prices, Evans said.  “In Sydney, affordability levels are the best that they’ve
been for 10 years,” Evans said. “Over the last 10 years,
Sydney house prices have gone up by 35 percent. In  Melbourne  and
Brisbane, they’ve gone up by 80 percent to 90 percent, so I know
where I want to be buying over the next few years.”  Home prices  in Sydney rose 3.8 percent in March from a year
earlier, compared with a 0.3 percent gain in Melbourne and 1.4
percent in Brisbane, RP Data said.  Mortgage Debt  Westpac and NAB are Australia’s second- and third-biggest
home lenders, accounting for 26 percent and 17 percent of
mortgages respectively in February, according to data from the
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority.  Mortgage debt has risen to 85 percent of gross domestic
product from about 20 percent in 1990, which has been the
primary cause of price increases, Steve Keen, author of
Debunking Economics, said at the summit.  Price and mortgage growth in the past year has been driven
by speculators betting on an increase in prices, he said.  “You aren’t going to get leverage anymore growing at
anywhere near it used to,” Keen said. “That’s going to put the
overall cap on price appreciation.”  Foreign investors have also been a “major source of
demand”, and a reason for the increase in prices, he said.  A NAB survey of developers found that foreign buyers of new
properties accounted for about 9 percent of total purchases,
Oster said. “It’s probably going up now,” he said.  Property Developers  Property developers, who have written down about A$2
billion ($2.1 billion) of projects in the past year, will
struggle the most from a sluggish housing market, John Kim, head
of Australian property research at CLSA Asia-Pacific markets,
said at the summit.  “Developers are not making money,” Kim said. “They have
been running a break-even business in the last five years. Part
of the problem is that not only have costs escalated, but the
pricing assumptions have changed.”  Price growth expectations have gone from as much as 10
percent a year five to 10 years ago, to little change now, said
Kim, who forecasts negative real price growth in the short term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  