-- Taylor Morrison Jumps After IPO Prices at Top of Range
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-04-10T20:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/taylor-morrison-jumps-after-pricing-its-ipo-at-top-of-range-1-.html
Taylor Morrison Home Corp. (TMHC) , the
builder majority-owned by TPG Capital and Oaktree Capital
Management LP, climbed in New York trading after raising 20
percent more than it first sought in an initial public offering.  The stock rose 4.7 percent to close at $23.04. The
Scottsdale, Arizona-based company yesterday raised $628.6
million selling 28.6 million shares for $22 each, according to a
statement, after offering 23.8 million shares for $20 to $22.  “We’ve put the business in a very good position to be
really opportunistic,” Taylor Morrison Chief Executive Officer
Sheryl Palmer said in a telephone interview today from New York.
“From an offering standpoint, we’re really in the right place
at the right time.”  The IPO benefited from a recovery in new-home sales
following the worst housing crash since the Great Depression, as
well as from  stock prices  that have risen to all-time highs this
year. The offering opens the way for Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG
and Los Angeles-based Oaktree to exit Taylor Morrison after
leading a $1.2 billion buyout from U.K. parent  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) 
in 2011.  The purchase included a $620.3 million equity investment
that was later expanded to $770.3 million. The midpoint of the
IPO price range valued that stake at $2.33 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Share Purchases  Taylor Morrison planned to offer a 19 percent stake in the
IPO, filings showed. The company will use $386.6 million of its
proceeds from the enlarged offering, together with cash on hand,
to buy shares back from existing owners, according to
yesterday’s statement. TPG and Oaktree were each set to own 39
percent of the company post-IPO, regulatory  filings  before the
offering showed.  Demand for new houses has come back as consumer  confidence 
stabilizes,  unemployment  declines and buyers seek to take
advantage of low  mortgage rates  while facing a diminished  supply 
of existing properties on the market, Palmer said.  New homes 
sold at an annual pace of 411,000 in February, up 12 percent
from a year earlier, Commerce Department figures show.  Taylor Morrison’s IPO is the second by a U.S. homebuilder
this year.  Tri Pointe Homes Inc. (TPH) , an  Irvine , California-based
builder that’s 38 percent owned by Barry Sternlicht’s Starwood
Capital Group LLC, raised $267.6 million in January.  William Lyon Homes -- whose primary shareholders include
Luxor Capital Group LP, Paulson & Co. and Colony Capital LLC --
applied to list on the New York Stock Exchange, with plans to
raise as much as $200 million in a new share offering, according
to a filing yesterday. The Newport Beach, California-based
builder gained 16 percent to $3.32 today in over-the-counter
trading.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. led the Taylor
Morrison offering. The shares are listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol TMHC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  