-- Baidu Jumps as Reports Buoy Suntech: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-10T20:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/baidu-jumps-as-reports-buoy-suntech-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks climbed to the
highest level in a week in New York as  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP)  extended gains on reports the company is talking to
investors and  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  jumped the most since July.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 0.9 percent to 91.44
yesterday for a third day of gains. Suntech surged 19 percent
after the China Securities Journal  reported  the solar
manufacturer, whose main unit was forced into bankruptcy after a
debt default, had been approached by potential investors. Baidu,
owner of China’s biggest online search engine, rallied the most
since July, while  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  traded at the highest
premium over Hong Kong shares in three months.  Suntech, which defaulted on a $541 million bond repayment
last month, has soared 78 percent this week after the Hong Kong
Economic Times’ news service said  Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co. was interested in buying what was once the
world’s biggest solar-panel maker. 86Research Ltd. raised Baidu,
down 10 percent in 2013, to buy from hold.  “Suntech’s rally is related to the market rumor that
Buffett is interested in investing, according to Chinese media
reports,” Tan Chiheng, an analyst at Granite  Point Capital Inc. (PTCI) 
in  Boston , which invests in Chinese equities, said by phone.
“Investors are interested in Baidu due to its low valuation and
the generally improving macroeconomic environment in China.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 0.5 percent to a one-
week high of $36.42 yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
added 1.2 percent to a record-high 1,587.73 amid optimism over
quarterly earnings.  Suntech Speculation  China’s central bank may release March data of banks’  new
loans  and money supply as early as today. Chinese banks may
extended new loans of 900 billion  yuan  ($145.3 billion) last
month, from 620 billion yuan in February, according to the
median estimate of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Suntech’s American depositary receipts advanced to 74
cents, the highest close in four weeks.  Referring to speculation surrounding Buffett’s MidAmerican
looking to invest in the company, the China Securities Journal
reported that an unidentified Suntech official didn’t deny that
“the company people have been talking about” had approached
the Jiangsu, China-based solar maker.  Suntech will publish an official statement in a few days,
the Journal said, quoting the Suntech official.  The company is looking for buyers for some of its projects
and assets, Reuters reported yesterday, citing an unidentified
person with knowledge of the matter. A court in Wuxi,  China , has
appointed a committee to administer a restructuring that will
take as long as nine months, Reuters cited the person as saying.  Baidu Valuation  Baidu  traded  at 15.6 estimated 12-month earnings yesterday,
rebounding from a record-low valuation of 14.5 reached last
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company’s ADRs surged
6.1 percent to $90.07 in New York, the steepest rally since July
24.  ADRs of Baidu are “attractive,” Ming Zhao, founder of
86Research wrote in a note yesterday, citing the company’s
valuation. “We see mobile search as a big driver for the next
five years. A number of negatives have been baked into Baidu’s
shares.”  Yanzhou, China’s fourth-largest coal miner, increased for a
second day, rising 2.6 percent to a one-week high of $12.92 in
New York. Its ADRs, each representing 10 underlying shares in
the Shandong-based company, traded 2.6 percent  above  shares in
Hong Kong, the largest premium since Jan. 2.  Qihoo Gains  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , owner of China’s most-used web
browser, added 3.9 percent to a one-week high of $29.93 in New
York.  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd., (HOLI)  a Beijing-based
control system maker, climbed 4.5 percent to $12.19, rising the
most in a month.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International
Corp. (SMI) , a Shanghai-based circuit foundry, rallied 5.4 percent to
$3.12 in New York, the highest level in two months.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong rose 0.8
percent to 10,694.23 yesterday, extending a three-day rally, and
the Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares was
little changed at a one-week high of 2,226.126.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.28 percent to
6.2607 per dollar yesterday in New York, the biggest gain since
Jan. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
strengthened 0.14 percent to 6.1939 per dollar in  Shanghai 
yesterday after touching 6.1923, the strongest level since 1993,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  