-- Bank of America Hires Former Goldman Sachs Banker Luigi Rizzo
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-04-10T09:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/bank-of-america-hires-former-goldman-sachs-banker-luigi-rizzo.html
Bank of America Corp ., the second-
largest U.S. lender by assets, hired former  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group
Inc. banker Luigi Rizzo to become head of mergers and
acquisitions for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa .  Rizzo, 42, will be based in London, when he joins in
August, Adrian Mee, head of international mergers and
acquisitions, said in a memo to employees today. The contents of
the memo were confirmed by a spokeswoman for the bank in London.
Philip Noblet, who co-runs the European advisory business, was
appointed chairman of the unit.  “These two appointments are important steps and represent
further investment in our strategically important global M&A
business,” Mee said in the memo.  Bank of America’s investment bank, overseen by the firm’s
Co-Chief Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag, has been seeking
selective hires after freeing payroll by cutting more than 30
employees, said a person with knowledge of the strategy in
March. It has also been overhauling and adding to its
investment-banking team in Europe following the exits of  Andrea Orcel  as chairman of global banking and markets and Jonathan Moulds, the firm’s president of Europe.  The bank last year hired Alex Wilmot-Sitwell from  UBS AG (UBSN)  as
president of its European division and Diego De Giorgi, chief
operating officer of Goldman Sachs’s investment-banking
division, as joint head of global corporate and investment
banking for Europe.  Bank of America slipped to eighth among global merger
advisers last year from sixth in 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The bank is also the fourth-largest stock
underwriter this year, up from fifth in 2012, the data show.  Rizzo, who joined Goldman Sachs in 1993, specializes in
areas including financial mergers and left the firm about
January, a person with knowledge of the matter said at that
time. He was made a partner at the New York-based firm in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  