-- Bank Investors Press Breakups to Add Value, Burnell Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-04-11T19:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/bank-investors-press-breakups-to-add-value-burnell-says.html
Shareholders at the biggest U.S.
banking conglomerates may demand breakups if valuations remain
depressed, according to analysts at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   So-called universal banks such as  Bank of America Corp. ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are trading at a 25
percent to 30 percent discount to more-focused competitors,
analysts led by Matthew H. Burnell wrote in a research report
today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which
concentrate on investment banking, trading and money management,
are within 8 percent of the estimated value of their parts, the
analysts wrote.  “Given the challenges posed by increasing regulation,
higher capital requirements, and well-publicized trading/market
challenges, it’s not surprising that investors remain reluctant
to assign a ‘full’ valuation to the universal banks,” the
analysts wrote. “If regulators and/or legislators don’t demand
it, shareholders could also intensify demands to ‘break up the
banks.’ ”  The analysts compared valuations of the biggest U.S.
lenders to the estimated value of their separate pieces. On this
basis, Burnell’s team calculated that pieces of  Bank of America 
are worth 41 percent more than their tangible book value, a
measure of how much shareholders would receive if the firms’
assets were sold and liabilities paid off.  Citigroup should get a 24 percent premium, JPMorgan should
get 69 percent and Goldman Sachs should be valued at 19 percent
more than tangible book, the analysts said.  Value Gaps  Citigroup, ranked third by assets and based in New York,
and Bank of America, ranked second and based in Charlotte, North
Carolina,  trade  at about 14 percent and 7 percent less than
tangible book value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, and Goldman
Sachs, the fifth-biggest, trade for 28 percent and 9 percent
more than tangible book value, respectively. The valuation for
the two New York-based companies compares with the 281 percent
premium fetched by Minneapolis-based  U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s
largest regional bank.  New York-based Morgan Stanley should be valued at a 13
percent discount to tangible book value, compared with the
current discount of about 19 percent, the note said.  The note estimates that, based on the sum of their parts,
 Bank of America  is worth $16.07 a share, Citigroup should trade
at $63.33, JPMorgan is worth $64.83, and Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley should fetch $159.59 and $23.32 respectively.  Capital Rules  New legislation to impose higher capital rules on the
largest banks, such as the proposal from Senators Sherrod Brown
and  David Vitter , probably would trigger a break-up of the
largest lenders, the analysts wrote. While new legislation is
“unlikely” to go forward at this time, it’s a “non-trivial
risk given the environment,” the analysts wrote.  Michael Mayo , CLSA Ltd.’s bank analyst, wrote in a separate
note yesterday that shareholders in the biggest firms are more
likely to agitate for changes than in prior years.  “Almost every large investor from our meetings and
conversations over the past four months agrees that bank
managements should be held more accountable and more often
intend to vote against directors, compensation plans, and other
actions,” Mayo wrote in an April 9 research note.  Citigroup,  KeyCorp (KEY) , Morgan Stanley and  State Street Corp. (STT) ,
which hold annual shareholder meetings in the next six weeks,
have come under pressure from investors who have sought cost
cuts and new ways of doing business, Mayo wrote. He recommends
stocks of all four companies, saying the activism has raised
awareness among investors and management of the need for change.  Mayo’s Agitation  Mayo told  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on Bloomberg
Television today that “I’ll be going to the annual meetings for
the first time ever” to press for changes.  Mayo criticized the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
ruling last month that allowed New York-based Citigroup, the
third-largest U.S. bank by assets, to omit from its annual
meeting a proposal by shareholder Trillium Asset Management LLC
that would require the lender to explore a breakup.  “The benefit of proposals such as the one from Trillium is
that it would place more control in the hands of shareholders in
driving more of these decisions,” Mayo wrote. “Let the owners
have a say. Yet, the effect of the SEC is limiting shareholders’
ability to have more influence, a terrible result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 