-- Barcelona, Bayern Complete Champions League Semifinal Lineup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-10T23:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/barcelona-bayern-munich-advance-to-champions-league-semifinals.html
Barcelona advanced to the Champions
League soccer semifinals for a record sixth straight year after
eliminating Paris Saint-Germain on away goals, as Bayern Munich
ousted Juventus with a 2-0 win.  World player of the year Lionel Messi came on as a second-
half substitute to help set up Pedro Rodriguez for the tying
goal as Barcelona drew 1-1 at its Camp Nou stadium last night to
go through on the tiebreaker. The teams drew 2-2 to open the
two-match quarterfinal last week in  France .  “PSG are great rivals and perhaps it took us a while to
get into our rhythm at the start,” Pedro said on the website of
tournament organizer UEFA. “Messi was the catalyst. We changed
after he came on and we have to thank him for that.”  Mario Mandzukic and Claudio Pizarro scored in  Italy  as
German champion Bayern completed a 4-0 aggregate win against
Juventus to reach the semifinals of  Europe ’s elite club
competition for the third time in four seasons.  The final four features two teams each from Spain and
 Germany  as Barcelona and Bayern join record-nine time winner
Real Madrid and Borussia Dortmund in tomorrow’s draw in Nyon,
Switzerland. The opening games are scheduled April 23 and 24.  “We’d like to be kept apart from Dortmund, but you don’t
have a choice in these things,” Bayern’s Arjen Robben said on
UEFA’s website. “What comes comes. They are big games, the
semifinals, featuring four great teams. It’s nice to be there.”  Passing Move  Pedro’s 71st-minute goal was enough to send Barcelona
through. It came off a passing move instigated by Messi, the
four-time world player of the year who started on the bench
after injuring his hamstring in Paris last week.  PSG had taken a 3-2 overall lead five minutes into the
second half as Zlatan Ibrahimovic sent a pass to Javier Pastore,
who beat the offside trap before lifting his shot over
goalkeeper Victor Valdes.  Pastore then shot wide after being set up in the area by
Ibrahimovic in the 58th minute. After Barcelona’s  Dani Alves 
fired over the goal, Messi came on for Cesc Fabregas, drawing a
huge cheer from the Camp Nou crowd.  PSG goalkeeper Salvatore Sirigu punched out  Andres Iniesta ’s low drive with Messi unable to get a shot off the
rebound. Barcelona then scored with 19 minutes left as Messi
slid a pass into the area for David Villa, who laid a ball back
for Pedro to fire past Sirigu.  “We’re happy to be in the semifinals once again,” Villa
said. “It cost us a lot of effort to get there. Messi is the
best player in the world and he changed the entire game just by
his presence on the field. We really appreciate his efforts.”  Barcelona is seeking its fifth European Cup title and
fourth in the past eight seasons.  Bayern Advances  In Turin, Bayern completed a rout of two-time champion
Juventus to continue its quest for a fifth European Cup victory
after two runner-up finishes in the past three seasons.  Mandzukic gave Bayern the lead in the 64th minute by
heading in the rebound after Gianluigi Buffon saved Javi Martinez’s shot. Pizarro then fired past Buffon in stoppage time
after taking a pass from Bastian Schweinsteiger.  “The big difference between them and us is experience:
they have played together for a few years and went far in Europe
in the last few seasons,” Buffon said. “I knew they were
strong, but to be honest I did not think they were so strong.
They can win the Champions League.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 