-- Barclays’ Absa CEO Sets September Deadline for Asset Transfer
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-04-10T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/barclays-absa-ceo-sets-september-deadline-for-asset-transfer.html
Maria Ramos , chief executive
officer of  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the South African bank buying most
of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s African assets, said it expects to complete
the deal by September after regulatory delays.  Kenya, Botswana, Ghana and Mauritius still need to approve
the transaction, she said yesterday in an interview.  “We’re still hoping that the deal will conclude in the
first half of the year, but it’s a stretch,” Ramos said in
Johannesburg. “We’re still confident we will conclude in the
timelines allowed by the sales and purchase agreement, which is
90 days after June 6.”  Barclays and Absa said on April 5 that the deal, which
involves the South African bank offering 18.3 billion rand
($2.05 billion) in shares for the bulk of Barclays’ African
operations, was delayed, without specifying a time frame. The
British bank, which first bought an Absa stake in 2005, will see
its holding increase to 62.3 percent from 55.5 percent with Absa
initially scheduled to change its name to Barclays Africa Group
Ltd. on  Johannesburg’s stock exchange  by April 15.  “I was always aware that taking on eight countries wasn’t
going to be a walk in the park,” she said.  Right to Terminate  According to a  circular  dated Dec. 14, both banks had the
right to extend the transaction’s completion date by 90 days.
The document also says if any of Barclays’s assets in
Seychelles, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia are not transferred by
the time the deal is ready to conclude, they may still be
transferred at a later date. Alternatively, if the deadlines set
are not met, both banks have the right to terminate the
agreement, according to the circular.  Barclays has surged 21 percent since the transaction was
announced and is the second best-performing stock on the six-
member FTSE 350 Banks Index this year. Absa fell 5.8 percent
this year, the most of  South Africa ’s four largest banks as
profit dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  