-- Barrick Drops After Chile Court Halts Pascua-Lama: Toronto Mover
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-04-10T20:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/barrick-falls-after-chile-court-halts-pascua-lama-toronto-mover.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
largest gold miner by sales, fell the most in more than five
months after a Chilean court ordered work halted at its Pascua-
Lama project in the Andes.  Barrick fell 8.6 percent to C$24.81, the most since Nov. 1,
2012, at the close in Toronto, where the company is based, after
the Copiapo Appeals court accepted an injunction filed by
indigenous communities.  “There’s a lot of ambiguity here, it’s important but
nobody knows just how important this is and what kind of delay
it might mean,” David West, an analyst at Salman Partners Inc.
in  Vancouver , said today by phone. “At this point for the type
of reward that you are going to get out of Barrick I think
investors that are leaving the shares today are just saying it’s
not worth the risk.”  Barrick raised the cost estimate for Pascua-Lama, on the
border between Chile and  Argentina , twice last year to as much
as $8.5 billion and said first output would be delayed by more
than a year, to the second half of 2014. The mine was forecast
to cost no more than $3 billion when the company approved its
development in 2009.  Barrick hasn’t received notice from the court and couldn’t
comment on the measure, Rodrigo Jimenez, a Santiago-based
spokesman, said in an e-mail today. Shares in the company have
fallen 27 percent this year as gold futures in New York declined
8.8 percent after 12 straight annual gains.  Environmental Rules  Barrick faces as much as $10.2 million in fines in
connection with the mine, which  Chile ’s environmental regulator
said in March has failed to comply with environmental rules. The
appeals court decision was first reported by local radio station
Radio Cooperativa.  Located 4,500 meters (14,700 feet) above sea level in the
Andes Mountains and spanning the border between Chile and
Argentina, Pascua-Lama was approved only after Barrick agreed to
mitigate feared impacts on glaciers, the principal source of
water for the agriculture-dependent Huasco Valley.  “Construction activities in Argentina, where the majority
of Pascua-Lama’s critical infrastructure is located, including
the process plant and tailings storage facility, are not
affected,” Barrick said in a statement today.  Production Estimate  The mine is expected to produce an average of 800,000 to
850,000 ounces a year of gold in the first five full years of
operations, Barrick Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky said
Feb. 14. The project represents about 17 percent of Barrick’s
consolidated net asset value using a 5 percent discount rate,
Greg Barnes, a Toronto-based analyst at TD Securities Inc. said
in a note today.  The Chilean injunction “doesn’t affect the Argentine side,
which is where most of the construction is going on,” said
 George Topping , a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., in a phone interview. “But to my mind it is still a high-
risk project to be investing $8.5 billion in.”  Work Suspended  Barrick already suspended some work to strip the surface
above the mine last year, because of dust thrown up by strong
winds. The company is working to mitigate dust and improve
ventilation before resuming so-called pre-stripping activities,
Senior Executive Vice President Kelvin Dushnisky said Feb. 14.  Barrick is also facing difficulties over its newest mine,
the Pueblo Viejo operation in the Dominican Republic, which
started production in August last year. The government’s
contract for the mine’s development is unacceptable and must be
revised to provide more benefit to the country, President Danilo Medina said Feb. 27.  Customs delayed a gold shipment from Pueblo Viejo, the
biggest foreign investment in the Dominican Republic, for four
days last month before it was released, Barrick said March 18.
Negotiations to resolve the dispute will not extend beyond
April, Dominican Today said today, citing Presidency
Administrative Minister José Ramón Peralta.  Barrick owns 60 percent of Pueblo Viejo and Vancouver-based
 Goldcorp Inc. (G) , which has surpassed Barrick as the biggest gold
miner by market value, holds the other 40 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  