-- Bayer Sues FDA Seeking to Block Sales of Generic Baytril
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-10T23:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/bayer-sues-fda-seeking-to-block-sales-of-generic-baytril.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  sued the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration seeking to block sales of a generic form of
the livestock antibiotic Baytril 100 being sold by competitor
Norbrook Laboratories Ltd.  Bayer, in a complaint filed today in  Washington , said the
FDA’s approval of Norbrook’s Enroflox 100 product to treat
bovine respiratory disease was unlawful because the agency
hadn’t responded to Bayer’s concerns that the generic would be
used for an off-label doseage. The Leverkusen, Germany-based
company asked a judge to halt sales of the generic while the
lawsuit is being considered.  “A temporary restraining order is warranted to prevent
severe and irreparable harm to Bayer and to preserve the status
quo until the court can reach the merits of Bayer’s claim,”
Bruce Genderson, a lawyer for Bayer at Williams & Connolly LLP,
said in a request for a preliminary injunction.  The FDA approved Norbrook’s application for its Enroflox
product on March 29, according to the complaint. Norbrook, based
in the U.K., sought FDA approval in 2008 to market a generic
version of Baytril 100 that would be labeled as a multiday
dosing regimen. Bayer alleges the product will be used in a
single dose.  Sandy Walsh , an FDA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  A telephone message seeking comment on the lawsuit left at
Norbrook’s U.S. office in Lenexa,  Kansas , after regular business
hours wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Bayer Healthcare LLC v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 13-cv-00487, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 