-- Beer Yeast Bubbles to Malaria Drug in Gates-Funded Study
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-04-10T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/beer-yeast-bubbles-to-malaria-drug-in-gates-funded-study.html
Baker’s yeast, commonly used to
make beer and bread, can be engineered to produce a key
ingredient for malaria drugs, according to researchers who say
the method offers a new way to boost needed supplies.  Antimalarial medications save millions of lives, yet the
supply of the sweet wormwood tree, the source of the most
effective treatment, artemisinin, can fluctuate year to year,
creating shortages. The study published today by the  journal
Nature , and funded by the Seattle-based  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation , describes how the new process boosts production of
artemisinic acid by almost 16 times the amount of previous
approaches.  “Prior to this, nobody had been able to get a high level
production of artemisinin,” Chris Paddon, a study author, said
in an interview. “This is a big genetic engineering
breakthrough.”  Paddon, principal scientist for  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , an Emeryville,
California-based renewable chemicals and fuels company, said the
intellectual property rights for the process described in the
paper have been donated for nonprofit use in order to boost
production.  The process resulted in 25 grams of commercially usable
artemisinic acid concentration per liter, compared with previous
methods that led to 1.6 grams per liter. Artemisinic acid is
then converted into the drug artemisinin, which is combined with
other antimalarial treatments to ensure the parasites that cause
the disease are cleared.  Sanofi (SAN) , the Paris-based maker of Lantus insulin, will start
using this method beginning tomorrow to produce semi-synthetic
artemisinin, Paddon said.  Deadly Disease  Malaria kills a child in  Africa   every minute , according to
the Geneva-based  World Health Organization . The disease is
spread through mosquitoes infected with the Plasmodium parasite,
which multiply in the human liver, attacking red blood cells. It
strikes about 216 million people each year and kills about
655,000.  “The key issue for the manufacture of these artemisinin
combination therapies is that it’s an agricultural product and
so the prices vary hugely year to year, as does the supply,”
Roly Gosling, lead of the  University of California , San
Francisco’s Global Health Group’s  Malaria Elimination
Initiative , said in an interview. “This of course has a huge
impact on public health programs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  