-- Beyonce and Jay-Z Cuba Trip Called ‘Educational’ by Treasury
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-04-10T15:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/beyonce-cuba-trip-with-jay-z-was-educational-treasury.html
Singer Beyonce and Shawn “Jay-Z” Carter traveled to Cuba “pursuant to an educational exchange
trip” organized by an authorized company, the U.S. Treasury
Department said in response to inquiries from Florida lawmakers.  The trip by the celebrity couple spurred widespread media
coverage after two U.S. representatives from Florida,
Republicans Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Mario Diaz-Balart,  asked  the
Treasury who approved the travel and for what purpose. U.S. law
prohibits financial transactions for tourist activities in Cuba
to prevent funding of the government, which controls the
industry. The Treasury permits visits for educational reasons.  “It is our understanding that the travelers in question
traveled to Cuba pursuant to an educational exchange,” the
Treasury said yesterday in a response to each of the lawmakers.
The visit was organized by a group authorized to sponsor such
trips and coordinate “programs to promote people-to-people
contact in Cuba,” it said in letters to the representatives.  The Treasury’s “regulations and guidelines require that
such trips involve a full-time schedule of educational exchange
activities,” according to the department’s letters.  In her April 5 inquiry to the Treasury, Ros-Lehtinen said
the restrictions are in place because communist Cuba is “one of
four U.S.-designated state sponsors of terrorism with one of the
world’s most egregious human-rights records.”  Loosened Restrictions  President  Barack Obama  in 2009 allowed companies for the
first time to provide communications services to the Caribbean
island of 11 million people and lifted a travel ban for Cuban-
Americans.  Beyonce Knowles-Carter and her husband, Jay-Z, celebrated
their fifth wedding anniversary in Havana’s La Guarida
restaurant on April 3, according to the Associated Press. They
also visited parts of the Cuban capital that date to colonial
times, the news service said.  The couple has supported Obama, hosting a $4 million
fundraiser in September during his re-election campaign where
Obama thanked them for their friendship. Beyonce also sang the
national anthem at his second inauguration in January.  “If the tourist activities undertaken by Beyonce and Jay-Z
in Cuba are classified as an educational-exchange trip, then it
is clear that the Obama administration is not serious about
denying the Castro regime an economic lifeline that U.S. tourism
will extend to it,” Ros-Lehtinen.  Hunger Strikes  Ros-Lehtinen, who was born in Havana and became the first
Hispanic woman to serve in Congress after taking office in 1989,
represents a district that includes part of Miami-Dade County, a
historic center of Cuban immigrants.  “That was a wedding-anniversary vacation that was not even
disguised as a cultural program,” the lawmaker said yesterday
in a response to the Treasury’s letter and posted on her
website. “As more human-rights activists engage in hunger
strikes, I don’t think they will see any evidence of how this
scam endeavor will help them become independent of the regime.”  About 145 kilometers (90 miles) south of Florida, Cuba has
been ruled by brothers Fidel and Raul Castro since a revolution
toppled the Fulgencio Batista dictatorship in 1959, starting an
exodus of immigrants to the U.S. and Miami, including Ros-
Lehtinen’s parents. The nation has a history of violating human
rights, according to Amnesty International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  