-- BHP CFO Says China Growth May Slow Toward 6% After Two Years
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n ,   L a u r i e   H a y s   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-04-10T06:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/bhp-s-kerr-says-china-growth-may-slow-toward-6-after-2-years.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, expects annual economic growth in China
to moderate toward 6 percent, saying prospects in its largest
customer present its main business risk.  “What you have seen over the last couple of years, I don’t
expect the double digit growth rates to continue,” Graham Kerr,
chief financial officer of the Melbourne-based company, said
today at the  Bloomberg Australia Economic Summit  in Sydney.
“Their moderated growth is around the 7 percent to 8 percent
mark for the next couple of years, then trending down toward the
6 percent mark.”  China, whose economy grew 7.9 percent last year, the
slowest since 2008, is the world’s biggest metals importer and
accounts for 30 percent of BHP’s sales. China’s growth may
decline to 7 percent to 8 percent, and stay at that level for
the next decade, outgoing BHP Chief Executive Officer Marius Kloppers said Oct. 17.  “Eventually we’ll see growth come back below that band of
7 to 8 percent, but it’s still a number of years away,” said
Paul Xiradis, chief executive officer at fund manager Ausbil
Dexia Ltd. in Sydney.  BHP gained 1.7 percent to close at A$33.68 in Sydney, down
from an intra-day high of A$34.18. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s
second-biggest mining company, rose 2.7 percent while the key
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.2 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index pared gains after Kerr’s
comments on China’s economic growth and export data for the
nation missed estimates.  Less Than Forecast  China’s exports rose less than forecast for the first time
in four months, leaving the world’s second-largest economy with
weaker global demand to support its recovery, according to
government figures released today. The government is aiming to
achieve 7.5 percent annual growth through 2020 under new Premier
Li Keqiang.  “The biggest risk is clearly from our perspective what
happens in China, and around the developing worlds, but
predominantly China,” said Kerr. “At what rate of growth does
that continue to happen, and at what trajectory does that
happen.”  BHP is continuing its diversification strategy as economies
such as China require a range of commodities at different points
in their development, with potash potentially becoming the
company’s fifth major commodity to invest in, after iron ore,
metallurgical coal, copper and its oil and gas business, said
Kerr.  Potash Addition  “The possible one we have in the future is potash,” said
Kerr. “It could probably be the fifth commodity that we may add
longer-term if the Jansen project goes through our investment
process.” The Jansen project in Saskatchewan, Canada, the
world’s largest potash-producing region, may cost $14 billion,
BMO Capital Markets wrote in an Oct. 22 report.  BHP in August put an estimated $68 billion of projects on
hold after revenues declined, including an expansion of the
Olympic Dam copper-uranium mine and the Jansen potash
development. It said at the time it didn’t expect to approve any
spending on major projects during fiscal 2013, which ends on
June 30.  A decision on building Jansen “will probably come to the
board next financial year,” Kerr said.  Expansion Slows  Global mining companies have slowed expansions and delayed
projects on expectations that commodities prices have passed
their highs, after economic growth began slowing in China. The
117-member  Bloomberg World Mining Index (BWMING)  as of yesterday had
dropped 14 percent over the year, with BHP down 3.9 percent. In
contrast, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 13 percent and
hit a record this month.  “We think a growth rate of 7 percent in the medium to long
term - about five years out - is probably reasonable for
China,” Tom Price, a Sydney-based commodity analyst at UBS AG,
said during a panel discussion at the summit. The government
“will bring about a transition away from an industrial-based
economy to a more mature economy, and be very targeted about
where they will deploy government funds in infrastructure.”  An expected slowdown in demand for minerals over the next
five years makes cutting costs and boosting productivity a
priority, incoming CEO Andrew Mackenzie said in February in an
interview with the Australian Broadcasting Corp. Kloppers, whom
he will succeed in the top job on May 10, said Feb. 20 there
won’t be a return to the peak commodity prices of 2007.  BHP made cost cuts of $944 million in the six months to
Dec. 31, Kerr told analysts Feb. 20. It’s pursuing more cost
savings, particularly from contractors and suppliers as
commodity prices decline, Kerr said in an interview on the
sidelines of the Bloomberg Summit.  “As our prices come down, we expect their prices to come
down,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Hays in  New York  at 
 lhays1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  