-- Billabong Falls to Record on Offer Below Inventory Value
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-04-10T09:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/billabong-falls-to-record-on-offer-below-inventory-value.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
surfwear maker whose founder last year said he wouldn’t sell for
A$1 billion, fell to a record low in Sydney trading after
entering talks on a A$287 million ($300 million) takeover.  The company fell 27 percent to close at 53.5 Australian
cents. That’s 11 percent below the 60 cents non-binding offer
that Billabong is discussing with a group including Sycamore
Partners Management, and values the retailer at less than the
inventory in its stores and warehouses as of Dec. 31.  Billabong, hurt by a consumer spending slump and
 competition  from major retailers, last year rebuffed an approach
from TPG Capital worth almost A$842 million. It has shut stores,
fired employees, written down its brands and breached terms on
its  debt . TPG and another bidder later made lower offers and
walked away after viewing Billabong’s accounts.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty around whether the
offer will go ahead at 60 cents,” Tony Wilson, a Melbourne-
based analyst at Evans & Partners, said by phone today. “I’m
not surprised it should be at some discount.”  Under the proposal, Billabong founder Gordon Merchant and
former employee Colette Paull must exchange their combined
shareholding of about 16 percent for stock in a vehicle being
set up for the takeover. Merchant started by cutting board
shorts on his kitchen table in 1973 and selling them to Gold
Coast surf shops, according to the company’s  website .  Billabong Chief Executive Officer Launa Inman declined to
comment directly today on Sycamore’s bid or the takeover
process.  No Guarantee  Another 8.9 percent of the vehicle is available for
shareholders who don’t want to take the 60 Australian cents cash
and there’s no guarantee that the transaction will proceed, the
company said in yesterday’s statement.  “Investors need to take the opportunity to exit the
stock,” Nick Berry, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
Sydney, said by phone yesterday, after the offer was announced.  The two sides will discuss Sycamore’s offer for 10 business
days and shareholders don’t need to take any action yet, the
company said in its statement yesterday.  Takeover approaches have been “very disruptive” and have
taken up all but five weeks of the 10 months she’s been in the
job, Inman said on the sidelines of the  Bloomberg Australia
Economic Summit  today.  Ownership Uncertainty  “How do you push forward change when there’s such
uncertainty about ownership?” she said to reporters in Sydney.
“I do believe the strategy is right, the board has endorsed
that. What we need to continue to do now is implement it,
regardless of ownership.”  The Sycamore-led group, which includes former Billabong
director Paul Naude, initially indicated it would pay as much as
A$1.10 a share when it first approached Billabong last December.
In January, Altamont  Capital Partners  and  VF Corp. (VFC)  also said
they would consider a bid that high as they sought to conduct
due diligence on the company.  Both bidders were examining offers of as little as 50
Australian cents a share, people with knowledge of the matter
said April 4. Altamont isn’t being included in the current
talks, Billabong said yesterday.  “The business appears to be in worse shape than low
expectations,” Jordan Rogers, a Sydney-based analyst at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “Billabong’s operating performance has been in a
free-fall in recent years.” It is “far too early to see any of
the benefits” of efforts to revamp the company, he said.  Market Value  The A$287 million proposal from the Sycamore-led group
values Billabong at little more than the A$225 million it raised
 selling new stock  to shareholders last year. It’s less than the
A$289 million value put on its inventory of clothes and
accessories as on Dec. 31, according to the company’s most
recent balance sheet.  At about 3.7 times the mid-point of analysts’  estimates  for
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization
for 12 months ending June, the proposal’s multiple is less than
half the median in 57 apparel deals globally over the past five
years.  Before the latest bids, TPG made two separate approaches to
Billabong last year. TPG offered as much as A$3.30 a share in
February. Merchant said at the time that he wouldn’t support an
offer as high as A$4 a share from TPG, according to a regulatory
statement. That would have valued the company at about A$1.02
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bid History  TPG returned with a A$1.45-a-share provisional offer in
July, which it eventually dropped. Another unnamed bidder that
people identified as  Bain Capital  also considered a A$1.45 bid
before walking away in September.  At its peak in May 2007, the company was valued at A$3.84
billion.  The company on Feb. 22 reported a record loss in the six
months ended Dec. 31 on A$567 million of charges, as it wrote
off most of the value of its main brand. It will post 80 percent
of its assets and 85 percent of its earnings as security to its
lenders after breaching terms on its debt, Billabong said when
announcing its half-year results that day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  