-- Bipartisan Lawmakers Introduce Bill to Repeal U.S. Ethanol Law
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-04-10T20:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/bipartisan-lawmakers-introduce-bill-to-repeal-u-s-ethanol-law.html
Legislation introduced today in the
U.S. House of Representatives would repeal requirements for
ethanol use, possibly rekindling the debate over the biofuel’s
place in the nation’s energy plans.  Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, and a
bipartisan group of legislators introduced two bills. The first
would repeal the U.S. ethanol mandate and the second would
revise the definition of renewable fuels to include only
advanced biofuels and exclude corn-based ethanol, Goodlatte’s
office said.  The Renewable Fuels Standard passed in 2007 started out
with good intentions and turned out to be a “very dumb” idea,
said Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont Democrat, who said
the mandate has raised costs for dairy farmers in his state.  Ethanol advocates including Jeff Broin, chairman of Poet
LLC, blamed the oil industry for the new attempt to repeal the
RFS, which requires the U.S. to use 13.8 billion gallons of
ethanol this year and 15 billion gallons by 2015. Broin
described the legislation as a desperate “Hail Mary” attempt
by  oil companies  to eliminate a competitive fuel.  “This is just a smokescreen for going after the one
alternative fuel and the one policy that has fundamentally
disrupted oil industry control of the marketplace while saving
consumers money at the pump,” Bob Dinneen, president of the
 Renewable Fuels Association , a Washington-based trade group,
said in an e-mailed statement.  RFS Impact  The American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers and the
 American Petroleum Institute , which both represent  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , released statements supporting the
legislation.  Ethanol, petroleum and food interests have argued about the
impact of the RFS, which calls for escalating amounts of the
fuel to be used, on grocery and fuel costs. The mandate was part
of U.S. energy plans to reduce dependence on foreign sources of
crude oil.  Compliance is tracked by Renewable Identification Numbers,
or RINs, which are attached to each gallon of biofuel produced
or imported. Once refiners blend the biofuel into petroleum,
they can retain the RIN or trade it to another party.  The value of  corn-based ethanol RINs  fell 11.5 cents to 80
cents today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Advanced RINs
dropped 10 cents to 85 cents. They both reached records on March
8.  There are about 2.1 billion RINs that were carried over
from 2012 that can be used for compliance this year, short of
the Environmental Protection Agency’s forecast of 2.6 billion,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a April 7 report.  Higher prices for the certificates may affect prices for
reformulated gasoline, or RBOB, and crack spreads, the premium
of the fuel over crude, Goldman Sachs said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net  and Derek Wallbank in Washington at +1-
   dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  