-- BlackRock Sees No Way to Make Money in Sovereign Debt: Tom Keene
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-04-10T13:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/blackrock-sees-no-opportunity-to-make-money-in-government-debt.html
Government debt offers fewer
prospects for investors than equities, according to Ewen Cameron Watt, chief investment strategist of the BlackRock Investment
Institute, the research unit of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “In the government stuff, there’s just really no
opportunity to make money,” Cameron-Watt said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Sara Eisen. “If you look at the bond market, it is just one big
interest-rate bet right now.”  Yields on government bonds in the U.S. and Germany have
fallen toward all-time lows in the past month amid speculation
central banks around the world will maintain stimulus measures
and put downward pressure on interest rates. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks closed at an all-time high on
April 2.  Ten-year Treasury yields rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.78 percent as of 8:57 a.m. New York time,
down from as much as 2.08 percent a month ago, and compared with
a record-low level of 1.38 percent reached last year. The rate
on similar-maturity  German bonds  rose four basis points to 1.30
percent, compared with 1.54 percent on March 8. The all-time low
German bund yield is 1.13 percent.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  said on April 4 it plans to buy 7.5
trillion yen ($76 billion) of bonds a month. European Central
President  Mario Draghi  said last week monetary policy “will
remain accommodative for as long as needed,” while the  Federal
Reserve  is buying $85 billion of securities a month in a bid to
boost growth and reduce unemployment.  U.S. government securities returned 0.4 percent this year
and German bonds rose 0.7 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of  global stocks 
returned 8.4 percent, including reinvested dividends, since the
start of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The duration opportunity, the opportunity to make money
over the long-term, lies with equities,” Cameron-Watt said.
“This is still a pretty low-growth world, but it is not a train
smash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  