-- BMW Joins Vinci Selling Bonds With Credit Risk at Three-Week Low
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-04-10T10:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/bmw-joins-vinci-selling-bonds-with-credit-risk-at-three-week-low.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is
issuing its first benchmark bonds in euros since January as
European corporate credit risk fell to the lowest in three
weeks.  The German luxury carmaker is raising 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) of debt maturing in July 2017, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Vinci SA (DG) ,  Europe ’s biggest builder, also
offered floating-rate notes as the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 125 investment-grade companies fell 3.5
basis points to 111.5 at 11:45 a.m. in  London , the lowest since
March 18.  Credit markets are buoyed by speculation central banks
around the world will keep supporting stimulus efforts. Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said that “bold monetary easing”
will reverse persistent deflation in his nation.  “High-rated issues are priced very expensively with yields
at such low levels, so we are very selective,” said Oliver Woyda, a  money manager  at Deka Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt ,
which oversees about 20 billion euros. “A lot of investors may
decide to keep older bonds with higher coupons instead of
running into new issues.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold European corporate
bonds rather than government debt is 116 basis points, near the
20-month low of 109 basis points reached on Jan. 8, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Non-Financial Index shows.  BMW Ratings  BMW’s bonds are being sold through BMW U.S. Capital LLC and
will be priced to yield 35 basis points more than the benchmark
mid-swap rate, according to people familiar with the
transaction. The company is rated A by Standard & Poor’s and A2
by Moody’s Investors Service, the sixth-highest investment-grade
levels.  Mathias Schmidt, a spokesman for BMW, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  France ’s Vinci is raising 500 million euros from three-year
floating-rate notes that will be priced to yield 58 basis points
more than three-month Euribor. Vinci, based in the Paris suburb
of Rueil-Malmaison, is rated BBB+ by S&P and Baa1 by Moody’s,
two grades below BMW. Maxence Naouri, a spokesman for Vinci,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  German industrial gas supplier  Linde AG (LIN)  is selling 10-year
euro benchmark bonds that will yield 45 to 50 basis points more
than swaps and at least $300 million of five-year securities
with a spread of about 70 basis points. It is the Munich-based
company’s first sale of euro securities since September and
first dollar bonds in a year, Bloomberg data show.  Acquisition Loan  A spokesman for Linde, who asked not to be identified
citing company policy, said the funds will help refinance a $4.5
billion acquisition loan used to buy Lincare Holdings Inc.  In the credit derivatives market, the Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of contracts on 50 companies with mostly high-
yield ratings dropped 14 basis points to 456, while the Markit
iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior debt of banks and
insurers fell five basis points to 163.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  