-- Boeing Faces Last Hurdle for Dreamliner With No-Rush FAA
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-04-11T20:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/boeing-faces-last-hurdle-for-dreamliner-with-no-rush-faa.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s effort to get its
troubled 787 Dreamliner back in the air is headed for a
challenging final hurdle: It needs approval from the U.S. agency
that’s already been burned by signing off on the plane’s safety.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  is under scrutiny for
clearing the 787 in 2007, only to reverse itself after lithium-
ion batteries overheated on two jets. Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood, whose agency includes the FAA, declared the planes
safe days before they were ordered parked. FAA officials will
face the  National Transportation Safety Board  this month to
explain their initial decision.  Boeing needs the FAA to end a Jan. 16 grounding order so
deliveries can resume from an order book valued at almost $190
billion. Politics, not just safety, will weigh on the agency as
it reviews the Dreamliner’s battery redesign and test-flight
data, said John McGraw, an aerospace consultant.  “There will have to be some political sensibilities while
reviewing this and making sure everybody up the chain and over
on the Hill is briefed on what’s being done,” said McGraw, a
retired FAA test pilot now based in Stafford, Virginia. “In a
normal situation, the secretary would never be involved.”  Boeing has to restart deliveries to pare a backlog of about
800 planes, with a list price starting at $206.8 million. The
Chicago-based planemaker has sent teams to  Japan , where  ANA
Holdings Inc. (9202)  and Japan Airlines Co. fly almost half of the 49
planes in service, to prepare to install new battery units.  ‘Really Fast’  “This will move really fast in terms of being able to get
the airplanes back into the air” once the FAA approves the
reworked batteries, Boeing Commercial Airplanes President Ray Conner said at a conference last month.  Regulators won’t be rushed, according to LaHood, who said
at an April 5 conference in  Washington  that Boeing must convince
the FAA that the battery fix is safe before flights can resume.
The 787 may be his last major decision as he prepares to leave
after four years on the job.  “We want to get it right,” LaHood said. “We want to make
sure that everything’s done correctly. We want to be able to
assure the flying public that these planes are safe.”  Boeing completed certification tests that day for the new
battery system, flying a 787 with two FAA officials aboard after
a series of ground trials.  Meeting Expectations  “We are engaged with the FAA to reply to additional
requests and continue dialogue to ensure we have met all of
their expectations,”  Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mail response to questions. He declined to
comment on the submission of test results, which Boeing said
April 5 would be turned in to the agency “in the coming days.”  The FAA isn’t discussing its plans for deciding whether the
battery fix is satisfactory beyond saying that it won’t sign off
on the Dreamliner’s return to commercial flight until the new
battery system is deemed safe, according to  Laura Brown , a
spokeswoman. She declined to comment on whether the FAA is under
any political pressure.  The design and certification of the cells for the
Dreamliner in 2007, including the FAA’s role, will be the focus
of a two-day NTSB hearing starting April 23. The batteries were
certified under “special conditions,” which are rules the FAA
creates for new technology.  Today’s Hearing  At another NTSB hearing today, on the use of  lithium-ion
batteries  in transportation, Chairman Debbie Hersman said the
cells have an inherent risk, like gasoline in automobiles. Dan Doughty, president of Battery Safety Consulting Inc. in
 Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , said those hazards are dwindling as the
technology matures.  Next week, the Dreamliner probably will come up when the
Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee holds a
hearing to discuss the FAA’s progress on safety initiatives.  LaHood, 67, a former seven-term Republican member of the
U.S. House of Representatives from  Illinois , has played a
prominent role since the Dreamliner’s batteries came under
scrutiny with a Jan. 7 fire on a Japan Airlines 787.  At a Jan. 11 news conference, he and FAA chief Michael Huerta declared the plane safe. Less than a week afterward, an
ANA 787’s battery began smoldering and spewing vapor above
Japan, prompting an emergency landing and then the grounding.  LaHood’s involvement in the 787 decision escalates pressure
on the FAA, said  John Nance , a Seattle-based aviation-safety
consultant and former commercial pilot.  ‘Intolerable Situation’  “The FAA is totally risk-averse,” Nance said. “This is
an intolerable situation.”  Investors have been supportive of Boeing. The shares rose
0.8 percent to $88.53 today in  New York , extending their gain to
14 percent since Jan. 4, the last trading day before the fire on
the Japan Airlines plane. That topped the 8.7 percent gain for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  One challenge for Boeing is that it’s betting everything on
one solution to the battery faults, said  Richard Aboulafia , an
analyst at consultant Teal Group in Fairfax, Virginia. An FAA
rejection would be a major setback, he said.  “Even if there’s only a 5 or 10 percent chance that it
won’t satisfy the FAA, that’s a big risk especially if there
isn’t a backup plan,” he said.  There’s also a chance that the FAA may shorten the distance
that the Dreamliner is able to fly from the nearest airport. The
787 is now cleared for so-called Etops, or extended operations,
flights of 180 minutes. Even a temporary reduction would limit
the jet’s use on the overseas routes for which it was designed,
said Ken Herbert, an Imperial Capital analyst in  San Francisco .  Extended Range  “The value of this plane to the airlines goes down
significantly without that Etops,” said Herbert, who has an in-
line rating on Boeing.  Boeing engineers redesigned the battery to separate and
insulate the power cells and replaced the circuitry in the
battery charger. It will be enclosed in a stainless-steel box
that Boeing says will eliminate the possibility of a fire and is
fitted with a tube to vent any liquid or vapors.  “When you can’t find an exact root cause, you go deep into
the system and progressively de-risk every system,” said Michel Merluzeau, a consultant at G2 Solutions in Kirkland, Washington.  McGraw, the aerospace consultant and ex-FAA official, said
his former agency could sign off on the battery fix within weeks
if there are no flaws in the testing. The FAA approved Boeing’s
approach to fixing the battery system in March, and LaHood on
April 5 called that concept a “good plan.”  In the end, the company, airlines and the regulators want
the same thing: a safe plane, McGraw said.  “Boeing knows they can’t afford to have another problem
with this airplane,” McGraw said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  