-- Kuroda Says BOJ Has Made All Possible Monetary Moves for Now
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-04-11T02:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/boj-s-kuroda-pledges-all-steps-necessary-to-achieve-2-inflation.html
Haruhiko Kuroda said the
unprecedented stimulus announced by the  Bank of Japan (8301)  at his
first meeting as governor last week is enough to achieve a 2
percent inflation goal.  The central bank has taken all “necessary” and
“possible” measures, Kuroda told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday.
While officials will change policy as needed, he doesn’t expect
adjustments each month, he said. The BOJ chief reiterated a
pledge to do what’s needed to meet the target in two years.  Kuroda may be trying to head off criticism at a Group of 20
meeting in  Washington  next week by signaling limits to easing
that escalated yen declines against the dollar to about 18
percent since mid-November. While Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan yesterday supported Japan’s policies, nations from  China  to
 South Korea  are concerned by currency weakness and the risk of
capital spillovers.  Kuroda’s “got work to do to avoid overt criticism,” said
Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 London . “He’ll want to smooth the way with the G-20.”  The yen rose 0.2 percent to 99.59 per dollar at 11:30 a.m.
in Tokyo, after yesterday touching 99.88, the weakest level
since April 2009. Kuroda pledged last week to double the
monetary base in two years after becoming BOJ governor in March.  He said yesterday that the BOJ’s campaign to fuel prices
and growth isn’t targeting the yen and monetary policy won’t be
altered because of currency moves.  G-20 Meeting  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the G-20,
which groups the largest developed and emerging nations, will
gather April 18-19. The yen dropped about 6 percent through
yesterday from mid-February, when the finance chiefs met in
Moscow. At that gathering, they signaled that  Japan  had scope to
keep stimulating its economy so long as it refrained from
advocating a weaker currency.  “We will monitor closely what happens with the currency’s
rate, and how that affects the economy,” Kuroda said. “I don’t
think monetary policy would change because of what was happening
with the currency,” he said, adding that the government is
responsible for the yen.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average surged more than 50 percent
since mid-November, as Shinzo Abe pledged unlimited monetary
easing in the campaign that saw him swept to victory as prime
minister. “The biggest commitment is that we will take all
necessary measures,” Kuroda said yesterday.  The Nikkei was up 0.8 percent at 11:30 a.m. in Tokyo,
headed toward the highest level since August 2008.  Prices, Wages  Abe and Kuroda are aiming for sustained gains in prices and
wages after nearly 15 years of  deflation  and three recessions in
five years. They are up against an aging population and the
world’s biggest public debt load, about double the size of the
economy.  Gross domestic product rose an annualized 0.2 percent in
the fourth quarter of last year.  Prices excluding fresh food ,
officials’ key measure, haven’t gained 2 percent in any year
since 1997, when a  sales tax  was increased.  Kuroda said markets may be seeking a “new equilibrium
point” for long-term yields, and the market’s reaction to the
central bank’s easing was in line with his expectations.  The yield on the 10-year bond touched a record low of 0.315
percent on April 5, the day after the BOJ’s policy announcement,
and then surged to almost double that level in the same session.
Also that day, shifts in bond futures triggered circuit breakers
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The BOJ plans to hold a meeting with bond market
participants after Abe said this week that the market needs
close attention. Kuroda said that the “quantity and quality”
of monetary easing is causing market reactions, which the BOJ
will “carefully monitor.”  Hitting 100  The central bank’s monetary onslaught is prompting
forecasts for further yen declines, after Abe’s economic adviser
Koichi Hamada said that while a rate of 100 per dollar would be
no problem, a level of 110 would boost import costs. Tohru Sasaki, Tokyo-based head of Japan rates and currency research at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said yesterday that the currency may fall
to 110 per dollar.  “Expansionary monetary policy can bring about a
depreciation of the currency,”  Australia ’s Swan said in an
interview at the  Bloomberg Australia Economic Summit  in Sydney
when asked about concern Japan is driving down the yen. “But
that doesn’t mean it is manipulation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  