-- Borsa Istanbul Sees Jump in Foreign Bond Holdings With Euroclear
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-04-10T13:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/borsa-istanbul-sees-jump-in-foreign-bond-holdings-with-euroclear.html
A possible Turkish membership to
the world’s biggest bond settlement system could increase
foreign ownership of  Turkey ’s sovereign debt by as much as 50
percent, the chairman of the Borsa Istanbul said today.  “We will be reaching as many as 200,000 new investors with
Euroclear,” Ibrahim Turhan said at a news conference at the
bourse, responding to a question on possible membership to
Brussels-based Euroclear Bank SA.  Takasbank, the settlement and custody unit of Borsa
Istanbul, estimated an increase of foreign ownership to 30
percent from the current 24 percent, in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg on March 25. Such an increase could
drive down the yield on Turkish two-year bonds by as much as 200
basis points, Takasbank estimated.  Yields on  two-year  benchmark bonds fell 18 basis points to
5.77 percent at 1:54 p.m. today, bringing this month’s decline
to 58 basis points, the biggest monthly fall since November.
Ten-year yields dropped seven basis points to 6.79 percent,
their lowest level since March 5 on a closing basis.  In an interview with Bloomberg in Dubai on March 20, Turhan
said Turkey was hoping for an outcome in talks with Euroclear by
the end of the year. “Their members are in Turkey as I speak,
work continues,” he said today.  Net foreign inflows into Turkish government debt rose a
record $16 billion last year, driving yields 483 basis points
lower, the biggest decrease among 20 major  emerging markets 
tracked by Bloomberg.  Euroclear began direct clearing of Russian debt in February
for the first time, in a move that Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimated may bring as much as $30 billion of inflows to the
country. Turkey’s government debt market, at $295 billion, is
almost twice  Russia ’s at $151 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Borsa Istanbul, which combines the 28-year-old  Istanbul
Stock Exchange  with the Istanbul Gold Exchange and the Izmir-
based derivatives exchange, opened with a ceremony attended by
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  on April 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  