-- BP $8 Billion Buyback Leaves Investors Cold 3 Years After Spill
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-04-10T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/bp-8-billion-buyback-leaves-investors-cold-3-years-after-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley will come under pressure from investors to boost the
share price at today’s annual general meeting.  While Dudley surprised analysts in March by announcing an
$8 billion buyback, the stock price has remained little changed
since. The U.K.’s second-largest oil producer has spent $300
million on shares this year and expects the program of
repurchases to take about 18 months.  “They’ll be disappointed with the share-price reaction,”
said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London .
“That doesn’t mean the reaction was wrong. We don’t see BP
offering growth better than anyone else’s.”  The value of BP remains 30 percent below its level before
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill three years ago, which forced
Dudley’s predecessor out. Selling more than $50 billion in
assets and becoming a shareholder in  Russia ’s state-run oil
producer, OAO Rosneft, has yet to revive the share price and the
company is embroiled in a U.S. trial that could saddle BP with
billions of dollars in fines.  “Dudley is beyond his honeymoon period,” said Colin McLean, co-founder of Edinburgh-based SVM Asset Management,
which holds BP shares. “It looks like the buyback was
responding to pressure. People want to see a growth strategy and
the Russian bet pay off, but that will take time. Meanwhile, the
U.S. is rumbling on.”  BP spokesman  Robert Wine  declined to comment on the
progress of the buyback.  Fulfills Promise  The buyback, approved by BP’s board within hours of closing
the Rosneft deal, fulfills a promise to offset the dilution to
earnings per share following the loss of dividends from Russian
venture TNK=BP. The projected dividends from BP’s Rosneft stake
won’t be as high, leading Chief Financial Officer Brian Gilvary
to signal a buyback of about $4 billion last year. BP shares
jumped 1.9 percent on March 22, the day a buyback of double that
value was announced.  BP closed at 452 pence this week, close the level when the
buyback was announced and only 2.7 percent higher than when
Dudley took over on Oct. 1, 2010.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the
largest U.K. oil company, has lost 0.7 percent so far this year,
compared with a 6.4 percent gain for BP.  “They’ve outperformed Shell this year, but it’s not clear
how much is because of the buyback,” said Iain Reid, an analyst
at Jefferies Inc. in London. “If you’ve got excess cash you
can’t invest right away, in principle it’s the right thing to
do. It’s difficult to know what buybacks do to the share price.
I wouldn’t say it’s been successful or unsuccessful so far.”  Purchased Shares  BP has so far purchased more than 42 million shares at a
cost of about $300 million, according to the company’s website.
It said it will use the remaining $4.5 billion in cash from the
TNK-BP deal to pay down debt.  Dudley reached BP’s $38 billion divestment target a year
early as he focuses on the company’s most profitable assets. BP
said March 22 that the buyback will also compensate for the
smaller asset base, which has shaved production by about 150,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day.  BP has sold off half its upstream installations such as oil
platforms, a third of its wells and half of its pipelines,
Dudley said in December. Still, the sales shed just 9 percent of
the company’s production and 10 percent of its reserves.  The buyback “is certainly not a waste of money,” said
Ivor Pether, a  fund manager  who helps oversee about $15 billion
at Royal London Asset Management and holds BP. “If you’re not
getting absolute growth in production, it’s equally valuable to
get production growth per share. I can understand a buyback as
opposed to a special dividend, which might have grabbed more
headlines ahead of an outcome of the trial.”  U.S. Risk  In the U.S., there’s still a risk that BP could be found
grossly negligent for the 2010 spill, which would bring maximum
Clean Water Act fines of more than $17 billion. BP this month
lost an appeal to halt payments to spill victims from a
settlement agreement last year that the company said will cost
billions of dollars more than expected.  The trial over liability for the spill continues in  New
Orleans  after BP and the U.S. failed to reach a settlement on
civil claims. In November, BP agreed to pay $4 billion and plead
guilty to 14 criminal counts, including 11 for felony seaman’s
manslaughter.The company also paid $525 million to settle the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s claim that the company
misled investors about the rate of oil flowing into the Gulf.  The buyback is “a signal to the market that BP has
financial strength and it can get through its problems,” said
Iain Armstrong, an analyst at broker Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in
London. “Dudley is telling shareholders I realize you’re
unhappy, but we think Rosneft’s a good deal and we’re not going
to settle for a bad number in the  Gulf of Mexico .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  