-- Brain Made Transparent May Lead to Clearer Understanding
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-10T19:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/brain-made-transparent-may-lead-to-clearer-understanding.html
Scientists have developed a
technique to make brains transparent, enabling them to see vast
networks of neurons and structures for a big picture view of the
organ that’s mostly studied in slices.  In a report  published  today in the journal Nature,
researchers at Stanford University described the method that
replaced fats in the brain of mice with a gel that made the
organ transparent. The scientists were able to make images of
the brain’s structures and see down to the cells and molecules,
according to the paper.  The approach also was used on a human brain, the report
said. Earlier this month, President  Barack Obama  announced the
BRAIN Initiative, which will spend $100 million beginning in
2014 to map the complex interactions between neurons. The new
technique may aid the research, allowing long-range circuits to
be more easily mapped, said Michelle Freund, of the National
Institute of Mental Health.  “The BRAIN Initiative recently announced by the White
House is designed to facilitate innovative strategies to better
understand the brain,” Freund said  in a video  released by the
institute. “In order to do that, we need new technologies, and
clarity is a great example of the type of technologies that will
enable future brain studies.”  Previous methods required scientists to slice brains into
small sections to look at anatomy. This slicing deformed the
organs and made it difficult for researchers to see large-scale
information running across the slices.  Fat Replacement  The researchers at Stanford near Palo Alto,  California ,
replaced the fats that support the brain’s cells with a clear
material that held all the delicate systems in place. First, the
brains were soaked in a chemical bath and then heated, creating
a clear gel in place of the fats. That allowed the scientists
more access to the whole brains.  The team tested the technique, dubbed Clarity, on the brain
of a mouse that had been genetically tweaked to produce a
fluorescent protein. Under an electron microscope, the
scientists were able to see even the spaces between the neurons.  What’s more, the researchers tested Clarity on the brain of
an autistic person that had been preserved in formaldehyde for
six years. There too, scientists saw individual nerve fibers.
Since many brains have been preserved in formaldehyde for years,
those organs stored in libraries may also be studied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  