-- Brazil March Inflation 0.47%, Lower Than Economist Consensus
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-04-10T17:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/brazil-march-inflation-0-47-lower-than-economists-estimated.html
Brazilian consumer prices rose less
than economists forecast in March, while the annual rate
exceeded the top of the central bank’s target range for the
first time since November 2011. Swap rates fell.  Prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA index climbed 0.47
percent in the month, the national statistics agency said today
in Rio de Janeiro. The median  estimate  of 38 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a 0.50 percent increase. Inflation
accelerated to 6.59 percent in the 12 months through March from
6.31 percent in February.  Brazil’s central bank has held its  benchmark  lending rate
at a record low 7.25 percent since October, even as the
inflation rate has risen every month since July. Besides
lowering interest rates, President Dilma Rousseff’s
administration has enacted dozens of stimulus measures to revive
an economy that in 2012 posted its second-worst performance in
13 years. Inflation exceeding the target range adds pressure on
the bank to reverse course and boost rates, according to  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA.  The central bank “will wait until May to see how the
economy performs in the first quarter before beginning a
tightening cycle,” Rostagno said by telephone from Sao Paulo.
“Inflation figures in Brazil were not as bad as the market
expected, but still suggest that inflation continues in an
upward trend.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.86 percent as of 1:36 p.m. local time.
The real strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.9778 per U.S. dollar.  Target Range  The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points. Annualized price increases have run
faster than the midpoint of the target range since September,
2010.  Inflation would have been slower in March had it not been
for food prices, “the main villain,” and other seasonal
pressures, Finance Minister Guido Mantega told reporters in
Brasilia. Food and beverage prices led increases in March,
rising 1.14 percent, the statistics agency said.  “The government will not spare measures to contain
inflation and prevent it from spreading,” Mantega said.  Augusto Mello, the owner of Nello’s Cantina, one of Sao
Paulo’s traditional Italian restaurants, last month began
curtailing his tomato purchases to protest a tripling in prices
for the vegetable over the past year to 150 reais ($75) for a
20-kilogram crate. A sign on the entrance of the 38-year-old
restaurant urges patrons to become “conscientious consumers”
and help fight inflation by ordering dishes without red sauce.  Gaining Momentum  “What is becoming clear not only for the markets but for
society and even the political world is that inflation is really
getting a momentum of its own,” Carlos Kawall, chief economist
at Banco J. Safra SA, said on April 9. “More and more, people
talk about it.”  Brazil  will hold presidential elections in October 2014.  Kawall said pressure is mounting for the central bank to
raise rates, and forecasts a 25-basis-point increase to the
Selic rate at the meeting next week as the first step in a 150-
basis-point tightening cycle this year.  The bank on March 28 released its quarterly inflation
report, in which it said that even under a scenario in which the
benchmark rate were raised to 8 percent this year, there would
be a 25 percent chance of inflation exceeding 6.5 percent. In
all of its scenarios, annual inflation will remain above the 4.5
percent midpoint of the target range until the first quarter of
2015.  Diffusion Index  While the diffusion index, which indicates how widespread
price increases are in different sectors of the economy,
declined to 69 percent from 72 percent, 12-month core inflation
continued to accelerate, said Priscila Godoy, an economist at
Rosenberg Consultores Associados.  “We have a very worrisome situation,” Godoy said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “The bank has to react as
soon as possible so the cycle of rate increases doesn’t have to
be excessive.”  Core inflation, excluding government-set prices and
household food purchases, slowed to 0.31 percent in March from 1
percent in February, said Frederico Padilha, economist at Ibiuna
Investimentos Ltda, in an e-mail interview from Sao Paulo.  Next Steps  The monetary policy committee will evaluate today’s
inflation report before determining its next steps, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said today in an e-mail statement,
reiterating comments he made on April 2. The committee will hold
its next meeting on April 16-17. Tombini had also said the bank
changed monetary policy when it altered its communication in
January to emphasize inflation concerns.  “The focus of Brazil’s monetary policy has been and will
continue exclusively to be the stability of prices,” Tombini
said on April 8. “Still, due to remaining uncertainties, the
central bank has acted with caution.”  Economists surveyed by the central bank forecast growth of
3 percent in 2013, with inflation of 5.7 percent, and predict
the Selic will be at 8.5 percent by year-end. Gross domestic
product expanded 0.9 percent last year, slowing from 2.7 percent
in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010.  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual Investimentos,
forecasts 2.1 percent GDP growth this year and said the central
bank will keep rates steady to avoid hobbling the expansion.  “The dirty work of the Selic, which is to control domestic
demand, is already in place with the slowdown in the economy,”
Perfeito said by telephone from Sao Paulo on April 9.  Rousseff said last month that she did not agree with anti-
inflation policies that sacrifice growth, prompting swap rates
to dive. She later said her comments were misconstrued.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  