-- Lupatech Plunges to Record After Missing Bond Payment: Rio Mover
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-04-11T21:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/brazil-s-lupatech-misses-dollar-bond-payment-after-loss-doubles.html
Lupatech SA (LUPA3) ’s stock plunged to a
record low after the Brazilian oil services provider missed a
$6.79 million interest payment two weeks after reporting annual
losses that doubled from a year earlier.  Shares sank 8.5 percent to 1.30 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. The stock is down 67 percent over the past
twelve months.  The Caxias do Sul, Brazil-based company said in a
regulatory filing yesterday that it couldn’t make the payment
due on $275 million of perpetual bonds and it hired Bank of
America Corp. as a financial adviser as it seeks to sell assets.
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Lupatech to D, or payment default,
from selective default following the missed payment.  Lupatech said in March that its 2012 net loss surged to 574
million reais ($291 million) on lower revenue and higher costs.
It made 17 acquisitions from 2007 to 2010 anticipating an
increase in sales as Brazilian producers led by  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  sought to tap the largest crude discoveries in a
decade. The company began selling assets in 2011 and raised cash
from shareholders last year.  “We do not expect the company to pay the interest due
within the 30-day cure period established by the bond
indenture,” Standard & Poor’s credit analyst Renata Lotfi said
in a statement.  Petrobras Investment  The company failed to benefit from record investments at
Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is also known, because it
focused operations on supplying production projects at a time
the state-controlled company increased spending on exploration.
Local content laws, designed to boost  Brazil ’s oil-service and
shipping industries, oblige producers to use minimum amounts of
locally manufactured products.  “The company depends too much on Petrobras,” Oswaldo Telles, an equity analyst at Banco Espirito Santo SA, said by
phone from  Sao Paulo . “They have not managed well the risks of
having only Petrobras as a partner.”  An official at FSB Comunicacoes, an external communications
company that represents Lupatech, declined to comment beyond the
filing.  “Lupatech has been intensely working to balance its
capital structures with its capitalization executed in 2012 in
selling assets that are not considered strategic,” Lupatech
said in yesterday’s filing.  Lupatech’s restructuring marks at least the fourth time a
Brazilian company has halted payments on dollar bonds since
February 2012.  Electric utility Centrais Eletricas do Para SA, parent  Rede
Energia SA (REDE4)  and lender  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul  SA defaulted on a
combined $2.3 billion last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lupatech’s $275 million of 9.875 percent perpetual bonds
last traded at 51.5 cents on the dollar on April 9, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  