-- Buffett Honors Hall-of-Fame Pitcher Gibson With Hometown Statue
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-04-10T16:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/buffett-honors-hall-of-fame-pitcher-gibson-with-hometown-statue.html
Bob Gibson, the Hall-of-Fame
pitcher who had three complete game victories in the 1967  World
Series  for the  St. Louis Cardinals , is being honored with a
statue funded by billionaire investor  Warren Buffett .  Buffett, 82, will make remarks at the unveiling of the 8-
foot (2.4 meter) tall bronze monument tomorrow at Werner Park in
Sarpy County,  Nebraska , near Omaha, according to a program for
the event.  The statue is the first of Gibson in his hometown and will
anchor a new Nebraska hall of fame outside the ballpark where
Omaha’s minor-league team plays. Buffett, a fan of the sport
who’s also from the city, pledged his support in 2011, according
to Lee Polikov, the Sarpy County attorney and one of the
project’s organizers.  “Bob and I have been friends for 50 years,” Buffett said
in an e-mail sent by his assistant. “By anybody’s standards, he
is one of the best baseball players of all time, and I would
also say he is the greatest competitor the game has ever seen.”  Gibson, 77, was born in Omaha and attended high school and
college in the city. He played his first major league game with
the Cardinals in 1959. During his 17-year career with the team,
he was a two-time winner of the Cy Young Award, the sport’s
highest honor for pitchers. He posted a 1.12 earned run average
in 1968, the best figure since 1914.  McCarver, Torre  Former teammates  Joe Torre  and Tim McCarver are scheduled
to attend the unveiling tomorrow, along with Major League
Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  and Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman, according to the program.  Bill White , a former
president of the National League, and Bill DeWitt Jr., chairman
of the Cardinals, will also be present.  Clarence Werner, the founder of transportation company
 Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN) , funded the statue’s granite base,
lighting and landscaping, according to Polikov. The project has
also received support from private donors.  Buffett used to throw the  first pitch  at minor league
baseball games after the annual meetings of Omaha-based
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the company he built over more than
four decades as chairman and chief executive officer. In 2001,
he tried batting against Gibson.  “I was terrified, fearing Bob’s famous brush-back pitch,”
Buffett wrote in a 2002  letter  to shareholders. “Instead, he
delivered a fast ball in the strike zone, and with a Mark McGwire-like swing, I managed to connect for a hard grounder,
which inexplicably died in the infield. I didn’t run it out: At
my age, I get winded playing a hand of bridge.”  Disciplined Approach  Buffett has celebrated other baseball legends in his annual
letters, including six-time batting champion  Ted Williams , who
said the key to success was waiting for the right pitches.
Buffett, who built Berkshire into a business valued at more than
$250 billion through stock picks and  acquisitions , says he and
Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger emulate that approach
when weighing investments.  “Unlike Ted, we can’t be called out if we resist three
pitches that are barely in the strike zone,” he  wrote  in 1998.
“Nevertheless, just standing there, day after day, with my bat
on my shoulder is not my idea of fun.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  