-- California Sells $2 Billion in Debt as Taxes Roll In
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-04-10T14:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/california-sells-2-billion-in-debt-as-taxes-roll-in.html
California, the most-indebted U.S.
state, began a $2 billion tax-exempt general-obligation bond
sale as income taxes, which account for  63 percent  of revenue,
outpace projections.  The state, which plans to raise $1.25 billion for capital
projects and $750 million for refinancing debt, is taking orders
from individual investors today. Sales to institutions such as
mutual funds and final pricing will take place tomorrow, said
 Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Treasurer Bill Lockyer.  California’s second general-obligation sale this year comes
as individual income-tax payments have exceeded both projections
and 2012 levels before the April 15 filing deadline, according
to figures compiled by Controller John Chiang. California debt
is becoming safer as the state economy rebounds and Governor
 Jerry Brown  and lawmakers reduce long-term obligations, said
John Ceffalio, municipal credit analyst for New York-based
 AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , manager of $443 billion in assets.  “For this fiscal year to date, it looks solid and is
running above estimates,” Ceffalio said of California revenue.
“There’s always a chance of an April surprise on one side or
the other. Long-term, there’s always a chance of volatility
owing to the progressive nature of  California ’s income tax.”  Preliminary Yields  California is offering bonds maturing in October 2023 to
individual investors at a preliminary yield of 2.33 percent,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the sale. That’s
about 0.5 percentage point more than the  interest rate  on
benchmark 10-year munis, similar to the spread on California’s
borrowing last month,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  In the March offer, Lockyer had to raise yields on some
bonds with longer maturities amid a slump in state and local
debt. Yields on 20-year securities rose to 3.57 percent from
3.39 percent as a 10-day rally in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  depressed the  bond market .  Munis have become more attractive to investors since then,
even as volume remains high as issuers take advantage of low
borrowing costs to refinance, said  Michael Schroeder , president
and chief investment officer of Naples, Florida-based Wasmer
Schroeder & Co., which manages $3.5 billion in local bonds.  “This is a better time to bring a deal,” Schroeder said
by telephone. “Cal paper has performed well. There’s a higher
demand for it with the higher income taxes.”  Tax Vote  California voters in November raised income-tax rates on
individuals earning $250,000 or more, with levies on incomes of
$1 million or more increasing 3 percentage points, to 13.3
percent.  Brown, a Democrat who backed the tax increases to fund
education, said in January that California would have an $851
million  budget surplus  at the end of June, its first in more
than a decade.  Through Feb. 28, California’s income-tax collections for
the year that began July 1 exceeded projections by $4.5 billion,
according to  figures  from Chiang’s office. As of April 5, state
income-tax payments exceeded 2012 levels by almost $10 billion,
or 29 percent,  according  to Chiang’s office.  While the trend is encouraging, investors continue to view
California debt with caution, Schroeder said. The volatility of
income-tax receipts in California was exacerbated by the
increases on the highest earners and by one-time events such as
the initial stock offering by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in May, he said.  “We tend to place some significance on those numbers,”
Schroeder said of the income taxes, “but you have to look at
the overall picture of what is behind those numbers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  