-- California’s Fracking Bonanza May Fall Short of Promise
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-04-10T02:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/california-s-fracking-bonanza-may-fall-short-of-promise.html
California and oil producers such as
 Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  may not be able to realize their dream 
of hydraulic fracturing generating billions in revenue from the 
Monterey shale deposit traversing the state.  Earthquakes in the most-populous U.S. state have left the
1,750-square-mile formation disjointed and too unpredictable to 
make drilling economic, even with improving fracking technology,
said Jason Marshall, the California  Conservation Department 's
chief deputy director. The agency regulates the industry.  “None of the companies that have tried it so far have had
significant success, and it doesn’t appear to be widespread,”
Marshall said by e-mail. “It may take an advancement in
technology or methodology to unlock the oil production potential
of the formation.”  A University of Southern California study released last
month projected as many as 2.8 million jobs and $24.6 billion in
state and local tax revenue by 2020 from development of the oil
shale. The deposit extends southeast of San Francisco, from about
Modesto to Bakersfield, at an average depth of 11,000 feet 
(3,350 meters). It is most concentrated in the Central Valley,
particularly in Kern County.  “We stand by the results of our study as an exploratory
endeavor with limited data and limited time,” Adam Rose, an
energy and environmental economist at Los Angeles-based USC, who
co-wrote the report, said by telephone. “What we’re confident
of is we got some reasonable results to examine the economic
impact.”  Economic Growth  The study said developing oil-shale deposits through
central California using fracking and other techniques could
boost the state’s economic activity by as much as 14 percent.  Industry efforts to develop the deposits have been uneven
and some companies have lost interest.  “Based on our drilling results, our view is that the oil
has migrated out of the formation and is now found in pockets
outside of the Monterey shale,” said Kurt Glaubitz, a spokesman
for San Ramon, California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-biggest
U.S. oil producer. “We don’t believe it’s going to compete 
for our investment. We have other opportunities that are more
economical for us to develop.”  While the Monterey shale has long been known to be a so-
called source rock for oil, recent interest was spurred by a
2011 U.S. Energy Information Administration report that the
shale holds an estimated 15.4 billion barrels, two-thirds of the
nation’s shale-oil reserves, bolstered by the success of
fracking in other regions.  More Expensive  The Monterey shale is more expensive to explore than the
 Bakken shale  that’s yielded an oil boom in North Dakota and the
Eagle Ford shale in Texas, said Amy Myers Jaffe, executive
director of energy and sustainability at the University of
California, Davis.  “The Eagle Ford is like a pound cake,” Jaffe said in a
telephone interview. “The Monterey shale is like a nine-layer
chocolate cake and to get all the layers straightened up and put
in all the frosting every place we wanted -- that’s going to be
more complicated and it takes more skill.”  In California, the fourth-largest  oil-producing state , it’s
been more slow-going and only a small portion of the potential
shale has been explored, she said.  “It’s at a pilot project, experimental basis right now,”
Jaffe said. “It doesn’t mean that it wouldn’t be profitable to
do it” some day.  Both the Bakken and Eagle Ford deposits owe their
productivity to a combination of fracking, or hydraulic
fracturing -- a drilling technique that forces millions of
gallons of water, sand and chemicals deep into rock formations
to release trapped oil and gas -- and horizontal drilling, which
allows bores at an angle, to increase efficiency.  Under Fire  The technique has come under fire from environmentalists as
a threat to water quality. The Conservation Department in
December released an initial proposal to regulate the practice,
including rules for storing and handling fracking fluids, well
monitoring after fracking and preventing water contamination.  “The Monterey shale was supposed to be the greatest thing
since sliced bread, but so far has not lived up to the hype,”
Fadel Gheit, an oil and gas analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not conclusive that
the emperor has no clothes. So far, it has not shown any big
sign that this is going to be another Bakken or Eagle Ford.”  The oil is there and it’s just a matter of engineering to
economically extract it, said Rock Zierman, chief executive
officer of the  California Independent Petroleum Association , a
Sacramento-based trade group representing about 530 oil
producers, including Los Angeles-based Occidental Petroleum.  ‘Smart Money’  “Companies are drilling wells and they are testing
technology,” Zierman said in a telephone interview. “The smart
money is still looking at this resource very closely.”  California lawmakers have introduced legislation to block
fracking until the state deals with public-health and
environmental concerns. New York, North Carolina and New Jersey
have established fracking moratoriums, and Vermont has banned
the practice, according to a February report to California
lawmakers.  “The industry has a long way to go before it’s going to
declare victory in terms of producing oil in large enough
quantities to pay for the drilling and completion,” Philip Budzik, a research analyst at the Energy Information
Administration, said of the Monterey shale.  “Hope springs eternal,” Budzik said. “God bless us all,
we all hope for a better future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 