-- Canadian Oils Weaken as U.S. Stockpiles Build at Cushing
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-04-10T19:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/canadian-oils-weaken-as-u-s-stockpiles-build-at-cushing.html
Canadian crudes weakened on the
 spot market  as U.S. oil stockpiles rose, potentially diminishing
demand for shipments from the north.  Stockpiles of crude at the Cushing, Oklahoma, storage hub
increased 889,000 barrels to 50.1 million last week, 10.6% above
the five-year average, according to the EIA, the statistical arm
of the Energy Department. Cushing inventories climbed to a
record 51.9 million in January.  The price of Western Canada Select, a heavy oil blend of
oil-sands bitumen, weakened by $1.25 a barrel to a $13.50
discount to U.S. West Texas Intermediate oil, according to
Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc. Syncrude, a light oil
produced from oil-sands upgraders, weakened by 95 cents to a
$7.75 premium to WTI.  “You are seeing a stockpile build-up in Cushing, and that
build-up is going to impact the demand from other supplies, so
there could be a decrease in the demand for Canadian oil as they
work down the stockpile,” David Bouckhout, commodity strategist
for TD Securities Inc., said in a phone interview from Calgary.  Western Canada Select is retreating from a six-month high
versus WTI reached on April 5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The grade has strengthened amid a seasonal decline in
output from  Alberta  during the so-called spring breakup, when
warmer weather turns roads and drilling sites in remote areas to
mud, slowing production.  Rig Count  The Canadian  oil rig  count dropped by 30 to 117 last week,
down from this year’s high of 509 during the week ended March 1,
Houston oil field-services company Baker Hughes Inc. said April
5.  Syncrude prices reached a six-month high April 2 on
speculation supplies will decline as upgraders that produce the
grade are being taken down for maintenance.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  said it will perform a seven-week
turnaround at its 350,000-barrel-a-day Fort McMurray, Alberta,
upgrader in April and May, and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) 
said it plans to shut down its 110,000-barrel-a-day Horizon
upgrader for 18 days in May.  Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA)  said April 4 its
255,000-barrel-a-day Scotford upgrader in Alberta was undergoing
planned maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  