-- Carnival Offers Motel 6 Price for Caribbean After Triumph
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-10T20:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/carnival-offers-motel-6-price-for-caribbean-after-triumph.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL)  is offering a
Caribbean cruise for as little as $38 a night, less than a stay
at Motel 6, after an engine fire on the Triumph stranded
passengers at sea for several days.  A four-night trip on Carnival’s Imagination, leaving Miami
on April 22, costs $149 a person, including meals and some
beverages, according to the cruise company’s  website  yesterday.
The lowest nightly rate at the budget-priced Motel 6 chain was
$39.99, according to an online ad.  Carnival, based in Miami, generated headlines worldwide in
February after the engine fire on the Triumph left 3,100
passengers at sea for several days with limited food and toilet
service. The ship broke loose from its moorings in high winds
last week in Mobile,  Alabama , where it is being repaired.  “The prices did go down,” said Manny Lubian, president of
 Futura Travel Inc.  in Miami. “An empty ship doesn’t make as
much money. They’d rather have bodies in them, buying drinks and
spending money.”  Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer Howard Frank said
on a March 15 conference call that fares were running slightly
ahead of last year. Bookings in the three-week period after the
Triumph incident were lower for the company’s Carnival-brand
ships, he said. Volume recovered after the company offered “new
marketing promotions,” he said.  Cruise pricing also took a hit last year after Carnival’s
Costa Concordia ran aground off the Italian coast, killing 32
passengers.  Post Holiday  Vance Gulliksen, a spokesman for the world’s largest cruise
operator, declined to comment on pricing. The Imagination’s
four-night itinerary includes stops in  Key West ,  Florida , and
Cozumel,  Mexico , according to the website.  The week was expected to be slow, following spring break in
the U.S. and tax season, Lubian said.  Immediately after the fire, cruises on the Triumph were
offered as low as $319 a person for four nights, or $80 a night,
after its return to service later this year. Today, the lowest
advertised price for a five-night trip on the Triumph out of
Galveston,  Texas , with stops in Cozumel and the Yucatan, was
$289, or $58 a night, for an Oct. 7 departure.  The $149 fare on the Imagination is nonrefundable and based
on two travelers, according to the website. Government fees and
taxes bring the total to $454 for two.  Carnival  gained  0.4 percent to $34.08 at the close in  New
York . The stock has declined 7.3 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent increase for the S&P 500 stock index.  Last month, Carnival cut its annual profit forecast to
reflect costs from the Triumph incident, lower expectations for
the entire fleet and expenses to bolster backup systems on
ships. The company expects profit of $1.80 to $2.10 a share,
down from a maximum of $2.40 a share previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  