-- CEZ Settles Antitrust Probe With Pledge to Sell Power Assets
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-10T10:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/cez-settles-antitrust-probe-with-pledge-to-sell-power-assets-1-.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the  Czech Republic ’s
largest power producer, settled a European Union antitrust probe
after offering to sell power assets to allay concerns that it
shut out potential rivals from the country’s power market.  “The divestiture of significant generation capacity will
allow a new player to enter the Czech  electricity market  and to
compete with the incumbent CEZ,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said today in an e-mailed  statement  from
Brussels. “This will benefit all electricity customers.”  Regulators are investigating several energy companies in
central and eastern  Europe  to help boost competition, Almunia
said last year. The Brussels-based European Commission opened a
probe into CEZ because of concerns it may have prevented
competitors from entering the market by hoarding capacity in the
transmission network.  The deal announced today means that CEZ will divest about
800 megawatts to 1,000 megawatts of generation capacity, the
commission said. Under the settlement, CEZ may choose between
three divestment scenarios. These are the sale of its Pocerady
or Chvaletice plants, or Melnik III together with Tisova, the
commission said.  “We took all the necessary steps to fulfil the
commission’s demands, so we are happy that the settlement was
finally confirmed,” said Barbora Pulpanova, a spokeswoman for
CEZ.  CEZ “will carry out the sale under the supervision of a
monitoring trustee, who will verify in particular that the
transaction would not raise new competition concerns,” the EU
authority said. “The buyer will have to be approved by the
commission.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  