-- Cheerios Cocktails Oil Crowd Feting Young New York Chefs
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-04-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/cheerios-cocktails-oil-crowd-feting-young-new-york-chefs.html
New York ’s culinary elite will
anoint 25 emerging chefs, mixologists and sommeliers tomorrow
night at  StarChefs.com ’s 2013 Rising Stars gala and raise some
money for cooks-in-waiting.  The honorees will serve  signature dishes and cocktails  at
Manhattan’s Liberty Theater. Among the dishes competing for best
of the night will be slow-roasted carrots accented with wheat
berries and duck skin by the NoMad restaurant and hotel’s chef
de cuisine Abram Bissell, who works under Executive Chef Daniel
Humm.  Candidates are nominated by the advisory board of New York-based StarChefs, a food-industry web magazine started in 1995,
as well as local media people and previous winners.  “All our winners serve fantastic dishes,” said Will
Blunt, StarChefs’s managing editor. “It’s also a speculation on
the future of New York food, presenting those who will have a
big impact on the industry.”  Elizabeth Falkner, the chef of Brooklyn’s Krescendo and a
contender in last year’s “The Next Iron Chef: Redemption,”
will be the evening’s emcee.  Part of the event’s proceeds will be given to the  Careers
through Culinary Arts Program , a nonprofit that trains at-risk
high-school students in the culinary arts. Some of the students
will get to watch and assist chefs such as Matt Lightner of
Atera, who earned two Michelin stars this year for his modernist
cuisine less than a year after the restaurant’s opening.  True Prodigy  Another honoree is Aurelien Dufour, the 26-year-old head of
charcuterie programs for  Daniel Boulud ’s Dinex Group restaurants
based in New York, which include his flagship, Daniel, and DBGB
Kitchen & Bar on the Bowery.  “He’s a true prodigy,” Blunt said of Dufour. “It’s
amazing what he produces each week.”  At the tasting, Lightner will serve sake-cured diver
scallops while Michael Toscano of Perla will offer small plates
of garganelli, tripe and prosciutto. Pig & Khao’s Leah Cohen
will present cod wrapped in a banana leaf.  Brooklyn’s exploding culinary scene will be represented by
Blanca pastry chef Katy Peetz with her parsley cake; the curried
Australian lamb of Gwynnett St.’s Justin Hilbert; and Justin
Bazdarich of Speedy Romeo with a peekytoe crab crostini dish.
Joseph Ogrodnek and Walker Stern of Battersby will cook an
Australian short-rib pastrami.  Young Talent  “The young talent in  Brooklyn  is incredible,” said
Antoinette Bruno, StarChefs’s editor-in-chief, in a statement.
“The borough is making it affordable for young chefs to express
themselves for the first time in New York and gain the
independence chefs in other markets have enjoyed for years.”  The mixologists will include Jeff Bell of PDT, a protege of
2012 James Beard Award winner Jim Meehan, who will pour a potent
concoction of Cabeza Tequila, beer, vinegar, Worcestershire
sauce,  Bittermens hellfire habanero shrub  and a wheel of
grapefruit dipped in Sal de Gusano.  Blunt said attendees should be impressed with cocktail
queen Jillian Vose’s breakfast cereal-infused rum and cognac
libation named “Morning Buzz.”  “Jillian’s cocktail is not to be missed,” Blunt said.
“She just played around with soaking honey-nut Cheerios in
cream and strained it into the mix. It certainly helped her
clinch the award.”  The 2013 StarChefs.com Rising Stars gala and culinary
tasting is tomorrow at the Liberty Theater, 234 W. 41st St. in
 Manhattan  from 8 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. Tickets are $125 ($175 for
the 6:45 p.m. VIP reception and event). Information:
 http://www.starchefs.com/cook/events/rising-stars/2013/new-york .  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on  art ,  Ryan Sutton 
on dining.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 