-- Chesapeake Wants BNY Mellon to Explain Change on Bonds
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-11T04:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/chesapeake-wants-bny-mellon-to-explain-change-on-bonds.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  is seeking
a court order for  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  to hand over
e-mails showing the motive behind its bid to block the natural
gas company from redeeming $1.3 billion in bonds early at par.  BNY Mellon, the trustee for the notes due March 2019, and
investor River Birch Capital LLC, which initiated the challenge,
haven’t disclosed documents showing how their views on the early
call developed, Chesapeake said in an April 8 letter to U.S.
District Judge Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan .  Bank of New York Mellon initially agreed with Chesapeake in
February that the early redemption, made on March 15, would meet
a deadline for the second-biggest  natural gas producer  in the
U.S. to redeem the notes six years early at 100 cents on the
dollar and avoid paying bondholders $400 million in “make
whole” interest. The trustee changed its position after River
Birch argued Chesapeake had started the process too late.  “ BNY Mellon  and River Birch have refused to produce
documents explaining the origins of this dispute,” Stephen
Ascher, one of Chesapeake’s lawyers from Jenner & Block LLP in
New York, said in the letter. “Chesapeake is plainly entitled
to cross-examine BNY’s witnesses on their bias and motive.”  BNY Mellon should have turned over the e-mails as part of
the pre-trial exchange of information, Chesapeake said in the
letter. A hearing on Chesapeake’s request for evidence is
scheduled for today at 8:30 a.m. in New York.  Court Ruling  Yesterday, a federal judge in  Oklahoma City  threw
out an investors’ lawsuit claiming Chesapeake misled the public
about the company’s true financial condition and about financial
obligations incurred by its now-former chief
executive officer, Aubrey McClendon.  “This is the lead case against Chesapeake, and the first
ruling in which a court has addressed the merits of the claims
that have been asserted against the company and members of its
management team,” Robert Varian, a lawyer for Chesapeake, said
in an e-mailed statement from the company. “We are pleased with
the court’s complete rejection of the claims, which were based
on unfounded accusations that were given widespread attention in
the media.”  Chesapeake contends the March 15 deadline stated in the
indenture was for the notice of early redemption to be sent to
noteholders, while BNY Mellon claims the call would need to be
formally completed by that date.  April 23 Trial  BNY Mellon, based in  New York , and Chesapeake are scheduled
to face off at trial beginning April 23 over the Oklahoma City-
based gas producer’s claim that it made the call on time. Both
sides argue the language in the indenture documents backs their
respective interpretations of the March 15 deadline.  Chesapeake wants River Birch to hand over documents related
to its decision to buy the 2019 notes, as well as its
communications with other investors in the bonds, according to
the letter. The gas company said it wants to know whether River
Birch’s purchase of the notes in February was a bid to speculate
on ambiguity over the deadline for an early call.  Engelmayer, in earlier court hearings, has called the
language in the indenture “ambiguous” and said he would rush
the trial to resolve the dispute before Chesapeake formally
executes the early call in mid-May.  A message left at River Birch seeking comment yesterday on
the letter wasn’t immediately returned. Steven Bierman, a lawyer
for the company and other investors that had intervened in the
case, didn’t return a call yesterday seeking comment on the
letter.  Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, declined to comment on
the dispute over the requested e-mails.  Trial Witnesses  Chesapeake, which sued the bank on March 8, needs the
evidence to prepare its cross-examination of BNY Mellon’s trial
witnesses, according to the letter. River Birch isn’t a
defendant in the case.  Last month, River Birch held $16.7 million of the
securities, some of which it bought Feb. 15 after it believed
Chesapeake had missed the window to redeem the notes at par,
said James Seery Jr., a lawyer at the hedge fund, in a March 12
letter to the court.  Bank of New York Mellon said it would call Seery as a
witness at trial and later offered to take him off the witness
list “to avoid discovery from River Birch,” Chesapeake said in
the letter. The only condition was that the energy company had
to agree to “not ever assert that River Birch ‘held any
influence over BNY,’” according to the letter.  McClendon Deposition  McClendon will be deposed as part of a lawsuit, as will
other people who may have information about the decision to make
the early call and what the March 15 deadline was intended to
mean at the time the notes were issued.  Chesapeake issued the bonds in February 2012, just before
it was disclosed that McClendon, a company co-founder, had been
using his personal 2.5 percent stakes in some Chesapeake wells
as collateral for loans that weren’t fully disclosed to
shareholders.  A group of noteholders with about $250 million in the 2019
bonds had intervened in the lawsuit to make their arguments in
court. The group later dropped out of the case.  Chesapeake made the early call after the lawsuit was filed
because Engelmayer said in court he didn’t think the investors
had a strong case for seeking the make-whole payment, regardless
of whether the deadline was met. Chesapeake has said it will
cancel the early call if it loses the case.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  