-- China’s Money Rate Extends Decline on Speculation Inflows Rising
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-10T02:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/china-s-money-rate-extends-decline-on-speculation-inflows-rising.html
China’s money-market rate declined
for a third day on speculation rising capital inflows will help
boost cash supply in the financial system.  The  yuan , which has strengthened 0.6 percent this year,
rose 0.13 percent to 6.1943 per dollar, the strongest level
since the government unified official and market exchange rates
at the end of 1993. Fitch Ratings yesterday cut China’s long-
term local-currency debt ranking to A+ from AA-, citing
increasing risks to the country’s financial stability given the
lack of transparency in the increased borrowings by local
governments.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped five basis points to 3.22 percent
as of 9:31 a.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  “Foreign capital inflows are probably rising, which is
helping bring down money market rates,” said Wang Huane, a
senior bond trader at Qilu Bank Co. in Jinan, capital of the
eastern Shandong province.  The People’s Bank of China today gauged demand for 14-day
reverse repurchase contract and 28-day repo operation tomorrow,
according to a trader required to bid at the auctions.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined one
basis point to 3.26 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The yield on the 3.52 percent government bond due February
2023 fell five basis points to 3.43 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  