-- China Charges Former Railway Chief in Corruption Crackdown
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-10T09:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/china-charges-former-rail-chief-with-corruption-abuse-of-power.html
Former Chinese Railway Minister  Liu Zhijun  was charged with corruption and abuse of power as the
Communist Party roots out graft that blossomed during the debt-
fueled roll out of the world’s biggest high-speed rail network.  The charges were filed against Liu with the Beijing No. 2
Intermediate People’s Court, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported today. Xinhua didn’t say when his trial may begin.  Liu, who was removed from his post in 2011 and later
expelled from the Communist Party, championed what he called
leapfrog development of a rail network that accumulated more
than 2.6 trillion yuan ($419.8 billion) in debt as it laid
almost 10,000 kilometers (6,200 miles) of track. The allegations
of corruption surrounding the rail construction, along with a
July 2011 bullet-train crash that killed 40 people, have come to
symbolize broader concern over the quality of China’s
infrastructure expansion.  “The wreck calls into real question many of the visible
gains from high-speed growth,” Andrew Wedeman, a political
science professor at  Georgia State University  and author of
“Double Paradox: Rapid Growth and Rising Corruption in China.”
Liu’s case has become “a more general trial for all the fancy
new infrastructure construction” in the last decade, Wedeman
said.  Highest-Rank  Liu, 60, was among the highest ranked Chinese officials to
face corruption-related charges until the downfall of Politburo
member  Bo Xilai , the Chongqing Communist Party secretary who was
also expelled from the party in September and is awaiting trial
on graft allegations. Bo’s wife was convicted in August of
murdering a British businessman.  Acknowledging the threat posed by corruption, Xi Jinping,
speaking after he was appointed Communist Party general
secretary in November, called it one of the “severe
challenges” faced by the party. Xi, named China’s president
last month, later said social unrest may rise and could lead to
the party’s demise unless leaders address corruption.  The Communist Party’s decision to punish Bo and Liu shows
its “firm determination to fight corruption,” Xinhua reported
in November.  “During Liu’s tenure, there were a lot of practices that
violated the rules, and not only Liu but also many other
officials fell from grace,”  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  Chairman
Li Changjin said in Hong Kong today. “The case will help to
clean up the network and China Railway will benefit from that.”  China Railway  rose  1.9 percent to close at HK$3.78 in Hong
Kong trading today. The stock has gained 32 percent in the past
year, compared with an 8.2 percent increase in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  Beijing to Shanghai  Liu presided over the ministry at a time when millions of
yuan were wasted or stolen. In one case, at least 187 million
yuan was misappropriated by individuals or companies involved in
building the high-speed rail line from Beijing to  Shanghai , the
National Audit Office reported in March 2011.  The auditor, which also investigated the railway from June
to September 2011, also found that 491 million  yuan  was
embezzled in land deals tied to the railway project, according
to a separate audit report.  Criticism of the rail expansion peaked after the accident
near the eastern city Wenzhou in 2011. A train rammed into a
stopped locomotive, sending four carriages tumbling off a
viaduct, after a lightning strike had caused signaling equipment
to malfunction.  ‘Stained With Blood’  In the crash, the discovery of a two-year-old survivor
after crews began clearing away the wreckage fueled public
outrage and claims that the government was trying to cover up
the reasons behind the accident. In a front-page editorial, the
People’s Daily newspaper demanded economic development that
isn’t “stained with blood.”  The Chinese government punished 54 officials and ordered
the rail ministry to improve management of its high-speed rail
system after an investigation found the crash was caused by
mismanagement and design flaws. Liu was also singled out for
blame in the crash, though he had been removed from his post
before it happened.  The crash also reignited public calls for separating the
ministry’s regulatory and operating roles, bringing it in line
with other parts of  China ’s state-run economy, including
aviation, telecommunications and energy. In those sectors,
government-backed companies, which are often listed, run the
day-to-day business while separate state agencies regulate them.  China’s National People Congress approved the rail
ministry’s dismantling last month. It was split into two, with
regulatory functions being absorbed by the Ministry of
Transportation and the commercial operations made into a new
company, China Railway Corp.  In his eight-year stint, Liu approved landmark projects
including the 221 billion-yuan rail link connecting Beijing and
Shanghai, the nation’s two biggest cities. The line was put into
service months after Liu was removed from his post. China opened
the world’s longest high-speed link, a 2,298-kilometer track
between Beijing and Guangzhou, last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  