-- Chinatrust Said to Seek Deal for Tokyo Star Bank in June
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-04-10T02:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/chinatrust-said-to-seek-deal-for-tokyo-star-bank-in-june.html
Taiwan ’s  Chinatrust (2891)  Financial
Holding Co. is seeking to acquire  Tokyo  Star Bank Ltd. for about
50 billion yen ($503 million) in a deal that may be struck as
soon as June, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter.  Chinatrust is in talks to buy closely held Tokyo Star from
a group of shareholders including Dallas-based Lone Star Funds,
 Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303)  and  Aozora Bank Ltd. (8304) , the people said, asking
not to be identified as the information is private.  A takeover would be the first of a Japanese bank by a
foreign lender, helping Chinatrust to serve as a bridge between
corporate customers in Taiwan and the world’s third-largest
economy, the person said.  Japan ’s Topix Banks Index up 70
percent in the past six months as investors bet that fiscal and
monetary stimulus will spur borrowing.  Spokesmen for Taipei-based Chinatrust, Lone Star, Shinsei
Bank and Aozora Bank declined to comment on a potential deal.
Hiroki Nakano, a spokesman for Tokyo Star, said the company
isn’t in position to comment on the matter.  Any deal would require regulatory approvals from
authorities in Taiwan and Japan, one person said. The Nikkei
newspaper reported in January that Chinatrust was in talks to
acquire the Japanese bank.  Fourth Sale  Chinatrust, Taiwan’s largest issuer of credit cards, is
considering the purchase with Japan’s property market expected
to benefit from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to put an
end to decades of deflation. Tokyo Star focuses on mortgages in
addition to its corporate lending business in industries such as
health care and shipping.  Tokyo’s apartment supply this year will reach the highest
level since 2007 because of an expectation of economic recovery
after Abe was elected in December, according to an estimate by
Real Estate Economic Institute Co. published on Dec. 20.  The sale would be the fourth time ownership of Tokyo Star
has changed hands since 1999, when the lender was bailed out by
Japan’s government.  Funds run by  Lone Star  bought the bank after the bailout in
the wake of the Asian financial crisis, according to the bank’s
website. Japanese buyout firm Advantage Partners LLC then bought
the bank from Lone Star in 2008, before a Lone Star-led group
bought it back in 2011.  Tokyo Star was delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange in
2008 after the acquisition by Advantage. The bank led by Chief
Executive Officer Masaru Irie had 1.57 trillion yen of lending
outstanding as of March 2012 with its 31 branches and 1,200
employees, according to the company’s website.  Jeffrey Koo, founder of Chinatrust died in December. Koo
served as adviser to three Taiwan presidents -- Lee Teng-hui,
Chen Shui-bian and Ma Ying-jeou -- advocating for closer
economic cooperation with  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in 東京 at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  