-- China Exports Miss Forecasts as ‘Absurd’ Data Probed
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-10T10:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/china-export-gains-miss-forecasts-for-first-time-in-four-months.html
China ’s  exports  rose less than
forecast for the first time in four months, fueling concerns
about the outlook for trade as the government said it’s
investigating reports of inflated figures.  Shipments abroad increased 10 percent in March from a year
earlier, the customs administration said today in Beijing, while
 imports  rose by an above-forecast 14.1 percent, leaving an
unexpected trade deficit of $880 million. An “astounding” 92.9
percent jump in exports to Hong Kong, the most in 18 years,
raises questions on data quality, researcher IHS Inc. said.  The customs agency acknowledged concerns that the data may
be overstated at a press briefing today while standing by its
figures and saying the Hong Kong gains stem from different
statistical methods. Sales to the U.S. and  Europe  both fell for
the first time since November, leaving the world’s second-
largest economy with weaker global demand to support a  recovery .  “This 10 percent export growth is more real as it’s in
line with other data” including power consumption, industrial
production and transportation, Lu Ting, chief Greater China
economist at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong, said in a note
today. January and February’s “abnormally strong” gains were
probably distorted by companies’ inflated reports, Lu said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, sees
China growth “trending down” toward 6 percent after about 7
percent to 8 percent in the next couple of years, Chief
Financial Officer Graham Kerr said today at the Bloomberg
Economic Summit in Sydney, indicating prospects in its largest
customer present its main risk.  Raw Materials  Import gains stemmed from rising demand for raw materials,
implying fixed-asset investment growth will be “robust” in
coming months, Lu said. Imports from the U.S. rose 30.3 percent
from a year earlier, while shipments from  Australia  increased
18.4 percent.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks was little
changed at the close. It’s down 1.9 percent this year.  The export gains for March compare with 21.8 percent growth
in February and the 11.7 percent median estimate in a  Bloomberg
News survey  of 36 economists.  Exports fell to major partners in March including the U.S.,
European Union,  Japan , South Korea and  Canada , the customs
administration said today. The main exception was shipments to
Hong Kong, which rose to $48.4 billion, accounting for 27
percent of total exports. Sales to  Taiwan  rose 44.9 percent,
while Taiwan this week reported a 1.2 percent decline in imports
from China.  Anecdotal Evidence  “The breakdown of exports by destination veers towards the
absurd,” IHS economists Xianfang Ren and Alistair Thornton said
in a note today. “There is plenty of anecdotal evidence to
suggest that exporters are faking orders” and using a practice
to obtain export-tax rebates, IHS said.  Zheng Yuesheng, a customs administration spokesman, said
today that the practice of false trade declarations “does exist,
but is definitely not mainstream.” Exporters must bear legal
responsibilities if they do that, Zheng said.  The agency has made an initial probe into possible money
flows disguised as trade with Hong Kong, and will “work with
relevant departments to conduct deeper and more detailed
investigations and research so that we can be completely clear
about various reasons behind the extraordinary trade  growth  with
Hong Kong,” Zheng said at the briefing in Beijing.  At the same time, Zheng reiterated the agency’s stance that
every dollar of trade is documented by declaration forms. He
said that a difference in statistical methods is the major
reason for the discrepancy between bilateral figures reported by
China and Hong Kong. One example is that some mobile-phone
products are assembled in China then shipped to Hong Kong before
re-entering the mainland for sale, which pushes up exports to
Hong Kong, Zheng said.  Recovery Signs  China has yet to see firm evidence of a stable recovery in
external demand, Zheng said.  Separately, China’s central bank and financial institutions
 bought  a net 295.4 billion  yuan  ($47.7 billion) of foreign
currency in February, People’s Bank of China data showed today,
the second-biggest monthly gain since August 2011. Buying may
reflect inflows of funds into China.  Estimates for export growth last month ranged from 5
percent to 18 percent. Economists projected  import  gains of 6
percent, based on the median forecast of 35 respondents, while
the median estimate for a trade surplus was $15.15 billion.  The trade deficit was the first for a month not affected by
the Lunar New Year holiday since March 2010. The shortfall “may
send a strong signal” that strength in the yuan “can no longer
be tolerated,” said Liu Li-Gang, chief Greater China economist
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Reference Rate  The central bank today set the yuan reference rate at
6.2548 per dollar, the strongest level since a peg ended in July
2005.  Gains in overseas shipments exceeded forecasts by at least
7.5 percentage points in December, January and February, the
first time that’s happened in three straight months in the eight
years Bloomberg has compiled analyst estimates for the data.  The government last month set a target of 8 percent trade
growth this year, down from 10 percent in 2012. Zheng said today
that he’s confident China can achieve the 2013 goal.  A weakening yen may also pose challenges for China’s
exports, complicating the nation’s monetary policy, billionaire
investor  George Soros  said this week at the Boao Forum for Asia
in China. Japan’s currency has fallen about 22 percent against
the yuan in the past six months as new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
steps up efforts to beat deflation.  Japan Sales  “A depreciating yen has weakened the competitiveness of
Chinese products in Japan,” Zheng of the customs agency said.
Sales of labor-intensive products to Japan have already been
affected as Chinese textile exports to the nation fell 3.9
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, he said.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , the nation’s biggest shipping
company, on March 27 reported a wider-than-expected annual loss
of 9.56 billion yuan ($1.54 billion) as dry-bulk rates slumped.  China’s economic expansion may have accelerated for a
second period to 8 percent in the first quarter, according to
the median estimate of analysts. The Asian Development Bank
yesterday projected growth will pick up to 8.2 percent this year
from 7.8 percent in 2012.  Elsewhere today in the Asia-Pacific region, an index of
Australian  consumer confidence  fell 5.1 percent for April while
South Korea reported a lower-than-estimated jobless rate of 3.2
percent for March.  The U.S. will see a report on mortgage applications after
an index fell 4 percent in the week ending March 29 from a week
earlier.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  