-- China’s Soybean Imports Drop on Brazilian Shipping Bottleneck
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-10T06:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/china-s-soybean-imports-drop-on-brazilian-shipping-bottleneck.html
Soybean imports by  China , the
biggest buyer, plunged in March from a year ago as logistical
bottlenecks delayed Brazilian shipments while losses by hog
farmers reduced consumption.  Imports were 3.84 million metric tons last month, 21
percent less than a year ago, the General Administration of
Customs said on its website today. Shipments in the first
quarter fell 13 percent to 11.49 million tons, the data show.  Ships at Brazilian ports may need to wait at least six
weeks to load soybeans after rains worsened bottlenecks, Oil
World said yesterday. Trucks were lined up 4.4 miles (7
kilometers) to the port of Santos, road operator Ecovias said
yesterday. The price of hogs in China has since March 6 fallen
below a break-even point determined by the National Development
and Reform Commission, prompting the top planner to invoke a
price-boosting measure this month by stockpiling frozen pork.  “Chinese soybean imports are going to fall this year,”
said Guo Qingbao, oilseed analyst at Cngrain.com, a Zhengzhou,
Henan-based researcher owned by China Grain Reserves Corp. While
the shipping difficulty with Brazilian soybeans was unexpected,
China’s demand has slowed since last year, he said.  The contract for September delivery on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange  traded at 4,808  yuan  ($776) a ton at 2:04 p.m. in
Beijing, while soybeans for May on the Chicago board of trade
were at $13.935 a bushel.  April’s imports may be 4.2 million tons, less than 4.89
million tons last year, state-owned researcher Grain.gov.cn said
in an e-mailed report today. Imports in the year through Sept.
30 may be 59 million tons, compared with 63 million tons
forecast by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , according to the
median of a survey of three researchers and two traders by
 Bloomberg News  last month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  