-- China Trade in North Korea Falls After December Rocket Test
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-11T07:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/china-trade-with-north-korea-falls-after-december-missile-launch.html
China ’s exports to North Korea fell
in the first three months of this year, in what may be a signal
to Kim Jong Un’s regime to change its behavior following a
December rocket launch and subsequent nuclear test.  Shipments to North Korea fell 13.8 percent in the first
quarter of the year to $720 million, China customs
administration spokesman Zheng Yuesheng told reporters yesterday
in Beijing. Imports from the North rose 2.5 percent to $590
million, Zheng said.  North Korea depends on China, its closest ally and biggest
trading partner, for fuel oil and consumer goods. The trade
 decline  is consistent with rising Chinese frustration over the
North escalating tensions since the December missile test and a
nuclear detonation in February, said  Paul Haenle , who negotiated
with North Korea as a U.S. official.  “North Korea’s circle of friends is quite small and China
is the biggest friend that it has,” Haenle, director of the
Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing, said in a
telephone interview. “If it loses China over time it loses its
ability to exist.”  The United Nations Security Council tightened sanctions
against the North twice this year. Previous curbs in 2009 were
followed by surging trade as Chinese companies bought North
Korean minerals, and North Korea imported fuel and consumer
goods. Two-way trade rose to $5.63 billion in 2012 from $2.68
billion in 2009, according to Chinese customs figures.  Hungry Neighbor  “China is a large and hungry neighbor, so why should China
exclude itself from dealing with its neighbors for the benefit
of others’ political and technical or strategic gain?” Roger
Barrett, managing director at Korea Business Consultants, said
by phone from Beijing. “China must look after itself.”  Zheng didn’t give specifics on trade, and those figures are
set to be released later this month. From December through
February, gasoline exports to North Korea totaled 12,101 tons, a
35 percent decline from the 18,723 tons shipped a year earlier,
according to Chinese customs data.  Exports of crude oil to North Korea rose 3 percent to
102,002 tons, or $107.7 million, from December through February.  Haenle said that Chinese officials he has talked to are
more frustrated with North Korea’s threats, and they believe
that stronger U.S.-South Korean defense ties resulting from the
tensions are not in China’s best interest.  Bustling Dandong  Dozens of trucks, some with North Korean license plates,
lined up today near the customs building in the north eastern
Chinese border town of Dandong. One truck crossing the
Friendship Bridge which spans the two countries carried yellow
excavators bearing the  XCMG Construction Machinery (000425)  Co. Ltd.
logo.  Nearby at Dandong Tianfu Trade Co., which exports furniture
and office supplies to North Korea, general manager Zhang Shuang
said there hasn’t been much recent impact on trade with North
Korea, even as tourism appears to have come to a halt.  “There’s been no big change, we’re used to” such
tensions, she said in an interview today. “Since 2008 there’s
been similar situations every year.”  Dandong Tianhuashan travel agency manager Zou Yuzhen,
sitting in an empty office, said travel had stopped from
yesterday but she hasn’t received any formal notice. China
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said yesterday that while
some Chinese tour groups have canceled trips to North Korea, the
situation on the border and diplomatic ties remain normal.  More Pressure  U.S. officials and lawmakers, including Republican Senator
John McCain of  Arizona , have called on China to put more
pressure on North Korea to defuse the tension.  “Successive administrations have come to  Washington  and
think they can solve the North Korea problem,” Andrew Scobell,
a senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, said in a
conference call. “They conclude the key is China.”  Chinese President Xi Jinping, while not referencing North
Korea directly, said April 7 that no country should be allowed
to instigate regional chaos. China has advocated talks to ease
tensions on the Korean peninsula.  China and North Korea are “maintaining normal state-to-
state relations and trade is conducive to peace and stability in
the region,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong said yesterday.  With the suspension of the Gaeseong industrial complex
jointly run by North and South Korea, the North will only become
increasingly reliant on China, said Lim Eul Chul, a North Korean
studies professor at Kyungnam University in  Seoul .  Gaeseong Suspension  North Korea withdrew more than 53,000 workers from the
industrial complex this week, suspending operations at the
special zone for the first time since it was opened in 2005.  Today it called the closing of the industrial park
temporary, signaling a possible easing of tensions, after U.S.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel yesterday urged the regime to tone
down its “bellicose rhetoric.”  China’s commerce with North Korea is tiny compared to its
commerce with South Korea. The $1.3 billion in two-way trade
between China and North Korea in the first three months of 2013
compares to $63.3 billion between China and South Korea,
 according  to Chinese  customs figures .  North Korea’s gross domestic product is about one-fortieth
that of South Korea’s. Its trade volume with China in the first
quarter of this year represented about 0.1 percent of China’s
total trade, Zheng  said .  Commerce with China accounts for more than 70 percent of
North Korea’s total trade, according to South Korean government
estimates. The North doesn’t release official statistics.  “Chinese businesses for now seem to be controlling the
speed and the volume at which they trade with the North,”
Kyungnam University’s Lim said by phone. “Economic cooperation
between North Korea and China will only get stronger because
there’s no possibility that inter-Korean relations will
dramatically improve under the current situation at Gaeseong.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  