-- China Keeps Fuel Prices Unchanged in First Review of New System
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-10T08:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/china-keeps-fuel-prices-unchanged-in-first-review-of-new-system.html
China , the world’s second-biggest
oil consumer, won’t adjust gasoline and diesel prices in the
first review under a new mechanism because international crude
costs have remained relatively stable.  There will be no change to tariffs because average global
crude costs in the past 10 working days were “basically” the
same as when China last revised fuel prices, the National
Development and Reform Commission said on its website today. The
NDRC, the nation’s top economic planner, previously considered
an adjustment every 22 working days. The modification signaled
this time will be carried over to the next review, it said.  The nation changed the system to better reflect movements
in crude costs and reduce speculation, the NDRC said in a
statement announcing the measures on March 26, when it also cut
prices for the first time in four months. The mechanism may curb
processing losses at the nation’s oil companies, according to
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , the
nation’s biggest refiner, lost 11.9 billion  yuan  ($1.9 billion)
from processing in 2012, it said March 24. PetroChina Co., the
second-largest, lost 43.5 billion yuan, it said March 21.  Today’s adjustment would have been less than 50 yuan a
metric ton, the NDRC said today. Under the new rules, China may
hold off from a revision if gasoline or diesel is due to rise or
fall by less than that amount, or when the country is facing
“significant” circumstances such as high inflation or steep
increases in international crude prices.  Crude Basket  The NDRC has also changed the composition of the basket of
crude grades it monitors, without providing details. Today’s
statement referred to Brent and West Texas Intermediate prices,
without specifying if they are part of the basket. Under the
previous mechanism, introduced in December 2008, the NDRC
tracked the 22-working-day moving average of a mix of Brent,
Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta grades. It only considered a price
adjustment if the average moved more than 4 percent from the
previous change.  Brent, the benchmark price for more than half the world’s
oil, has dropped 3 percent since the last fuel-price cut was
announced on March 26. WTI has fallen 2.5 percent.  China Petroleum, or Sinopec, slid 0.3 percent to HK$8.83 in
 Hong Kong  today. PetroChina rose 0.2 percent to HK$10.02 and the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  climbed 0.8 percent. The NDRC’s
statement was published just before the market closed, and the
decision to leave prices unchanged was reported earlier by
Sina.com.cn.  Sinopec’s operating margins at its refining unit may
increase to as much as 12 yuan a barrel, compared with a loss of
7 yuan a barrel last year, Bernstein said in a report e-mailed
March 26 after the pricing mechanism was revised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  