-- Most Chinese Stocks Fall After March Trade Data; Drugmakers Drop
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-04-10T07:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/china-s-stock-index-futures-swing-before-march-trade-data.html
Most Chinese stocks fell, led by
health-care companies, after exports rose less than forecast.  Shijiazhuang Yiling Pharmaceutical Co. slid 6.2 percent as
Bank of America Corp. said the bird flu will have limited
effects. Gree Electric Appliances Inc., the biggest air-
conditioner maker, dropped the most since November 2010.
Kweichow Moutai Co. paced gains for liquor makers on speculation
the government may announce new industry standards.  Five stocks fell for every four that gained on the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which rose less than 0.1 percent to 2,226.13 at
the close. The gauge’s 100-day volatility held near a one-year
high after swinging between gains and losses at least 13 times.
The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 0.2 percent to 2,485.31.  “The export data was weaker and combined with the poor
producer-price report yesterday are leading to some concern
about economic growth,” Tang Yonggang, an analyst at Hongyuan
Securities Co. in Beijing, said by phone today. “Many investors
are now on the sidelines.”  A government report showed exports grew 10 percent in
March, compared with 21.8 percent growth in February and the
11.7 percent median estimate of economists. Import growth
exceeded analyst estimates, leaving an unexpected trade deficit.  The  Shanghai  index has fallen 8.6 percent from a Feb. 6
high amid concern steps to cool  property  prices will drag on
economic growth. The gauge’s trading volume was 24 percent lower
than the 30-day average today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Export Outlook  Valuations on the Shanghai gauge dropped to 9.1 times
projected 12-month earnings, near the lowest level since Dec. 13
and less than the seven-year average of 15.8,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index advanced
0.2 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  rose 1.3
percent in  New York  yesterday.  China’s exports climbed less than estimated for the first
time in four months, leaving the world’s second-largest economy
with weaker global demand to support a recovery than previous
figures indicated.  Imports rose by an above-forecast 14.1 percent in March,
leaving an unexpected trade deficit of $880 million, the customs
administration said today in Beijing.  Investors shouldn’t get too pessimistic over  China ’s
slowing export growth given distortions in the previous two
months, Bank of America’s China economist Ting Lu wrote in a
report today.  Slowing Growth  Another government report yesterday showed producer prices
fell 1.9 percent in March, the 13th straight decline, while
consumer prices rose 2.1 percent, less than the 2.5 percent
median estimate of 38 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company,
expects annual economic growth in China to moderate to 6
percent, saying prospects in its largest customer present its
main risk.  “What you have seen over the last couple of years, I don’t
expect the double digit growth rates to continue,” Graham Kerr,
chief financial officer of the Melbourne-based company, said
today at the  Bloomberg Australia Economic Summit  in Sydney.
“Their moderated growth is around the 7 percent to 8 percent
mark for the next couple of years, then trending down toward the
6 percent mark.”  Gree Electric slumped the most among consumer companies
reliant on economic growth, losing 5.8 percent to 27.12 yuan,
the most since November 2010.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut China’s long-term local-currency
debt rating, citing increasing risks to the country’s financial
stability given the lack of transparency in the increased
borrowing of local governments.  Bird Flu  Fitch lowered the rating to A+, its fifth-highest level,
from AA-, the fourth-highest, the company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The company estimates total credit in
 China’s economy , including various forms of so-called shadow
banking, may have reached 198 percent of gross domestic product
at the end of 2012, up from 125 percent at end-2008.  A gauge of  drugmakers  in the CSI 300 fell 2 percent, the
most among 10 industry groups. Shijiazhuang Yiling slumped 6.2
percent to 27.66  yuan , while Yunnan Baiyao Group Co. dropped 1.8
percent to 81.50 yuan.  China’s government is pledging openness in divulging
details of a deadly bird flu outbreak, saying it won’t repeat
mistakes made during the SARS outbreak a decade ago that delayed
response to the global contagion.  Any doctors who fail to disclose cases promptly and
accurately will be prosecuted, Liang Wannian, an official at
China’s National Health and Family Planning Commission, told
reporters yesterday. The briefing came in response to an
escalation in reported infections as the death toll rose to 9.  Consumer Staples  The bird flu’s negative impact on the market is expected to
be muted and short-lived, Bank of America analysts Tracy Tian
and David Cui wrote in a report. It will be a “non-event” if
there is no human-to-human transmission of the virus, they said.  A gauge of consumer-staples stocks surged 1.7 percent, the
biggest gain among the CSI 300 groups. Kweichow Moutai, the
largest maker of baijiu liquor, climbed 3.9 percent to 169.96
yuan. Wuliangye Yibin Co., the second-biggest producer, gained
4.6 percent to 22.76 yuan.  The government may announce a new standard for the use of
the chemical plasticizer in the liquor industry, removing some
uncertainty,  Wang Zheng , chief investment officer at Jingxi
Investment Management in Shanghai, said by phone today.  Liquor makers also gained after they underperformed the
broader market, he said. The consumer-staples gauge traded at
12.2 times projected 12-month earnings this week, rebounding
from a record low of 11.8 times last week.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., jumped 1.7 percent in New
York, the steepest one-day rally since March 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  