-- Michael Jordan Sued by Chinese Sportswear Maker Qiaodan
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-04-10T12:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/chinese-sports-company-sues-michael-jordan-for-damages.html
Qiaodan Sports Co. (QDTYSZ) , a closely held
Chinese sportswear company, said it sued former National
Basketball Association star  Michael Jordan  for $8 million in
damages after his lawsuit claiming unauthorized use of his name.  The Fujian-based retailer’s suit was accepted by the
Quanzhou City Intermediate People’s Court in Fujian on April 2,
Qiaodan said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Chinese company, which has about 6,000 shops in the
country, claimed the hall-of-fame basketball player tarnished
its reputation and delayed its plan for an initial public
offering. Jordan, who won six NBA championships with the Chicago
Bulls, sued Qiaodan in February last year for using his Chinese
name and jersey number 23 without permission.  Qiaodan denied the unauthorized use of Jordan’s Chinese
name in today’s statement. Jordan’s lawsuit is proceeding at the
Shanghai People’s Intermediate Court, according to an e-mailed
statement from Brunswick Group, which is representing Jordan’s
lawyer.  Jordan hasn’t received notice from relevant authorities
about Qiaodan’s suit, according to the e-mail responding to
 Bloomberg News  queries. The Wall Street Journal earlier reported
Qiaodan’s lawsuit.  Qiaodan won approval from the nation’s securities regulator
in November 2011 for an initial public offering of 112.5 million
shares.  The company’s name and its trademark are the same as the
Chinese version of Jordan’s name.  Jordan, who is majority owner of NBA team the  Charlotte 
Bobcats, heads his own division at the world’s largest sporting-
goods maker  Nike Inc. (NKE)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  