-- Citigroup Hires McKinsey’s Chubak to Help Corbat Pare Costs
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-04-10T17:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/citigroup-hires-mckinsey-s-chubak-to-help-corbat-pare-costs-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the bank that’s
cutting 11,000 workers and shutting branches, hired David Chubak
from McKinsey & Co. to help oversee cost-cutting.  Chubak, 32, will be head of productivity and report to
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat , according to an internal
memo obtained by  Bloomberg News . He previously was a partner in
the global bank and securities practice at McKinsey, a  New York- 
based consulting firm, according to the memo, which was signed
by Corbat. Mark Costiglio, a Citigroup spokesman, confirmed the
memo’s contents.  Corbat, 52, who took over as CEO in October after the
ouster of Vikram Pandit, has pledged to make Citigroup  more
efficient. Last month, he said the New York-based lender may
exit or pull back from businesses in countries where results are
“unsustainable,” which could mean more branch closings and
dismissals beyond those already announced by the third-biggest
 U.S. bank .  “David will work closely with senior management and their
teams to redesign processes, eliminate redundancies and drive
efficiencies,” Corbat said in the memo. “He will also help to
set challenging productivity goals for all of our products,
geographies and functions.”  Management Change  Corbat already has moved to change how Citigroup manages
expenses. In January, he reduced the duties of then-Chief
Administrative Officer Don Callahan, shifting his responsibility
for “expense management” and the operations and technology for
some of the bank’s biggest businesses to other executives. Mark
Rufeh, head of expense management and re-engineering who
reported to Callahan, left the company.  At McKinsey, Chubak was part of teams that worked on
projects for Citigroup, according to one person familiar with
the matter. Costiglio and Yolande Daeninck, a McKinsey
spokeswoman, declined to provide further details about Chubak’s
time at the consulting firm.  Chubak has contributed to McKinsey reports since 2010 on
challenges for credit-card lenders, how payment networks can cut
their technology costs and how banks can improve branches.  In June 2007, Chubak co-wrote a  report  for McKinsey
entitled “Surviving -- and prevailing -- in the U.S. subprime-
mortgage market,” which addressed the “dramatic shakeout” in
the market that provided home loans to borrowers with riskier
credit histories.  Subprime Recommendation  Chubak and two other McKinsey consultants proposed that
even amid a steep slump, the market for the mortgages was
“unlikely to disappear.” The report cited as evidence comments
by Angelo Mozilo, CEO of Countrywide Financial Corp., about how
most subprime borrowers were still current on their repayments
while  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the government-sponsored
enterprises, planned to increase their investments in the
mortgages by tens of billions of dollars.  “Despite recent dramatic downturns and the threat of
increased regulation, subprime-mortgage opportunities still
abound for players that are willing to wait for an upturn and
can stomach the risks,” Chubak helped to write.  The U.S. seized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2008 as
subprime mortgages soured amid the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. Taxpayers had to provide about $188
billion of bailout funds to the two firms, and Countrywide’s
practices were blamed by regulators and lawmakers for fueling
the downward spiral.  Citigroup Bailout  Citigroup took more bailout assistance from U.S. taxpayers
than any other lender, including a $45 billion capital injection
and a government guarantee of more than $300 billion of its
riskiest assets. The bank  lost $29.3 billion  in 2008 and 2009
combined. The bailout funds have since been repaid.  Chubak’s report encouraged firms to consider “vertical
integration” in the subprime mortgage market, which is when a
company has operations across multiple parts of the industry
such as mortgage origination and the structuring of mortgage-
backed securities and other, riskier, products tied to home
loans known as collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs.  “Leaders such as  Lehman Brothers  and Bear Stearns have
shown that this vertically integrated model leads to better
performance and risk management as well as increased flexibility
to experiment with and exit from innovative, high-margin
products,” Chubak wrote.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. were
Wall Street investment banks that dealt in mortgage-backed
securities. Lehman failed in September 2008, filing the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history because of too much debt and risky
real estate investments, according to an examiner’s report.  Bear Stearns was sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in a March
2008 sale that headed off a bankruptcy. Bank of America Corp.,
which similarly rescued Countrywide, has spent more than $40
billion cleaning up claims tied to the mortgage firm’s faulty
home loans and foreclosures.  Costiglio and Daeninck declined to comment on the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  