-- Customers in Apple Privacy Suit Seek Evidence Sanctions
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-10T22:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/customers-in-apple-privacy-suit-seek-evidence-sanctions.html
Customers suing  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for
violating their privacy are seeking monetary sanctions in a
dispute over the pretrial sharing of evidence, known as
discovery, after the iPhone maker was previously scolded by a
judge for its “unacceptable” conduct.  Scott Kamber, a lawyer for the customers, told U.S.
District Judge Lucy H. Koh at a hearing today in  San Jose ,
 California , that he will seek the sanctions for
misrepresentations made in the litigation before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Paul S. Grewal, who is handling the case with Koh. Kamber
said customers may seek additional penalties for discovery
violations about which Koh has reprimanded Apple.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is accused in the
lawsuit of improperly collecting data on the locations of iPhone
users, even after the device’s geolocation feature was turned
off, and sharing personal information with third parties.  Koh previously rejected Apple’s bid to dismiss the case
after saying in a ruling last month that she was “disturbed”
to learn that the company, in court filings seeking dismissal,
relied on documents that it was required, and failed, to
disclose to the customers.  “The court cannot rely on Apple’s representations about
its compliance with its discovery obligations,” Koh said at the
time.  ‘Incorrect’ Statements  An Apple lawyer, Ashlie Beringer, told Koh that Apple has
agreed to pay the monetary sanctions, though the two sides
haven’t determined an amount. Beringer also apologized to Koh
for statements about the discovery she made to the court “that
I later learned were incorrect.”  Because of the errors, Koh has asked the plaintiffs to
refile their request to proceed with the lawsuit as a group.
Apple has argued that such class-action status should be denied
because the customers haven’t shown that any of them had
personal information collected without their consent, and as a
result, can’t show they suffered any harm.  Kamber and Beringer declined to comment on the sanctions.  The case is In re Apple Inc. iPhone/iPad Application
Consumer Privacy Litigation, 11-md-02250, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  