-- Cyprus to Sell Gold to Help Overcome ‘Challenging’ Debt Outlook
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-10T16:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/cyprus-to-sell-gold-to-help-overcome-challenging-debt-outlook.html
Cyprus was told by its European
partners that it must follow through on commitments to sell gold
and other state assets worth 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion) to
overcome its debt crisis.  Cyprus’s debt will be 109 percent of gross domestic product
this year before peaking at 126.3 percent of GDP in 2015,
according to a draft of the European Commission’s assessment of
the public debt sustainability of Cyprus dated April 9 and
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Projections carried out by the commission and the  European
Central Bank  “suggest that Cyprus’s debt outlook is
challenging, but will allow Cyprus’s public debt to remain on a
sustainable path, provided that there is strong implementation
of the adjustment program,” the report said.  Cyprus, which last month became the fifth euro-area member
to gain an international bailout after the island nation’s banks
faced collapse, will see an economic contraction of 8.7 percent
this year and 3.9 percent in 2014 before returning to growth of
1.1 percent in 2015, the commission said. Finance ministers
meeting in Dublin tomorrow are due to discuss Cyprus.  The Cypriot authorities have committed to sell “the excess
amount of  gold reserves ” owned by the state, yielding an
estimated 400 million euros, the report said. Privatization of
state assets worth a total of 1.4 billion euros “appears
feasible.”  Russian loans due in 2016 will be repaid in five equal
installments starting in 2018, according to the report. Other
measures to be taken include 4,500 public-sector job cuts, lower
pay for state employees, increases in value-added tax, corporate
and property taxes and excise duty on tobacco and beer.  The nation’s banking sector, which the report said
represented 550 percent of GDP until recently, has been shrunk
to 350 percent of GDP, according to the report. It faces
“further downsizing” through restructuring “to preserve the
liquidity of the Cypriot banking sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  