-- Daimler to Update Targets After Weak Start to 2013
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-10T07:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/daimler-to-update-2013-targets-after-auto-markets-start-weaker.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , will update its targets for
2013 when it reports first-quarter earnings later this month
after many auto markets started the year weaker than expected.  Daimler still expects higher earnings in the second half
than the first lifted by new products, even as the European
market shows no signs of recovery, the Stuttgart, Germany-based
company said in a statement today.  “Many markets were weaker than expected at the beginning
of 2013,” the company said in the statement ahead of the
company’s annual shareholders meeting in Berlin today. “That
applies in particular to the markets for cars and commercial
vehicles in  Europe .”  Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche , whose contract
extension was cut short to three from a planned five years
because of investor concerns about the company’s growth
strategy, has vowed to regain the top spot in luxury-car sales
by the end of the decade. Daimler postponed long-standing profit
targets in October and initiated a cost-cutting plan because of
the slowdown in Europe.  The German manufacturer today didn’t reiterate an earlier
target to match last year’s earnings before interest and taxes
from the ongoing business of 8.1 billion euros in 2013. Chief
Financial Officer Bodo Uebber in late March said that first-
quarter earnings would be significantly below the fourth
quarter.  Second-Half Boost  The shares fell as much as 1.5 percent to 40.25 euros and
were down 1.1 percent at 9:04 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The
stock has declined 2.1 percent this year, valuing the company at
43.2 billion euros ($56.6 billion).  Daimler, also the world’s largest commercial-vehicle maker,
is expecting new models like the CLA four-door compact coupe and
an updated version of the E-Class executive sedan to boost
earnings in the second half, the company said today.  “The objective for this year is to stay the course,
continue our growth and enhance our efficiency,” Zetsche said.  Mercedes global sales gained 3.5 percent to 324,898
vehicles in the first quarter, while Audi’s deliveries climbed
6.8 percent and BMW’s 7 percent. The brand’s effort to catch up
gained some traction in March, when Mercedes grew by 6.5 percent
versus 3 percent for Audi and 4.4 percent for BMW.  Shareholders are voting today on a  dividend  proposal of
2.20 euros for 2012, unchanged from the previous year. Investors
are also being asked to approve the appointment of  Andrea Jung ,
the former CEO of cosmetics maker  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , to
Daimler’s supervisory board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  