-- Details Bedevil Immigration Rewrite Near Raucous Debates
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-10T19:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/details-bedevil-immigration-rewrite-near-raucous-debates.html
It was never going to be easy.  As a bipartisan group of senators puts the finishing
touches on legislation to legalize 11 million undocumented
immigrants in the U.S. and revamp immigration laws, complex
side-deals and policy details underpinning such a measure are
complicating an agreement.  Negotiators were nearing compromises on a proposed
agricultural-worker  visa  program and border security
requirements that would have to precede any program for
legalization of the undocumented. Still, members of the group of
eight senators expressed doubt they would meet their self-
imposed deadline of unveiling legislation by week’s end.  Democratic Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois said he was
“not sure” whether the group would meet that goal, adding that
he couldn’t predict when the measure would be ready.  “It turns out that the drafting part of this is much more
challenging,” Durbin said in an interview.  It’s the latest  evidence  of what veterans of immigration
debates in  Washington  have long known: The landscape is fraught
with complicated, parochial and politically tricky issues and
doesn’t lend itself to quick agreements.  At the same time, other topics are vying for lawmakers’
attention.  Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida  scrapped plans to brief
fellow Republicans on the immigration measure today during a
closed-door luncheon. Instead, the session was dominated by talk
of another marquee issue on which senators have managed to reach
a bipartisan accord: expanding background checks of prospective
gun buyers.  Gun Debate  “We didn’t get a chance to get to it today,” Rubio said
leaving the meeting. “The gun debate dominated everything.”  The obstacles to an immigration accord include provisions
for farmworkers and highly educated guest workers, the basic
question of any future legal status for the undocumented already
in the U.S. and the potential cost, or economic benefits, of a
new system.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, said in an
interview today that farmworkers and growers had reached a
tentative accord, while declining to discuss details.  “There is a tentative agreement between the farmworkers
and growers, and the only question is extension to some of the
Southeast growers,” Menendez said after briefing members of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus.  The bipartisan Senate group is scheduled to meet later
today at the Capitol.  ‘Profound Under-Appreciation’  “There has been a profound under-appreciation throughout
this process of how complex and how really difficult this is,”
said Angela Kelley, vice president of Immigration Policy and
Advocacy at the Democratic-leaning Center for American Progress.
She attributed this week’s “slowdown” to senators’ return from
a two-week break during which their staff members identified
important, unresolved details. “They’re pregnant; they’re going
to deliver a baby bill -- it just may take a little more than
nine months.”  That may be unwelcome news for proponents of the
immigration rewrite including President  Barack Obama , who began
the year determined to seize the momentum from the 2012
presidential elections to swiftly push through far-reaching
legislation. The president threatened to introduce his own plan
if lawmakers didn’t do so in short order.  Time Pressures  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, announced today that his panel will hold a
hearing on the bipartisan measure April 17, another indication
of the time pressures facing those crafting a compromise.  The challenges in reaching such a pact foreshadow the
difficulty that Democrats, who control the Senate, face in
corralling the 60 votes needed to push an immigration proposal
to a final vote. The odds are steeper in the Republican-led
House, where opposition to granting citizenship to undocumented
immigrants is stronger and lawmakers consider the Senate group’s
proposed  visa  program for lower-skilled, non-farmworkers too
union-friendly.  “The things that they’re stumbling over are things that
we’ve consistently stumbled over in the past,” said Rebecca
Tallent, director of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s immigration
task force and a former chief of staff to Republican Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona . The senator was a central player in a
failed 2007 overhaul effort and in this year’s talks.  “It’s great when people agree to principles, but when you
start putting pen to paper, it gets much, much tougher,” said
Tallent, who recalled taking part in an immigration negotiation
as a congressional aide that fell apart over a single word in
labor law. “People underestimate how difficult this is.”  Agricultural Hurdle  A dispute over a visa program for farmworkers who harvest
the bulk of U.S. fruits and vegetables emerged this week as a
vexing example. It pits U.S. farmers and groups representing
companies including  Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB)  and
Sunkist Growers Inc. against the United Farm Workers of America
in a fight over visa numbers and wage requirements.  “It’s not necessarily sticking points; it’s a complex
bill,” said Republican Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, another
member of the bipartisan group. “These are provisions that take
a while to write.”  The farmworker spat came little more than a week after the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other business groups reached a
hard-fought accord with the AFL-CIO and others in organized
labor on visas and wages for a separate low-skilled visa program
to cover workers in such fields as hospitality, janitorial
services, retail and construction.  Science, Technology  Another contentious issue has been how to accommodate
Republican demands to increase the number of  visas  awarded to
foreign nationals who receive graduate degrees in science and
technology fields from U.S. universities.  The delays and 11th-hour struggles give proponents of an
immigration overhaul some confidence, as they maintain that an
agreement hatched in painstaking private negotiations among
senators and interest groups is bound to fall apart.  “Reality is sinking in a little bit,” said Rosemary
Jenks, director of government relations at NumbersUSA, a group
that opposes allowing undocumented immigrants to remain
permanently in the U.S. “This whole idea that we’re all friends
in this room, and we’re going to come up with this great deal,
and we’ll just introduce it and it will sail through -- it’s
never been a realistic view.”  Some advocates who have long pressed for a deal and express
optimism that new immigration laws can be enacted this year
concede the process won’t be simple.  Only Starting  Frank Sharry  of America’s Voice Education Fund, a group
advocating a broad immigration rewrite including citizenship for
undocumented immigrants, said he’s been surprised at how much
common ground the Senate group has found given the issue’s
complexity. Yet he cautioned that even after lawmakers unveil
their legislation, it faces a rough road.  When the Senate group is ready with a plan, selling it is
another matter. Members met yesterday at the Capitol with Leahy
to update him on the talks. He expects his panel to consider the
measure in early May.  “It’ll be a roller-coaster ride with lots of thrills and
chills and even some near-death experiences, because there’s
going to be a ferocious opposition -- in the Senate, in the
House, outside of Congress -- that is going to try to define and
distort what the bill does and doesn’t do, and will hope for a
grassroots backlash that will overwhelm Congress,” Sharry said.  Potential Cost  One issue increasingly being cited to generate a
groundswell against the measure is the potential cost of
granting legal status to undocumented immigrants.  Robert Rector, an analyst at the fiscally conservative
 Heritage Foundation , is updating a 2007 study he conducted that
estimated legalizing undocumented immigrants would cost at least
$2.6 trillion. That is based in large part on the cost of
granting them access to the social safety net including  Social
Security , Medicare and various welfare programs.  Pro-overhaul groups counter with studies assessing the
economic benefits of an immigration rewrite. The American Action
Forum, a Republican-aligned organization pressing for the
overhaul, released a study by former Congressional Budget Office
Director Douglas Holtz-Eakin projecting it would raise the pace
of economic growth by almost 1 percentage point over a decade.
In turn, the long-term federal debt would be reduced by as much
as $2.7 trillion.  Undocumented Immigrants  That may not carry much weight with fiscal conservatives
incensed by the idea that undocumented immigrants could
eventually gain access to mandated coverage under the 2010
 Affordable Care Act  implemented to offer health insurance to
millions who lack coverage.  “The cost issue is everything to  House Republicans , and
all the incremental issues aside, that’s going to trump
everything,” Tallent said. “Those who don’t want this bill
done are going to have a lot more ammunition this time than
they’ve had in the past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  