-- Deutsche Telekom Is Said to Review Improving MetroPCS Terms
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-10T20:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/deutsche-telekom-said-to-review-improving-metropcs-merger-terms.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  is reviewing
improved terms for a deal to merge its T-Mobile USA unit with
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  to secure approval from
shareholders, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Deutsche Telekom is considering amending the terms ahead of
a MetroPCS shareholders meeting scheduled for April 12, said the
people, asking not to be identified because the discussions are
private. Deutsche Telekom’s supervisory board held a meeting at
its headquarters in Bonn today, another person said.  MetroPCS rose 3.3 percent to $11.56 in New York after news
of the discussions surfaced. Deutsche Telekom and MetroPCS are
combining the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S. wireless carriers
to gain the scale to compete against market leaders AT&T Inc.
and Verizon Wireless. The transaction faces opposition from some
of MetroPCS’s largest shareholders and investor advisory firms,
which are concerned that the new company will be loaded up with
too much debt.  Deutsche Telekom agreed in October to the merger, which
gives MetroPCS investors $1.5 billion of  cash  and a 26 percent
stake in a new entity that’s taking on $15 billion of debt from
Deutsche Telekom.  Any revision to the terms would require a new date for a
shareholder meeting, which may take place in about two weeks,
because the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission would
require the filing of a new proxy statement, other people
familiar with the matter said yesterday.  AT&T Fallout  Deutsche Telekom is seeking to avoid another failed attempt
to revive T-Mobile’s prospects, like the aborted takeover of the
unit by AT&T Inc. in 2011. For Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive
Officer Rene Obermann, the MetroPCS deal would be the largest
acquisition since the German company entered the U.S. market
more than a decade ago.  Deutsche Telekom rose 2 percent to close at 8.61 euros on
the Frankfurt exchange today.  Dow Jones Newswires reported the discussions over an
improved offer today.  T-Mobile is struggling with contract-subscriber losses and
has fallen behind rivals in embracing long-term evolution, or
LTE, a faster network technology. Part of CEO John Legere’s
strategy is to offer services, including LTE, at lower prices
than its rivals.  On April 12, T-Mobile will begin offering  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone for the first time, becoming the last major U.S. carrier
to get the device.  The combination of T-Mobile and MetroPCS would create a
company with 42.3 million customers. The deal moved a step
closer to completion on March 12, when both the Federal
Communications Commission and the Justice Department approved
the combination. The following week, the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S. approved the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  