-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Sweeten Debt Terms of MetroPCS Bid
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-10T21:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/deutsche-telekom-said-to-sweeten-debt-terms-of-metropcs-bid-1-.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  plans to offer
a sweetened bid as soon as tonight for  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS) , which the German company aims to merge with its T-Mobile
USA division, a person familiar with the decision said.  The new terms will impose less debt on the combined company
and have lower  interest rates  on the loan than the previous bid,
said the person, who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private.  The fresh offer would come two days before MetroPCS
shareholders are scheduled to meet to vote on the original
terms. Deutsche Telekom’s supervisory board held a meeting at
its headquarters in Bonn today, another person said.  Under the merger plan, Deutsche Telekom and MetroPCS would
combine the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S. wireless carriers,
helping them compete against market leaders  Verizon Wireless  and
AT&T Inc. The transaction has faced opposition from some of
MetroPCS’s largest shareholders and investor advisory firms,
which are concerned that the new company will be loaded up with
too much debt.  Philipp Kornstaedt, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, declined
to comment on the sweetened bid, as did representatives from
MetroPCS and T-Mobile.  Deutsche Telekom agreed in October to the original deal,
which gives MetroPCS investors $1.5 billion of  cash  and a 26
percent stake in a new entity that’s taking on $15 billion of
debt from Deutsche Telekom.  Delayed Meeting?  Any revision to the terms would require postponing the date
of the MetroPCS shareholder meeting, other people familiar with
the matter said yesterday.  Deutsche Telekom is seeking to avoid a replay of T-Mobile’s
failed deal in 2011, when AT&T walked away from a takeover. For
Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann , the
MetroPCS merger would be the largest acquisition since the
German company entered the U.S. market more than a decade ago.  MetroPCS rose 3.3 percent to $11.56 in  New York  after news
of an improved bid first surfaced. Deutsche Telekom climbed 2
percent to close at 8.61 euros on the Frankfurt exchange.  T-Mobile is struggling with contract-subscriber losses and
has fallen behind rivals in embracing long-term evolution, or
LTE, a faster network technology. Part of CEO John Legere’s
strategy is to offer services, including LTE, at lower prices
than competitors.  On April 12, T-Mobile will begin offering  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone for the first time, becoming the last major U.S. carrier
to get the device.  The combination of T-Mobile and MetroPCS would create a
company with 42.3 million customers. The deal moved a step
closer to completion on March 12, when both the Federal
Communications Commission and the  Justice Department  approved
the combination. The following week, the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S. approved the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  