-- Deutsche Telekom Sweetens MetroPCS Bid by Cutting Debt
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-04-11T10:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/deutsche-telekom-sweetens-metropcs-terms-in-best-final-offer-.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  sweetened the
debt terms of an October proposal to merge its T-Mobile USA unit
with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  to placate shareholders.  In what it called a “best and final offer,” Deutsche
Telekom cut the amount of debt it’s imposing on the combined
company by $3.8 billion, according to a statement from the Bonn-
based company yesterday. The carrier also lowered the interest
rate it plans to charge on the loan by half a percentage point.  The transaction has faced opposition from investor-advisory
firms and some of MetroPCS’s largest shareholders, who were
concerned the new company would be loaded with too much debt,
threatening to scuttle Deutsche Telekom’s second attempt to sell
T-Mobile in as many years. MetroPCS agreed to delay a
shareholder vote to April 24 on the new terms, which would cut
the loans to $11.2 billion from $15 billion.  “This puts the new company under less pressure and gives
them more strategic flexibility,” said  Jonathan Chaplin , an
analyst with New Street Research LLP in New York. With less of a
debt burden, the new company can more easily afford to make
network investments and acquire more wireless airwaves, he said.  Deutsche Telekom also extended the lockup period during
which it’s barred from publicly selling shares in the combined
company. The time frame will now be 18 months, up from six. That
may reassure investors that the German company doesn’t plan to
cut and run.  ‘Enduring Commitment’  Deutsche Telekom has an “enduring commitment” to the U.S.
market, spokesman Philipp Kornstaedt said by phone today. The
extended lockup period underlines this pledge, he said.  MetroPCS shareholders were scheduled to convene tomorrow to
vote on the deal. The two-week delay will give investors time to
evaluate the new proposal, the Richardson, Texas-based company
said in a statement.  The merger would combine the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S.
wireless carriers, creating a stronger competitor to market
leaders  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc. Deutsche Telekom agreed
in October to the original deal, which gives MetroPCS investors
$1.5 billion of  cash  and a 26 percent stake in a new entity.
That part of the transaction isn’t changing, Deutsche Telekom
said in its statement.  Cost Savings  “This improved offer underlines Deutsche Telekom’s
commitment to establishing a new, stronger competitor in the
U.S. mobile communications market that will offer customers a
greater selection of attractively priced products and services
on a best-in-class wireless network,” the company said. It
reiterated a prediction that the merger will generate cost
savings of $6 billion to $7 billion.  Deutsche Telekom shares climbed 1.5 percent to 8.74 euros
at 12:28 p.m. on the Frankfurt exchange, the highest intraday
price in two months.  MetroPCS shares  rose 3.3 percent to $11.56
in  New York  yesterday after news of an improved bid first
surfaced.  P. Schoenfeld Asset Management, the  MetroPCS investor  that
led the fight against the original deal, said in a statement
that it welcomed the move and will review the proposal.  “PSAM is pleased that Deutsche Telekom -- in response to
strong opposition to the deal from shareholders -- has taken
steps to improve the terms,” the New York-based firm said.  Interest Rates  Deutsche Telekom had previously sought to charge an
interest rate of about 7 percent -- an excessively high amount,
PSAM had argued.  Support for the original deal faltered last month when
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and Glass, Lewis & Co. -
- two influential investor-advisory firms -- criticized the
terms of the merger. Paulson & Co., MetroPCS’s largest owner,
also opposed the offer, though No. 2 shareholder Madison
Dearborn Partners LLC was in favor of it.  By improving the terms, Deutsche Telekom is seeking to
avoid a replay of T-Mobile’s failed deal in 2011, when AT&T
walked away from a takeover after facing regulatory scrutiny.
For Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann , the
MetroPCS merger would be the largest acquisition since the
German company entered the U.S. market more than a decade ago.  T-Mobile is struggling with contract-subscriber losses and
has fallen behind rivals in embracing long-term evolution, or
LTE, a faster network technology. To win back market share, T-
Mobile CEO John Legere is touting its lower prices and a new
installment-plan approach to buying phones.  IPhone Debut  On April 12, T-Mobile will begin offering  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone for the first time, becoming the last major U.S. carrier
to get the device.  The combination of T-Mobile and MetroPCS would create a
company with 42.3 million customers. The deal moved a step
closer to completion on March 12, when both the Federal
Communications Commission and the  Justice Department  approved
the combination. The following week, the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S. approved the transaction.  The sweetened offer should help seal the deal, New Street
Research’s Chaplin said.  “I think this is enough,” he said. “They reduced the
debt by enough to make this a better deal for MetroPCS
shareholders than remaining independent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  