-- Dinosaurs Flexed Muscles Before Hatching, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-10T17:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/dinosaurs-flexed-muscles-before-hatching-study-finds.html
The oldest collection of fossilized
dinosaur eggshells and embryos, found in China, suggests the
animals grew quickly and flexed their muscles before they
hatched, making them ready for action at birth.  The eggs and embryos were from about 190 million to 197
million years ago, during the early Jurassic period, according
to a study  published today  in Nature. More than 200 bones were
extracted at the site, near Dawa in southern China’s Yunnan,
near Myanmar.  The bones are from about 20 embryos called  Lufengosaurus ,
creatures that grew to about 26 feet (8 meters) long. An
analysis of femurs, the longest bones in the leg, suggested they
doubled in size while the dinosaurs were still embryos, from
half an inch (12 millimeters) to an inch. It’s not clear how
fast this happened, though it suggests the embryos developed
quickly, the researchers said.  “We are, for the first time, looking in great detail at
how embryos in dinosaur eggs would have developed as they
grew,” said  Robert Reisz , a paleontologist at the University of
Toronto, Mississauga, and leader of the international team that
worked on the bones. “Others could only look at a single
glimpse, when the death of the embryo was frozen.”  The findings were unusual because they came from more than
one nest. The embryos weren’t found intact, so the group
concentrated on the 24 femurs to track growth. The relatively
rapid rate at which the femur size doubled suggested the animals
had a quick growth rate and spent a short period of time in the
egg, Reisz said.  Bone Thickness  The bones were of uneven thickness, which suggests the
embryos were moving to develop bone strength, as chickens and
mice do, the researchers wrote. The group also found evidence of
ancient  collagen fibers , which typically strengthen bones,
around the fossils.  This is also the first time such thin fragments of
eggshells have been found; they were 100 microns thick, or about
the thickness of a human hair. They were found because the
excavation was conducted using trowels and other delicate
instruments, Reisz said.  Only a square foot of the site has been excavated, so more
discoveries may be coming, Reisz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  