-- Dish Deals Made Possible by Exxon-Like Cash: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-04-10T20:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/dish-deals-made-possible-by-exxon-like-cash-real-m-a.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  Chairman  Charlie Ergen  has accumulated a record $10 billion in cash, leaving
investors to speculate whether he’s setting his sights on a
takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. or a merger with rival DirecTV.  The satellite-TV service  tripled  its cash balance during
the past year by selling debt, including a $2.3 billion offering
last week, amid a planned wireless expansion that already
prompted a bid for  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  Ergen’s $16.4 billion company
now has the most money among U.S. television and phone
providers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ergen’s cash stockpile -- about the same as Exxon Mobil
Corp.’s -- puts a deal for  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile within
reach, said Guggenheim Partners LLC, which would finally let
Ergen bundle a nationwide wireless-phone network with his pay-TV
system. He may also seek to merge with DirecTV and build a
wireless network using spectrum he already owns, according to
 Standard & Poor’s . Smaller deals, such as snatching MetroPCS
Communications Inc. away from Deutsche Telekom or buying Leap
Wireless International Inc., are other possibilities, according
to Macquarie Group Ltd.  “The question remains: What are they going to do with this
ample liquidity?”  Tuna Amobi , a New York-based equity analyst
at S&P, said in a telephone interview. “I wouldn’t rule out
anything, really, knowing Charlie.”  Industry Deals  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
declined to comment on how the company is planning to spend its
money.  Ergen is already trying to break up one of several current
mergers in the telecommunications industry, offering $7.9
billion in January for Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire,
which  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  agreed to buy in December with
financial backing from Tokyo-based Softbank Corp. Elsewhere in
the industry, Deutsche Telekom is trying to combine T-Mobile
with MetroPCS as the Bonn-based company seeks to distance itself
from the U.S. market, where its wireless business is in fourth
place.  Dish raised $2.3 billion last week by offering bonds, the
company’s  fourth  debt sale in the past 12 months. Added to its
$7.4 billion of cash as of Dec. 31, Dish’s current balance is
about $9.7 billion, and the figure may rise to $10.1 billion on
June 30, according to an April 5 analysis by Macquarie’s Kevin Smithen and Amy Yong.  Exxon’s Cash  That’s three times greater than its stockpile on March 31,
2012, and about the same as  Exxon (XOM) , the world’s second-biggest
corporation with a market capitalization 24 times larger than
Dish’s. While  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Dec. 31 cash balance of $12.4
billion exceeds Dish’s current figure, the cable operator spent
$10 billion of cash to buy the rest of NBCUniversal Inc. in
March.  Ergen is “clearly getting ready for something,” Spencer Godfrey, a Montpelier, Vermont-based credit analyst at KDP
Investment Advisors Inc., said in a phone interview. “Having
that cash opens a lot of options.”  Today, shares of Dish rose 1.2 percent to $36.69. Leap’s
stock climbed 2.9 percent, the most in almost four weeks, to
$5.98.  While Dish has already challenged  Overland Park , Kansas-
based Sprint’s offer for Clearwire and, according to a person
familiar with the matter, offered $11 a share during early
bidding for  MetroPCS (PCS) , the company’s latest debt offering
suggests Ergen may have a bigger prize in mind, said Shing Yin,
a New York-based analyst at Guggenheim.  Not ‘Smallish’  “It’s probably not going to be a smallish deal,” Yin said
in a phone interview. “In the universe of options, T-Mobile
sounds like it might be a better fit, both strategically in that
whatever attracted Dish to MetroPCS should apply to T-Mobile at
an even larger scale, and the price tag of the deal would be
more aligned with the $10 billion in cash that they have.”  Shareholders of MetroPCS are scheduled to vote on April 12
on Deutsche Telekom’s $33 billion plan to merge the company with
T-Mobile, amid opposition from investors such as P. Schoenfeld
Asset Management LP and Paulson & Co. Deutsche Telekom is
reviewing improved terms for the deal to secure approval from
MetroPCS shareholders, two people familiar with the matter said
today.  Antitrust regulators blocked AT&T Inc. from buying T-Mobile
for $39 billion in 2011. For Ergen, who has said he is willing
to spend “billions” on a new wireless network to add mobile
data and voice services to his company, a deal for T-Mobile
would get him there, Yin said.  If Dish wants to use its spectrum to build a wireless
business, “the best way to go is to go for a national
footprint,” Yin said. “T-Mobile actually does have a close-to-
national network.”  Bid Sweetener  Another option could be for Dish to help Deutsche Telekom
sweeten its bid for MetroPCS and then work out a joint venture
or partial buyout of T-Mobile, according to Matthew Harrigan, a
Denver-based analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc.  Deutsche Telekom “would probably like to find an exit
strategy,” Harrigan said in a phone interview. Ergen is “still
a ways away from being able to fund acquiring all of T-Mobile,
but he’s certainly moving in the right direction.”  Deutsche Telekom spokesman Philipp Kornstaedt declined to
comment on speculation regarding Dish.  Dish’s record cash stockpile also raises the question of
whether it’s weighing a merger with  DirecTV (DTV) , a competing
satellite-TV company with a market value of $32 billion,
according to S&P’s Amobi. Dish’s spectrum makes it a more
attractive partner and its cash gives it greater financial
flexibility in terms of the structure of a potential
transaction, Amobi said.  ‘More Impetus’  “There’s probably a little bit more impetus for that kind
of deal now,” Amobi said. “One of the questions DirecTV has
faced quite a lot is what are they going to do about broadband,
so potentially a merger with Dish could answer that question.”  Although Ergen has said he wants to partner with a wireless
company to gain a network, a tie-up with DirecTV could make
building his own system more feasible, Amobi said.  With a Dish-DirecTV merger “you could even begin to kind
of imagine a network build-out,” he said. Given the amount of
cash and spectrum Dish has and the potential for cost cutting if
the two companies are melded, “it would begin to make probably
a little bit more sense.”  “Instead of responding to speculation, we feel our time is
better spent on continuing our industry leading growth,
increasing  shareholder value  and profitably growing our
business,” Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for El Segundo,
California-based DirecTV, said in an e-mail when asked whether
the company would be interested in a merger with Dish.  Higher Offer  While bigger deals can’t be ruled out and Ergen’s strategy
is unpredictable, the Dish founder also has a history of being
financially prudent and may prefer to seek partnerships or
smaller takeovers, said Yong of Macquarie.  Dish could make a higher offer for MetroPCS if the target
company’s shareholders vote down the deal with Deutsche Telekom
this week, or bid for U.S. wireless carrier Leap, Yong said.
MetroPCS has a market value of $4.1 billion, while Leap’s is
$460 million.  “He would be more willing to maybe dip his toe in the
water a little bit with a smaller player first,” Yong said of
Ergen. Buying Leap or MetroPCS “would give him a little bit
more flexibility to do something on a smaller scale before
launching something really big.”  Greg Lund , a spokesman for San Diego-based Leap, declined
to comment on Dish. “Looking more broadly, we have repeatedly
stated before that there should be further consolidation in the
industry,” he wrote in an e-mail. “What that means for us is
not appropriate or realistic to forecast.”  Special Dividend  A spokesman for Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS declined
to comment on whether the company had received any indication of
interest in a boosted bid from Dish.  If no suitable targets emerge, Ergen could also use the
cash to fund a special dividend for shareholders or build his
own network, said Jaison Blair, a New York-based analyst at
Telsey Advisory Group LLC.  KDP’s Godfrey said building, rather than buying, a network
would likely cause the most damage to Dish’s credit rating,
which is currently ranked Ba2, the second-highest step of
speculative grade, at Moody’s Investors Service.  Still, “it’s not out of the question,” he said. Ergen
“wasn’t in the cable business until they put up their first
satellite. He’s a very good poker player, professionally and
otherwise. I don’t think he’s really going to tell us” what
he’s up to.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  