-- Disney Eliminates Film Studio Jobs After Cost-Cutting Review
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-10T17:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/disney-eliminates-jobs-from-studio-division-in-cost-cutting-push.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s
largest entertainment company, cut 150 jobs from its film studio
as part of a cost review, according to a person with knowledge
of the situation.  The firings amount to about 2 percent of the unit’s 7,000
jobs, said the person, who sought anonymity because the number
isn’t being publicly announced.  Burbank , California-based Disney
announced the action in an e-mailed statement today.  The firings took place across various studio  operations .
Disney has been releasing fewer films and selling fewer DVDs.
The cuts are in addition to those made earlier this year in its
interactive businesses, where console-based video games have
lost ground to mobile and Facebook games.  “As part of an ongoing review to ensure that the studios’
operational structure and economics align with the demands of
the current marketplace, we have made the difficult decision to
reduce our staffing levels in several divisions of the studio,”
the company said in the statement.  Disney is releasing 10 movies in 2013, down from 38 a
decade ago, according to researcher Box Office Mojo. Sales from
the home-entertainment unit, part of the film studio, fell 9
percent to $2.22 billion last year, on a 12 percent drop in
units, according to the company’s annual report.  The company finished fiscal 2012 with 166,000 employees
overall, up 6.4 percent. Disney  earned  $5.68 billion on sales of
$42.3 billion in the 12 months ended Sept. 29, a second year of
record profit.  Other Cuts  Elsewhere in the company, Disney closed its Junction Point
Studios video-game operation in Austin,  Texas , in January and
announced April 3 it was reducing staff at the games unit of
recently acquired Lucasfilm Ltd. to focus on licensing.  Revenue from interactive games and subscriptions dropped 20
percent to $613 million in the latest fiscal year, reflecting a
29 percent decrease in games for console-based systems such as
Sony Corp.’s PlayStation.  Disney, based in Burbank,  California , has been making new
all-time  highs  in recent days. The stock gained 1.1 percent to
$59.80 at 1:04 p.m. in  New York  and had advanced 19 percent this
year as of yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  