-- Lebanese Referees Denied Bail in Sex-for-Game-Fixing Case
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-04-10T09:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/lebanese-referees-denied-bail-in-sex-for-game-fixing-case.html
Three Lebanese soccer match
officials, accused by police in  Singapore  of accepting sexual
favors to fix an  Asian Football Confederation  Cup match, were
refused bail by a subordinate court judge.  Judge Kamala Ponnampalam agreed with prosecutors in denying
the release of referee Ali Sabbagh, 34, and assistant referees
Ali Eid, 33, and Abdallah Taleb, 37, on bail. The three accused
intend to enter a not guilty plea to the charges, Gary Low,
their lawyer, said at today’s hearing.  The accused are “foreigners in Singapore, for a short
stay, and with no ties” to the country, Ponnampalam said. She
agreed with prosecutors that they posed a flight risk.  Each of the men was provided with a woman at Singapore’s
downtown Amara Hotel on April 3 who gave them free sexual
services as an inducement to fix the soccer match which was to
be played later that day, according to the charges filed last
week. Each of the men faces a maximum jail term of 5 years and a
fine of as much as S$100,000 ($80,700) if convicted.  “There is no evidence to show there was corruption,” Low
said, arguing for bail for his clients. “There’s no evidence
that there’s an international match-fixing syndicate involved
and that my clients are part of this.”  Eric Ding, a Singaporean businessman accused of offering
the three referees the prostitutes was granted S$150,000 bail
yesterday, according to The Straits Times newspaper.  Match-Fixing  The charges come amid wider concerns about match-fixing in
soccer. In February, global governing body FIFA suspended people
in  Italy ,  South Korea  and  China  for allegedly being involved in
rigging games. The three Lebanese officials were replaced before
the AFC Cup match between Singapore-based Tampines Rovers and
East Bengal, which won 4-2 in a game that included an own goal
by its opponent.  “Given the publicity relating to match-fixing in
Singapore, it’s in the public interest that justice is not
disrupted,” prosecutor Christopher Ong said, in arguing against
bail being granted. “The mere impounding of passports will not
ensure they don’t leave the country.”  Europol,  Europe ’s law enforcement agency, said in February
a Singapore-based operation tried to fix more than 380 games,
including  World Cup  and European Championship qualifiers, to
generate a profit of more than 8 million euros ($10.4 million).
An 18-month investigation, Operation VETO, found 425 match
officials, club executives, players and others in 15 countries
were involved.  The criminal cases are Public Prosecutor v Ali Sabbagh,
DAC11104/2013, Public Prosecutor v Ali Eid, DAC11106/2013 and
Public Prosecutor v Abdallah Taleb, DAC11105/2013, Singapore
Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  