-- Mechel Rebounds as CFO Moots Financing: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-04-10T23:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/mechel-rebounds-as-cfo-moots-financing-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mechel (MTL) ,  Russia ’s second-most
indebted mining company, is climbing from a four-year low on
prospects state-backed lenders will give about $3 billion in
financing to the coal producer.  “We expect some good news on refinancing within the next
month, by mid-May,” Chief Financial Officer Stanislav Ploschenko in an interview in  New York  yesterday. The company
may agree on as much as $2 billion in financing from Russia’s
biggest government-run banks and anticipates securing a loan of
more than $1 billion from state development lender
Vnesheconombank later this year, he said.  American depositary receipts of  Mechel (MTLR)  jumped 4.6 percent
to $4.76 in New York yesterday on trading volumes more than
double the daily average over the past three months. Russia’s
largest producer of coal for steelmakers led gains on the
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian
stocks in the U.S., which climbed for a third day. Futures on
Moscow’s RTS Index rallied 0.2 percent to 141,260.  Mechel has total debt more than five times its market value
after loading up on assets before a slump in global coal prices.
The Moscow-based company already has loans and credit lines from
government-run VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest bank, and OAO
Gazprombank, the lending unit of the state gas export monopoly.
Mechel signed a 40 billion-ruble ($1.3 billion) loan agreement
with VTB to help repay short-term debt due this year, according
to a statement issued yesterday.  The company’s “first goal” will be to refinance about $2
billion of debt coming due this year, Ploschenko said yesterday.  Shares Rally  Total debt rose to  $9.7 billion  as of Sept. 30 from $565
million at the end of 2004, according to the company’s website.
Mechel’s market capitalization fell to a record-low 56 billion
rubles in Moscow April 8, from 405 billion rubles in February
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mechel ADRs have lost 31 percent in 2013, the worst
performance on the Bloomberg Russia-US gauge, which is down 2.9
percent. Shares in Moscow rallied 7.3 percent yesterday to
148.20 rubles, or $4.80, paring this year’s retreat to 27
percent.  Ploschenko said that the loan from Vnesheconombank, also
known as VEB, would go toward Mechel’s Elga field, Russia’s
biggest coal development in the nation’s  Far East . OAO Alfa
Bank’s Barry Ehrlich, ranked first among the 23  analysts  who
cover Mechel ADRs based on total returns, said last week that he
is considering an upgrade of the stock because of the prospect
of state assistance. He has rated Mechel the equivalent of sell
since November 2011.  Mechel-Mining  Mechel may drop plans to sell 25 percent of its Mechel-
Mining unit, people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday,
asking not to be identified as a final decision hasn’t been
reached. Asian companies Posco, STX Group and Baosteel Group
Corp. have looked at the assets though negotiations haven’t
started, the people said.  The sale of Mechel-Mining’s assets will be considered “in
the context of our progress in refinancing the debt,” CFO
Ploschenko said yesterday. “The aim is to get the highest price
possible for the assets.”  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
the  stock futures , declined 1.1 percent to 18.95. The  Market
Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded fund dedicated
to Russian equities, increased 0.2 percent to $27.64 in New York
yesterday.  Russian central banker Sergey Shvetsov renewed his call for
stronger laws to protect minority investors at a VTB investment
conference in New York yesterday.  ‘Protect Shareholders’  State-run OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil company, bought
crude producer TNK-BP for $55 billion last month. Rosneft’s plan
not to buy out minority stakes in the company, to borrow money
from it and possibly end its dividend policy sent shares of TNK-
BP tumbling. Investors including Prosperity Capital Management,
the largest Russia-focused  fund manager , said Rosneft is putting
the nation’s reputation at risk.  “It is the responsibility of Rosneft management to protect
minority shareholders,” Bank Rossii Deputy Chairman Shvetsov
said yesterday, echoing comments made at a Moscow Exchange
conference April 4. “The legislation should be changed to
protect minority shareholders in the future.”  Rosneft’s treatment of minorities “wasn’t good for the
market,” Evgeny Fetisov, chief financial officer of the Moscow
Exchange, said April 8 in an interview in New York.  ADRs of  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , Russia’s biggest mobile
provider, climbed 2.8 percent to $20.44 in the U.S. yesterday,
the steepest one-day advance since Feb. 27.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the
No. 3 provider, added 0.3 percent to $11.98.  ‘Add Value’  VTB Group, which took over  Tele2 (TEL2B)  AB’s local unit on April
4, hasn’t been approached by anyone about selling the asset,
Yuri Soloviev, first deputy president of the bank, said in an
interview yesterday in New York.  “We are a financial investor and will be exiting
eventually” from Tele2, Soloviev said, declining to comment on
when and how it would sell Tele2. “We are not in talks with
anyone over the company. We want to develop this asset, to add
value to it and are open for any options.”  VTB is considering partnering with another company for
Tele2 and may pick a partnership by year-end, he said. Tele2 may
apply for 3G and 4G licenses, Soloviev said. He declined to
comment on whether the company may be merged with  OAO
Rostelecom (ROSYY) , the country’s biggest fixed-line operator.
 Renaissance Capital  and Otkritie Financial Corp. have said VTB
may sell Tele2 Russia to Rostelecom.  ‘Increasing Competition’  The bank will decide on how it wants to develop Tele2
within the next three to four months, Soloviev said.  “Russia must be committed to increasing competition in its
mobile market,” he said yesterday.  Mobile TeleSystem, which vowed last week to fight the
buyout after Stockholm-based Tele2 rebuffed its joint bid with
VimpelCom, will seek talks with the VTB, Chief Financial Officer
Alexey Kornya said in an interview April 8.  Ruble futures showed the currency weakening 0.4 percent to
32.01 per dollar in U.S. hours. Russia’s ruble gained 0.4
percent to 30.884 per dollar yesterday and rallied 0.6 percent
to 35.1403 against the dollar-euro basket used by the central
bank to manage swings that erode exporter competitiveness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  