-- Legendz Online Gambling Probe Produces Charges Against 34
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-10T22:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/legendz-online-gambling-probe-produces-charges-against-34.html
Legendz Sports employees, members
and associates took part in an illegal online gambling business
that drew more than $1 billion in bets, according to a federal
grand jury indictment.  Thirty-four people and 23 businesses were named as
defendants in the indictment returned on March 20 and unsealed
today in  Oklahoma City . Charges include racketeering, money
laundering, conspiracy and running an illegal gambling business.  “The defendants cannot hide the allegedly illegal sports
gambling operation behind corporate veils or state and
international boundaries,” U.S. Attorney Sanford Coats in
Oklahoma City said in a  statement  announcing the charges.  Similar federal prosecutions have been mounted in  New York 
in connection with the online gambling site Full Tilt Poker and
in  St. Louis  over the former offshore sports gambling business
Betonsports Plc.  Legendz founder Bartice A. “Luke” King, 42, of Spring,
 Texas , is accused of conspiring to run the Internet and phone
gambling service first from  San Jose ,  Costa Rica , and later from
Panama City, Panama, according to the indictment.  The company took bets “almost exclusively” from U.S.
gamblers and relied on bookmakers based in the U.S. to solicit
and accept sport wagers as well as settle debts, Coats and
acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Mythili Raman said in the
statement.  At Large  While 22 of the individual defendants have been arrested,
King is still at large, Executive Assistant U.S. Attorney Bob
Troester said today in a phone interview.  Racketeering is punishable by as long as 20 years in
prison.  Money laundering  carries a 10-year maximum, while
operating an illegal gambling business has a top sentence of
five years.  Full Tilt Poker founder Raymond Bitar, accused of using
funds from online players to finance company operations and pay
its owners, agreed to plead guilty under a deal that will let
him avoid prison and obtain a needed heart transplant, his
lawyer told a judge on April 8.  Betonsports founder Gary Kaplan received a 51-month prison
sentence after pleading guilty in 2009 to conspiracy to violate
U.S. racketeering laws. He also forfeited $43.7 million.  The case is U.S. v. King, 13-cr-00063, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Oklahoma (Oklahoma City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  