-- Egypt March Inflation Eases on Unexpected Decline in Food Prices
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-10T07:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/egypt-march-inflation-eases-on-unexpected-decline-in-food-prices.html
Egypt ’s inflation rate eased to 7.6
percent in March, breaking a three-month acceleration that drove
the central bank to raise the benchmark interest rate for the
first time since 2011.  Annual urban inflation was expected to climb to 8.8 percent
from 8.2 percent the prior month, according to the median
estimate of four economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The decline
in March appeared linked to lower-than-expected increases in
both food and non-food items, Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at
investment bank  EFG Hermes (EFGD)  Holding SAE, said by phone.  “We still think there will be an acceleration in inflation
over the course of the year,” he said by phone from Cairo.  Rising costs in Egypt, fueled by a currency slump, have
boosted opposition to President Mohamed Mursi, further stoking
the instability that has gripped the country since the 2011
uprising that pushed  Hosni Mubarak  from power.  Egypt is in the midst of negotiations for a $4.8 billion
International Monetary Fund loan that officials see as pivotal
to unlocking billions more in foreign assistance to plug a
widening budget deficit. The government faces a difficult task
in trying to enact cuts, particularly on subsidies that consume
over 25 percent of its spending, without triggering further
unrest. The raising of butane canister prices at the start of
the month has led to protests.  The decline in the inflation rate came a day after Egypt’s
central bank increased deposit agreement sales by 64 percent in
an apparent attempt to absorb excess funds before the consumer
index figures were released.  The March figure was surprising “given the higher pace of
devaluation in March, lack of foreign currency availability and
fuel shortages which disrupt production operations,”  Mona Mansour , chief economist at Cairo-based investment bank CI
Capital, said in an e-mail. “With more devaluation to go,
additional reform progress and expected supply disruption --
with more power cuts in summer time -- inflation is to remain a
mounting risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  