-- Egypt to Get Another $3 Billion From Qatar as IMF Talks Drag
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-10T12:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/egypt-to-get-another-3-billion-from-qatar-as-imf-talks-drag-1-.html
Qatar pledged another $3 billion in
aid to  Egypt , extending the lifeline for Islamist President
Mohamed Mursi after repeated delays in loan talks with the
 International Monetary Fund .  The funds will be deposited at Egypt’s central bank, Qatari
Prime Minister Sheik Hamad Bin Jassim Al Thani said at a press
conference today in the Gulf state with his Egyptian counterpart
Hisham Qandil. Egypt’s Eurobonds extended their rally after the
announcement, with the yield on debt due in 2020 dropping 19
basis points to 7.23 percent at 12:45 p.m. in Cairo.  Qatar has already provided Egypt with $5 billion in
deposits and grants, helping to shore up the finances of the
Arab world’s most populous nation as investment and tourism
declined amid the turmoil that followed the 2011 uprising
against  Hosni Mubarak . The Egyptian premier and several other
top ministers arrived yesterday, as an IMF technical team
continues talks in Cairo over Egypt’s $4.8 billion loan request.  Two years of political unrest have left Egypt’s economy
growing at the slowest rate in two decades. The nation’s  foreign
currency reserves  plunged to $13.4 billion last month, more than
60 percent below their December 2010 level, and its currency has
dropped more than 10 percent in the past four months. Officials
say they aim to boost reserves to $16 billion by the end of
June, without saying how.  Short-Term Boost  The Qatari funds will be a short-term boost given the
current economic situation in Egypt, “but does it do anything
to help Egypt come out of where it is? I don’t think so,” Said Hirsh, an independent economist based in  London , said by phone.
“There’s just a total lack of clarity about what this
government is trying to do.”  Egypt has been in talks with the IMF on a loan accord for
two years without reaching an agreement. Negotiations have been
interrupted frequently as the chronic unrest and political
gridlock in the country ran counter to the political consensus
sought by the IMF for an economic program, while the government
sought to avoid budget cuts that would add to the unrest.  Mursi faces near-daily protests, with the country’s growing
polarization most recently illustrated in fatal clashes between
Muslims and Christians.  There is also widespread anger at rising prices, fuel
shortages and rolling blackouts ahead of the key summer months
that threaten the government’s ability to cut energy subsidies,
a policy favored by the IMF. Inflation has jumped this year,
though it unexpectedly eased to 7.6 percent from 8.2 percent
last month, according to a report today.  Buying Influence  Officials warn the country could miss its budget deficit
target of 10.9 percent of gross domestic product if spending
cuts are not enacted.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, also will cover Egypt’s gas export obligations over the
summer,  Al Thani  said. The move could ease the burden on Egypt,
where officials have traded accusations over why blackouts are
taking place ahead of the summer.  Al Thani denied that Qatar has been using its wealth to buy
influence in the country, as reports in the Egyptian media have
suggested.  “We don’t ask for anything from the Egyptian government in
exchange for the Qatari aid,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  