-- Telecom Italia Owners Said to Gather Amid Hutchison Talks
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-04-10T15:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/telecom-italia-owners-are-said-to-gather-amid-hutchison-talks.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s largest
shareholders gathered in Milan today ahead of a crucial board
meeting whose focus will be on a potential link-up with
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , two people with knowledge of the matter
said.  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Assicurazioni Generali
SpA (G)  and  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , which together own 22.4 percent of
Telecom Italia through holding company Telco SpA, are receptive
to the idea of letting the carrier explore a possible
combination of its Italian business with Hutchison’s H3G, said
one of the people, asking not to be identified because the
deliberations are confidential. Board members also plan to
discuss a proposed spinoff of Telecom Italia’s fixed-line phone
network, another person said.  Italy’s largest phone company said last week it had
preliminary contacts with Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s
Hutchison about a potential business combination, giving
investors a chance to exit. Telecom Italia’s stock has gained 12
percent since Bloomberg News reported last week the scheduled
board meeting. Still the shares are down 12 percent this year,
cutting the Milan-based carrier’s value to 11.3 billion euros
($14.8 billion).  Shareholder Exit?  “Shareholders have lost a lot of money and I expect they
would be willing to cut their stakes at a decent price, avoiding
further losses,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of Alisei Sim,
a Milan-based brokerage. “Today’s meeting is the occasion to
discuss investors’ move ahead of the board meeting.  Officials at Assicurazioni Generali and Mediobanca declined
to comment. A representative of Intesa Sanpaolo wasn’t able to
offer an immediate comment and an official at Telefonica wasn’t
available.  Telecom Italia, led by Chief Executive Officer Franco
 Bernabe (BNBC) , rose 1 percent to close at 60.2 cents in Milan.
Telefonica added 2.9 percent to 10.80 euros.  The company’s board plans to evaluate the Hutchison
proposal tomorrow, it said in an April 9 statement. Hutchison
may want as much as 29.9 percent of Telecom Italia at no more
than 1.20 euros a share, Il Messaggero reported yesterday,
without citing anyone.  Telefonica, which indirectly holds a 10.5 percent stake in
Telecom Italia, is willing to exit its six-year investment in
the Italian company, two people familiar with matter said
yesterday. No decision has been made and Madrid-based Telefonica
would be reluctant to do a deal in which it would take further
losses, people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  