-- Telecom Italia Near 15-Year Low Lured Tycoon Sawaris, Now Li
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-04-11T15:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/telecom-italia-near-15-year-low-lures-tycoons-from-sawiris-to-li.html
Telecom Italia SpA directors took
little time to turn down a 2 billion-euro ($2.6 billion) offer
five months ago by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  to buy a
stake in the phone company. As another tycoon approaches, the
board will find it’s in a weaker position to bargain this time.  At a meeting in Milan today, Telecom Italia’s board
designated Chief Executive Officer Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  to lead a
panel to explore the feasibility of a combination of its mobile-
phone business with H3G, the Italian unit of  Li Ka-shing ’s
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , a person familiar with the decision
said, declining to be identified because the discussions were
private.  Telecom Italia shares are trading near a 15-year low -- and
about 16 percent off the mid-November level -- while its  net
debt  adjusted for some items reached 28.3 billion euros at the
end of 2012, missing the company’s target and amounting to 2 1/2
times the carrier’s market capitalization.  A deal would combine  Italy ’s biggest wireless carrier with
the No. 4, run by Hutchison. Based on H3G’s reported earnings
and  multiples  of publicly traded European carriers compiled by
Bloomberg, the unit could be valued at about 1.5 billion euros
without a premium. For Hong Kong-based Hutchison, Telecom
Italia’s high debt is a concern, a person familiar with the
matter has said.  ‘Control Premium’  “There’s certainly a rationale for Hutchison to pay a
control premium,” said James Britton, a London-based analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in  London . “However, I still struggle to
believe this will get done unless the government paves the way
for Hutchison to get involved and the political mandate is far
from clear in today’s Italy.”  Italy has faced political gridlock since elections in
February failed to produce a clear winner. The  Democratic Party 
led by Pier Luigi Bersani fell short of winning both houses of
Parliament in the elections and he was unsuccessful in his first
attempt to form a government.  There’s little chance of progress in forming a government
before a new president is elected to replace Giorgio Napolitano,
whose seven-year term ends in mid-May.  Strategic Asset  Telecom Italia -- the country’s former phone monopoly
that’s considered a strategic asset -- is about 22.4 percent
owned by Telco SpA, whose investors include  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and  Mediobanca
SpA. (MB)  The new panel also includes Telefonica’s Julio Linares,
Elio Cosimo Catania from Intesa and Gabriele Galateri from
Generali.  A potential transaction has been delayed in the past by
Hutchison’s “pride” and Telecom Italia’s concern over whether
it could recover tax losses at H3G, James McKenzie, a Madrid-
based analyst at Fidentiis Equities SA, wrote in a report
yesterday. Hutchison won’t “admit that the aggressive market
entry has been a disaster,” he wrote, and the tax losses could
reach 9 billion euros.  An “upside could come if Telecom Italia is in a position
to reclaim tax losses,” he wrote. A deal “would probably
result in a capital increase at Telecom Italia level which we
would view very favorable, since the principle issue of the
company is currently the level of debt.”  Fixed-Line Spinoff  On also the agenda of today’s board meeting is a proposed
spinoff of Milan-based Telecom Italia’s fixed-line network,
another person said yesterday. The network is valued at 13
billion euros to 15 billion euros, according to Telecom Italia’s
second-largest shareholder Findim Group.  Italian state lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA may
acquire a stake in the network, a person familiar with the
matter said in December.  Open Access, a Telecom Italia unit created in 2008 to
manage the grid and offer access to competitors, may be put into
a separate entity to pave the way for the carve-out, that person
said.  Telecom Italia said last week it’s examining a possible
merger with H3G. Such a combination would eliminate a competitor
offering the cheapest wireless services and create an operator
with about 45 percent of Italy’s wireless subscribers, based on
data compiled by communications regulator Agcom for the third-
quarter of 2012.  ‘Regulatory Headwinds’  “In the case that an integration process is approved, we
gather the transaction could face regulatory headwinds” over
the market share and the reduction in number of operators, said
Borja Mijangos, a Madrid-based analyst at Interdin Bolsa.  Telecom Italia is selling assets and cutting jobs as it
looks for ways to reduce debt and raise money for investments.
Its board on Dec. 6 rejected Sawiris’s offer about an investment
in new Telecom Italia shares for at least 2 billion euros, a
plan that would dilute Telco’s interest.  Telco has already written down the value of its stake in
Telecom Italia to 1.20 euros a share. Still that’s almost twice
where the shares are trading in Milan. Today they rose 1.7
percent to 61.3 cents at 5:28 p.m.  They fell to 53.6 cents on April 3, the lowest price since
August 1997. They have gained 12 percent since  Bloomberg News 
reported last week the agenda for today’s board meeting.  Hutchison shares added 0.2 percent to close at HK$82.15 in
 Hong Kong .  Hutchison is  Asia ’s largest investor in European wireless
networks, with units in the U.K.,  Sweden ,  Denmark  and  Austria .
In the U.K. it competes with Telefonica’s O2 division.  Hutchison “confirms there have been preliminary
exploratory contacts between  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and 3 Italia SpA
as to possible business combinations between them,” it
reiterated in an April 9 statement.  Last month, Telecom Italia reported a 2012  loss  after
taking a bigger-than-expected goodwill writedown of more than 4
billion euros. It also reiterated its forecast for 2013 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to drop by
a low-single-digit percentage, excluding some items, and for
revenue on that basis to be stable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in London at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  