-- Telefonica Is Said to Plan IPO in Colombia to Help Cut Debt
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-04-10T08:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/telefonica-is-said-to-prepare-ipo-in-colombia-to-help-cut-debt.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  plans to sell shares
of its Colombian division as early as this year after halting an
initial public offering for all of its Latin American assets,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Telefonica, which owns 70 percent of the unit, intends to
offer a minority holding in an IPO, the people said, asking not
to be identified because the plan isn’t public. Telefonica still
needs approval from the Colombian government, which holds the
remaining shares, to proceed with a transaction, the people said.  Telefonica,  Spain ’s largest telephone company, is seeking
to cut at least 4.3 billion euros ($5.6 billion) in net debt
this year. The Madrid-based carrier could raise more than 500
million euros from the sale of as much as 19 percent stake in
order to keep control of the asset, according to Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de Sabadell in  Madrid .  “Following the IPO in  Germany , this deal would be very
positive for Telefonica,” Bolumburu said, referring to the
October trading debut of Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG.
“Colombia is one of the company’s most attractive assets in
 Latin America  after it merged its fixed and mobile units last
year.”  Telefonica managers and Colombian government officials plan
to meet this month to discuss the transaction, the people said.
The division, which offers services including fixed telephone,
mobile, Internet and pay TV, reported 2012 operating profit
before interest, depreciation and amortization of 607 million
euros on sales of 1.77 billion euros.  Asset Sales  Telefonica shares rose 1.4 percent to 10.65 euros at 10:19
a.m. in Madrid.  An official at Telefonica declined to comment.  After a decade-long $85 billion acquisition spree increased
debt and triggered rating cuts, Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta last year began selling assets and has suspended
dividend payments. As the German business stake sale helped ease
pressure from rating companies, Telefonica halted plans for an
initial public offering of its Latin American business, which
generated about half of the company’s 62.4 billion euros in
sales last year.  A year ago, the Spanish phone carrier merged its Colombian
units -- wholly owned wireless division Telefonica Moviles
 Colombia  and fixed-line venture Colombia Telecomunicaciones,
which was 48 percent state-owned -- to cut $1.7 billion of debt.
That deal left Telefonica holding 70 percent of the combined
company and Colombia the remaining 30 percent, with the state
stake possibly increasing by as much as 3 percentage points in
2015.  El Confidencial reported the IPO plans today.  Other Telefonica assets on a list of potential businesses
for sale include its Irish and Czech divisions, a minority stake
in  China Unicom (762)  (Hong Kong) Ltd. and assets in Central America,
people familiar with the matter have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  