-- Element Avoids ‘Market Heroin’ for Leasing Business
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-04-10T14:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/element-avoids-market-heroin-for-leasing-business.html
Element Financial (EFN)  Corp. Chief
Executive Officer Steven Hudson says selling repackaged leases
to life insurance companies helped his Canadian firm avoid the
“financial market heroin” that almost ruined his first leasing
venture 14 years ago.  Hudson, who in 1984 parlayed a mortgage on his C$190,000
($187,000) Toronto home into a firm that became North America’s
second-biggest business lender, said he has “zero” interest in
tapping public markets again to sell repackaged leases.  “That’s financial market heroin, I was there,” said
Hudson, whose misstep with commercial paper clipped C$2 billion
off Newcourt Credit Group Inc.’s market value before it was sold
to  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  in 1999. “That’s commercial paper and mid-
term notes, it’s very seductive.”  Hudson’s strategy at Element Financial, whose management
team includes former colleagues from Newcourt, is winning over
investors. The stock has almost doubled since the company listed
on the Toronto Stock Exchange in December 2011.  Element Financial’s units provide financing to companies
for car and truck fleets, helicopters, construction equipment --
known as “yellow iron” -- and health-care equipment.  “You’ve got the best minds,” said  Martin Ferguson , who
helps manage about C$1.9 billion for Mawer Investment Management
Inc. in Calgary and owns Element. “Steve Hudson is re-
accumulating all of the people who had been involved in the
equipment leasing business prior, all the gurus, all the people
that had scattered once the financial crisis hit.”  Hair Club  Hudson, who spent a decade in the U.S. reviving businesses
including Hair Club for Men and BeautyFirst, also recruited from
competitors such as  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s  GE Capital  to build
Element Financial into a Toronto-based firm with a focus on
North America.  “In many respects, what we’re doing now is what we did 15
years ago,” Hudson, 54, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Toronto office. “There’s no new credit markets, we’re not
creating anything.”  Element Financial  has  surged 56 percent in the past 12
months, outpacing the 5 percent gain of  Canada ’s benchmark
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite  Index. (SPTSX)  The stock jumped 25
percent this year, for a market value of C$1.12 billion. The
stock rose 0.3 percent to C$8.88 at 10:09 a.m. in Toronto.  “There’s a lot of expectation and so far it’s being
fulfilled,”  Michael Smedley , who helps manage C$1 billion at
Morgan Meighen & Associates in Toronto. “They’re not exactly
sitting back on their heels.”  Assets Soared  Element Financial’s assets have soared to about C$1.5
billion from C$47 million two years ago, as the company raised
about C$620 million of capital by selling securities to private
investors and last month’s share sale, and pursued four
 acquisitions  in Canada and the U.S.  The firm bought TLS Fleet Management from Bank of  Nova
Scotia  in July for C$146.7 million plus debt, to gain vehicle
fleet leasing and management. Element Financial entered the U.S.
in November with its C$300 million takeover of CoActiv  Capital
Partners , a Horsham, Pennsylvania-based commercial equipment
leasing finance company owned by  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  Hudson said he’s
looking for more takeovers in the U.S. to expand the CoActiv
business.  “I think the company and the stock will continue to roll
forward,” said Smedley, whose Toronto-based firm has been an
investor in the stock from the start. “People like to see some
growth going on, and we’ve got quite a lot of financials that
are not so much growth-oriented.”  Great Business  Element Financial, with a price-to-book  ratio  of 1.74, is
trading at a 70 percent premium to CIT Group and a 60 percent
premium to Boston-based  Newstar Financial Inc. (NEWS) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company trades at a 16 percent
discount to  Ryder System Inc. (R) , the largest publicly traded truck
lessor, and at a 11 percent discount to Chicago-based rail-car
lessor  GATX Corp. (GMT)   “The equipment leasing business is a great business and
there’s a void in Canada for it,” Andrew Hamlin, who helps
manage C$6.7 billion for  Aston Hill Financial Inc. (AHF)  in Toronto,
said in an interview. “If you believe the North American
economy is recovering, one of the first areas where you’re going
to see job growth is the small- to mid-market sector, and this
is exactly what these equipment companies cater to.”  Familiar Path  This is a familiar path for Hudson, who transformed
Newcourt over 15 years before its sale to New York-based CIT,
the No. 4 commercial financing company.  Newcourt in the late 1990s had been seeking a partner with
a strong balance sheet to help pare its borrowing costs.
Newcourt was paying a third more than its rivals after investors
snubbed all but the safest bonds amid market turmoil following
Russia’s default on part of its debt.  CIT bought Newcourt in November 1999 for $2.4 billion in
stock, down from an initial offer of $4.1 billion, because
Newcourt’s earnings missed estimates when the firm’s main
funding source -- selling repackaged loans as securities --dried
up.  Ten years later, CIT filed for bankruptcy after losses tied
to subprime lending soared and the firm was unable to gain
funding from the commercial paper market.  Hudson, who agreed to step aside after CIT’s takeover of
Newcourt, left Canada to work in the U.S., where “they welcome
people who have stumbled,” he said. He spent the next decade
“fixing broken private-equity plays.”  Remake Yourself  “You cannot remake yourself in Toronto,” Hudson said.
“Toronto is a city of four million plus people, and a village
of 5,000, and you cannot remake yourself here.”  Hudson established a track record in the U.S. that helped
ease his return. He and Toronto-based Edgestone Capital Partners
bought Hair Club for Men for $30 million in 2002 and sold it 26
months later for $210 million to  Regis Corp. (RGS) , then the world’s
largest operator of hair salons. Later that decade, Hudson
reorganized brands PureBeauty and BeautyFirst into a chain of
U.S. beauty salons, and by 2009 became CEO of Herbal Magic Inc.,
a Toronto-based operator of weight-loss centers.  Hudson said he was in Wichita, Kansas, combining 600 hair
salons into brands under BeautyFirst, PureBeauty and Trade
Secret when he received a call from Stanley Hartt, who was
heading an advisory committee on financing for Canada’s minister
of finance. Hartt urged him to revisit Canada’s leasing
industry.  Old Team  “I reached out to the old team and said ‘the environment’s
better now than it was in the mid-80s and we should do this, if
nothing else just to rewrite that last chapter,” Hudson said.
“I was pleasantly surprised that my partners re-formed and we
had the lifeco backing.”  Hartt, a lawyer with Norton Rose LLP in Toronto and a
consultant for Macquarie Group Ltd., said he recalls talking to
Hudson several times during that period, and is encouraged to
see Element Financial emerge in Canada.  “The guy is a business genius, whatever he touches turns
out well,” Hartt said in an interview. “I’m very pleased that
it has been a success and it does, still today, fill a hole.”  Element Financial is benefiting from a leasing void after
former competitors scaled back or left Canada. The lender is
getting funding from life insurers including  Manulife Financial
Corp. (MFC)  and  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  by selling them repackaged
leases as alternatives to bonds and commercial mortgages.  “Lifecos have a permanent need for our paper,” Hudson
said. “We have lifecos with billions, maybe trillions of
dollars of liquidity and lifecos have had to look for
alternative fixed-income private placements, which is us.”  Investors such as  Barry Schwartz  at Baskin Financial
Services remain unconvinced.  Nervous Business  “It’s a nervous business for me if  interest rates  go up,
that’s high risk,” said Schwartz, whose Toronto-based firm
invests in financial stocks but hasn’t considered Element
Financial. “It’s a great business to be in in a low-rate
environment. In a high-rate environment, it’s a whole different
operation.”  Element Financial is also creating a C$500 million fund to
complement the firm’s existing securitization and syndication
arrangements. The fund, which Hudson said will close in the
first two weeks of May, will focus on secured equipment
financing transactions in the C$1.5 million to C$25 million
range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  