-- Emerging Stocks Advance as Brazil Jumps to Two-Week High
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-10T21:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/emerging-stocks-rise-on-south-korean-data-as-solar-shares-rally.html
Emerging stocks rose a second day,
led by consumer discretionary shares, as investors weighed
central bank comments on stimulus and  China ’s imports grew.
Brazilian equities capped their longest rally since October.  GCL-Poly (3800)  Energy Holdings Ltd. surged 9.5 percent in Hong
Kong after a profit forecast from  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  beat
expectations. OAO Mechel climbed 4.6 percent in New York as
Chief Financial Officer Stanislav Ploschenko said Russia’s
largest coking coal producer may agree on as much as $2 billion
in financing from banks by mid-May.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index rose
a fourth day as port developer LLX Logistica SA, rallied.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.8 percent to
1,024.49 in New York. Imports to China rose 14.1 percent in
March from the year earlier. U.S. Federal Reserve minutes showed
several members saw quantitative easing ending by year end.  Bank
of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kurodasaid that while policy makers
will monitor if further stimulus is needed, steps taken last
week are sufficient to achieve the 2 percent inflation goal.  “When the Fed shows signs it’s going to stop easing,
that’s a good thing for the markets,” said  James Paulsen , the
Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $325 billion of assets. “It
might improve confidence.”  All  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose as
consumer discretionary shares added 1.3 percent. The broader
index has lost 2.9 percent this year, compared with a 8.5
percent gain in the MSCI World Index of developed-country
stocks. The developing-nations measure trades at 10.7 times
 estimated  12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 1 percent to $42.50. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a gauge of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 1.9 percent to 17.67.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  rose 0.5 percent to the highest since
March 28 after a report showed Brazil’s inflation slowed more
than forecast in March, easing concern that rising prices will
hurt the recovery in Latin America’s largest economy. LLX gained
9.7 percent.  Russian  shares  erased earlier gains as consumer stocks
declined. Mechel rose the most in the Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index of the most-traded Russian companies in New York. The
company expects to agree on a loan of more than $1 billion from
Vnesheconombank for Elga, Chief Financial Officer Stanislav
Ploschenko said in an interview in New York today.  Benchmark gauges in the  Czech Republic  and  Poland  added at
least 1 percent.  Hong Kong  Hong Kong  stocks rose as speculation of Chinese government
support measures offset concerns about slowing growth in the
nation’s economy. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added
0.8 percent. GCL-Poly, the world’s biggest producer of
polysilicon, rose the most since Feb. 14.  Indian equities climbed, with the benchmark index
rebounding from a seven-month low, after some investors judged
recent declines excessive. The S&P BSE Sensex jumped 1 percent.
Reliance Communications Ltd. surged 13 percent, the most in the
emerging-markets gauge.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 282 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  