-- Swedish Banks Make Money by Saying No to Cash
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-04-11T14:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/era-of-paper-money-dies-out-in-sweden-as-virtual-cash-takes-over.html
If you’re looking for Swedish cash,
don’t go to a Swedish bank.  Most of the country’s biggest lenders, SEB AB,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) 
and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , have stopped manual cash-handling services
in 65 percent to 75 percent of their local branches. They say
cash is out as Swedes rely on credit cards, the Internet and
mobile phones to make all their payments.  The country’s bank notes, which are adorned with images of
famous Swedes including botanist Carl Linnaeus and will soon
also feature legendary actress Greta Garbo, are only used in
about 20 percent of shop transactions, according to data from
the Swedish Trade Federation. In the U.K., whose capital  London 
is a global hub for high finance, all banks still offer cash at
their branches.  “We’ve removed the manual cash handling simply because
we’re seeing a change in behavior among our customers,”
Swedbank spokeswoman Anna Sundblad said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “Only 5 percent of our customers make over-the-
counter cash transactions.”  Customer demand for cash services at Nordea, Scandinavia’s
biggest bank, is dropping by about 20 percent a year, spokesman
Erik Durhan said. According to Nordea Chairman Bjoern Wahlroos,
the end of cash is a natural next step in an evolutionary
process that has already led to the extinction of cheque books.
In this respect, Scandinavia is far ahead of the U.K. and the
U.S., he said.  Cheque Extinction  “The  Nordic countries  did away with the cheque about 30
years ago, whereas if you look at the U.S. you still pay by
cheque, and even in Britain people still use cheques,” Wahlroos
said in an interview last month. “It’s only logical that if we
did away with the cheque 30 years ago, we’re starting to do away
with coins and bills today.”  Sweden’s banks don’t only stand out for their aversion to
 paper money . The nation’s financial industry has performed
better than banks across most of  Europe  since the debt crisis
hit more than three years ago. Shares in Nordea have soared 22
percent this year, trouncing a 3.5 percent gain in the 40-member
Bloomberg Index of European financial companies. Swedbank is up
19 percent and  SEB has gained  24 percent.  The lenders are also among Europe’s best capitalized thanks
to Sweden’s regulatory requirements, which far exceed standards
set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . The country’s
biggest banks must set aside at least 10 percent in core Tier 1
capital of their risk-weighted assets this year, with the
minimum requirement rising to 12 percent in 2015. Basel sets a 7
percent minimum by 2019.  Bank Robberies  The banks say removing cash-handling services is helping
them cut costs. They’re also raising profits from their card
business. SEB’s reported fee income from its card operations
rose 8 percent to 4.37 billion kronor ($683 million) for last
year. SEB has completely shut down 70 percent of its manual cash
handling services in Sweden, spokeswoman Anna Helsen said.  Of Sweden’s four biggest banks,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  is
the only one still offering cash-handling services at all its
461 branches. It will continue to do so as long as there is
demand, said Henrik Westman, a spokesman for the bank.  That  customer service  comes at a price. Most of the recent
reported bank robberies in Sweden were at Handelsbanken
branches. Overall in Sweden, steps by other banks to remove cash
from their branches have led to a decline in robberies, with
only  five  incidents last year, compared with 16 in 2011,
according to the Swedish Bankers’ Association.  Cost of Cash  The Financial Sector Union of Sweden, which represents
employees in the country’s financial industry, is pushing to get
rid of cash altogether, a step it says will make banking safer.  The cost of keeping cash amounted to 0.26 percent of
Sweden’s gross domestic product in 2009, compared with 0.19
percent for credit cards and 0.09 percent for debit cards,
according to a KTH Royal Institute of Technology  report 
published in January.  Shops are also trying to cut their use of paper money.
Swedish bedding retailer Kungsaengen and mobile phone chain 3
are phasing out cash in their stores. So is  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,
which stopped accepting cash payments in its Swedish stores in
September, said spokesman Nicolas Rundbom.  Airport Tellers  At Sweden’s main Arlanda airport, travelers can only use
automatic tellers to purchase train tickets to  Stockholm  if they
have credit cards with a chip. Passengers with chipless cards,
or cash only, are forced to queue up at old-fashioned tellers.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, even international
chains such as Ikea and Saturn don’t accept Visa or MasterCard
in their outlets -- only cash and Germany’s so-called EC cards.  In the U.K., cash was used in 58 percent of all retail
transactions in 2011, up from 55 percent in 2010. Payment with
credit cards fell 11 percent, according to data from the  British
Retail Consortium .  In  Sweden , the number of card payments “is increasing
continuously and for 10 years we’ve seen strong growth, which we
expect will continue,” said Bengt Nilervall, head of payments
at the Swedish Trade Federation. “Many European countries are
far behind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  