-- What to Do When North Korea Goes South
-- B y   A n d r e i   L a n k o v
-- 2013-04-10T22:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/here-s-what-to-do-when-north-korea-goes-south.html
From time to time, newspapers
shower readers with predictions of a looming mass starvation in
 North Korea , usually in springtime. In March 2011, the  New York 
Times  wrote : “North  Korea : 6 Million Are Hungry.” One year
earlier, in March 2010, the Times of  London  warned:
“Catastrophe in North Korea;  China  must pressure Pyongyang to
allow food aid to millions threatened by famine.” In March
2009, a  Washington  Post headline read: “At the Heart of North
Korea’s Troubles, an Intractable Hunger Crisis.”  The predictions come every year, but famine does not.
Indeed, the last five to 10 years have been a time of modest,
but undeniable, improvement in the North Korean economy.
According to  estimates  from the  Bank of Korea , gross-domestic-
product growth from 2000 to 2011 averaged 1.4 percent per year.
Anecdotal evidence and observations support such mildly
optimistic estimates.  Malnourishment remains common, but few if any North Koreans
have starved to death since 2000. A new middle class can now
afford items that were unheard of in  Kim Il Sung ’s time.  DVD
players  are common. Refrigerators remain rare but are no longer
exceptional, and even a computer in a private house is no longer
a sign of extreme wealth.  Pyongyang Opulence  The improvement is especially noticeable in Pyongyang. The
huge avenues of the North Korean capital, once empty, are now
reminiscent of 1970s Moscow: Traffic is not too heavy, but
clearly present. In older parts of the city, where streets are
not that wide, one can occasionally even encounter traffic jams.
Visitors and richer Pyongyangites alike can feast in posh
restaurants. Gone are the days when a bottle of cheap Chinese
shampoo was seen as a great luxury; nowadays one can easily buy
Chanel in a Pyongyang boutique.  This slow improvement in the economic situation may
actually be as dangerous for the regime as a famine. Without
radical reforms, North Korea might continue to grow moderately,
but it is not going to achieve growth rates like that of China
or South Korea. The huge  income gap  between North Korea and its
neighbors -- the major potential source of political discontent
at home -- is sure to keep growing.  At the same time, less daily economic pressure means that
citizens have more time to think, talk and socialize. Contrary
to the common perception, people seldom start revolutions when
they are really desperate: In such times, they are too busy
fighting for physical survival. A minor, but insufficient,
improvement in people’s lives is what authoritarian regimes
should fear most.  An ongoing generational shift poses an especially dangerous
challenge. North Koreans below the age of 35 have not been
subjected to intense ideological indoctrination, and they have
grown up in a world where everybody knows newspapers are not
telling the complete and only truth. They don’t remember the
times when the state was seen as a natural giver of all things;
for many of them, the state and its officials are merely a swarm
of parasites. They know that the North lags hopelessly behind
the South. They also grew up in more relaxed times, when state
terror was scaled down, and hence they are less afraid to speak
about such dangerous topics. All these changes in mindset don’t
bode well for the long-term stability of the regime. A reckoning
might be years off, but it is almost inevitable.  Four Scenarios  There are four likely scenarios that might trigger a
dramatic crisis. The first is an attempt at reforms more or less
similar to those undertaken in China and  Vietnam . I have argued
that the North Korean leadership understands the inherent danger
of Chinese-style reforms and will not take the risk. However,
this was said in the context of the Kim Jong Il era’s North
Korean leadership -- and this leadership is changing. New
leaders -- including, above all, Kim Jong Un himself -- might be
seduced by the prospect of opening up the economy, hoping to
enrich themselves as Chinese party cadres have. They would thus
ensure their own downfall, as increasingly dissatisfied citizens
pushed to reunify with the much richer South.  Another possible trigger of unrest would be serious
factional infighting within the top leadership -- a purge of
prominent officials, for instance, or an attempted coup.
Alternatively, the loser in a factional clash might decide to go
down fighting. Such an open clash would be perceived as a sign
of the elite’s inability to keep the situation under control. In
that case, many people who would otherwise remain docile might
start expressing their grievances -- with predictably dangerous
consequences.  The third possible endgame involves a spontaneous outbreak
of popular discontent -- a local riot that quickly develops into
a nationwide revolutionary movement, somewhat similar to what we
saw in 2011 in the Arab world. Nowadays, North Koreans appear to
be too terrified, isolated and distrustful of one another to
emulate the Tunisians or Egyptians. Nonetheless, the regime’s
control is steadily getting weaker, fear is diminishing, and the
knowledge of available alternatives is spreading. So in the long
run, a “Pyongyang Spring” isn’t impossible.  The fourth scenario would involve the spread of unrest from
China -- the only country where an outbreak of civilian
disobedience or a riot might produce some impact on North Korea.
Of course, the above-mentioned scenarios can combine, and I’m
not sufficiently vain to believe that I’ve listed all the
possibilities in this short sketch. Nonetheless, one thing
appears to be almost certain: Due to the peculiarities of North
Korea’s domestic and international situation, neither a gradual
and manageable transformation of the regime nor its perpetual
survival appears to be a likely outcome. Sooner or later, it
will go down in crisis -- in all probability, suddenly and
violently.  Elite’s Fears  The North Korean elite fear that if the regime collapses,
they will be persecuted by victorious southerners or lynched by
angry mobs of their own compatriots. Therefore they might choose
to fight, assuming that they will be fighting for their lives
and the lives of their loved ones. Their initial instinct will
be to put down disturbances, slaughter the ringleaders and
attempt to restore what the Kim family regime defines as “law
and order.”  If unsuccessful, they will beg for  Chinese help . A very
significant part of the current North Korean elite would much
prefer a Chinese-controlled satellite regime to unification
under South Korean tutelage.  Will Beijing listen to these demands? So far, Chinese
policy on the Korean peninsula has been largely aimed at keeping
the North afloat at a moderate cost. Chinese intervention would
restore order in North Korea, thus preventing a refugee crisis
and greatly curtailing the likelihood of uncontrolled nuclear
proliferation. It would also ensure that North Korea continued
to exist as a strategically useful buffer zone and that Chinese
corporations were able to maintain their privileged access to
North Korea’s resources.  However, these geopolitical gains would come with a large
price tag. To start with, a Chinese takeover of the North would
produce a tidal wave of anti-Chinese sentiment in  South Korea .
China would instantly become the major target of Korean
nationalist passions, and the South Korea-U.S. alliance would be
strengthened dramatically.  Inside North Korea, nationalism would surge, as well. The
Soviet experience in Eastern Europe serves as a good guide. In
1956, Soviet tanks crushed a popular rebellion and installed a
pro-Soviet client regime in  Hungary . This regime was more
successful than anyone had anticipated and soon made Hungary,
according to a popular joke of the time, “the merriest barrack
of the Soviet camp.” But this didn’t make either the  Soviet
Union  or its Hungarian clients popular with the Hungarian
people. Common Hungarians still despised their government and
blamed the Russians for more or less everything that didn’t go
right in Hungary. There’s little reason to believe that Chinese
domination of North Korea would be any more popular.  China’s Rise  Last but not least, openly intervening in a North Korean
domestic crisis would undercut the myth of China’s “peaceful
rise,” which plays such an important role in Beijing’s global
image-building efforts. All of China’s neighbors will see
themselves as potential victims of Beijing’s rediscovered
“imperial ambitions,” which will lead many of them to tighten
their relations with the U.S.  For South Korea and the U.S., as well as for the majority
of the North Korean population, the emergence of a pro-Chinese
satellite regime in North Korea would be better than indefinite
continuation of the status quo. But a unification of the Koreas
is still the most preferable outcome. Therefore officials in
Washington and  Seoul  need to consider ways to convince China
that a unified Korea is less unacceptable than an intervention.  First of all, the Chinese government should be assured that
a unified Korea will not become a strategic bridgehead for U.S.
military influence in continental Northeast Asia. A joint
statement from  South Korea  and the U.S., promising that upon
unification no U.S. forces and/or U.S. military installations
would be located north of the present-day demilitarized-zone
area, would help to ameliorate Chinese strategic concerns.  Secondly, South Korea’s recurrent support of irredentism in
northeastern China and semi-official claims about alleged Korean
territorial rights to large chunks of China are
counterproductive. They strengthen suspicions that a unified
Korea would strive to seed discontent in borderland areas of the
mainland itself. The South Korean government should explicitly
state that a unified Korea will respect earlier agreements
pertaining to Sino-Korean borders. It will also be necessary to
assure China that the government of a unified Korea will respect
and honor all Chinese concessions and mining rights that were
granted by the North Korean state.  Alas, the widespread hope that reformist groups in
Pyongyang will finally emerge and bring about a nonnuclear, non-
threatening, and peacefully developing North Korea seems to be
wishful thinking. At the same time, the status quo isn’t
sustainable. Sooner or later the current regime will go down.
Now is the time for the world to start planning for that moment.  ( Andrei Lankov  is a professor of history at Kookmin
University in Seoul, and the author of “North of the DMZ:
Essays on Daily Life in North Korea” and “From Stalin to Kim
Il Sung: The Formation of North Korea, 1945-1960.” This is the
second of three excerpts from his new book, “The Real North
Korea: Life and Politics in the Failed Stalinist Utopia,” which
will be published May 8 by  Oxford University Press . The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Andrei Lankov at  andreilankov@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  