-- EU Carbon Plunges 10% as Traders Sell Before Parliament Vote
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-04-10T17:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/eu-carbon-plunges-10-as-traders-sell-before-parliament-vote.html
European Union carbon permits fell
the most in more than six weeks as traders sold before the
bloc’s parliament meets next week to vote on a proposal to
enable temporary withholding of permits.  December allowance futures dropped as much as 11 percent to
4.26 euros (5.56) a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the lowest since March 22. They’ve declined by 17
percent in the last two days. The benchmark contract closed down
10 percent at 4.30 euros a ton.  The  European Parliament  is scheduled to discuss during a
plenary meeting on April 15 a proposal by the European
Commission to enable delaying the sale of 900 million permits in
an effort to boost the price of allowances. A vote on the plan
is scheduled to be held April 16, according to the Parliament’s
preliminary agenda.  More than 31 million December contracts were handled on ICE
Futures, the most since March 21, according to ICE data.  “The market has become increasingly nervous about the
strong statements by the anti-backloading block,” Milan Hudak,
an analyst in  Prague  at Virtuse Energy sro, said by e-mail.
“The politics of the European Parliament is hard to read and
therefore the market responded nervously to any negative news.”  The result of next week’s vote is too close to call, Per Lekander, an analyst in Paris at UBS AG, said in an e-mailed
report.  “If the members vote exactly as they did in the previous
vote we would end up with 365 for and 356 against back-
loading,” Lekander said. “The vote is thus too close to call
and could effectively be decided by the level of abstentions and
absentees.”  United Nations Certified Emission Reductions fell 2 euro
cents or 4.9% to 39 euro cents a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  