-- EU Should Weigh Small Business Loans Pool Body, Irish Paper Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-10T09:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/eu-should-weigh-small-business-loans-pool-body-irish-paper-says.html
The European Union should explore
setting up an agency to pool loans to small businesses to aid
their access to public bond markets as banks cut lending,
according to a paper prepared by Ireland for an EU finance
ministers meeting.  The proposed body could bundle loans from national support
programs or make and bundle loans made directly to companies,
the paper said. To aid this effort, the paper recommends
establishing an EU-branded state guarantee for small- to medium-
sized business loans. That would set a standard for existing
national supports and make it easier to pool loans and draw
cross-border investors.  An EU standard for small-business loan guarantees “would
be a more effective conduit for attracting additional
institutional investment into SMEs, as it would permit a pooling
of risk and securitization,” according to the 49-page paper,
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Ireland, holder of the rotating EU presidency for six
months through June, has put the issue of non-bank funding on
the agenda of the ministers meeting in Dublin on April 12 and
April 13. The European Central Bank also is working on ways to
boost small-business lending although it has not yet made
specific proposals.  Lending to households and companies in the euro area
contracted at a 0.9 percent rate in February, marking the 10th
month of decline, the ECB said on March 28. The economy is in
its second year of  recession , forcing policy makers to search
new avenues to foster  economic growth .  Channeling Savings  “Given the constraints on both public finances and bank
lending as result of post-crisis deleveraging, the EU recognizes
the importance of proactively exploring how the effectiveness of
the financial system can be improved to channel available
savings towards the financing of both important and necessary
infrastructure projects and also enterprises,” Irish Finance
Minister Michael Noonan said in the foreword of the paper.  As much as an estimated 2 trillion euros ($2.6 trillion)
investment is needed to upgrade Europe’s transport, energy,
high-speed internet and telecommunications networks over the
next 10 years, according to the document. Capital market funding
of infrastructure projects in  Europe  remains underdeveloped
compared to the U.S., Australia and  Canada .  The document, following a workshop in Dublin in December,
includes papers from Gerassimos Thomas, the Luxembourg-based
director of finance issues at the European Commission, and Irish
Stock Exchange Chief Executive Officer Deirdre Somers.  Ireland was forced to seek a 67.5 billion euro bailout in
2010 as the soaring cost of buttressing its debt-laden banks
became too much to handle. Irish non-financial corporate lending
fell 3.7 percent in February on the year-earlier period, the
nation’s central bank said on March 28.  Irish taxpayers have committed a gross 64 billion euros to
shoring up its banking sector amid soaring bad loan losses
following the collapse of a domestic real-estate bubble.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Dublin at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  