-- European Banks Face $1.6 Trillion Shortfall, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-10T10:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/european-banks-face-1-6-trillion-shortfall-study-finds.html
European banks face a 1.2 trillion-
euro ($1.6 trillion) shortfall in funding as regulators
implement stricter liquidity rules, according to McKinsey & Co.  That deficit will probably grow by 200 billion euros by
2018 based on estimates for deposits and economic growth, the
New York-based consultant said in a study published today.
France and  Italy  face the biggest gaps in the euro area, while
the Netherlands and  Finland  have the largest surpluses, McKinsey
said, citing European Central Bank data and its own analysis.  European regulators are strengthening banks by setting
minimum levels of so-called stable funding they must hold and
limiting the type of financing that qualifies. With lower demand
for bank debt and deposit growth slowing, those rules may raise
longer-term borrowing costs for the wider economy, McKinsey
said.  The European corporate  bond market  would have to triple
from about 900 billion euros to a size comparable to those of
the U.S. and U.K. to close the gap, McKinsey said. The region’s
economy relies on banks to provide about 60 percent of its 19.7
trillion euros in credit demand, the consultant said.  The funding gaps vary across euro-area countries because of
divergent levels of deposits and loans, in part due to
individual trends in how Europeans save and the differing
business models of banks, according to the study.  The net stable funding ratio, which will be introduced in
2018, is one of two sets of liquidity rules planned under a
framework of rules agreed by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision . The measure requires banks to back long-term
lending with funding, such as deposits, that won’t dry up in a
crisis. The other set of rules is the liquidity-coverage ratio.  The new rules will “impose additional stresses” unless
they are changed, McKinsey said.  The study was completed in February. Markets have since
been shaken by the rescue of Cyprus by other euro-area states,
which forced losses on some of the country’s bank depositors and
bond investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  