-- European Stocks Rally Most in Month as Bank Shares Rise
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-04-10T16:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-on-china-data.html
European stocks gained the most in
a month, with the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index posting its longest
winning streak since January, as banks advanced and a report
showed Chinese imports beat forecasts in March.  BNP Paribas SA, Frances’s largest lender, and  Banco
Santander  SA,  Spain ’s biggest, led a gauge of European banking
shares to their largest advance in almost five months.  SMA Solar
Technology AG (S92) ,  Germany ’s biggest solar-energy company, and
 Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  added at least 5.8 percent. Gerresheimer AG
rose 2.5 percent after reporting first-quarter revenue that beat
analysts’ projections.  The Stoxx 600 increased 1.8 percent to 293.19 at the close
of trading, its biggest advance since March 5. The measure has
gained 4.8 percent this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget and data fueled optimism the world’s biggest
economy is recovering. U.S. stocks also rose today, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to an intraday record.  “Positive newsflow from  China  raised investors’ risk
appetite,” said Kai Fachinger, who oversees about $700 million
as portfolio manager at RobecoSAM AG in Zurich. “We’re seeing
hope among market participants that the economic locomotive in
China is strengthening. The recent worries in the  euro zone 
regarding Cyprus and  Italy  are still in the back of investors’
minds, though. The focus in the coming weeks will be on the new
earnings season, with special emphasis on potential revisions of
company outlooks.”  Chinese Economy  China’s  imports  rose by a better-than-forecast 14.1 percent
in March, while  export  growth slowed to 10 percent from a year
earlier, the customs administration said today in Beijing.  “If global stock indices are to extend further as the year
progresses, a healthy looking Chinese demand story will be an
essential ingredient for this to occur,”  Tim Waterer , a dealer
at CMC Markets in Sydney, wrote in an e-mail. “The Chinese
numbers today did not contain any red flags to dissuade buyers
from entering the market at the current elevated levels.”  In the U.S., several members of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said the central bank should begin tapering its bond
buying program later this year and stop it by year end.  The members “thought that if the outlook for labor market
conditions improved as anticipated, it would probably be
appropriate to slow purchases later in the year and to stop them
by year-end,” according to the record of the Federal Open
Market Committee’s March 19-20 meeting released today in
 Washington  ahead of the regularly scheduled 2 p.m. time.  Portugal Rally  National benchmark indexes climbed in all of the 18 western
 European (SXXP)  markets except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose
1.2 percent, while  France ’s CAC 40 Index added 2 percent and
Germany’s DAX Index gained 2.3 percent.  Portugal’s PSI 20 Index increased 4.4 percent for its
biggest rally in almost three years. Banks led gains, with Banco
Espirito Santo SA, Banco Comercial Portugues SA, and Banco BPI
SA, the nation’s biggest, all surging more than 10 percent.  Bailout loans to Portugal and Ireland should be extended by
seven years to aid each country’s return to the market,
international creditors recommended in a joint report.  A gauge of  European lenders  advanced the most since Nov.
19, posting the best performance of the 19 industry groups in
the Stoxx 600. BNP Paribas gained 5.3 percent to 41.47 euros.
Banco Santander rose 5.1 percent to 5.52 euros, its biggest jump
in more than seven months. Barclays Plc and Societe Generale SA
climbed 4.3 percent to 298.25 pence, and 6.1 percent to 26.81
euros, respectively.  Greek Banks  National Bank of Greece SA and Eurobank Ergasias SA surged
27 percent to 59.9 euro cents, and 26 percent to 29.4 cents,
respectively. The planned merger of the two lenders has been
postponed and not canceled, Bank of Greece Governor  George Provopoulos  told lawmakers in  Athens  today.  SMA Solar rose 8.8 percent to 19.88 euros. Wacker Chemie,
which makes the main raw material in solar panels, gained 5.8
percent to 59.16 euros. Meyer Burger Technology AG climbed 7.9
percent to 7.94 Swiss francs.  First Solar Inc., the world’s largest thin-film solar
manufacturer by output, surged the most on record yesterday
after forecasting sales of $3.8 billion to $4 billion this year.
Earnings will be $4 to $4.50 a share, exceeding the $3.57
average of 23 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Gerresheimer, which develops and produces specialty glass
and plastics products, gained 2.5 percent to 44.74 euros. First-
quarter revenue jumped 10 percent to 296.7 million euros ($388
million), compared with the average analyst estimate of 286.7
million euros.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  increased 6.7 percent to 1,090 pence after
Citigroup Inc. raised Europe’s second-largest discount airline
to buy from neutral, saying it expects the company’s 2013
earnings per share to grow about 30 percent, then 6 percent to 7
percent annually thereafter. Citigroup also said its sees
dividend growth and possibly more special dividends.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 12 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  