-- Exchange Disaster Tests, MasterCard, Philips: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-10T12:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/exchange-disaster-tests-mastercard-philips-compliance.html
U.S. exchanges and some brokers
will be required for the first time to conduct coordinated
trading tests to show they can recover from natural disasters or
terrorist acts, according to a  rule  proposed by regulators.  The mandate, called Regulation Systems Compliance and
Integrity, directs exchanges to strengthen their technology and
instruct member firms to participate in tests to show they can
sustain operations after a large disruption. The  rule  published
last month covers testing, disaster preparedness and software
development. It will govern 44 firms, including 17 exchanges.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking to limit
technology breakdowns at venues handling stock, options and bond
trades and ensure they can withstand malfunctions that could
jeopardize markets. Regulators wrote the 373-page rule, known as
 Reg SCI , after the May 6, 2010, flash crash, when the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  plunged 9.2 percent before recovering, and
last year’s breakdowns that spoiled the initial public offerings
by Bats Global Markets Inc. and Facebook Inc.  Initial compliance costs for organizations subject to the
regulation and those that must conduct testing may be as high as
$242 million, with another $191 million in annual costs, the SEC
estimated.  The regulation would apply to exchanges, clearinghouses, 15
alternative trading platforms including 10 dark pools, systems
that disseminate public quote and trade data, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board and others.  Reg SCI will replace the SEC’s Automation Review Policy
guidelines, developed in 1989 and 1991 after the 1987 market
crash known as Black Monday, when the Dow average plummeted 23
percent.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Exchange CEOs Said to Seek Dark-Pool Limits in SEC Talks  The chief executive officers of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats Global Markets Inc. met with U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission officials yesterday to discuss the
migration of trading from their venues to dark pools.  The meetings in Washington followed requests by the
exchanges that regulators consider measures to curb dark pools,
which let traders buy and sell large orders that aren’t publicly
displayed. Possible restrictions include a “trade-at” rule
that would allow dark pools to execute trades only if they
offered better prices than are available on exchanges. They
currently can trade at the best prices exchanges provide.  SEC staff members didn’t commit to consider any new rules
and said the agency would continue to discuss the matter,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter who
requested anonymity because the meetings aren’t public. SEC
Commissioner Daniel Gallagher, one of two Republicans on the
five-member panel, said yesterday he was meeting with the CEOs
of Nasdaq OMX and Bats.  Exchange executives met with SEC Chairman Elisse Walter and
staff to discuss topics concerning market structure, including
dark pools,  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-mail.
Officials at the agency will continue the “dialogue on these
issues with all the affected stakeholders,” he said.  Less regulation and fewer hurdles for brokers to start
venues have boosted off-exchange trading,  Duncan Niederauer , CEO
of NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock Exchange, said in
congressional  testimony  last June. More than 40 dark pools trade
U.S. stocks.  For more, click here.  European Banks May Face $1.6 Trillion Funding Gap, McKinsey Says  European banks face a 1.2 trillion-euro ($1.6 trillion)
shortfall in funding as regulators implement stricter liquidity
rules, according to McKinsey & Co.  That deficit will probably grow by 200 billion euros by
2018 based on estimates for deposits and economic growth, the
New York-based consultant said in a study published today.
France and Italy face the biggest gaps in the euro area, while
the Netherlands and Finland have the largest surpluses, McKinsey
said, citing European Central Bank data and its own analysis.  European regulators are strengthening banks by setting
minimum levels of so-called stable funding they must hold and
limiting the type of financing that qualifies. With lower demand
for bank debt and deposit growth slowing, those rules may raise
longer-term borrowing costs for the wider economy, McKinsey
said.  The European corporate  bond market  would have to triple
from about 900 billion euros to a size comparable to those of
the U.S. and U.K. to close the gap, McKinsey said. The region’s
economy relies on banks to provide about 60 percent of its 19.7
trillion euros in credit demand, the consultant said.  The study was completed in February.  The new rules will “impose additional stresses” unless
they are changed, McKinsey said.  Compliance Action  MasterCard Faces EU Antitrust Probe Into Payment-Card Fees  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  faces a European Union antitrust probe into
bank fees on foreign card payments such as when tourists go
shopping in the 27-nation bloc.  The European Commission  said  the levies -- and other
possible practices including higher fees for traders accepting
so-called premium cards aimed at affluent customers -- may be
anti-competitive, slowing down cross-border business and harming
customers through higher prices.  The probe increases the pressure on the Purchase, New York-
based company over card charges in Europe. The company faces
about a dozen lawsuits in the U.K. over cross-border fees and a
previous EU decision in 2007 found that MasterCard unfairly
inflated the transaction fees paid by retailers for processing
payments. The EU regulator said it will also examine MasterCard
rules applying to merchants’ transactions that stop them
benefiting from better conditions by banks elsewhere in the
bloc.  “MasterCard intends to fully cooperate with the
commission,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. “As a
global electronic payments company MasterCard always aims to
balance the interests of both consumers and retailers to ensure
that each party pays its fair share of the costs for the
benefits it receives.”  Philips Pays $4.5 Million to Settle Poland Bribery Case With SEC  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  was fined $4.5 million by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission because of alleged
bribery in Poland.  The Amsterdam-based company said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that it accepted to pay the fine imposed by the SEC to
settle the matter.  The world’s largest maker of patient-monitoring systems
said in 2011 that it fired three employees indicted in Poland in
connection with alleged bribes paid to win medical-equipment
sales to hospitals in 1999 to 2006. A court case against the
former Philips workers and 16 hospital directors accused of
paying or receiving a total of about 3 million zloty ($95,000)
began in 2011 and hasn’t finished.  Philips said it informed the U.S.  Justice Department  and
the SEC of the results of an internal investigation into medical
equipment sales after the indictments. As part of the remedial
measures, Philips terminated and disciplined several Philips
Poland employees and installed new management at Philips
Healthcare in Poland.  Philips said the Justice Department informed the company in
October 2011 that it doesn’t intend to pursue the matter
further.  U.K. Finance Regulator Investigating RBS Over Technology Failure  The U.K.’s consumer-finance regulator is probing technology
failures at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , which left some
customers at the lender’s NatWest and Ulster Bank units unable
to withdraw money.  The Financial Conduct Authority, which took over from the
Financial Services Authority last week, started “an enforcement
investigation into the IT failures at RBS which affected the
bank’s customers in June and July 2012,” according to a
 statement  on its website yesterday.  The two banks extended opening hours at more than 1,000
branches in the U.K. and Ireland after the technical problems,
which started on June 19.  The computer failure caused problems with cash withdrawals
and money transfers for NatWest customers and a delay in
processing payments for Ulster Bank customers.  “Last summer’s IT failure was unacceptable,” RBS said in
an e-mail. “Our customers deserve service they can rely on 100
percent of the time and that’s what we want to provide.”  The FCA said it will “reach its conclusions in due course
and will decide whether or not enforcement action should
follow.”  BOE Offer of $125 Billion to Banks Punishes Savers: U.K. Credit  U.K. savers are losing as Chancellor of the  Exchequer 
 George Osborne ’s program to boost lending gives banks access to
82 billion pounds ($125 billion) of cheap money, reducing the
need to compete for deposits from the public.  The average  interest rate  for tax-free savings accounts,
known as ISAs, fell to 1.83 percent this month from 2.65 percent
for April 2012, according to  Moneyfacts , a price comparison
firm. That compares with consumer-price inflation of 2.8 percent
in February. Banks using the Funding for Lending Scheme pay as
little as 0.75 percent including fees for funds.  The program , which began in August, is fueling concern that
efforts to spur the economy are helping borrowers at the expense
of savers, particularly retirees who rely on interest to provide
an income.  Funding for Lending, created by the  Bank of England  and the
Treasury, is designed to reduce interest rates for households
and companies. It allows banks and mutual lenders to borrow
Treasury bills from the central bank for a fee of as little as
0.25 percent. They can then use the bills as collateral to raise
wholesale funds at below-market interest rates.  Banks rewarded borrowers by cutting interest rates.  The fall in savings rates is intensifying the pressure on
households struggling with rising energy bills, as consumer
prices increased at their fastest pace in nine months in
February, the Office for National Statistics said on March 19.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ambac Financial Reaches Settlement With U.S. Tax Authorities  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  and its bond-insurance unit will
pay $101.9 million as part of a settlement with Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara and U.S. tax authorities.  The agreement would include future possible payments of as
much as $14.9 million and resolves a dispute stemming from tax
methods, Bharara said in a statement yesterday. The accord would
bar Ambac from taking $1 billion in future offsets against its
income. It includes a resolution with the Internal Revenue
Service that paves the way for Ambac to complete its bankruptcy.  The agreement, which still needs court approval, will give
the IRS a $120 million claim in Ambac’s Chapter 11 case,
according to court papers filed in Manhattan bankruptcy court
April 8.  “This settlement puts us in a favorable position to emerge
from bankruptcy and move forward with managing our existing
business and exploring new business opportunities,” Diana
Adams, Ambac’s president and chief executive officer, said in a
statement.  The holding company case is In re Ambac Financial Group
Inc., 10-15973,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Crapo Says He Opposes Setting Capital Standards With Legislation  Senate Banking Committee ranking member Michael Crapo, a
Republican from Idaho, said setting capital standards for large
banks should be a decision for regulators, not lawmakers.  “On the capital issue, clearly we need to have the correct
and safe capital levels established,” Crapo said in an
interview. “I think that’s a function that the regulators who
have the expertise should achieve, should focus on. It certainly
is not a political decision.”  Crapo’s comments put him at odds with the concept behind a
bill by Senators Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from Ohio, and  David
Vitter , a Republican from Louisiana, that would set capital
standards for the largest banks, in part to prevent banks from
being perceived as too big to fail. Vitter and Brown say that
the capital standards proposed by regulators are too low.  Crapo said he prefers to attack the too-big-to-fail
perception with “an enhanced bankruptcy procedure rather than
to pursue a government break up.” He said he has not read the
Brown-Vitter bill.  A draft of the measure would require U.S. regulators to
scrap international Basel III requirements and instead impose a
higher capital standard: 10 percent for all banks and an
additional surcharge of 5 percent for institutions with more
than $400 billion in assets. The Senators plan to introduce
their bill later this month.  Lacker Says Government Should Be Ready to Let Big Banks Fail  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said plans to limit the size or change the structure of the
largest financial institutions must be made with the intent of
allowing a failure without government aid.  “It makes perfect sense to constrain the scale and scope
of financial firms in a way that ensures that they can be
resolved in an orderly manner, without government protection for
creditors,” Lacker said.  Lacker made the remarks in a speech at the University of
Richmond, in Virginia.  U.S. regulators and lawmakers are searching for ways to
limit the risk that a large bank failure will result in another
taxpayer-funded bailout. Senate Republicans and Democrats are
discussing legislation that would boost capital standards, while
Fed officials are discussing ways to limit the safety net and
curb balance-sheet expansion at the largest banks.  Lacker advocated “creating a credible funding plan that
avoids adverse effects, without resorting to government”
financing “might seem daunting.”  “I see no other way to achieve a situation in which policy
makers consistently prefer unassisted bankruptcy to incentive-
corroding intervention and investors are convinced that
unassisted bankruptcy is the norm,” he said.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  KPMG Fires Partner London Over Leaks on Herbalife, Skechers  KPMG  LLP fired the head of its Los Angeles audit practice
after learning that he provided inside information to someone
who used it to trade stocks.  The partner, Scott London, was the lead auditor for
Skechers U.S.A. Inc., according to David Weinberg, the
shoemaker’s chief financial officer.  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  and Skechers
said in statements that KPMG is withdrawing as their auditor.
The U.S. Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission are investigating the partner’s actions, according to
people with knowledge of the situation.  Senior KPMG executives visited Skechers on April 8 and told
Weinberg about the misconduct, he said. They said no questions
were raised about the company’s financial reports and that they
believe London is the only auditor involved, he said.  London issued a statement by e-mail in which he admits to
leaking by phone over a period of years to a person who traded
on the information. London, who didn’t return messages for
comment, said he was trying to help a person whose business was
struggling.  “I regret my actions in leaking non-public data,” London
said in the statement. “KPMG had nothing to do with what I did.
The firm bears no responsibility in this matter. These actions
were by my choice and mine only.” His statement was published
earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Harland W. Braun, an attorney for London, said KPMG isn’t a
target of the investigation. London confessed his actions to
investigators last week, then informed KPMG, Braun said in a
phone interview. The third party is cooperating, Braun said.  Seth Oster, a spokesman for KPMG in New York, declined to
comment beyond the company’s statement, as did Barb Henderson, a
spokeswoman for Herbalife. Calls for comment to the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Los Angeles weren’t immediately returned.  For more, click here.  Nolan, Muldoon Among Favorites to Succeed Elderfield, Odds Show  Ann Nolan, an official at the  Irish Finance Ministry , is
favored to succeed Matthew Elderfield as Irish Central Bank
Deputy Governor and head of financial regulation, odds signal
from Paddy Power Plc, an online betting forum.  Nolan’s odds are 4-1, meaning a successful 1-euro stake
would return a 4-euro profit, Dublin-based Paddy Power said.
 John Moran , head of the finance ministry, is 6-1, while central
bank official Fiona Muldoon is 9-1, the bookmaker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 