-- Mexico’s Peso Rises as Senate Poised to Vote on Telecom Reforms
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-10T14:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/mexico-s-peso-rises-as-senate-poised-to-vote-on-telecom-reforms.html
Mexico’s peso rose to a 20-month
high amid speculation lawmakers are moving closer to approving a
bill to boost competition in the telecommunications industry,
fueling optimism for legal reforms that could bolster growth.  The peso increased 0.3 percent to 12.1135 at 8:43 a.m. in
Mexico City, the strongest level on a closing basis since Aug.
9, 2011. Its 6.1 percent gain against the dollar in 2013 is the
best performance among the 16-most traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The peso is up 22 percent against Japan’s yen this
year.  Senate committees plan to vote on legislation that would
ease dominance of companies in telecommunications and
broadcasting by April 18, the upper house’s press office said in
an e-mailed statement last night. A version of the bill, which
is part of a package of measures to boost growth, passed the
lower house last month.  The peso slumped earlier as minutes from the most recent
U.S. policy maker meeting showed several members of the Federal
Open Market Committee said the central bank should stop its bond
buying program by year end.  “Although the tone of the FOMC has hurt risk in general,
Mexico’s peso got some relief from good news on the telecom bill
front,” Eduardo Suarez, a Latin America currency strategist at
Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto, wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Ultimately, the combination of reform momentum and
global liquidity will win.”  Optimism that the telecommunications bill will pass rose
after CNNExpansion reported that an opposition senator would
back portions of the proposal for a new industry regulatory
agency, Suarez said.  President Enrique Pena Nieto said over the weekend that
Mexico’s economy could expand 6 percent if lawmakers approve the
reforms outlined by the nation’s three biggest political parties
in the so-called Pact for Mexico on Dec. 2, according to an
article from news agency Notimex published on the website of
CNNExpansion on April 7.  The yield on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 was little
changed at 4.75 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price fell 0.08 centavo to 147.01 centavos per
peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  