-- Expert-Networker Jiau’s Appeal Is Argued in Federal Court
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-10T17:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/expert-networker-jiau-challenges-insider-trading-conviction.html
A lawyer for Winifred Jiau, the ex-
Primary Global Research expert-networking firm consultant found
guilty of insider trading, challenged her 2011 conviction before
a federal appeals court.  Randa Maher, the attorney, told the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in New York today that the information her client provided to
hedge-fund managers wasn’t material and wasn’t a “golden
ticket” to millions of dollars in profits.  Jiau is serving a four-year prison term after being found
guilty in New York of conspiracy and securities fraud. The jury
found she passed earnings and other nonpublic information about
 Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund
managers Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based
Barai Capital Management LP.  “There’s no evidence in the record that Ms. Jiau was the
golden ticket that caused BCM to trade in Marvel,” Maher told a
three-judge panel consisting of Amalya Kearse, Denny Chin and
 John Walker .  Recordings of phone calls made by Barai shouldn’t have been
played for the jury, Maher also argued. At the trial, Jason Pflaum, an analyst who worked for Barai, testified that he
listened in on phone calls while his boss got nonpublic
information from Jiau.  Recorded Calls  Pflaum testified that because Barai is hearing-impaired,
some of the calls with Jiau were recorded. He wrote
contemporaneous instant electronic messages to Barai to help him
keep up with the conversation with Jiau, Pflaum testified. Maher
argued that the trial judge erred when he failed to exclude the
recordings.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  David Miller  argued that Jiau’s
conviction should be upheld.  “The evidence of  insider trading  and conspiracy to commit
insider trading was overwhelming,” he told the judges.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 