-- Facebook Puts Pals First, Google Last: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-04-10T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/facebook-puts-pals-first-google-last-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Back when Microsoft was still
Microsoft, it wouldn’t announce to its competitors, “We want to
crush you.” Instead, its soothingly stated goal was to
“embrace and extend” whatever the other guy was doing.  That’s what  Facebook (FB)  is trying with Facebook Home, the new
software it’s launching this week for mobile phones running
archrival Google’s Android operating system. Instead of taking
on Google directly, Home aims to co-opt Android by covering it
with a layer of Facebook content and services.  I’ve been using the new software since last week and find
it useful and attractive. At the same time, it’s somewhat
overbearing in controlling how you interact with your phone.  Facebook Home is a sort of mega-app that provides its own
user interface atop Android. For the time being, it has no
advertising, but the company made clear that ads will be part of
its future.  The software will be available for free from the  Google
Play  store April 12 and will also come pre-installed on some
phones. I tested it on the appropriately named  HTC (2498)  First, which
goes on sale in the U.S., also April 12, for $100 from  AT&T. (T)   Cover Flow  The Home experience starts with -- and in many ways is
built around -- a feature called Cover Flow that commandeers the
home screen.  Instead of the usual Android interface, or the customized
versions that manufacturers like  Samsung (005930)  install, you see a
scroll of photos from your friends, with their latest status
updates superimposed.  I enjoyed being able to quickly flip through a series of
updates, registering Facebook “likes” simply by double-tapping
the screen. Once in a while, I’d open a comment box to type out
a quick message without the need to launch a separate Facebook
app.  Meanwhile, I received a stream of notifications as friends
registered likes of my posts or shared new links and photos.  This people-centric approach resembles the “live tiles”
Microsoft features in its Windows Phone operating system. But on
Windows Phones your friends’ activities are just one element of
the home screen; on Facebook Home, they’re the only element.  Absent Apps  Where are all the Android apps?  They’re still there. But to get at them, you first have to
tap your own picture on the home screen, then select Home’s app
launcher. Not surprisingly, Facebook gets prominent placement
here too, though you can add your own favorites as well.  While you can still summon a fuller display of apps with a
finger swipe, the net effect is to diminish their importance by
making them less visible and accessible. Facebook Home isn’t
about running apps; it’s about running Facebook.  Even when you’re running another app, Facebook is never far
away, thanks to an oddly named feature called Chat Heads. These
are text-message alerts that you can read and respond to without
leaving whatever app you happen to be using at the moment.  At least on my test phone, Facebook didn’t completely
smother Android. For example, I still received pop-up
notifications from my  Google (GOOG)  Now app about traffic conditions
between my home and office.  Facebook Only  But it turns out I could only see those alerts because Home
had been pre-installed on the phone I was using. Facebook says
users who install it themselves on one of the phones that will
support it -- Samsung’s Galaxy S3, S4 and Note 2, and HTC’s One,
One X and One X+ -- will only receive Facebook notifications,
not alerts from other apps.  In the end, Facebook addicts will probably love Home for
the same reason that non-Facebook addicts won’t: its single-minded focus on interacting not with apps but with friends.  Whether and how much you’ll like it will be directly
proportional to your level of engagement with your social
network.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining  and Patrick
Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .
On Twitter:  www.twitter.com/richjaro .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 