-- Fatal Crash Followed Bus Defects Ignored in U.S. Approval
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-04-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/fatal-crash-followed-bus-defects-ignored-in-u-s-approval.html
A bus company cited for brake
defects and other violations still won U.S. regulators’ top
safety rating a month before one of its vehicles careened down a
mountain road because the driver couldn’t stop, records show.  Inspectors found records of brake flaws, evidence of
drivers working excessive hours, and shortcomings in paperwork
on maintenance, hiring, drivers, and alcohol and drug tests in
an audit dated Jan. 9, according to documents obtained under the
Freedom of Information Act.  Owners of Scapadas Magicas LLC told investigators they
hadn’t reviewed U.S. regulations even after having been audited
five times since 2007. A pledge to be more attentive was enough
to earn a “satisfactory” rating, the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration’s highest, allowing the company to operate
without restrictions, the records show.  Eight people died when a bus covered in the Scapadas
Magicas audit went out of control in the San Bernardino National
Forest in California Feb. 3 and hit a truck en route to Tijuana,
Mexico, as the driver yelled his brakes had failed, according to
passengers.  The incident fits a pattern, cited by U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board Chairman Debbie Hersman three days
after the wreck, of the bus regulator not closing companies with
known safety shortcomings until after fatal crashes.  “Historically, the agency has always wanted to jawbone and
educate rather than take action,” said  Henry Jasny , president
and general counsel for Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, a
Washington-based watchdog group.  Ski Trip  The agency has tripled inspections over the past seven
years and took 880 drivers and 1,831 vehicles out of service in
2012, Bill Bronrott, FMCSA deputy administrator, said in an e-
mail.  Regulators have taken 255 bus companies out of service in
the past two years, Bronrott said. A May 2012 crackdown on so-
called Chinatown bus operations along Interstate 95 was the
largest enforcement action in the agency’s history, he said.  Ramon Ramirez Garcia, described in records as Scapadas
Magicas’s president, didn’t return three phone calls to two
numbers in U.S. and  Mexico  seeking comment. A third number
listed in U.S. records was disconnected. An e-mail sent to the
address listed in the company’s January review bounced back, and
he didn’t respond to an e-mail sent to an address listed in
other Transportation Department records.  Faulty Brakes  The infractions found during the Jan. 9 inspection were
mostly paperwork violations and technicalities, said Duane DeBruyne, an FMCSA spokesman. Investigators deemed they weren’t
widespread. The five violations of the 15-hour maximum work day
amounted to 3.3 percent of the 150 days checked.  “None of these violations individually or cumulatively
affect a carrier’s safety rating,” DeBruyne said in an e-mail.  Only after the accident did agency investigators find the
company was using an unqualified mechanic and didn’t have a
facility adequate to maintain commercial buses, DeBruyne said.  The paperwork Scapadas Magicas produced for the audit
suggested it had systems in place to ensure regulations were
followed, something agency investigators later discovered wasn’t
true, DeBruyne said.  Scapadas Magicas,a Mexican company listing an address in
National City,  California , specialized in taking groups from
Tijuana to U.S. destinations including  Las Vegas , Southern
California mountains, casinos and Disneyland, Magic Mountain and
 Knott’s Berry Farm . The bus that crashed was returning from a
skiing trip to Big Bear Lake, west of San Bernardino.  Not Qualified  Inspectors doing the Jan. 9 review knew the bus was taken
off the road for brake defects after a roadside inspection
months before, records show. They didn’t look at any buses or
repair facilities, DeBruyne said.  A  compliance review  focuses on company records, DeBruyne
said. Bus companies’ vehicles are usually on the road, though
investigators may look at equipment if it’s on the premises, he
said.  In addition to noting the bus’s history of brake defects,
auditors in the Jan. 9 safety review found records showing that
loose wheel fasteners, defective axle positioning parts and
improper wiring had been found in roadside inspections. The
mechanical defects, lack of records, and violations of U.S.
rules on drivers’ work hours FMCSA documented were the same
issues the agency cited in ordering Scapadas Magicas to shut
down five days after the fatal crash.  Followup Pledge  In the  shut-down order , FMCSA said the company “fails to
ensure that its commercial motor vehicles are systematically
inspected, repaired and maintained and fails to ensure that its
drivers are properly qualified and have appropriate licenses for
the commercial motor vehicles they operate.  ‘‘Individually and cumulatively, these violations and
conditions of operation substantially increase the likelihood of
serious injury or death to Scapadas Magicas’s drivers,
passengers and the motoring public.’’  Federal inspectors on Jan. 9 met Ramirez Garcia and the
company’s operations manager, Ramon Ramirez de la Rocha, at an
office in a San Diego industrial park.  FMCSA had notified the company of the review on Nov. 20,
about six weeks before inspectors arrived. The records made
available to the inspectors showed buses had been operated when
drivers were supposed to be off duty on five occasions between
August and October. In one case in August, a driver spent three
hours behind the wheel after the federal 15-hour limit, making
it an 18-hour day.  Chinatown Sweep  Ramirez Garcia and Ramirez de la Rocha told investigators
that they hadn’t reviewed all of the U.S. regulations that
applied to a passenger-bus company, the records show. The two
took notes and assured FMCSA they would do better.  ‘‘They were going to make sure they follow up more often
with their in-house policies and procedures in order to avoid
future violations,” the agency’s report said.  At the conclusion of a 2008 audit, FMCSA investigators had
noted: “For the closing of this investigation, Ramon Ramirez,
owner, was explained in detail and educated on how to comply
with all the violations cited.”  After shutting down Scapadas Magicas on Feb. 8, the bus
agency closed six more companies between Feb. 15 and March 25.
They included Fung Wah Bus Transportation, the largest company
operating between Chinatown neighborhoods in  Boston  and  New
York .  Last May, the Transportation Department shut down 26
companies in its largest motor-coach safety sweep. Three so-
called Chinatown bus operations in New York and Philadelphia
were the primary targets.  Added Training  Hersman said Feb. 6 that the investigative agency has found
bad maintenance and fatigued drivers repeatedly after fatal
crashes over a number of years.  “Is it the cost of business for these companies to get put
out of service?” said Hersman, whose board investigates
transportation accidents and makes recommendations for safety
improvements.  FMCSA is using new authority from a transportation law
Congress approved last year, DeBruyne said. The agency has twice
suspended or revoked operating authority for companies that
obstruct safety investigations, he said.  FMCSA conducted special training for its top investigators
last month, DeBruyne said. They’re equipped with new tools and
strategies to improve the agency’s ability to remove unsafe
companies from the road, he said.  250 Companies  The FMCSA is doing a thorough analysis of its bus industry
 oversight , the Transportation Department said in February.  The agency’s 54 bus investigators are being sent out in
teams of two, paired with a federal or state vehicle inspector,
to look at companies and equipment beginning April 1, according
to a summary released by the  American Bus Association  April 8.
They’re targeting 250 companies with poor safety records,
especially those with driving violations, as well as companies
with no known place of business or maintenance facilities, the
Washington-based trade group said.  The regulator’s approach to safety auditing is flawed
because it inspects paperwork rather than buses, Jasny said.  “It’s very much catch as you can,” Jasny said. “You get
a few, but most of them slip through the holes in the net.
Companies only get caught after they’ve had a catastrophic
crash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  