-- Fed’s Lockhart Says Premature to Consider Slower Bond Buying
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-10T13:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/fed-s-lockhart-says-premature-to-consider-slowing-bond-buying.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President Dennis Lockhart said it’s too early for the central
bank to consider reducing its pace of bond purchases following a
weakening in the labor market last month.  “I do think too much focus on that at the moment is a bit
premature,” Lockhart told reporters in Stone Mountain,  Georgia .
“I have emphasized I think we have to wait and watch the data
come in and see how the economy evolves.”  Lockhart, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
has supported the central bank’s monthly purchases of $85
billion in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities as a means
to try to bring down 7.6 percent unemployment. Fed officials are
considering how quickly to slow purchases amid mixed signs for
the labor market, with 88,000 jobs added in March in the
smallest gain in nine months.  Minutes of the March 19-20 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting released today show that a number of Fed officials said
the central bank should begin tapering its bond buying program
later this year and stop it by year end.  “It is possible the conditions will develop in the second
half of the year or in early 2014 that will allow some measure
of winding it down,” Lockhart told reporters during an Atlanta
Fed conference focusing on financial regulation.  Jobs Report  Lockhart said the “disappointing” jobs report doesn’t
change his outlook for growth this year between 2 percent and
2.5 percent. The report will be revised and a single month
doesn’t change the underlying trend, he said.  Still, the Atlanta Fed leader said he was concerned that
the sharp decline in the unemployment rate has been driven in
part by people dropping out of the U.S. labor force, with many
of them leaving because they are discouraged about their
prospects.  “There is some false comfort you get when the unemployment
rate is dropping because of people who are bailing out of the
workforce,” he said. Labor force participation is “close to an
all-time low” and “obviously that is a concern.”  Lockhart also said an increase in asset purchases can’t be
ruled out as an option if the economy were to worsen.  “I wouldn’t take any option off the table,” he said. “If
we were hit with a significant economic shock and we were
looking at recession or worse, I think monetary authorities of
the country would have to consider what can we do about that.”  A former Georgetown University professor, Lockhart has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes
 Alabama ,  Florida , Georgia, and portions of  Louisiana ,
 Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  