-- Fidelity Urges Congress to Push Americans to Save More
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-04-10T15:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/fidelity-urges-congress-to-push-americans-to-save-more.html
Fidelity Investments, the largest
provider of retirement investment services in the U.S., called
on U.S. lawmakers to pass legislation that would push Americans
to save more for retirement.  Congress should amend the 2006 Pension Protection Act, to
double the default contribution of workers enrolled in savings
programs to 6 percent from 3 percent, and make individual
retirement accounts available from birth, Ronald P. O’Hanley,
head of Fidelity’s investment management unit said today in
 Washington , according to a prepared text of his remarks.  “Ever increasing numbers of Americans march toward
retirement with little hope of maintaining their standard of
living,” O’Hanley said in his speech to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s Capital Markets Summit. “The impact on our citizens,
our economy and our national security could be catastrophic.”  About 10,000 people reach the traditional retirement age of
65 every day in the U.S., according to the Pew Research Center
in Washington. Stanley F. Druckenmiller, one of the best-
performing hedge-fund managers of the past three decades, warned
last month that Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid expenses
will bankrupt the nation’s youth and pose a greater threat to
the country than its $16 trillion of debt.  O’Hanley praised the impact of the Pension Protection Act,
which allowed employers to automatically enroll employees in
tax-deferred retirement savings plans unless they opted out, and
set an automatic contribution level of 3 percent.  O’Hanley also called for lawmakers and regulators to
streamline savings plans to make it easier for employers,
especially small employers, to offer and administer them.  Fewer Restrictions  For part-time workers and the self-employed, O’Hanley said,
rulemakers should do away with restrictions that prevent
individuals from opening a retirement savings vehicle until they
start working.  “We should enable IRAs to be opened as early as birth and
without the requirement of earned income,” he said. Early
contributions from family and friends, with added years of
potential compounded returns, “would be an enormously powerful
tool for generating retirement savings,” he said.  O’Hanley also called for more financial education in
schools and in the workplace. While more than $19 trillion is
invested in U.S. retirement assets, O’Hanley said 4 in every 10
retiree households don’t have sufficient income to cover their
monthly expenses.  Fidelity managed $994.4 billion in retirement assets as of
Dec. 31,  Vincent Loporchio , a spokesman, said in an e-mail. The
company provides retirement-related investment management,
administration and record-keeping services for employers and
individuals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  