-- First Pacific Markets Bond Sale as Manulife Predicts Record Year
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-10T04:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/first-pacific-markets-bond-sale-as-manulife-predicts-record-year.html
First Pacific Co. (142)  is marketing a
sale of U.S. dollar-denominated notes as offerings this year are
expected to reach a record, according to Manulife Asset
Management. Debt risk in Asia fell for a third consecutive day.  The utilities and resources company controlled by
billionaire Anthoni Salim is marketing 10-year bonds at about
4.75 percent, said a person familiar with the matter, who asked
not to be identified because the details are private. China
National Petroleum Corp. sold  $2 billion of notes  yesterday, the
most for a company this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sales of dollar bonds in Asia outside  Japan  touched a
record $44.9 billion in the first quarter, 26 percent more than
the previous high in the three months ending March 31, 2012,
Bloomberg data show. Speculative-grade offerings, rated lower
than BBB- by S&P and Fitch Ratings Ltd. or the equivalent Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service, surged to a record $14.5 billion.  “Consensus is building that 2013 will be another record
year in terms of new issuance,” said Luc Froehlich, a Hong
Kong-based portfolio manager with Manulife Asset Management’s
Asia fixed-income team, which oversees more than $43 billion.
“Analysts are adjusting their forecasts upwards to account for
the rise in high-yield deals and the uptick in supply from
first-time borrowers.”  Inaugural Sales  China Vanke Co., China Railway Group Ltd. and AIA Group
Ltd. all sold inaugural securities in the U.S. currency this
year, Bloomberg data show.  Megaworld Corp. is offering 10-year dollar bonds at about
4.5 percent, a person familiar with the matter said. Korea
National Oil Corp. is planning meetings with fixed-income
investors next week.  First Pacific is expected to sell about $300 million of
notes in what would be its first dollar sale in nine months.
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co., the country’s biggest
phone company, is a unit of First Pacific and the company also
has stakes in Philex Mining Corp. and Metro Pacific Investments
Corp., which has assets in the power, water, toll-road and
health care sectors.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan declined 1 basis point to 116 basis
points as of 8:10 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge is poised for its lowest close
since March 19, according to data provider CMA.  Japan, Australia  The Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased 0.5 of a basis
point to 91.5 as of 9:13 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup
Inc. prices. The benchmark is headed for its lowest close since
Nov. 22, 2010, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private
market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was little changed at
114.5 as of 10:09 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. prices. The measure has ranged from 102.3 basis points and
127.5 basis points this year, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  