-- First Solar to Target Japan Rooftops With TetraSun Purchase
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-10T20:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/first-solar-will-target-japanese-rooftops-with-tetrasun-purchase.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the solar
manufacturer that gets almost two-thirds of sales from building
and selling utility-scale power plants, agreed to buy TetraSun,
a startup developing photovoltaic technology for rooftops.  TetraSun’s solar panels are more efficient than First
Solar’s thin-film products and better suited for small rooftop
systems, Chief Executive Officer Jim Hughes said at an analyst
meeting yesterday. He plans to initially market TetraSun
products in Japan, which last year introduced an incentive
program to encourage supplies of solar energy.  The deal fills a gap for First Solar, which doesn’t market
its panels for rooftop systems. It also gives the Tempe,
Arizona-based company access to Japan, which is expected to
become the second-largest solar market this year. The purchase
is a departure for First Solar, the biggest producer of thin-
film panels, because TetraSun’s technology uses silicon.  “Japan is the highest value, space-constrained market so
that’s why we’re starting there,” Hughes said in an interview
after the event.  TetraSun’s proprietary design can convert more than 21
percent of the energy in sunlight into electricity, according to
a statement. It uses silicon, the material used by most solar
manufacturers including the Chinese  producers  that dominate the
market. TetraSun’s panels have copper electrodes instead of
silver, which reduces costs, the company  said  in July. Terms
weren’t disclosed.  Rooftop Market  “With TetraSun, they get this new entrance to the rooftop
market they’d pretty much abandoned,” said Ben Kallo, an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco who attended
the meeting and has a neutral rating on the shares. “The
efficiency they’re talking about puts them in a very competitive
position to play in the markets SunPower’s in.”  SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the largest U.S. maker of silicon-based
solar panels, began offering solar leases for residential
rooftop systems in 2011 and said in August the business may
generate as much as 25 percent of sales by mid-2013.  “It’s a complementary technology set that opens to us the
entire market,” Hughes said during a webcast of the analyst
meeting. First Solar’s panels use cadmium-telluride sandwiched
between sheets of glass.  First Solar is buying TetraSun from JX Nippon Oil & Energy
Corp. and other investors including TetraSun’s management. All
14 employees will remain with the San Jose, California-based
company.  Japanese Market  First Solar expects to open a factory that will produce
about 25 megawatts to 50 megawatts of TetraSun panels next year
for the Japanese market. Hughes said he hasn’t decided yet where
to build the plant.  Japan’s introduction in July of an incentive program
offering above-market rates for energy from renewable sources
means the country will probably become the largest solar market
in the world after China this year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
said in a research note earlier this month.  Commercial and utility-scale projects will boost solar
installations to a range of 6.1 gigawatts to 9.4 gigawatts in
2013, exceeding an earlier forecast of 3.2 gigawatts to 4
gigawatts, the London-based researcher said.  “The 10kW-1000kW commercial segment, which includes
commercial rooftops, has great capacity for growth, and is a
major part of our forecast this year,” Tokyo-based BNEF solar
analyst Travis Woodward said in an e-mail response to questions.  Forecast  First Solar expects to sell 1.6 gigawatts to 1.8 gigawatts
of thin-film panels this year, generating revenue of $3.8
billion to $4 billion, according to a forecast issued yesterday.  About 64 percent of First Solar’s $1.08 billion in sales in
the fourth quarter came from its systems business, which builds
and sells large solar farms, and the rest from selling panels.
The forecast reassured analysts concerned the company isn’t
selling new projects fast enough to replace the ones it’s
completing, said Kallo.  The company said today it acquired a 60-megawatt solar
project that’s expected to begin construction next year in
Central California. Terms weren’t disclosed.  First Solar shares fell 7.7 percent to $36.32 at the close
in New York. They surged a record 46 percent yesterday after
releasing its forecast.  Asian solar companies rose today, led by  Solargiga Energy
Holdings Ltd. (757)  and  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)   Solargiga rose 8.5 percent to HK$0.385 in Hong Kong and
GCL-Poly, the biggest maker of polysilicon used in solar panels,
gained 9.5 percent.  Motech Industries Inc. (6244) , Taiwan’s biggest
solar-cell producer, climbed 3.6 percent.  First Solar expects revenue of about $12 billion over the
next three years, Chief Financial Officer Mark Widmar said at
the analyst meeting. About a third of that forecast is due to
existing contracts and the rest will come from anticipated
sales, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  