-- Flaherty Shouldn’t Meddle in Mortgage Rates, Waugh Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-04-10T20:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/flaherty-shouldn-t-meddle-in-mortgage-rates-waugh-says.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  shouldn’t interfere with mortgage pricing set by the
country’s lenders,  Bank of Nova Scotia  Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Waugh  said.  Flaherty, who has taken steps to cool the housing market in
a bid to avert a crash, raised concerns last month over reduced
five-year mortgage rates offered by  Bank of Montreal  and
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  amid record levels of household debt in
Canada. Both lenders have since increased rates.  “I understand why the finance minister is concerned about
the Canadian economy, but I just philosophically don’t think”
government should be setting product pricing, Waugh said
yesterday in an interview in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , where the
bank held its annual shareholders meeting. “Despite the
difficulties of central banks to use  interest rates , the
alternative of trying to manage specific products or prices, to
me, is fraught with difficulty.”  Scotiabank hasn’t been approached “that I’m aware of,” by
Flaherty over the Toronto-based bank’s mortgage rates, said
Waugh, 65. He said Canada will have a “soft landing” in the
housing market instead of a full-scale crash.  “Volumes for mortgage brokers and banks will be affected,
but I don’t see it as a credit event of any significance,” said
Waugh. Kathleen Perchaluk, a spokeswoman for Flaherty, didn’t
return e-mails seeking comment.  Canada’s third-largest bank may expand in unsecured
lending, such as credit cards, Waugh said. The bank had avoided
expansion in that area in the aftermath of the financial crisis,
he said.  Unsecured Lending  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  rose 1.8 percent to C$58.39 in Toronto,
the biggest one-day advance since June.  “The unsecured  credit card  and personal loan portfolio has
behaved better than we thought,” said Waugh, who is also a vice
chairman of the  Institute of International Finance . “As the
world is healing, I think that gives us an opportunity to expand
what we call our risk appetite and take more of a prudent risk
on our unsecured credit.”  In October, Waugh relinquished his role as president and
was succeeded by  Brian Porter , paving the way for an eventual
transition to the top job. Waugh declined to say when he will
retire and wouldn’t say whether he will still be CEO at the
bank’s next annual meeting in Kelowna, British Columbia.  “It’s not imminent, but it will happen in a timely
manner,” Waugh said. “There’s lots of things I’m planning to
do and healthy to do. There will be a time, but I’m not going to
disclose that right now.”  Foreign Trade  One of the issues Waugh plans to pursue as CEO and into his
retirement is urging Canadian companies to boost trade with
emerging-markets countries, the subject of his speech at
yesterday’s shareholder meeting. In addition to his own bank,
Waugh cited  Linamar Corp. (LNR)  and  Magna International Inc. (MG)  as firms
that have seized the opportunity.  “There is this sense of, perhaps, growing protectionism,”
in countries such as the U.S., Waugh said. “It has to be done
right now, because it’s not going to get better. The European
and American companies are going to get stronger and boy, when
that comes, competition’s really going to be keen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  