-- China Declares 4-Year-Old First Cured as H7N9 Virus Spreads
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-10T14:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/four-year-old-boy-in-china-cured-of-bird-flu-as-h7n9-cases-rise.html
A four-year-old boy in  Shanghai  was
discharged from a local hospital today after recovering from the
H7N9 bird flu, making him the first patient declared cured of
the influenza that’s killed nine people in China.  The boy was diagnosed with H7N9 on April 4, three days
after he began suffering from a fever, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported. The report cited Lu Hongzhou, a professor with
the Shanghai Public Health Clinic Center, as saying China’s
current methods were effective if patients begin treatment no
later than five days after showing flu symptoms.  China confirmed five more infections today, taking the
total to 33, as authorities ordered testing at poultry markets
nationwide and the culling of bird at locations where the virus
is detected. Shanghai, China’s financial hub, has had 15 of the
infections and five fatalities.  The new cases reported today included two women in
Shanghai, including a 76-year-old retiree who fell ill on April
1 and was hospitalized on April 5, and an 81-year-old farmer who
became sick on April 4, the city government’s press office said
on its  official microblog .  Critical Condition  Two other cases were reported in neighboring Jiangsu
province today, one of whom was a 70-year-old man from the city
of Wuxi who fell ill on March 29 and is in critical condition,
and a 74-year-old man from the same city who became sick on
April 2, according to a  statement  on the National Health and
Family Planning Commission’s website.  In Zhejiang province, a 65-year-old farmer from the city of
Hangzhou was reported as being in stable condition after he was
diagnosed with H7N9, the local health agency said.  Anhui province is the only other location in China that has
confirmed H7N9 infections. All four regions are in eastern
 China .  There is still no evidence that the virus is being
transmitted from human to human, according to the World Health
Organization.  One suspected case of human-to-human transmission has been
discounted after a relative of an infected person in Jiangsu who
showed signs of sickness twice tested negative for the virus,
Gregory Hartl, a WHO spokesman, said by phone today.  Family Cluster  In a second family cluster in Shanghai being investigated
by officials, human-to-human transmission will probably be
impossible to prove or disprove because of the lack of good
samples, Hartl said.  Hong Kong’s health department is “closely monitoring the
situation and will continue to maintain close liaison” with
mainland health authorities, the government said today in a
statement. No cases of H7N9 have been identified so far in Hong
Kong, it said.  The Chinese Academy of Sciences’ findings show that the
genes of H7N9 come from wild birds in East Asia and chickens
from eastern China, Xinhua said today. Pigs aren’t intermediate
hosts as no genes of the virus were traced back to swine,
according to the report.  H7N9 is being driven by at least two closely related
viruses, a situation that may make it more difficult to contain
in humans and birds, researchers said.  The strain has shown signs of genetic diversity since the
first three patients were diagnosed, said Richard Webby,
director of a WHO collaborating center for the virus at St. Jude
Children’s Research Hospital in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . It already
appears more infectious than the H5N1 strain of bird flu that
has been circulating since 2003, infecting 600 people and
killing 60 percent of them, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  