-- French Industrial Production Rebounds on Cars, Aircraft: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-04-10T10:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/french-industrial-output-rises-more-than-expected-on-transport.html
French industrial output rose more
than economists forecast in February as production from car and
aircraft factories increased and a refinery restarted.  Production climbed 0.7 percent after a revised 0.8 percent
decline in January, national statistics office Insee said in
Paris today. Economists forecast a 0.2 percent increase,
according to the median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Separate data showed production fell in both  Italy  and
 Spain  in February.  France ’s economy remains under pressure from a domestic
budget squeeze and weak euro-area demand at a time when
President  Francois Hollande  is trying to revive economic growth
and facing calls from his own ministers to ease austerity. At
the same time, business confidence is weakening as  Europe ’s
second-largest economy teeters on the brink of its  third
recession  in four years.  “This isn’t the beginning of the recovery,” said Bruno Cavalier, chief economist at Oddo & Cie in Paris. “Confidence
is dropping, even more so in services than industry. France is
in recession and will stay there for at least several more
months.”  Today’s report showed that French  industrial production  was
down 2.5 percent from a year earlier. In the quarter through
February, manufacturing output, which excludes refineries,
utilities and mines, fell 0.3 percent from the previous three
months and declined 1.9 percent on the year.  Julien Manceaux, an economist at ING Bank NV in Brussels,
said there is “little reason to cheer.”  “It is clear that if confidence does not increase faster,
even a zero percent growth rate will be a challenging target for
the French economy in 2013,” he said in a note today.  Spain Slump  The euro rose 0.1 percent against the dollar today and was
trading at $1.3099 as of 11:19 a.m. London time.  Separately today, Spanish  industrial output  declined more
than economists forecast in February as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to haul the economy out of a six-year slump.
Production at factories, refineries and mines adjusted for the
number of working days fell 6.5 percent from a year earlier,
after declining 4.9 percent in January. That compared with the
median estimate of a 4.9 percent drop in a Bloomberg survey.  Like Hollande, Rajoy is seeking more time from the European
Union to cut his  budget deficit  on concern that the recession
may worsen under the weight of the government’s budget squeeze.
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos estimated yesterday that output
shrank between 0.5 percent and 0.6 percent in the first quarter.  ‘Bleak’ Italy  In Italy, industrial output also fell more than forecast in
February, signalling the country may still be mired in its
longest recession in two decades. The 0.8 percent drop followed
at 1 percent increase the previous month.  The Italian data showed that capital goods production fell
2.3 percent. Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge Group in
 London , said this indicates that companies are “skeptical in
revising their investments as prospects for activity remain
extremely bleak in the remainder of the year.”  “We expect industrial activity to remain a drag for growth
at least in the first half of 2013,” she said.  Sweden’s industrial orders grew for the first time in more
than a year in February as production fell less than predicted,
data today showed. Orders rose 2.1 percent from a year earlier
after declining a revised 5.7 percent the previous month. Output
fell an annual 0.9 percent, less than the 1.9 percent forecast
by economists.  Hollande Dilemma  In France,  confidence  among manufacturing executives fell
to 93 in March from 95 in February, according to yesterday’s
Bank of France report. Services sentiment slipped to 88 from 89
as companies reported declining demand and prices.  With joblessness surging after the economy shrunk in the
fourth quarter, Hollande is trying to balance European
Commission demands for  deficit reduction  against a slump in the
polls and demands to ease austerity. Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  was joined by Consumer Minister Benoit Hamon today in
calls for Hollande to focus more on growth than fiscal
austerity.  “We’ll probably have a second quarterly contraction with
external trade contributing negatively,” said Michel Martinez,
an economist at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “France is less
open to exports than many countries and the problem is that
exports won’t necessarily drive this year’s recovery.”  In  Asia ,  China’s exports  rose less than forecast for the
first time in four months, fueling concerns about the outlook
for trade.  Shipments abroad increased 10 percent in March from a year
earlier, the customs administration said, while imports rose
14.1 percent, leaving an unexpected trade deficit of $880
million. Researcher  IHS Inc. (IHS)  said an “astounding” 92.9 percent
jump in exports to  Hong Kong , the most in 18 years, raises
questions on data quality. The customs agency acknowledged
concerns at a press briefing that the data may be overstated,
while standing by its figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  