-- Gannett, Times Co. Web Paywalls Have Been a Success, Report Says
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-04-10T19:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/gannett-times-co-web-paywalls-have-been-a-success-report-says.html
Gannett Co. (GCI) ,  New York Times Co. (NYT)  and
other newspaper publishers are finding that consumers are
willing to pay for online subscriptions for access to local news
content, according to a report from Borrell Associates Inc.  Gannett, the owner of daily newspapers including  USA Today ,
had 46,000 online subscriptions at the end of 2012, two-thirds
of which were new readers, the Williamsburg, Virginia-based
researcher said in a report being released today. Times Co. last
year generated more revenue from circulation than from
advertising -- in part because it “led the way” charging for
online access, Borrell said.  Times Co., Gannett and others have been building these so-
called paywalls in an effort to make up for lower advertising
sales and print subscriptions. Still, only about 25 percent of
all newspapers had done so by the first quarter, Borrell said.
Papers have held off on paywalls amid concerns that readers
would stay away, leading to a drop in ads. Yet research shows
that after an initial decline, readership gradually returns to
pre-paywall levels after 12 to 14 months, Borrell said.  “More are expected to jump on board this year, without
negative impact on digital advertising sales,” the researcher
wrote in the report. “Digital ventures could be contributing
half of company profits to these media companies in five
years.”  Washington Post Co. (WPO) , for example, said last month it plans
to adopt a digital-subscription model.  Borrell analyzed 6,284 local operations -- including  radio
stations , newspapers and cable systems -- and online ad-spending
forecasts in the U.S. and Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  