-- Gemfields Eyes X-Ray Body Scanners to Foil Emerald Theft
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-04-10T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/gemfields-eyes-x-ray-body-scanners-to-foil-emerald-theft.html
Gemfields Plc (GEM) , the world’s biggest
emerald producer, is considering installing x-ray body scanners
to fight theft at its Kagem mine in northern Zambia that robs if
of as much as fifth of the operation’s total revenue.  The theft probably cut about $17 million from Gemfields’
sales in the last financial year, Sean Gilbertson, a director at
Gemfields, said in an April 9 interview at the Kagem mine, the
world’s top source of the green precious stones, accounting for
about 20 percent of supply. The company has reduced theft from
as much as 50 percent of potential revenue to less than a fifth,
said Lameck Malipilo, head of security at Kagem.  “It was so bad, that if you go to town on Friday, you
would find Kagem employees buying crates of beer,” he said.
“The first crate of beer was to wash his car.”  The trade in stolen gems in  Zambia ,  Africa ’s biggest
emerald producer, is a key reason London-based Gemfields opposes
a possible ban on emerald auctions outside the country that
Mines Minister Yamfwa Mukanga said on April 5 the government was
considering. Stolen emeralds sell for as little as a 10th of
what Gemfields would auction them for, Gilbertson said.  Gemfields will hold its first local emerald auction from
April 15 to 19 in the capital, Lusaka, Mukanga said. The company
lost 16 percent of its market value on April 8, after announcing
the potential ban. It also has an amethyst mine in Zambia and
ruby project in  Mozambique  that is not yet in production.  Gem Couriers  Gemfields rose 1 percent to 24.75 pence by the close in
 London  yesterday, paring the stock’s decline in the past six
months to 39 percent.  Buyers of the stolen gems are generally based in Kitwe,
about 33 kilometers (20 miles) north of Kagem, and are believed
to be West African, according to Malipilo. They send couriers
known as “go-comes” to purchase emeralds from miners or
security officials at Kagem, who usually travel to the mine at
night, he said.  The dealers often bribe security or mineworkers with money,
televisions or cars, according to Gilbertson, who is the son of
Brian Gilbertson, the former chief executive officer of  BHP
Billiton. (BHP)  The mine fires about 6 percent to 7 percent of its
530-strong workforce each year because of theft, he said.  “If we continue on that trajectory and get a better grip
on theft and the illegal market, we should be able to get Kagem
to a point where its revenue is above $100 million,” Gilbertson
said.  Zambia competes with Colombia,  Brazil ,  Zimbabwe  and the
U.S. in the global export market for emeralds.  To try to curb theft, the company installed security
cameras and employed security guards from countries including
Nepal, making communication with miners more difficult, said
Malipilo. Every person leaving the mine is searched.  Gemfields is talking to government and labor unions about
installing x-ray body scanners, which is an “emotional issue,”
Gilbertson told reporters on a bus to Kitwe, as he pointed to a
silver pick-up truck with a shattered windscreen driving toward
Kagem.  “Go-comes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  