-- German Bunds Drop as Bets Pared on Japan Buying Amid Supply Glut
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-04-10T15:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/germany-s-government-bonds-are-little-changed-before-debt-sales.html
Europe ’s higher-rated  government
bonds  slid as investors pared bets on purchases of the
securities by Japanese investors and  Austria  added to a glut of
debt issuance from euro-area nations this week.  Germany ’s 10-year bunds fell for a third day as the nation
auctioned two-year notes, while Austria hired banks to sell
about 4.5 billion euros of debt. Portuguese and Irish bonds rose
as the nations’ international creditors said their aid should be
extended by seven years. Italian 10-year bonds rose even as the
government said public  debt  will reach a postwar record this
year, while  Spain ’s climbed for the eighth-straight day on
increased demand for higher-yielding assets.  “For Germany it’s probably supply,” said Lyn Graham- Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
 London . As for the prospects for investment flows from  Japan ,
“pension funds take quite a long time to change strategic
direction on what government bonds they are going to invest
in,” he said.  German 10-year bund yields rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.30 percent at 4:47 p.m. London time. The
rate has climbed from 1.20 percent on April 5, the  lowest  level
since July 24. The 1.5 percent security due February 2023 fell
0.40, or 4 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,308) face amount, to 101.81.
The three-day decline is the longest since March 8.  Bunds stayed lower after the  Federal Reserve  released
minutes showing several members of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said the central bank should begin tapering its bond
buying program this year.  Austrian Bonds  Austria’s 10-year yield rose eight basis points to 1.66
percent. It set an all-time low of 1.46 percent two days ago as
the bonds rallied with French and Belgian debt amid bets bond
purchases by the  Bank of Japan (8301)  would encourage that nation’s
investors to seek higher yields in Europe.  “One needs to be a little careful about reading too much
into the BOJ’s impact on euro-zone assets,” Robin Marshall,
director of fixed income at Smith & Williamson Investment
Management Ltd. in London, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .  Germany auctioned two-year securities at an average yield
of 0.02 percent, drawing bids for 9.1 billion euros for the
notes, versus its sales target of 5 billion euros. Europe’s
largest economy last sold two-year debt on March 13 at an
average yield of 0.06 percent. That compares with a  record-low 
auction yield of minus 0.06 percent set on July 18.  EFSF Sale  Austria’s sale of 21-year bonds was set at 1.5 billion
euros and was priced at 19 basis points above mid-swap rate, a
person familiar with the matter told  Bloomberg News . It also
sold 3 billion euros of 10-year securities via banks.  Euro-area governments and the European Financial Stability
Facility issued 18 billion euros of securities yesterday.  A new 20-year bond for Austria “makes sense” given the
good demand at auctions this week, Achilleas Georgolopoulos, a
fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London,
wrote today in e-mailed comments. The EFSF received bids for 14
billion euros of the five-year notes it sold yesterday.  The yield on Austria’s 4.15 percent bond due March 2037
increased seven basis points to 2.49 percent after rising by
four basis points yesterday.  Volatility on French bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets followed by those of Austria and Belgium, according to
measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-
year securities and credit-default swaps.  Public Debt  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield fell five basis points to 4.31
percent. The Italian Treasury sold 8 billion euros of one-year
bills at an average yield of 0.922 percent as well as 3 billion
euros of 91-day bills at 0.243 percent. It’s scheduled to
auction debt maturing between 2016 and 2028 tomorrow.  The public debt will rise to 130.4 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 from 127 percent last year, Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s office said in a statement after his
Cabinet reviewed its budget plan. The  budget deficit  will drop
to 2.9 percent of GDP this year, putting Italy within the
European Union’s 3 percent limit.  Spain’s 10-year yield fell nine basis points to 4.64
percent, the lowest since November 2010. Rates on Portugal’s
4.95 percent bonds maturing in October 2023 fell six basis
points to 6.40 percent, while those on Irish debt due March 2023
fell five basis points to 3.91 percent.  “Money is moving into the more risky markets,” said Allan von Mehren, chief analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “As
long as there is such a strong bid in the market because of all
the liquidity, then the European auctions should be well
supported.”  Repayment Extension  The  European Central Bank , European Commission and
 International Monetary Fund , as well as the EFSF made the
recommendation on Irish and Portuguese bailouts in a joint
report before a meeting of European finance ministers in Dublin
on April 12-13, when further measures to help Ireland and
Portugal are to be discussed.  They “would advocate to extend the maximum average
maturity by seven years as it appears to be the best compromise
accommodating the constraints and preferences of debtors and
creditors,” said the report, which was distributed to German
lawmakers and seen by Bloomberg News.  German bunds returned 0.8 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
securities gained 1.9 percent and Spanish bonds earned 5
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  