-- Glaxo Muscular Dystrophy Drug Reaches Primary Objective in Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-10T11:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/glaxo-muscular-dystrophy-drug-reaches-primary-objective-in-study.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s drisapersen
achieved the primary objective of a mid-stage study, heating up
competition with  Sarepta Therapeutics Inc. (SRPT)  in the race for a
drug that could reverse the debilitating effects of Duchenne
muscular dystrophy.  Patients taking drisapersen showed a clinically meaningful
difference from those on placebo after 48 weeks of treatment,
according to an  abstract  of the study results posted on the
website of CureDuchenne, an  investor  in Glaxo’s partner on the
drug, Dutch biotechnology company Prosensa Therapeutics BV.
Glaxo will present the data at a genetics conference in  Cold
Spring Harbor , New York, tomorrow.  Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a neuromuscular disease with
no known cure that affects one in 3,500 newborn boys.
Drisapersen has been designated by U.S. and European regulators
as an orphan drug, and may eventually reach 500 million pounds
($766 million) in sales if proven to be effective and approved
for commercialization, according to Fabian Wenner, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  “We are very pleased to report that the results are
clinically significant,”  CureDuchenne , a non-profit
organization based in Newport Beach, California, said on its
website. “It’s been a long 10 years and the drug is not yet
approved, but we are looking forward to the Phase 3 data later
this year.”  Excessive Protein  All 35 patients treated with drisapersen completed the
study, with the majority of side effects related to injection
site reactions and proteinuria, where excessive protein is
observed in urine, according to the abstract.  Drisapersen would compete with a similar drug, eteplirsen,
being developed by Sarepta of Bothell, Washington, which has
reported statistically significant benefit in a mid-stage study
with no serious side effects.  Sarepta shares surged 11 percent yesterday in New York. The
drisapersen data was also posted on thestreet.com.  “Prosensa data validates Sarepta’s platform,” Deutsche
Bank analyst Robyn Karnauskas said in a note to investors
yesterday. Eteplirsen’s better safety profile may differentiate
it from drisapersen, he said.  A “small” number of boys taking drisapersen were
hospitalized because of proteinuria and thrombocytopenia,
characterized by a drop in the number of platelets that help
blood to clot, Rohit Batta, head of global medical affairs at
Glaxo’s rare disease unit, said in a  message  posted on a patient
group’s website last month.  Glaxo spokeswoman Melinda Stubbee yesterday confirmed that
four hospitalizations occurred, though she said it wasn’t in the
mid-stage study. A late-stage study began in early 2011, with
results to be released later this year.  Gene Mutations  Duchenne is a genetic disease caused by gene mutations that
delete one or more exons, a part of the gene sequence that
instructs production of dystrophin, which protects muscles.
Rapid weakening of muscles can lead to boys needing wheelchairs
by the age of 12.  Drisapersen is an RNA-based therapy that works by skipping
an exon next to a defective exon to allow the production of
dystrophin.  Some investors are concerned about the patent situation
given the similarity in Prosensa and Sarepta’s technology,
Karnauskas said in a note on March 18. While Sarepta challenged
Prosensa’s patent in the European Union in 2011, it lost the
case, allowing Prosensa to block its rival from entering the
European market.  In the unlikely event that Prosensa challenges Sarepta’s
U.S. patent, the two companies may arrive at a royalty-based
settlement, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  