-- GM to Spend 4 Billion Euros by 2016 on Europe Units’ Turn
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-04-10T20:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/gm-to-invest-5-24-billion-through-2016-on-europe-revival.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
second-largest carmaker, plans to invest 4 billion euros ($5.24
billion) in  Europe  operations through 2016 as it adds models to
increase market share and restore profit in the region.  Spending will focus on developing 23 vehicles and 13
engines to reach a goal of breaking even in Europe by mid-
decade, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said at a press
conference today following a meeting of the U.S. company’s board
at the Opel division’s headquarters in Ruesselsheim,  Germany .  “We’re more convinced than ever Opel will succeed” in its
turnaround, Akerson said. “We are also more convinced than ever
that GM must have a strong and successful presence throughout
Europe, and especially here in Germany.”  GM’s European business, which consists primarily of Opel
and its U.K. sister brand Vauxhall, has accumulated losses of
$18 billion since 1999. Detroit-based GM’s earnings-revival
strategy for the region includes the new models, partly in
cooperation with French carmaker  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , as well as
spending cuts through measures such as shutting Opel’s car
factory in Bochum, Germany.  Opel and Vauxhall vehicles that have entered the market
since late last year include the Adam city car, Mokka sport-
utility vehicle and Cascada convertible.  Contracting Market  Efforts by the GM brands to become profitable have been
hampered by a European car market that’s set to shrink for a
sixth consecutive year in 2013. Opel’s first-quarter sales in
Germany fell 16 percent from a year earlier, outpacing an
industrywide drop of 13 percent, with the contraction
accelerating to 17 percent in March, according to the country’s
 Federal Motor Vehicle Office .  GM rose 3.1 percent to $28.37 at the close in  New York .
That pared the stock’s decline this year to 1.6 percent compared
with an 11 percent jump in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .  The carmaker hired Karl-Thomas Neumann, formerly head of
Chinese operations at German carmaker  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , to become
head of the European operations and CEO of Opel in March.  “The investment by our parent company is a clear
commitment” to the division’s success, Neumann said at the
press conference. Opel’s turnaround plan is “based on
conservative assumptions, not just on hope.”  Upgrading Plants  The spending will include modernizing current production
capacity, Henrik Hannemann, an Opel spokesman, said by phone.  Employees at Opel’s plant in Bochum, where a workforce of
about 3,000 people makes the Zafira minivan, rejected a plan in
March that would have included wage freezes in exchange for job
guarantees while production would have been extended through
2016. In the absence of a labor deal, vehicle manufacturing at
Bochum is scheduled to stop at the end of 2014.  The agreement that  GM Europe  reached with union leaders
after nine months of talks was “fair and good,” and “we
regret the vote against it,” GM Vice Chairman Steve Girsky, who
is also chairman of Opel’s supervisory board, said at the press
conference. “But we accept the decision and concentrate now on
the perspective of Bochum.” The manufacturer “will take
responsibility for the people and the region.”  Carmaking employees at Opel’s other four German factories,
which don’t face shutdowns, agreed in March to forgo pay raises.
The 6,000 workers at GM’s assembly plant near Zaragoza in
northern  Spain  accepted a wage freeze for 2013 and 2014 on April
8 as part of a five-year contract.  GM’s  workforce  in Europe totaled about 37,000 employees at
the end of December, including 20,000 in Germany, according to
Opel’s Website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Ruesselsheim at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  