-- Goldman Reaches Deal to Drop Proposal for Separate Chairman
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-04-10T21:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/goldman-reaches-deal-to-drop-proposal-for-independent-chairman.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reached an
agreement with an investor for the second straight year to drop
a proposal from its annual meeting that called for an
independent  board  chairman.  The investment bank instead will give expanded
responsibilities to its lead independent director,  James Schiro ,
who will set the board’s agenda and write his own letter to
shareholders in the annual proxy statement, New York-based
Goldman Sachs said. In exchange, shareholder CtW Investment
Group will withdraw a proposal to split the roles of chief
executive officer and chairman.  “We’ve had a constructive engagement with our
shareholders, and believe that the enhancements we have made
further solidify the independence of the board,”  David Wells , a
Goldman Sachs spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The deal allows CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, who also has
been chairman since he took control in 2006, to avoid a battle
over dual roles that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Jamie Dimon , 57,
faces. That bank’s board urged investors to vote against naming
a separate chairman at next month’s shareholder meeting, saying
Dimon’s dual role remains the “most effective leadership
model.”  Morgan Stanley CEO  James Gorman , 54, and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ’s  John Stumpf , 59, hold both the CEO and chairman titles.
Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. have different people
in the two roles.  SEC Disagrees  The Securities and Exchange Commission said last month that
Goldman Sachs couldn’t omit the proposal from its annual
meeting, saying it didn’t agree with the company’s claim that
CtW’s idea was “inherently vague or indefinite.”  Schiro, 67, who joined the board in 2009, is the former CEO
of Zurich Financial Services AG, Switzerland’s biggest insurer,
and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The Brooklyn, New York native
was picked as lead director after the bank last year agreed to
create the role in response to a similar shareholder proposal to
split Blankfein’s duties.  “Schiro is very competent and able to fulfill these
responsibilities, and he will be able to credibly perform his
role as a check on the influence of Blankfein over the board,”
said Patricia Estevez, a senior corporate governance analyst at
CtW. “That’s what matters most to shareholders.”  Proposals that call for an independent chairman at other
public companies have received more than 30 percent of votes
supporting the measures, CtW said in a letter to the SEC in
January, citing data from Institutional Shareholder Services.  Goldman Sachs awarded Blankfein $21 million in compensation
for his 2012 performance, up from $15 million for 2011, which
included a $3 million long-term incentive. The firm had a 10.7
percent return on equity last year, and the  shares rose  41
percent.  Reuters reported the agreement earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  