-- Goodyear Sued by French Workers Over Tire Plant Shutdown
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-10T22:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/goodyear-sued-by-french-workers-over-tire-plant-shutdown.html
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. was sued
in its U.S. home city by French workers claiming the company
violated laws of both countries as it implemented a plan to
close a plant in Amiens,  France .  Mickael Wamen, an employee, and the Central Works Council,
a body elected by employees to represent them, filed a complaint
April 9 in state court in Akron,  Ohio , asking for $4 million in
damages and class-action status for the case.  “The laws of France are designed to protect its workers
from employers disregarding the impact of their decisions that
disrupt the lives of their employees without consulting the
proper representatives of their employees,” according to a copy
of the complaint obtained from the workers’ lawyers.  The employees claim the parent company illegally interfered
with their relationship with its French unit and thus violated
Ohio law.  The case was filed in the U.S. because the offending
conduct occurred at Goodyear’s headquarters in Akron, the lead
plaintiffs’ lawyer, Robert D. Gary said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  “Goodyear U.S. interfered in the agreement between
Goodyear France and the workers,” said Gary, of the  law firm 
Gary, Naegele & Theado LLC in Lorain, Ohio. “Another element of
this is that there is no such thing as a class action in
France.”  A class-action lawsuit allows all plaintiffs in a group to
sue in a single case rather than having to pursue their claims
individually. Class-action status requires court approval.  Worker Protests  The planned closing of the site by Goodyear, the biggest
U.S. tire maker, triggered protests in the northern French town.
Nineteen police officers were hurt there on March 7 in a clash
with stone-throwing workers.  Goodyear employs about 1,173 people at the Amiens facility,
according to the complaint.  “The company doesn’t comment on pending litigation,”
Keith Price, a spokesman for the Akron-based company, said
yesterday.  Wamen and the council allege Goodyear failed to give them
complete and timely information about plans to close the factory
and relocate its manufacturing capacity elsewhere, as well as
about the company’s since-abandoned plan to sell its farm-tire
production to  Titan International Inc. (TWI)   The employees asked for a court order preventing Goodyear
from moving consumer tire production out of the facility.  Pay Cut  The French employees are paid based on their production,
Gary said. When a decision was made to cut production at the
Amiens plant, pay was reduced, along with mandatory compensation
paid by Goodyear France to the Central Works Council, he said.  The production cut violated an injunction issued by a
French court in 2009, according to the complaint.  “What’s hard for us as Americans is, Why couldn’t they do
this?” Gary said, referring to Goodyear’s cutting production
without the possibility of a legal barrier. “It’s a clash of
cultures.”  The case is Wamen v.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) , 2013-40-
1908, Ohio Court of Common Pleas, Summit County (Akron).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 