-- Google Sued Over Searches as European Probes Advance
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-04-11T15:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/google-sued-by-streetmap-in-u-k-for-anti-competitive-behavior.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the
world’s largest search engine, was sued in  London  by a U.K.
Internet company for promoting its own maps over those of
competitors in what it claimed was “Google’s cynical
manipulation of search results.”  Streetmap, a provider of Internet maps, filed a complaint
in London March 15, according to court records. Google’s actions
have made its products “harder to find,” the U.K.-based
company alleged yesterday in a statement. It’s at least the
second such lawsuit filed against Google since June.  Streetmap said its complaint mirrors an  antitrust probe by
the European Union into whether Google favors its own services
over competitors in search results.  “We have had to take this action in an effort to protect
our business and attract attention to those that, like us, have
started their own technology businesses, only to find them
damaged by Google’s cynical manipulation of search results,”
Kate Sutton, commercial director of Streetmap, said in the
statement.  Google has submitted an offer to the EU that will soon be
shown to rivals and customers as part of settlement talks to end
the probe into claims its search results discriminate
competitors. EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told
reporters in  Washington  today its goal is to “secure legally
binding commitments” from  Mountain View , California-based
Google as part of the settlement negotiations.  Search Choice  “To avoid abuse we need to guarantee that users of the
search engine have a choice and that search results have the
highest possible quality,” Almunia said.  Tom Price , a spokesman for Google, declined to comment
today on the allegations, saying in an e-mailed statement that
he hadn’t seen the Streetmap complaint.  The company also faces accelerating EU probes by privacy
regulators.  In June, Google was sued in London by a U.K. Internet
company that previously filed a complaint with EU regulators,
sparking the antitrust probe.  Foundem, a U.K. shopping comparison website, sought damages
for revenue lost as a result of Google’s “anti-competitive
conduct,” lawyers for Foundem said in court documents.  Foundem said in the lawsuit that it had been unfairly
penalized by Google because it offers a competing shopping
comparison search service. It lost web traffic as a result of
being pushed down in Google’s search rankings.  Price, the Google spokesman, declined to comment on the
suit when it was made public in January.  Microsoft, TripAdvisor  Almunia has sought a deal with Google to end the antitrust
probe without imposing fines, while competitors such as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  have tried to pressure
regulators to force Google to change its business practices.  Google at the end of January submitted an initial offer to
settle the antitrust probe after Almunia asked it to address
allegations that it promotes its own specialist search-services,
copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements
with websites and software developers that stifle competition in
the advertising industry.  Almunia said he wants to resolve the Google probe by the
end of the year and won’t make a decision on whether the
proposals are acceptable until he’s had them market tested.  The U.S. government ended an investigation into Google in
January, saying there was no evidence the company’s actions
harmed consumers.  Al Verney, a Brussels-based spokesman for Google, said the
company is working with the European Commission.  EU Probe  The EU in 2010 began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads after
receiving complaints from Microsoft and others.  While Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft and partner
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a quarter of the U.S. Web-search market,
Google has almost 95 percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft
said in a blog post in 2011, citing data from regulators.  Internet traffic  can be diverted by manipulating the order
of search results, said Susan Athey, a professor of economics at
 Stanford University ’s Graduate School of Business and a
Microsoft consultant, in a blog post on Microsoft’s website last
month.  Site Moves  When a site is moved from the first position to the 10th
position in a series of search results, it typically will lose
about 85 percent of its traffic, she said.  “Impartiality of search results will become all the more
important in the years to come, given that screen sizes on
smartphones and tablets are smaller than on traditional PCs,”
Athey said.  “Smaller screens mean there is even less room for
competing services to appear in Google’s mobile search,” she
said.  Google faces possible fines on another front in  Europe ,
after six European Union data protection regulators started
“coordinated” enforcement measures over the company’s failure
to fix flaws in a new privacy policy.  A joint decision April 2 followed a deadlock at a March 19
meeting between Google and the data watchdogs,  France ’s National
Commission for Computing and Civil Liberties said in a statement
on its website. It’s now up to national regulators to pursue the
company according to their own rules and powers, CNIL said.  Privacy Investigations  Google faces privacy investigations by authorities around
the world as it debuts new services and steps up competition
with Facebook Inc. for users and advertisers.  Google last year changed its system to create a uniform set
of policies for more than 60 products, unleashing criticism from
regulators and consumer advocates concerned it isn’t protecting
data it collects.  “Our privacy policy respects European law,” Verney, the
spokesman for Google, has said. “We have engaged fully with the
data protection authorities involved throughout this process,
and we’ll continue to do so going forward.”  The U.K.’s privacy watchdog said in a separate statement it
started an “investigation into whether Google’s revised March
2012 privacy policy is compliant with the Data Protection Act.”  The case is Streetmap.eu Ltd. v. Google Inc., case no
13-1013,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  