-- Gravity-Defying Aussie Gouges Industry as Prosperity Bites
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-11T01:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/gravity-defying-aussie-gouges-industry-as-prosperity-bites-back.html
From skyrocketing rents in remote
mining towns to the decline of the  auto industry ,  Australia  is
grappling with the downside of world-beating economic growth
that has driven the nation’s currency to record highs.  Policy makers and executives at the  Bloomberg Australia
Economic Summit  in Sydney yesterday singled out the local
dollar’s strength as the biggest challenge for business, while
conceding there’s little that can be done to restrain it. Terry Davis, managing director at Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd., said the
Aussie is “decimating” manufacturers, while  Robert Mead , head
of  portfolio management  in Sydney at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said businesses are deferring spending.  Australia’s defiance of the global slowdown is now
backfiring on manufacturing after the currency soared 75 percent
against the U.S. dollar and 89 percent versus the yen from its
low in October 2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. roiled financial markets. The government and
 Reserve Bank  of Australia say the cash flowing into the economy
-- fueled by quantitative easing in the U.S. and Japan -- is
beyond the control of policy makers in a small nation.  “That’s the hand that the world has dealt us,” RBA
Assistant Governor for economics Christopher Kent said at the
summit, reiterating that the central bank has no plans for
intervention to weaken the so-called Aussie. “Businesses in a
number of industries are under quite a deal of pressure -- part
of that’s because of the  exchange rate .”  ‘Defying Gravity’  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said the Australian dollar is
“defying gravity” as commodity prices fall.  “The global economy requires the big economic engines to
grow so we can all grow together, and if that requires
expansionary  monetary policy  because fiscal policy has reached
its limits or can’t be implemented then so be it,” he said.  Australia’s economy expanded 3.6 percent in 2012, the
fastest pace in five years, while employers added 71,500 jobs in
February, the most in almost 13 years, government data showed
last month.  Clouding the outlook,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Chief Financial
Officer Graham Kerr told the conference he expects annual
economic growth in China to moderate toward 6 percent, and that
prospects in its largest customer present the company’s main
business risk.  1985 High  The Australian dollar touched $1.0549 today, near the
highest level since Jan. 24, extending the longest stretch above
parity with the  U.S. dollar  since it was freely floated in 1983.
The currency slipped 0.3 percent to $1.0512 as of 11:45 a.m. in
Sydney after a release showed an unexpected jump in the nation’s
jobless rate. The RBA’s  trade-weighted index  climbed to 79.9
yesterday, the highest level since 1985.  “While the Aussie dollar’s at $1.05ish, the investment
decisions are being delayed,” Pimco’s Mead said.  “This continued strength of the Australian dollar is just
decimating domestic manufacturers that face strong import
competition,” Coca-Cola Amatil’s Davis said.  General Motors Co.’s Holden division said this week it will
cut about 500 jobs in Australia, citing the local dollar’s
strength, and currency devaluations in competing markets.  The central bank  cut rates  by 1.75 percentage points in six
steps in the 14 months through December as policy makers try to
rebalance a two-speed economy where mining regions in the north
and west thrive off Chinese demand, while manufacturing and
tourism in the south and east struggle. The RBA left borrowing
costs unchanged at 3 percent this year, saying earlier
reductions are gaining traction with households.  Productivity Growth  “Some of the businesses, it’s very unfortunate, but those
that are not doing well and are not surviving, they go out of
business,” the RBA’s Kent said. “But new ones come in, and
those that go out of business tend to be less efficient than
those that they’re being replaced by, that’s the natural process
through which productivity growth occurs.”  Warwick McKibbin , a former member of the RBA’s board, said
at the conference yesterday that the distortionary effects of
monetary policy need to be taken into account.  “Monetary policy can’t do everything,” said McKibbin,
chair in public policy at the  Australian National University ’s
center for applied macroeconomic analysis. “All monetary policy
does is it moves demand around through time. It doesn’t create
things. When the central bank starts to cut rates too much, it
distorts the economy, it distorts the allocation of capital.”  Property Market  Australia’s prosperity is luring international buyers to
the property market. A  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey of
developers found that foreign buyers of new properties made up
about 9 percent of total purchases, chief economist  Alan Oster 
told the conference. “It’s probably going up now.”  In the northwest town of Port Hedland, the housing
situation is very different from two decades ago. Then, houses
were very hard to shift, said BHP’s Kerr, who was charged with
selling houses in the town after he joined the Melbourne-based
company as a graduate trainee in its iron ore unit.  As mining has boomed, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
government hasn’t reaped electoral dividends because the
opposition positioned itself as pro-resources and opposed new
taxes on coal and iron-ore profits. In the manufacturing
heartlands of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane -- where Labor
traces its origins and historically has been strong -- growth
and employment have been hampered by the local dollar’s ascent.  Factory Jobs  The number of manufacturing workers, traditionally
supporters of the union-financed  Labor Party , has slumped 10
percent since Labor won office to 941,400 as of February data
released last month, the lowest since the series began in 1984.  A government report today showed that employers cut
payrolls more than forecast in March, with the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly increasing to 5.6 percent, the highest level since
November 2009. Economists had anticipated the rate to stay at
5.4 percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. Employment dropped by 36,100 after a 74,000 gain in
February, compared with a median forecast for a 7,500 decline.  In western Sydney, Australia’s largest manufacturing region,
unemployment in some areas is as high as 14 percent as iconic
local companies such as saucemaker Rosella lose the battle
against rising costs and cheaper imports.  State Loss  At a state level, Labor was ejected from office in New
South Wales after 16 years in 2011, winning just 25.6 percent of
the vote. Liberal Premier Barry O’Farrell told the conference he
expects federal opposition leader  Tony Abbott  will sweep the
region in the Sept. 14 election.  “My prediction -- not novel, not news breaking -- is that
Tony Abbott is going to win the federal election in Sydney’s
west with much the same margin that we won seats in March of
2011,” O’Farrell said.  Paul Howes of the Australian Workers Union said the
economy’s changes are different to the removal of industry
protection overseen by a Labor government in the 1980s when
fallout from change was planned.  “What we’ve experienced in the last five years with the
dollar is essentially going through uncharted water, with no
clear idea of where we come out on the other end,” Howes,
national secretary of the AWU, told the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  