-- Greece Challenged by JGBs for Most-Volatile Bonds
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-04-10T06:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/greece-challenged-by-jgbs-for-most-volatile-bonds.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s unprecedented stimulus has made his nation’s bonds the
world’s most-volatile sovereign debt after  Greece ’s.  Historical price volatility of Japanese  government bonds 
maturing in more than 10 years has jumped 14.8 percentage points
this year to 17.6 percent on a 10-day reading, the second
highest among the 25 sovereign markets tracked by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Swings
for Greek bonds fell 15.9 points to 20.4 percent. By comparison,
JGBs were the least volatile globally at the end of 2011.  Japan ’s  10-year yields  touched a record low of 0.315
percent on April 5 and then surged to almost double that level
in the same session, a day after Kuroda increased bond purchases
by more than expected. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who had called
on the BOJ to offer “unlimited” stimulus to end deflation,
said yesterday that close attention needs to be paid to the  bond
market . Japan has the world’s heaviest debt load relative to its
economic output, followed by Greece.  “Investors have yet to determine where yields should stand
considering the declines in yields reduce the attractiveness of
JGBs as investments,” said Makoto Suzuki, a senior bond
strategist at Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo, one of the 24
primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales. “I
don’t think investors should take more unnecessary risks in
government bonds, especially given that volatility is rising.”  Circuit Breaker  Japan’s 10-year  bond futures  tumbled on April 5, prompting
the Tokyo Stock Exchange to issue a circuit breaker twice to
stem the movement. The bourse halted trade once on April 8 when
the contracts soared.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond has climbed 14
basis points in the past three days to 0.6 percent today. The
20-year rate has soared 22 1/2 basis points in the same period
to 1.36 percent after last week touching an almost decade low of
0.845 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Kyle Bass, whose Dallas-based hedge-fund firm Hayman
Advisors LP made $500 million in 2007 betting against U.S.
subprime mortgages, said JGB holders’ reaction to the BOJ
stimulus may foreshadow a broader selloff.  “This is the first deviation of the sanctity of that
marketplace,” Bass, who has been betting on a collapse in the
Japanese bond market for at least three years, said in an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers”
with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “Investors in JGBs
panicked. And what’s fascinating to me is they just told you,
‘Don’t worry, we’ve got this.’”  Corporate Bonds  Elsewhere in domestic credit markets, Shinko Electric
Industries Co., a Nagano, Japan-based electronics material
manufacturer, registered to sell as much as 50 billion yen ($505
million) of bonds, according to a filing with the Ministry of
Finance.  Japan’s corporate notes have handed investors 0.9 percent
this year, compared with a 2.67 percent return on the nation’s
sovereign debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Company bonds worldwide have gained 1.24 percent.  The yen traded at 99.10 per dollar at 3:34 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
after yesterday falling to 99.66, the weakest since May 2009. It
has plunged more than 22 percent in the past six months, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  Swings in the Japanese currency have also increased, with
the dollar-yen’s one month implied volatility touching 14.5
percent yesterday, the highest since March 2011.  ‘Improve Stability’  Abe said yesterday large-scale government bond purchases by
the central bank could have a substantial effect on the market
and that he expects Kuroda to “improve stability through close
communication.” The BOJ said in a statement yesterday it will
hold a meeting with about 40 market participants tomorrow.  The BOJ governor and his fellow board members introduced
what it called “quantitative and  qualitative ” monetary easing
on April 4, under which the central bank will aim to double the
monetary base in two years and lengthen the average maturity of
bonds that it buys by twofold.  The BOJ will buy 7.5 trillion yen of bonds a month,
exceeding the 5.2 trillion yen estimated by economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before last week’s meeting. More than half
of the purchases this month and next will be allocated to debt
maturing in more than five years. Buying plans from June onwards
will be announced each time they are decided, the central bank
said in a statement.  Potential Losses  A wider fluctuation of bond yields exposes JGB holders to
potentially bigger losses. A  money manager  who invests $10
million in Japan’s 30-year debt would lose about $2.09 million
should its yield rise by 1 percentage point, according to
Bloomberg data on so-called duration.  “Japan’s bonds have become a high-risk, low-return
investment,” said Toru Yamamoto, the Tokyo-based chief
strategist at Daiwa Securities Co., the nation’s second-biggest
brokerage. “What the BOJ intends to do is chase commercial
lenders out of the bond market and get them to extend lending.”  Banks owned about a third of the nation’s outstanding debt
at the end of last year, making them the biggest creditor to
Japan, BOJ  data  show.  The Ministry of Finance is  scheduled  to sell 30-year bonds
tomorrow and 20-year debt on April 18. The March 8 offering of
the longer-dated securities drew  bids  of 3.33 times the amount
on offer, the lowest demand since June. The future auctions will
probably have “bad” results, said Teruyoshi Sotome, a Tokyo-
based senior bond strategist at Mizuho Securities Co.  ‘Serious’ BOJ  “Investors at first saw how frightening the BOJ could be
once it got serious and expected an explosive impact on the
market, but their buying didn’t follow through,” said Sotome.
“Buying bonds at these low rates poses the risk of fixing low
returns.”  The cost to protect Japan’s sovereign notes for five years
against nonpayment fell to 73 basis points yesterday, after
reaching 78 last week, the highest since Jan. 23, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. It means investors have to pay $73,000 to insure $10
million of the bonds.  The ratio of Japan’s debt to gross domestic product is
estimated to reach 245 percent this year, the highest globally
and compared with Greece’s 181 percent, data from the
International Monetary Fund show.  “There are no willing buyers in Japan’s bond market except
for the BOJ,” said Manabu Tamaru, a  fund manager  in Tokyo at
Baring Asset Management, which manages $53 billion in assets
globally. “JGBs are not risk-free assets but rather return-free
assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  