-- ICAP Brokers on ‘Treasure Island’ Said to Reap ISDAfix Rewards
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-04-10T23:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/icap-brokers-on-treasure-island-said-to-reap-isdafix-rewards.html
ICAP Plc’s (IAP)  U.S. interest-rate swap
desk, which regulators are investigating as part of a price-
manipulation probe, paid its brokers as much as $7 million a
year at the market’s peak, earning the group the nickname
“Treasure Island,” said two people familiar with the matter.  The team of about 20 in the company’s  Jersey City , New
Jersey, office made $100 million to $120 million annually
for ICAP around 2008 and 2009, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the details are private. The group
benefits from a move 11 years ago that put the firm in control
of the computer screen used by the industry to price swaps in
much of the $379 trillion market, one of the people said.  That screen has become the focus of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, which subpoenaed about a dozen current and
former ICAP brokers and as many as 15 dealers to determine if
they’re colluding to create inaccurate quotes that would boost
bank profits. About 6,000 firms subscribe to the screen, and
prices set daily by the trades ICAP arranges are used by
corporate treasurers and money managers to value positions.  “Brokers who can work in markets that aren’t transparent
continue to enjoy oversized profitability,”  Mark Williams , a
former Federal Reserve bank examiner who teaches risk management
at  Boston University , said in a telephone interview.  Matching Dealers  London-based ICAP, the biggest broker of  interest-rate
swaps  between banks, is paid commissions based on the size of
the trades it matches. The Treasure Island brokers bring
together dealers over the telephone and then enter the
transactions manually into the screen, known as 19901.  The firm paid brokers in the Americas on average 61 percent
of the revenue they generated in the six months ended in
September, ICAP said in a Nov. 14  presentation . The firm pays
brokers who use its electronic trading systems about 10 percent
to 15 percent of revenue they generate, one of the people said.  Guy Taylor, an ICAP spokesman in New York, declined to
comment. ICAP said in an April 9 statement it maintains policies
prohibiting price manipulation and is cooperating with the
CFTC’s wider inquiry.  The control the Treasure Island brokers exert over the
19901 screen, and the pay that follows, diminishes the chances
of them going to a competing inter-dealer broker, according to
an ICAP competitor who asked not to be identified because of the
lack of authorization to speak publicly.  $7 Million Salary  The top three to five brokers on the desk made $5 million
to $7 million annually during the best years, while four to five
earned $3 million to $4 million and the least-productive brokers
took home $1 million to $2 million, one of the people familiar
with the compensation said.  ICAP displaced Tullett & Tokyo Liberty Plc as the provider
for rate-swap prices on the 19901 screen in 2002, according to
Risk magazine.  “That screen makes or breaks a lot of profit and loss, so
clearly there’s a lot of opportunity for influence,”  David Kelly , the director of financial engineering at Calypso
Technology Inc. in New York, who helped design the underlying
analytics of the 19901 screen in the early 2000s, said in an
interview this week.  The CFTC is probing the process of setting swaps prices and
trading of the derivatives as it works with European regulators
in the rate-rigging scandal surrounding the London interbank
offered rate.  Libor Probes  ICAP brokers in London passed on requests from dealers
asking Libor-setters at rival banks to make favorable
submissions, e-mails released as part of the European probe
show. UBS AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
have paid $2.6 billion in fines for rigging Libor rates.  ICAP is being investigated in the Libor case by Britain’s
Financial Services Authority and Canada’s Competition Bureau.  “I’m pleased that the FSA and other regulators are
investigating this thoroughly and rooting out any wrongdoing so
that the industry can, in time, heal and move on and learn from
it and be better for it,”  Michael Spencer , ICAP’s chief
executive officer, said on a Feb. 7 conference call.  Like Libor, which is the rate at which banks say they would
lend to each other, ICAP brokers derive benchmark prices known
as ISDAfix from a process where 15 banks submit bids and offers
for interest-rate swaps in various currencies and denominations,
according to the website of the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association . The industry group created the rates in
1998 with predecessors of Thomson Reuters Corp. and ICAP.  Legal Prices  ISDAfix values are accepted as a legal price by which swaps
traders can terminate contracts or to mark the value of
positions, according to ISDA. The Fed includes them in a  daily
report  on money markets.  The contributors to ISDAfix are  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
Barclays, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc.,  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Royal Bank of Scotland, UBS and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  according  to ISDA.  One area the CFTC is probing is whether ICAP brokers
delayed updating rate-swaps prices on the 19901 screen after
they facilitate a trade between banks, said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private,
and a former broker in ICAP’s Jersey City rate-swaps group.  Publishing stale prices can potentially boost profits for
banks in a market where trades are tied to tens of millions of
dollars at a time.  ICAP enters the prices manually onto the screen. That
allows dealers to tell the brokers to delay putting trades into
the system instead of in real time, according to the former
broker, who said he witnessed such activity first-hand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 