-- Michelle Obama Evokes Slain Girl in Plea to Restrict Guns
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-04-11T04:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/michelle-obama-evokes-slain-girl-in-plea-to-restrict-guns.html
First lady  Michelle Obama , in a
deeply personal speech that contrasted Chicago’s civic treasures
with its urban blight, called for more community resources for
youth programs and tougher federal laws to combat gun violence.  She traced a thin line separating her life from that of a
girl from her hometown’s South Side whose funeral she attended
two months ago. Under different circumstances, Obama said
yesterday, she could have ended up dead, just like the 15-year-
old shot a week after attending her husband’s second
presidential inauguration in  Washington .  “Hadiya Pendleton was me, and I was her, but I got to grow
up and go to Princeton and  Harvard Law School  and have a career
and a family,” Michelle Obama, 49, told about 800 business and
philanthropic leaders in a hotel ballroom.  Her address coincided with a push this week by President
 Barack Obama  to convince Congress to advance gun-control
legislation. He’s seeking tougher controls on  guns  four months
after the shooting deaths of 20 schoolchildren and six adults in
Newtown,  Connecticut .  “Right now, my husband is fighting as hard as he can and
engaging as many people as he can to pass common-sense reforms
to protect our children from gun violence,” she said. “These
reforms deserve a vote in Congress.”  Senators  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia Democrat, and  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania Republican, said yesterday they’ve
reached a bipartisan  agreement  to expand background checks as a
way to prevent criminals and the mentally ill from buying guns.  The Senate plans a vote today on whether to advance gun
legislation, with no assurance on its fate in the Republican-
controlled House.  Stray Bullet  Pendleton’s death came from a stray bullet fired about a
mile from the first family’s home on Chicago’s South Side. Two
young men have been charged.  “What if, instead of roaming around with guns, boys like
them had access to a computer lab or a  community center  or some
decent basketball courts -- maybe everything would have turned
out differently,” Michelle Obama said.  At the girl’s funeral, she said she struggled for words
because “it is hard to know what to say to a room full of
teenagers who are about to bury their best friend.”  Pendleton’s parents were among the first lady’s guests at
her husband’s Feb. 12  State of the Union  speech to Congress.  Too many Chicago children live in neighborhoods “where a
funeral for a teenager is considered unfortunate, but not
unusual,” Obama said. Academic progress and an appreciation for
the city’s cultural and historic riches can be lost because they
teens are “consumed with watching their backs.”  Rare Foray  Her appearance was a rare venture into policy disputes for
the first lady, a lawyer who has mostly shown caution and an
aversion to tackling contentious issues while in the White
House. She has typically focused on helping military families
and reducing  childhood obesity .  The president earlier this week pushed for his gun control
agenda in a speech in Connecticut, and transported a dozen
relatives of Newtown victims aboard  Air Force  One back to
Washington to lobby lawmakers.  Vice President  Joe Biden , also playing a major role in
promoting Obama’s gun proposals, held a White House event the
following day with law-enforcement officials and U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder where he retold the stories of some of the
victims’ family members he’s met since the Newtown rampage.  Yesterday’s Chicago gathering was organized by Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  as part of his effort to raise $50 million to combat
neighborhood violence by trying to provide more programs for at-
risk youths. Two Chicago-area chief executive officers, Tom Wilson from  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and Jim Reynolds from Loop Capital
Markets LLC, are leading the fundraising drive, and about two-
thirds of the goal has been reached.  Root Causes  The money will be used to try to address some of the root
causes of the violence -- poverty, an entrenched gang culture
and easy access to illegal handguns on  Chicago  streets -- as
well as provide additional activities for youth.  Chicago saw more than 500 killings in 2012, most of them
gun-related. The pace of killings has slowed some, amid colder
and snowier weather in February and March as well as bolstered
police efforts in the most troubled neighborhoods. Through March
24, there were 69 murders this year, down 35 percent from a year
earlier, Chicago Police Department  data  shows.  After her speech, the first lady visited Harper High School
on Chicago’s South Side. Twenty-nine current or former students
there have been shot in the past year, including eight fatally,
according to the first lady’s office.  She also met privately with a group of students and
counselors to hear about their experiences at the school, which
is located in the city’s West Englewood neighborhood and where
the majority of pupils come from low-income households.  “I want to learn about what’s going on in your lives,
what’s going on in your school, your communities,” she told the
students. “I want you to tell me what you think I need to know,
to tell the president, to tell the rest of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  