-- Michigan Poised for Upgrade After Seizing Detroit: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-04-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/michigan-poised-for-upgrade-after-seizing-detroit-muni-credit.html
Michigan’s resurgent economy has it
poised for the best  credit rating  in eight years and is pushing
borrowing costs to a record low, showing investors are
distinguishing the state’s finances from those of its biggest
city.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  revised
their outlooks on the eighth-most-populous state to positive in
the past two weeks, citing increased financial reserves. A one-
level upgrade by Moody’s to Aa1, second-best, would bring the
rating to the highest since 2005.  The improved prospects show the state is overcoming the
fiscal woes of Detroit, graded seven levels below investment
grade by Moody’s. It is among six Michigan cities under
emergency managers. While yields on taxable city debt due in
April 2018 exceed 9 percent, the  interest rate  on similar state
bonds fell to a historic low before a bond sale set for today,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s not just Detroit, it’s not just Flint, there’s a lot
more to the state,” said Bill Ahern, who oversees $100 million
of Michigan funds at Eaton Vance Management in  Boston .
“Throughout the entire economic downturn, they managed to keep
their debt levels relatively low compared to some other states.
That goes to good financial management.”  Auto Driver  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC went through
bankruptcy four years ago. Along with  Ford Motor Co. (F) , they
rebounded to earn a combined $13.5 billion in 2012, helping
create a 34 percent jump in auto jobs since January 2009.
Michigan’s  jobless rate  is 8.8 percent, the lowest since 2008,
down from a 26-year high of 14.2 percent in 2009.  From the end of the recession, in June 2009, through 2012,
Michigan’s economic health was the nation’s second-strongest,
trailing only  North Dakota , according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States index.  “Michigan is the comeback state and our progress is being
recognized,” Republican Governor Rick Snyder said in an April 2
 statement .  The state is selling $200 million of taxable general-
obligation school-loan bonds today via auction, its biggest
issue in a year.  Record Low  Similar debt is trading with record-low yields. Taxable
 Michigan  general-obligation bonds maturing in November 2018
traded April 5 at an average yield of 1.58 percent, the lowest
since they were sold in October 2010, Bloomberg data show.
Similar-maturity Treasuries yield about 0.8 percent.  The  extra yield  that muni investors demand to own debt from
Michigan issuers rather than AAA securities is 0.71 percentage
point, compared with an average of 0.86 percentage point since
June 2009, Bloomberg data show.  The narrowing spread in Michigan, which is tied with  New
Jersey  carrying S&P’s third-lowest state grade, “may be
investors trying to get extra yield,” Ahern said.  Michigan is selling under its school-bond qualification and
loan program, which provides a credit enhancement and loan
mechanism for school-district debt. The bonds must be used for
capital projects and have to be approved by Treasurer Andy Dillon. The three major rating companies grade the bonds the
same as other state borrowings.  Cost Benefit  Terry Stanton , a Dillon spokesman, said via e-mail that the
state expects better interest rates as a result of the rating
changes.  Meanwhile in Detroit, Kevyn Orr, a 54-year-old lawyer who
worked on Chrysler’s 2009 bankruptcy, has said he’ll try to
persuade city bondholders to reduce a debt of about $8.6
billion.  A scenario in which investors take a loss is a “taboo
subject” that may scare some away, Ahern said.  Emergency managers in Michigan got an expanded toolkit last
month. Under the system, while elected mayors and councils
remain, the state-appointed fiscal overseers have authority to
operate and restructure, sell assets and alter union contracts.
No Michigan city has declared bankruptcy.  Union officials, school board and council members in
managed cities including  Benton Harbor  and Flint claimed in a
lawsuit that the law violates citizens’ due process rights under
the U.S. Constitution.  Penalty Avoided  The state’s intervention helps explain why Michigan
localities haven’t been penalized by  Detroit ’s fiscal distress,
said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-
based Municipal Market Advisors. After Jefferson County,
 Alabama , in November 2011 filed the biggest municipal
bankruptcy, some issuers across the state paid an additional
0.25 percentage point to borrow.  “Michigan is seen as more of a benefactor -- they’re
taking an active role to avert a payment default or bankruptcy
by Detroit,” Fabian said. “The whole architecture for
intervention and curing problems at the local level” gives
investors confidence, he said.  The state is issuing amid the biggest wave of muni sales in
10 months. Localities are poised to sell about $10 billion this
week, the most this year, Bloomberg  data  show.  The wave isn’t deterring munis from rallying to the
strongest in more than a month as selling related to tax season
wanes.  At  1.83 percent , yields on 10-year benchmark munis are the
lowest since March 6, Bloomberg data show. They have also
rebounded relative to Treasuries. Benchmark 10-year federal debt
yields about  1.75 percent .  The  ratio  between the two interest rates, at about 105
percent, has dropped from a seven-month high set this month. The
lower the percentage, the more expensive local debt is by
comparison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  