-- Tick Tock Owner Marked for Death by Nephew, Police Say
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-04-10T18:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/tick-tock-diner-owner-targeted-for-death-by-nephew-police-say.html
The nephew of the owner of the
landmark Tick Tock diner in  New Jersey  was charged with plotting
to rob, torture and murder his uncle, prosecutors said.  Georgios Spyropoulos, 45, was arrested yesterday at the
Clifton diner, which he manages, after giving a gun and $3,000
to an undercover state police officer, according to a statement
today by New Jersey Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa.  “Motivated by greed, Spyropoulos allegedly had planned in
great detail how he would have his uncle tortured, robbed and
murdered, and he had enlisted two men who he thought were going
to carry out his ruthless plot,” Chiesa said. “Fortunately,
the state police were able to completely ensnare him in his own
diabolical trap.”  Spyropoulos’s target was Alexandros Sgourdos, 57, who
manages the Tick Tock in  Manhattan  and is co-owner of the two
diners. Spyropoulos was charged with conspiracy, attempted
murder and unlawful possession of weapons. He’s being held in
the Passaic County Jail.  “It is believed that Spyropoulos hoped to steal a large
amount of cash he believed Sgourdos kept in a safe,” according
to Chiesa’s statement.  State police learned of the plot from an informant and
introduced an undercover state trooper to Spyropoulos as a
possible hit man. On April 2, Spyropoulos gave the officer the
gun and money, along with a photograph of Sgourdos and his
Clifton home address, according to the statement.  Safe Combination  Spyropoulos ordered the assassin to make sure his uncle
gave up the combination to a safe in the home before killing
him, police said.  The Clifton Tick Tock, a chrome and red Art Deco diner
built in 1948, sits on Route 3 about 10 miles (16 kilometers)
west of the Lincoln Tunnel linking Manhattan and New Jersey. The
Manhattan Tick Tock is at 34th Street and 8th Avenue, across
from Pennsylvania Station.  “We are shocked, disappointed and dismayed as to the
allegations,” Joe Pojanowski, a lawyer for ABS Diner Inc.,
which owns the Tick Tock, said in a phone interview. “There
were no signs of this coming.”  A neon sign in front of the New Jersey  location  bears the
slogan “Eat Heavy.” The restaurant is known for its voluminous
menu and for serving breakfast all day. It was featured on Guy
Fieri’s show “Diners, Drive-ins and Dives” on the Food
Network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  