-- Life Technologies Said to Draw Bids for Up to $11.8 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-04-10T20:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/life-said-to-draw-bid-from-buyout-group-including-blackstone.html
Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  got
takeover offers from a private-equity group including  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , and from  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) , for as much as
$11.8 billion, said people familiar with the matter.  The bids came in at $66 to $69 a share, said two of the
people, who asked not to be named as the process is private.
Life could pick a buyer as soon as next week or decide against a
sale, said one of the people.  Thermo Fisher can probably take out $300 million to $400
million in costs and the deal would be immediately accretive,
and the company’s shareholders are supportive of a deal, one
person said. Ross Muken, an analyst with ISI Group, said Thermo
Fisher could pay up to $70 a share and still generate “double-
digit” returns within five years.  “There is a large synergy opportunity here,” Muken said
in a telephone interview from New York. “There are going to be
cost synergies on the sales side and back office and some
duplicative R&D and places you can find over investment in the
Life business.”  Thermo Fisher is the second-biggest maker of life-sciences
equipment by market value. Reuters reported earlier that the
Waltham, Massachusetts-based company had bid for Life. Life’s
shares rose 0.6 percent to $66.58 at 4 p.m. New York time, while
Thermo Fisher’s advanced 3.8 percent to $81.34.  Blackstone Bid Group  Blackstone’s  bidding  group consists of  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,
KKR & Co. and Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte., the people
said. KKR joined New York-based Blackstone after fellow private-
equity firm TPG Capital dropped out of the consortium last
month, people familiar with the matter have said.  Club deals, in which three or more investment firms band
together to purchase companies, became rare after the financial
crisis put an end to leveraged buyouts of $10 billion or more.
They have re-emerged as the financing markets have revived and
deals’ sizes have increased.  In 2011, KKR partnered with two other private-equity firms
and Japanese trading house Itochu Corp. in a $7.2 billion buyout
of oil-and-gas explorer Samson Investment Co. Last year, Apollo
Global Management LLC led a three-member club that paid $7.15
billion for El Paso Corp.’s exploration and production unit.  A spokeswoman at KKR declined to comment. Representatives
at Thermo Fisher, Blackstone and Life didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment, nor did officials at Carlyle.  The Business of Life  Life, whose market value exceeds  $11 billion , has been
reviewing its options for at least three months. The Carlsbad,
California-based company’s products can be used to provide a
blueprint of a person’s DNA, information that may eventually be
used to diagnose disease, identify the risks of certain
conditions or better target medicines.  Life said in January that it was working with Deutsche Bank
AG, as well as Moelis & Co., on the strategic review.  Danaher
Corp. (DHR)  also explored a purchase of Life, people familiar with the
matter have said. The company is unlikely to have bid, said one
of these people. A representative at Danaher didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Another medical-technology company,  Agilent Technologies
Inc. (A) , was interested in Life’s next-generation sequencing
business, said a person familiar with the matter. Agilent didn’t
make an offer for the unit, although it remains interested
should Life opt not to sell the whole company, the person said.
Amy Flores, a spokeswoman at Santa Clara, California-based
Agilent, didn’t immediately return a phone call or e-mail
seeking comment.  Gene Testing  The market for gene tests, like the ones sold by Life and
rival  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , may grow to $25 billion from $5 billion
within a decade as more doctors use a patient’s genetic makeup
to tailor treatments, according to a report last year from
UnitedHealth Group Inc.  Life makes machines that can provide a full transcript of a
person’s DNA. That information may be used by doctors to
diagnose rare diseases, identify patients at increased risk for
a genetic condition, such as Parkinson’s disease, or match
cancer treatments to patients’ tumors. The potential of the
technology drove  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  to make a $6.7 billion hostile
takeover bid for Illumina last year, which was ultimately
unsuccessful.  Life has boosted sales by just 5.1 percent on average in
each of the last three years versus a 20 percent increase at San
Diego-based Illumina, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Life also
sells products that scientists use in labs for cancer and stem-
cell research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  