-- IMF Chief Lagarde Calls Merkel ‘Unchallenged Leader’ in Germany
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-10T15:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/imf-chief-lagarde-calls-merkel-unchallenged-leader-in-germany.html
International Monetary Fund chief
Christine Lagarde said German Chancellor Angela Merkel is the
“unchallenged leader” of the  euro area’s  largest country and
has been pivotal in keeping the 17-nation bloc together.  Merkel, 58, who is running for a third term in September,
called for a stepped-up fight against youth unemployment, now
more than 50 percent in  Greece  and Spain, at the European Union
summit in Brussels last month. She has been a proponent of tight
spending throughout the crisis, and urged Greece to maintain
austerity to stay in the euro.  “She is the unchallenged leader of the largest country in
the euro zone, and one country that is  faring quite  well in the
crisis,” Lagarde said in an interview on “CBS This Morning”
today. “The leader of the largest players calls the shots.”  Merkel “has been key in keeping it together, although
sometimes at a pace that some judged a bit too slow,” according
to Lagarde.  The euro area must bolster fiscal and economic coordination
to escape its slump, said Lagarde, 57, managing director of the
Washington-based IMF. She said the biggest risk facing the area
is “fatigue” of governments and population at a time when
changes must continue.  “I think it will take the Europeans to save themselves,”
she said. “There’s been a lot of talk, there’s been a lot of
changes and progress, but they need to really get on with it and
finish the job.”  ‘Picking Up’  Emerging economies are doing well and the U.S. is “picking
up a little bit,” Lagarde said, while the IMF is watching to
see how federal spending cuts could affect U.S. growth.
Meanwhile, she said, growth lags in Europe and  Japan .  The European Central Bank last month cut its economic
outlook and projected a contraction of 0.5 percent in euro-area
gross domestic product this year, more than the 0.3 percent
contraction seen three months earlier.  The Brussels-based European Commission in a report today
warned of “excessive” risks to the economic health of Slovenia
and Spain, calling on both governments to act.  “Get on with the union. Make sure you have banking union,
down the road, fiscal union, and that you keep that you keep
that currency zone together and solid,” Lagarde said. “I wish
it happens.”  The IMF and the World Bank will hold their annual spring
meetings in  Washington  next week.  Lagarde previously served as  France ’s finance minister. She
is the first woman to hold the top IMF job.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  