-- IMF’s Lagarde Sees Global Growth Failing to Pick Up Much
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-04-10T21:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/imf-s-lagarde-sees-global-growth-failing-to-pick-up-much.html
The global economy won’t gain much
traction this year as  Europe  and  Japan  fail to recover and lag
behind other developed economies, International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  “We do not expect global growth to be much higher this
year than last,” Lagarde said, according to the prepared text
of a speech in  New York  six days before the IMF releases its new
forecasts for the world economy. “We are now seeing the
emergence of a ‘three-speed’ global economy -- those countries
that are doing well, those that are on the mend, and those that
still have some distance to travel.”  After some progress, the 17-country euro region still has a
lot to do, including cleaning up a banking system that isn’t
lending enough to the real economy, Lagarde said. Japan needs to
rely more on monetary policy to boost its growth, she said,
while welcoming last week’s move by the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to embark
on record easing.  The Washington-based IMF is about to co-fund its fourth
bailout in the euro region by contributing about $1.3 billion to
Cyprus’s rescue package. While the U.S. is in better shape,
Lagarde warned about risks posed by automatic spending cuts that
started taking place last month, known as sequestration.  ‘Needed Growth’  “This risks throwing away needed growth, especially at a
time when too many people are still out of work,” Lagarde said.
“It is also an extremely blunt instrument, imposing deep cuts
in many vital programs -- including those that help the most
vulnerable -- while leaving untouched the key drivers of long-
term spending.”  President  Barack Obama  today sent a $3.8 trillion budget to
Congress calling for more  tax revenue  and slower growth for
Social Security benefits in a political gamble intended to
revive deficit-reduction talks. The proposal would replace
across-the-board spending cuts with what White House budget
officials say is $1.8 trillion in additional deficit reduction
over 10 years that includes collecting more taxes from the
wealthy and trimming some federal programs.  The IMF in January forecast global growth of 3.5 percent
this year, after 3.2 percent in 2012. It has since said it would
cut its prediction for the U.S. because of the budget cuts.  U.S. Faster  Still, the U.S. was faster than Europe in repairing its
financial system and its efforts have paid off as credit
conditions have improved and unemployment is showing signs of
falling, she said.  “There should not be massive, brutal, upfront additional
fiscal consolidation, because it is going to hamper growth,”
Lagarde said of the U.S. in an interview on CNBC television
later today. “There should be some, but moderately.”  “The investors, the world needs to know that the  United
States of America  has a plan to reduce its high debt and to keep
under control its deficit and reduce it,” she told CNBC.  Answering questions after her speech, Lagarde repeated
that the bailout of Cyprus, which imposed losses on uninsured
depositors at two of the country’s banks, is “no template, it
doesn’t set a standard because it was no standard itself.”  While  emerging markets  are bouncing back and continue to
power global growth, Lagarde pointed out some risks in these
countries too, citing companies “taking on more debt and
foreign exchange exposure.” At the same time, she downplayed
risks that expansionary monetary policies in rich economies
could have too large an impact on capital flows and exchange
rates.  “In present circumstances, it makes sense for monetary
policy to do the heavy lifting in this recovery by remaining
accommodative,” Lagarde said. “We know that inflation
expectations are well anchored today, giving central banks
greater leeway to support growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  