-- Immigrants on the Dole? That’s a Myth
-- B y   S h i k h a   D a l m i a
-- 2013-04-10T22:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/immigrants-on-the-dole-let-s-debunk-that-myth-again.html
A perennial  objection  to relaxing
the border with  Mexico  is that the U.S. has to stop poor, low-
skilled foreigners from overburdening its social-welfare system.
In fact, the opposite is the case: Immigrants help protect this
safety net for everyone.  Yet, the misperceptions are deep-seated. According to a
Reason-Rupe poll  released  in March, almost 45 percent of
Americans -- Republicans, Democrats and independents -- believe
that immigrants come to the U.S. primarily for government
benefits.  The  Heritage Foundation  and Senator  Jeff Sessions , an
Alabama Republican who had led the fight against immigration
reform in Congress, are trying hard to keep this mistaken belief
alive, as the political tide  goes  against them. Sessions has
repeatedly accused the  Barack Obama  administration of “defying
federal laws” and letting foreigners in without first showing
they could support themselves, and the Heritage Foundation is
preparing to release an updated version of a controversial study
it did several years ago offering its own evidence of this
claim.  Sessions  pointed  to State Department figures showing that
“only 0.0033 percent of net applications for admission to the
 United States ” were denied in 2011 on grounds that the
applicant might become a public charge.  The statistic, however, demonstrated the opposite of what
he claimed it did. The visa-rejection rate is so low because the
system is set up to prevent people who are likely to become
wards of the state from applying in the first place.  Green Cards  For the most part, foreigners who want a green card need a
company or blood relative to sponsor them and accept
responsibility for them. Of course, green-card holders could
lose their jobs or relatives and end up on welfare.  The  dearth  of proof for the view that people flock to the
U.S. for welfare is long-standing. In fact, according to the
Agriculture Department, which administers  food stamps , Latinos
in recent years have increasingly flocked to states such as
 Tennessee ,  Arkansas ,  Alabama ,  Texas  and the Carolinas, which
have stingy benefits and plentiful jobs, instead of to
traditional gateways, such as  New York  and  California , which
have relatively generous programs.  The 10 states that  experienced  the largest percentage
increase in their foreign-born population from 2000 to 2009
spent far less on public assistance per capita compared with the
10 states with the slowest-growing foreign-born populations.  Of course, even if immigrants don’t come to the U.S. to
live off the welfare state doesn’t mean they don’t end up doing
so. The best evidence for this claim came in the 2007 Heritage
Foundation  study , which found that even though immigrants have
been barred since 1996 from receiving federal means-tested
benefits, their households still obtain about $20,000 more in
benefits and services (such as schools and emergency medical
care) than they pay in taxes. The study estimated that these
costs imposed in 2004 a net burden of about $90 billion annually
and a whopping $1 trillion over a decade.  This would be cause for concern -- if those numbers were
the whole story. The study was  criticized  for counting
 government spending  on the (American-born) children of
immigrants but then ignoring the taxes these offspring paid when
they grew up. By that standard, most middle-income families in
the U.S. with three or more children in public schools would be
a net burden.  There were even bigger  questions  about the study.     By
its own admission, it considered only the tax contributions of
low-skilled immigrants, not what they contribute to the economy
as a whole.  Heritage  has said it will release new cost
estimates, but these numbers should be met with skepticism.  Everyone Benefits  State-level studies that have taken both into account
consistently find that the economic contributions of these
immigrants dwarf their fiscal costs. A 2006 analysis by the
Texas comptroller  estimated  that low-skilled unauthorized
workers cost the state treasury $504 million more than they paid
in taxes in 2005. Without them, however, the state’s economy
would have shrunk by 2.1 percent, or $17.7 billion, as the
competitive edge of Texas businesses diminished.  Likewise, a 2006  study  by the Kenan Institute at the
University of  North Carolina  found that although Hispanic
immigrants imposed a net $61 million cost on the state budget,
they contributed $9 billion to the gross state product.  The Heritage Foundation  study  also implied that a homegrown
working class would be cheaper for the country because
households headed by low-skilled immigrants consumed $10,000
more in government services than those headed by Americans. The
trouble is that the study compared the welfare use of low-
skilled immigrant households with average American households,
rather than with low-skilled American households.  In comparing welfare use by immigrants with that of
Americans in the same socioeconomic stratum, a different picture
emerges, as a  study  by Leighton Ku and Brian Bruen of George
Washington University for the  Cato Institute  found recently.  Low-skilled foreigners, including adults and their U.S.-
born children, were generally less likely than Americans to
receive public benefits, such as from Medicaid, the  Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program  and Supplemental Security Income.
This is partly because many adults are in the U.S. illegally or
on temporary visas or haven’t held a green card long enough to
qualify for most means-tested benefits besides emergency health
care. But the value of benefits they receive is usually lower,
too.  “The combination of lower average utilization and smaller
average benefits indicates that the overall cost of public
benefits is substantially less for low-income non-citizen
immigrants than for comparable native-born adults and
children,” the Cato study  concluded.   Shrinking Underclass  Restrictionists regard the 1990s as the decade of mass
migration, when immigrants supposedly flooded in and threatened
American jobs and wages. But the country had low unemployment
during many of those years. More to the point, the size of the
underclass shrank overall. While the number of immigrant
households living in poverty increased by 194,000 from 1995 to
2004, the number of American households below the poverty line
declined by 675,000.  This suggests that as foreigners moved into the lower
class, they pushed more native-born people into the middle
class. How? Economists Giovanni Peri and Gianmarco Ottaviano’s
2008  study  showed that low-skilled immigrants don’t take away
jobs from native high-school dropouts.  Instead, they open better opportunities for them. The
presence of non-English-speaking foreigners makes physical
skills more plentiful relative to demand, and language and other
cultural skills scarcer. Hence even the most basic acculturation
of the native-born starts commanding a higher premium in the
labor market.  Restrictionists are trying to torpedo immigration reform by
scapegoating poor foreigners for the overextended U.S. welfare
state and the country’s job troubles. If these forces succeed,
all Americans will pay the price.  (Shikha Dalmia, a contributor to Bloomberg View, is a
Detroit-based senior analyst at the Reason Foundation. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Shikha Dalmia in Detroit at  shikhadalmia62@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 