-- India Automakers Expect Car Sales to Rise on Economy
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-04-10T08:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/india-automakers-expect-car-sales-to-rise-on-economy.html
Indian annual car sales are poised
to rebound from the first annual decline in a decade and rise as
much as 5 percent over the next year.  Local deliveries of cars, including sport-utility vehicles,
may gain 5 to 7 percent in the year started this month as
economic growth accelerates, according to an annual forecast
from the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers . Indian
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said April 1 he expects
the country’s GDP to grow about 6 percent the next year, up from
5 percent last year.  Annual car sales in the 12-month period ended March fell
6.7 percent to 1.89 million units, the biggest decline since
2001 as  slowing economic growth  and high  interest rates  kept
buyers from showrooms, according to the manufacturer group.
Carmakers from  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  to Ford Motor Co. are
introducing new models and offering discounts to boost sales.  “Revival in car sales will come with an acceleration in
economic growth,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst with BRICS
Securities in Mumbai who tracks the automobile sector. “As
investments slowly return in  India , we expect it to revive
demand for vehicles.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has pledged to reduce India’s
record current-account deficit and take steps to increase
investment flows from abroad as he seeks to boost economic
growth. Finance Minister Chidambaram said this month a cabinet
panel on investment will help speed approval of infrastructure
projects.  ‘It’s Been Bad’  India’s industrial output probably shrank 1 percent in
February, according to a Bloomberg survey before data due April
12. The  Reserve Bank  of India reduced its repurchase rate by 25
basis points each in January and March. The next review is
scheduled for May 3.  “Be it interest rates, inflation or fuel price, you take
any factor that has impact on consumer buying behavior, it’s
been bad,” said S. Sandilya, president of the manufacturer
group. “Having said that, there’s hope. We’ve seen people going
from very small cars to larger cars because of affordability.”  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , India’s biggest carmaker by sales
volume, may begin building a new factory as early as next
quarter, to add capacity and access ports on the nation’s west
coast. Ford is also investing almost $1 billion in a new factory
in Gujarat that will be complete by 2014.  Two-Wheelers  Ford will introduce its EcoSport compact SUV this year,
while  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  will introduce the Amaze, its first model
in the country with a diesel engine tomorrow.  Two-wheeler sales are expected to increase between 6 and 8
percent in the year started April, after expanding 2.9 percent
to 13.8 million units the previous period, according to the
manufacturer group. Commercial vehicle sales, including those of
trucks and buses, may gain as much as 9 percent, the group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  