-- Investor Missteps Studied by FCA in Quest for Better U.K. Rules
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-04-10T12:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/investor-missteps-studied-by-fca-in-quest-for-better-u-k-rules.html
Britain’s Financial Conduct
Authority will tap into behavioral economics to bolster
regulation of markets through better knowledge of common
blunders by financial consumers, such as overconfidence in their
ability to pick winning stocks.  The FCA, which replaced the Financial Services Authority on
April 1, released two reports today signaling its intention to
apply the discipline to its work, including the results of
its first field study.  “Some errors made by consumers are persistent and
predictable,” FCA chief executive Martin Wheatley said in the
foreword to one of the papers. The field “can help the FCA
assess problems in financial markets better, choose more
appropriate financial remedies and be a more effective
regulator.”  Regulators on both sides of the Atlantic have applied
behavioral economics to improve their understanding of people’s
financial choices. Behaviorists reject the assumptions in
conventional economics that people always choose the best option
for themselves, and study what motivates good and bad decisions.  The FCA’s research team includes former Yale and Harvard
behaviorist Stefan Hunt, while the U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau has put the field to work when writing rules
for mortgages, credit cards and payday loans. Hunt was one of
the authors of the two FCA papers released today.  Stock Picking  The first FCA paper, “Applying Behavioral Economics at the
Financial Conduct Authority,” outlined trends that
regulators can spot. Those include projection bias or the
difficulty consumers have in working out their future ability to
repay loans; and overconfidence, an “excessive belief in one’s
ability to pick winning stocks,” researchers wrote in  Recognizing such biases can help the FCA ban products that
are exploitative, or force firms to provide information that
allows consumers to make an informed choice.  The second paper revealed the results of a so-called
randomized controlled trial, examining how customers responded
to real letters informing them of a company’s sales failures.  Letters with clear bullet points and simplified language
increased responses, while including an executive’s signature
reduced them, according to researchers. They didn’t identify the
firm concerned. “Subtle changes to the presentation of
information can have large effects,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  