-- Mirae to Cut Half of Hong Kong Brokerage Jobs as Trade Falls
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-04-10T06:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/mirae-asset-to-cut-half-of-hong-kong-payrolls-as-trading-falls.html
Mirae Asset Securities Co. (037620) , the
brokerage affiliate of South Korea’s second-largest money
manager, will eliminate half of its 38 jobs in Hong Kong after
stock trading in the city fell.  The timing of the cuts is yet to be determined, Choi Jong
Hyun, a Seoul-based spokesman for the firm, said in an e-mailed
response to queries today. Average daily turnover by value on
the Hong Kong exchange fell 23 percent last year to HK$53.9
billion ($6.9 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks around the world reduced employment in equities last
year as declining trading volume reduced revenue while the
growth of automated stock and options transactions squeezed
margins. Firms including  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Japan’s
second-largest brokerage, and Samsung Securities Co. cut jobs in
Hong Kong in 2012 after expanding in the region.  “Most banks and securities firms appear to have completed
their downsizing last year, so it doesn’t seem like we’re seeing
another trend of job cuts emerging,” Kenny Tang, general
manager of AMTD Financial Planning Ltd., said by phone today.
“If the stock market recovers, we may actually see some foreign
securities firms expand in Hong Kong again.”  Mirae Asset Securities had about 1,880 employees in South
Korea at the end of last year, and an undisclosed number in
units abroad in countries such as Brazil, the U.S., the U.K. and
Vietnam. Its Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. affiliate
oversees about $49 billion of funds.  Shares in Mirae Asset Securities climbed 3.9 percent to
42,400 won in Seoul today, joining other South Korean brokerages
in gains as lawmakers continued work on revising capital market
rules.  Recruitment Slows  The number of financial services job opportunities in Hong
Kong fell 24 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
eFinancialCareers said today. That compares with a 20 percent
drop in the Asia-Pacific region, according to a report based on
postings on the recruitment website.  “The Hong Kong market is very much driven by the property
market,” which the government is trying to cool, said Yoji Takeda, who oversees about $1.5 billion as head of Asian
equities at RBC Investment Management (Asia) Ltd. “General
interest of investors going forward is in developed markets.
Hong Kong is a China-related market and driven by China
interest.”  Global financial firms have announced more than 150,000 job
cuts since the start of last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as they grapple with a weakened euro-area economy and
increased pressure from regulators to raise more capital and
trim compensation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  