-- Iran Ends Rescue Efforts After Bushehr Quake Kills 37
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-04-10T13:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/iran-ends-rescue-effort-after-bushehr-earthquake-kills-37-people.html
Iran  ended rescue efforts in
Bushehr province, home to a nuclear plant, following a 6.1
earthquake yesterday that killed 37 people, state media said.  More than 950 people were injured when the quake hit the
town of Kaki, 160 kilometers (100 miles) from the plant, and
about 800 houses were destroyed or damaged, state television
reported today. Iran announced three days of mourning in the
southern province on the  Persian Gulf .  “There is no one else left under the rubble,” said
Mahmoud Mozafar, head of relief and rescue at Iran’s Red
Crescent Society, according to the Fars news agency. “Relief
operations in other areas are ongoing.”  The government has set up tents for about 1,000 people and
is distributing food, Mozafar said. Power and phone services
have been restored, Mohammad-Hassan Nami, the communication and
information technology minister, was cited as saying by  state
television  on its website.  The Russian-built Bushehr nuclear plant -- the country’s
only operational facility -- is safe, Iranian officials said
yesterday. The facility can withstand a magnitude 9 earthquake,
state-run Ria Novosti news service said yesterday, citing an
unidentified official in a company that helped design the plant.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said late yesterday
that it was informed by Iran that there was no damage to the
plant or subsequent radioactive release. The agency said that
based on analysis from its own safety center as well as the
Iranian statement, it’s not asking Iran for further information.  According to the Iranian Seismological Center, the quake
hit at 4:22 p.m. local time and was followed by at least four
aftershocks. The region was again struck by a 5.6 magnitude
earthquake early today, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said.  Iran sits on several  fault lines  and is frequently hit by
earthquakes. An estimated 40,000 people were killed in 2003 when
a temblor flattened the city of Bam in the southern province of
Kerman. In August, two quakes struck near the north-western city
of Tabriz killing over 200 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  