-- Iraq Revises Its Oil Reserves to 150 Billion Barrels
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-04-10T15:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/iraq-revises-its-oil-reserves-to-150-billion-barrels.html
Iraq has increased its own estimate
for its crude reserves by almost 5 percent to 150 billion
barrels, Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said.  The government raised its figure from 143.1 billion
barrels, Luaibi told reporters in Baghdad. “The increase comes
from the Dima oil field and some new studies in some  oil fields ,
and we will soon announce the details,” he said. Asim Jihad,
the ministry’s spokesman, said on Jan. 21 that oil producers
have discovered 1 billion barrels of light crude reserves at
Dima in southern Iraq.  Iraq produces 3.15 million barrels a day of crude and will
increase output by a further 135,000 barrels a day by the end of
June, Al-Luaibi said. The Majnoon oil field will produce 100,000
barrels a day from May and the Ghaffar field 35,000 barrels a
day starting in June, he said.  Majnoon’s output will rise to 175,000 barrels a day by the
end of the year, the minister said. The field in southern Iraq
is developed by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  Gharraf is operated by
Petroliam Nasional Bhd and  Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1662)   The Middle Eastern country has sought foreign investment
and expertise to generate the exports needed to pay for
rebuilding an economy and infrastructure destroyed by decades of
war, sanctions and sabotage. The nation awarded oil and gas
exploration licenses to companies such as Shell, Total SA and BP
Plc after the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 ousted the regime of
former President  Saddam Hussein .  The Oil Ministry’s figure for reserves doesn’t include
deposits in the semi-autonomous Kurdish region in the north of
the country. The Kurdistan Regional Government estimates that
its territories hold 45 billion barrels of oil.  Iraq has additional deposits that may bring its total
reserves to 214 billion barrels, Hussain al-Shahristani, the
country’s deputy prime minister for energy affairs, said at a
conference in London on April 18, 2012.  Iraq has the world’s fifth-biggest reserves, according to
BP’s Statistical Review of World Energy. Venezuela,  Saudi Arabia 
and Canada have the largest deposits including  oil sands  and
heavy oil deposits, according to the review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in  Baghdad  at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  