-- Irish, Portuguese Bailout Loans Should Be Extended 7 Years
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-10T11:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/irish-portuguese-loans-should-be-extended-7-years-troika-says.html
Bailout loans to Ireland and
 Portugal  should be extended by seven years to aid each country’s
return to the market, the nations’ international creditors said.  The so-called troika and the European Financial Stability
Facility made the recommendation in a joint report before a
meeting of European Union finance ministers in Dublin on April
12-13, when further measures to help Ireland and Portugal are to
be discussed.  The troika and the EFSF “would advocate to extend the
maximum average maturity by seven years as it appears to be the
best compromise accommodating the constraints and preferences of
debtors and creditors,” said the report, which was distributed
to German lawmakers and seen by  Bloomberg News . “Given the
current volatility in the markets, quick implementation is
recommended to maximize benefits in shielding Ireland and
Portugal from possible contagion effects.”  EU finance ministers agreed last month to ask for
recommendations on the “best possible option” for helping
Ireland and Portugal regain full market access as they near the
end of their rescue programs. Euro-area finance ministers will
try to reach an agreement on extending rescue-loan maturities
for Ireland and Portugal when they meet in Dublin, Dutch Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said.  April or May  If no agreement can be reached in Dublin, “it will be done
a month later,” when finance ministers convene in Brussels,
Dijsselbloem, who chairs the meetings, said in  The Hague .  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  has said that while
an extension of bailout loans from European authorities will be
discussed at the informal meeting in Dublin, no decisions are
expected. Any maturity extensions would require approval of the
German parliament and a decision in Dublin would be too early,
 Germany ’s  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Resolving the issue now allows the authorities to plan
and communicate issuance requirements to the market with more
certainty,” the troika said in the report. Extending the
average maximum maturity of the European bailout loans to the
two countries by seven years was one of five options considered
by EFSF and the bailout partners, the European Commission, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank .  Ireland aims to exit its three-year bailout program at the
end of this year, while Portugal’s rescue program ends in May
2014. While both countries have returned to bond markets since
entering their rescue programs, Portugal’s “market access can
only be considered as limited and opportunistic,” according to
the report.  Moody’s Rating  Non-performing loans at Irish banks remain a “key concern
to market participants” given the risk that a capital shortfall
would generate additional liabilities for the sovereign. Ireland
injected or pledged about 64 billion ($84 billion) euros to
rescue its banks and requested a bailout in 2010 when mounting
bad loans at the lenders overwhelmed the state’s ability to cope
alone.  The report also cited potential advantages from extending
the loans for Ireland’s credit rating from Moody’s Investors
Service. Moody’s is the only one of the three big ratings
companies that has Ireland on a non-investment rating, Ba1,
which constrains some investors from buying Irish debt.  “Moody’s has stated that an extension of the maturities
of the EFSF/EFSM loans would be a strongly supporting factor for
revising their current stance, an important component of durable
 market access ,” the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 Fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  