-- Iron Ore’s $250 Billion Glut Pressures Rio to Vale: Commodities
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-04-11T15:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/iron-ore-s-250-billion-glut-pressures-rio-to-vale-commodities.html
The world’s biggest  iron-ore 
producers are planning $250 billion of new mines, threatening to
deepen a price slump for the commodity already forecast to drop
for at least the next three years.  Mining companies are facing growing investor pressure to
defer or cancel projects to stem price declines.  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO) , the second-largest iron ore exporter, will decide on one
of the biggest industry expansions in  Western Australia  in the
second half. A decision to delay would boost its earnings in
2015 by $3.7 billion, according to Liberum Capital Ltd.  The  price  of iron ore, the most shipped commodity after
oil, more than tripled in the past decade, encouraging the
biggest mining companies to boost output. That was before a
surge in Chinese steel output that drove the  bull market  through
2011 started to wane. Given iron ore operations made up 78
percent of Rio’s earnings last year and more than 90 percent at
 Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE5) , producers are being forced to review plans.  “It’s the most important issue the  mining industry  is
facing today -- whether or not to collectively act to destroy
the single greatest source of value generation,” said Paul Gait, a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
“Getting this right and not repeating the mistakes of the past
is absolutely key.”  Investors should be concerned. According to Credit Suisse
Group AG, over the last three years, 80 percent of the time iron
ore prices have fallen European mining companies have
underperformed.  Over-Enthusiastic Investing  “We’ve been putting as much pressure as possible on
management teams to rein in some of the over-enthusiastic
investing of the cash-flow they’ve been making over the last few
years,”  Evy Hambro , manager of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $10 billion
World Mining Fund which includes investments in the four biggest
iron ore exporters, told Bloomberg Television in a March 27
interview.  Rio has approved a $5.9 billion expansion of port and rail
facilities in Western Australia to boost export capacity to 360
million tons a year from 290 million tons. A decision on the
mining part of the expansion is yet to be made.  It may cost $3.5 billion, add 6 percent to global supplies
and trim prices as much as $18 a ton in 2015, Liberum said.
That’s equivalent to 13 percent of the current price. New
supplies and slower growth in steel demand will weigh on prices
in the second half, said Greg Lilleyman, the head of Rio’s
operations in Pilbara.  “In terms of new projects, if prices are lower moving
forward than the period we’ve just come from, they’re not going
to be easy,” he said at a conference in Perth on March 19.  A spokesman for  Rio Tinto  declined to comment on whether
the company will defer the Pilbara expansion.  Pricing Environment  “BHP, Vale and Rio all need to get with the program
here,” Bernstein’s Gait said. “It’s much better for them to
preserve the current pricing environment and keep prices high
rather than invest billions and billions of dollars of capex
simply to chase price downwards.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is expanding its Jimblebar mine in
Western Australia to add 35 million tons of capacity next year.
The company is looking “forward to approving one of the lowest
capital costs expansion opportunities in the iron ore
industry,” Chief Financial Officer Graham Kerr said Feb. 20.  A spokesman for Melbourne-based BHP declined to comment on
whether the third-biggest exporter was considering scaling back
plans.  Hugely Profitable  “You can have the view that perhaps if you hadn’t brought
all this supply online than the price would’ve stayed higher,”
Kerr said yesterday at the Bloomberg Economic Summit in Sydney.
“The reality is that someone else would’ve produced the tons to
the market. Even if prices do come down in iron ore in the next
four of five years it will still be a hugely profitable business
for us.”  Vale’s Serra Sul project, part of the Carajas mining
complex in northern Brazil, is the industry’s most expensive
project at almost $20 billion. It will add 90 million tons of
capacity from late 2016. Vale’s press office in  Rio de Janeiro 
declined to comment on whether the company will defer expansion
plans.  Still, the three biggest suppliers, responsible for about
60 percent of global exports, are producing at low enough costs
to deliver significant profits at current prices, according to
BlackRock’s Hambro.  Phenomenal Price  “If you are producing iron ore for $30 or $40 a ton and
the price is a $130 or $150 or $100, it is a phenomenal price,”
he said. “You are making huge margins and if you are a Rio
Tinto or a BHP and you’re producing hundreds of millions of tons
that’s a gigantic amount of cash-flow.”  The price of iron ore delivered to  China , the world’s
biggest buyer, will drop 20 percent to $110 a ton in 2015,
according to the median of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
It will average $125 this year and $115 in 2014, according to
the analyst estimates.  Prices have dropped 12 percent since reaching a 15-month
high of $158.90 a ton on Feb. 20 as China’s industrial output
had the weakest start to a year since 2009 and concern rose that
curbs on construction in the country will reduce demand for iron
ore.  Great Wall  Iron ore with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin rose 0.2 percent to $140.90 a dry ton today,
according to the Steel Index Ltd. The “great wall” of new
supply may see prices drop as low as $80 a ton by 2018,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Progressively from 2014 to 2017 it will grow into a
surplus,” Edwin Basson, director general of the World Steel
Association, told reporters today at a briefing in  London . Vale,
Rio and BHP “will do what they need to do on their side.
Clearly it will not come without a cost and this is an
individual decision they will have to take.”  The 50 largest undeveloped projects could more than double
global seaborne supplies by adding 1.4 billion tons of
production at a cost of $246 billion, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a March 19 report. The list of projects is primarily
comprised of those planned though not yet funded.  The three most significant planned new mines are by Rio in
Western Australia, Vale’s Carrajas venture and  Fortescue Metals
Group Ltd. (FMG) ’s Kings project, also in Western Australia, according
to Liberum Capital.  “The incentive for major producers to under-deliver on
expected production is high,” said  Richard Knights , an analyst
at Liberum. Vale and London-based Rio are the most likely to
delay new projects, he said.  The market will shift from a deficit this year to a surplus
of as much as 150 million tons next year, growing to more than
200 million tons in 2015 and 2016, Credit Suisse analysts Andrew Shaw and Marcus Garvey wrote in an April 3 report. Goldman Sachs
estimates a surplus of 112 million tons in 2014 compared with a
forecast deficit of 4 million tons this year.  Last Resort  “Clearly, such an overload is unsustainable,” the Credit
Suisse analysts said. “There is no market of last resort beyond
leaving the ore in the ground.”  Some producers have already started to respond to the
deteriorating outlook for prices. Last year BHP, the biggest
mining company, shelved a planned expansion of a harbor in
Western Australia, estimated to cost $22 billion by Credit
Suisse.  BHP, Rio and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  reported lower profits in
February on rising costs and waning global growth. The CEOs of
those three including Rio’s Tom Albanese have quit or announced
plans to depart after investors criticized them for the
acquisition of assets whose value was later written down.  Rio’s former head of iron ore  Sam Walsh  replaced Albanese
on Jan. 17 after his predecessor quit following a $14 billion
writedown on the value of takeovers including a $38 billion cash
deal for Alcan Inc. in 2007.  “It’s a key test for Sam Walsh,” Bernstein’s Gait said.
“The value impact of destroying the iron ore market is worse
than the value impact of Alcan. He can either go down in history
as the guy who destroyed more value than Tom Albanese or he can
curtail production.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  