-- Italian Yields Decline as Investors Shrug Off Political Crisis
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-04-11T10:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/italy-sells-bonds-with-debt-level-approaching-postwar-record.html
Italian borrowing costs dropped at
an auction of 7.17 billion euros ($9.38 billion) of bonds today
as investors shrug off risks tied to the country’s political
crisis.  Italy sold 4 billion euros of a new 2.25% 2016 bond at 2.29
percent, down from the 2.48 percent on similar maturing debt
March 13. Investors bid 1.40 times the amount of the new three-
year bond offered, up from 1.28 times last month.  The Rome-based treasury also sold longer-term debt, placing
1.67 billion euros of 4.75% 2028 bonds and 1.5 billion euros of
floating-rate 2017 bonds to yield respectively 4.68 percent and
2.74 percent. Italy sold a total of 7.17 billion euros of debt,
near the 7.5 billion-euro maximum target.  “The auction was smoothly absorbed,” Annalisa Piazza, a
fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said by e-mail
after the auction. “That said, markets are currently not
pricing in domestic risks on the political side.”  Italy’s February election failed to produce a parliamentary
majority, leaving Prime Minister  Mario Monti  as a caretaker
until a new administration can be formed. Monti said yesterday
 Italy’s debt  will reach a post-war record of 130.4 percent this
year as the euro region’s third-biggest economy borrows to help
contribute to bailouts and pay arrears to government suppliers.  Budget Deficit  Monti said undoing his economic policy would be a mistake
and the country’s improved credibility “can be undermined
quickly.” The government managed to keep its budget deficit
within the EU’s limit of 3 percent of GDP, easing some of the
concern over the debt level.  Even if the rise of the debt-to-GDP ratio may be a concern
for markets, “the increase in the debt does not reflect a
genuine deterioration of the fiscal stance and should not come
as a surprise,” Loredana Federico, a Milan-based economist for
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in a note this week.  Italy sold one-year bills yesterday at the lowest rate
since January and paid a record low yield to place three-month
debt. Today’s sale was probably helped by 16.7 billion euros of
bond redemptions due on April 15.  Italian  government bonds  stayed little changed after the
sale, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year bond at 4.31
percent.  Presidential Choice  While Italy awaits a new government, talks between
political parties are focusing on the election of the successor
to Italian President Giorgio Napolitano. Parliamentary voting
for the presidency starts as soon as April 18.  A possible compromise on Napolitano’s successor between
former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty
Party and Pier Luigi Bersani’s  Democratic Party  may be the first
step in forging a coalition government.  Bersani won a majority in the Chamber of Deputies in the
Feb. 24-25 vote, while falling short in the Senate, where
Berlusconi has a blocking minority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  