-- Italian Industrial Output Fell in February as Recession Lingers
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-04-10T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/italian-industrial-output-fell-in-february-as-recession-lingers.html
Italian industrial  output  fell more
than expected in February, signalling the country may still be
mired in its longest recession in two decades.  Production decreased 0.8 percent from January, when it rose
a revised 1 percent, national statistics office  Istat  said in
 Rome  today. Economists forecast a monthly decline in February of
0.5 percent, according to the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Production in the euro region’s third-biggest  economy 
declined 0.2 percent in the first quarter from the previous
three months as export growth failed to offset the effect of
falling domestic demand, employers lobby Confindustria forecast
on March 28. Such a contraction may mean Italy’s recession,
already the longest since 1993, extended to its seventh quarter.  On March 21 the Rome-based Treasury forecast the Italian
economy will shrink 1.3 percent this year. That projection
compares with a March 8 estimate by Fitch Ratings of a decline
of 1.8 percent.  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, sees the domestic
car market falling and “worsening day after day” amid lower
 consumer spending , Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne 
said yesterday at the company’s annual shareholders’ meeting in
Turin.  In an effort to help the economy rebound, outgoing Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s government approved last week a plan to
make 40 billion euros ($52 billion) in arrears payments to
private companies.  The monthly fall in industrial output was led by declines
in production of transport vehicles, electrical equipment and
other manufacturing, today’s report showed. Output fell an
annual 3.8 percent on a workday-adjusted basis, Istat said.  Istat originally reported a 0.8 percent rise of production
for January.  -- With assistance from Giovanni Salzano. Editor:  Andrew Davis ,
Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  