-- Italy Sells 11 Billion Euros of Bills as Rates Drop at Auction
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-04-10T09:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/italy-sells-11-billion-euros-of-bills-as-rates-drop-at-auction.html
Italian borrowing costs declined at
an auction of 11 billion euros ($14.4 billion) of Treasury bills
as the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s unprecedented stimulus pushes investors
to search for higher returns in  Europe .  The Rome-based Treasury sold 8 billion euros of one-year
bills today at 0.922 percent, the lowest since January and down
from 1.28 percent at an auction on March 12. Investors bid for
1.64 times the amount offered, up from 1.5 times last month. The
Treasury also sold 3 billion euros of 91-day bills at 0.243
percent. Investors bid for 1.9 times the amount of the three-
month debt offered. Today’s auction was probably helped by 8.8
billion euros of bill redemptions this week.  Unprecedented monetary easing by  Japan  is helping to
neutralize the impact of Cypriot bank meltdowns and  Italy ’s
political stalemate.  “Europe has clearly benefited from Japan’s aggressive
quantitative easing,” Mario Spreafico, who manages 1.5 billion
euros as chief investment officer at Schroders Private Banking
for Italy, said in an interview before the sale. “We are seeing
some bargain hunting.”  Italy’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 4.35
percent after the sale at 11:10 a.m. in Rome. The yield fell to
a six-week low of 4.26 percent on April 8.  ’Constructive Dialog’  The Treasury returns to the market tomorrow with the sale
of as much as 7.5 billion euros of longer-maturity bonds.  “Total supply this week is relatively large for a mid-
month auction, but signs of a more constructive dialog between
the two largest political parties on the election of the new
president and the formation of a grand coalition government
should provide a measure of support to the market,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at Mizuho International Plc,
said in a report this week.  The country has faced political gridlock since February
when the  Democratic Party  led by Pier Luigi Bersani fell short
of winning both houses of Parliament in national elections.
Bersani failed in his first attempt to form a government and
there is little chance of progress before a new President is
elected. President Giorgio Napolitano’s seven-year term ends in
mid May and parliament will meet as soon as April 18 to choose
his successor.  Arrears Payments  Italian Prime Minister Monti’s caretaker government is
under pressure to bring relief to the corporate sector while
keeping the deficit within the European Union’s limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product. On April 6 his cabinet
approved the payment of 40 billion euros owed by the government
to private companies in an effort to spur a recovery in the
recession-hit country.  In the short- to medium-term “the plan may significantly
contribute to stabilizing Italy’s private sector and will also
most likely benefit domestic lenders,” Gianluca Ziglio, fixed-
income strategist at Sunrise Brokers, wrote in a note to clients
this week. “Questions remain open about the next government’s
ability to implement a significant rationalization of both
central and local public spending.”  The impact of the arrears plan in terms of gross issuance
should be modest and could lead to an increase of 10 to 15
billion euros in additional bond supply on top of the currently
estimated 160 billion euros of gross issuance for this year,
Ziglio said. Part of the amount could be also raised through
other instruments such as selling a retail bond known as BTP
Italia. The Treasury is set to hold the fourth sale of the bonds
on April 15-18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  