-- Italy’s Debt to Rise to Record in 2013 as Recession Lingers
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-04-10T13:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/italy-s-debt-to-rise-to-record-this-year-as-recession-lingers.html
Italy’s  debt  will reach a postwar
record this year as the recession-hit country borrows to
contribute to bailouts and pay arrears to suppliers.  The public debt will rise to 130.4 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 from 127 percent last year, Prime
Minister Mario Monti’s office said in a statement after his
Cabinet reviewed its budget plan. The budget deficit will drop
to 2.9 percent of GDP this year, putting Italy within the
European Union’s 3 percent limit.  “Many are suggesting we change strategy in the management
of public finance,” Monti said at a press conference in Rome.
“Discipline in public finances needs to be maintained in the
years to come. Only if  Italy  stays out of the procedure for
excessive deficit will it be able undertake actions needed for
the country, like the recent payment of public administration
debts.”  The government forecasts that the euro region’s third-
biggest  economy  will contract 1.3 percent this year, before
expanding by the same amount next year and by 1.5 percent in
2015, Finance Minister Vittorio Grilli told reporters in Rome
today.  Even with the deficit falling and the country projecting a
primary surplus of 2.4 percent for this year, Italy’s debt load,
the second biggest in  Europe  after Greece, will still increase.
The debt level was inflated by a plan passed this month to make
40 billion euros ($52 billion) in payments over the next two
years owed to government suppliers.  The costs of contributing to bailouts of  Greece ,  Portugal 
and Ireland also boosted the debt load. Excluding bailout costs,
Italy’s total borrowing would be 126.9 percent of GDP in 2013,
up from 124.3 percent last year.  ’Structural Weaknesses’  Italy, with a caretaker government after February’s
election failed to produce a clear winner, is plagued by
“longstanding structural weaknesses” such as high government
debt, the European Commission said today in a  report . That
“weighs on the country’s growth prospects through several
channels, in particular the high tax burden needed to service
the debt.”  The Treasury will spend 5.3 percent of GDP this year to
finance the debt, or approximately 83 billion euros, the
government said in today’s statement.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 2 basis point to
4.33 percent and is now below the level prior to the February
elections that left Monti’s caretaker government still in power.  The government expects to achieve 30 billion euros in
savings between 2012 and 2015 from its review of spending and
sees revenue of almost 1 percent of GDP a year from asset sales
between 2013 and 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Davis in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  