-- Lithuania to Start Treasury Index as Local Borrowing Increases
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-04-10T12:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/lithuania-to-start-treasury-index-as-local-borrowing-increases.html
Lithuania ’s central bank unveiled
an index for tracking domestic Treasury bonds and bills in order
to make the market more transparent as the Baltic nation’s
government increases its reliance on local borrowing.  The daily values of the index, which reflects the price
movements of all publicly traded litas-denominated government
debt securities, will be published once a week on the Bank of
Lithuania website before Treasury auctions, which usually take
place on Mondays, the central bank in Vilnius said today.  “This is a good idea, there’s been a lack of a benchmark
index,” Vladas Zaborovskis, a fund manager at SEB in Tallinn,
 Estonia , said in e-mailed remarks. “People have been using a
variety of things to try to track the market.”  Lithuania plans to double the proportion of its domestic
borrowing to 75 percent this year, Finance Minister Rimantas Sadzius said in a February interview. After January’s 400
million-euro ($524 million) tap of a 2018 bond, the country may
stay out of the international market for the rest of this year,
he said.  Historical data  show yesterday’s value of 1,508 was the
highest since the base date of Jan. 1, 2006, when the index
opened at 1,000.  Improving Liquidity  “I think in the past they relied too heavily on
eurobonds,” Zaborovskis, who co-manages 64 million euros of
assets in the SEB Eastern Europe Bond Fund, said. “A high
dependence on external financing may occasionally backfire, and
developing the local market and improving liquidity is also
beneficial.”  The record level of the new index is due partly to Fitch
Ratings’ April 5 decision to raise Lithuania’s credit rating one
step to BBB+, Mindaugas Vaiciulis, head of the central bank
division responsible for the index, said by phone.  It also reflects low interest rates for the euro, to which
Lithuania’s currency is pegged, Vaiciulis said.  The Finance Ministry sells debt securities weekly on the
Nasdaq OMX Vilnius exchange. On April 8 it sold a nominal 45
million litai ($17 million) of October 2019 bonds price to yield
an average 3.039 percent, down from 3.05 percent when it last
tapped the issue on Jan. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  