-- Ivory Coast’s Ouattara Set to Rule by Decree on Economic Issues
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-04-10T16:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-set-to-rule-by-decree-on-economic-issues.html
Lawmakers in Ivory Coast, the
world’s biggest cocoa producer, approved powers allowing
President Alassane Ouattara to issue decrees on economic and
social decisions this year in a bid to quicken the pace of
development.  The bill for so-called rule by ordinance was approved by
178 lawmakers, Sarah Sakho Fadika, first vice-president of the
National Assembly, said in Abidjan, the commercial capital,
today. Four voted against and one abstained, she said. The
coalition that backed Ouattara in the 2010 presidential election
has a majority in parliament.  The move aims “to give the president the means to achieve
his economic and social program,” Yves Ibrahima Kone, president
of the parliament’s economic and financial affairs commission,
told lawmakers before the vote. Ouattara is seeking growth in
the $24 billion economy of 9 percent this year from 9.8 percent
in 2012, according to the Finance Ministry.  Ivory Coast is recovering from a five-month crisis sparked
by a disputed presidential election in November 2010. Cocoa and
coffee exports halted and banks and businesses closed during the
standoff that left at least 3,000 people dead.  The International Monetary Fund, which along with the World
Bank wrote off $4.4 billion of Ivorian debt last year, said in a
statement on March 27 there have been delays in “restructuring
the public sector, in regularizing domestic debt and in adopting
a new electricity code.”  The president’s decrees will still need to be ratified
later in the year by the National Assembly, according to a draft
of the bill handed to reporters.  Yields on Ivory Coast’s $2.5 billion Eurobonds due December
2032 declined for a fifth day, falling 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 6.72 percent by 3:43 p.m. in Abidjan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  