-- Japan Reaches Fishing Agreement With Taiwan Over China Objection
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-04-10T11:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/japan-reaches-fishing-agreement-with-taiwan-over-china-objection.html
Japan  and  Taiwan  agreed to allow
Taiwanese fisherman access to Japanese administered waters near
islands also claimed by China, which objected to the deal.  The agreement is aimed at furthering peace in the  East
China Sea , said Mitsuo Ohashi, head of the Japan Interchange
Association that serves as the de facto embassy in the absence
of formal diplomatic ties. The agreement covers an overlapping
economic zone and doesn’t involve areas that the two sides both
claim is their territory, Taiwanese Foreign Minister David Lin
said today.  “We are seriously concerned over Taiwan’s signing relevant
fishery agreements with other countries,” Chinese Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing in Beijing today.
“We hope the relevant country can truly honor its commitment on
Taiwan-related issues and prudently handle such issues.”  The deal comes seven months after Japan’s Coast Guard used
water cannons to drive off about 50 Taiwanese boats near
uninhabited islands claimed by both governments as well as by
 China . The dispute intensified after Japan bought the islands in
September, prompting protests in China and damaging a $340
billion trade relationship between  Asia ’s two biggest economies.  Taiwanese activists have tried to land on the islands,
known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, to assert
sovereignty. China also considers Taiwan a renegade province.  Planes and ships from China and Japan have shadowed each
other for months around the islands, which lie in an area rich
in fish, oil and natural gas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  