-- Japan Stock Futures Rise as Yen Drops, BOJ Reiterates Stimulus
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-10T23:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/japan-stock-futures-rise-as-yen-drops-boj-reiterates-stimulus.html
Japanese stock futures rose as the
yen sank to the weakest level in almost four years after the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  reiterated its intention to maintain a stimulus
program. Australian equity futures advanced.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese
camera maker that gets 80 percent of sales abroad, gained 2.1
percent. ADRs of Sharp Corp. advanced 5.7 percent as the Nikkei
newspaper reported profit at the electronics manufacturer will
exceed it forecasts. ADRs of Woodside Petroleum added 1 percent
as Australia’s second-biggest oil producer was among gains by
companies with earnings closely tied to economic growth.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June closed at 13,515 in Chicago yesterday, up from 13,290 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
13,480 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.8 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index rose 0.3 percent.  “The odds are clearly stacked in favor of a continued
rally in  Japan ,” said Mikio Kumada, Hong Kong-based global
strategist for LGT Capital Management, which oversees more than
$25 billion. The BOJ “has essentially scrapped existing rules
and programs, replacing them with straightforward and expanded
open-market purchases. This bold economic-policy shift has the
potential to sustain the rebound.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, climbed the past five months on speculation
Japan would unleash more stimulus and amid signs the  U.S.
economy  is recovering. That left the measure trading yesterday
at 13.8 times average estimated earnings compared with 14.3 for
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 12.6 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BOJ Stimulus  Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the central
bank will take all steps necessary to meet a 2 percent inflation
target even as he indicated policy adjustments are unlikely
every month. The  European Central Bank  will keep rates low and
continue injecting liquidity into the banking system, Governing
Council member  Christian Noyer  said on Europe 1 radio.  “The biggest commitment is that we will take all necessary
measures,” Kuroda told reporters in Tokyo yesterday, six days
after announcing unprecedented stimulus to double the monetary
base over two years.  The yen fell to 99.80 per dollar. The prospect of the
currency weakening to 130 per dollar isn’t unreasonable,
Jonathan Beinner of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York said on
Bloomberg Television.  Fed Minutes  Several Federal Reserve officials said the central bank
should taper its bond-buying program later this year and stop it
by the end of 2013 if labor-market conditions improve, according
to minutes from the central bank’s March meeting released
yesterday. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 8 that
economic conditions were far from where he would like them to
be.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The measure yesterday climbed 1.2 percent, to a record,
as a report showed China’s imports grew, Japan reiterated its
stimulus plans and investors speculated earnings will beat
estimates.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1 percent in New York
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  