-- Jenner Said to Raise $100 Million for Health-Care Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-04-10T16:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/jenner-said-to-raise-100-million-for-health-care-fund.html
Kris Jenner, the former top stock
picker at T. Rowe Price Group Inc., has raised more than $100
million for a hedge fund to invest in health-care and
biotechnology stocks, according to a person with knowledge of
his plans.  Jenner will start the fund, named Rock Springs Capital and
based in Baltimore, later this year and is continuing to seek
commitments from investors, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the information isn’t public. Jenner will run the
fund with Mark Bussard and Graham McPhail, former T. Rowe Price
analysts who left with Jenner in February, the person said.
Jenner declined to comment on the fund.  Jenner, 51, had run T. Rowe Price’s $5.8 billion  Health
Sciences Fund (PRHSX)  since 2000 and beat 83 percent of peers in the
five years before he left, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund was T. Rowe Price’s best performer during
that period, returning an annual average 13 percent.  “What’s distinctive about Kris Jenner is not just his
medical and scientific background, but also his ability to
connect the dots and see how different information is related,”
Leonard Bell, chief executive officer of Cheshire, Connecticut-
based  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN) , said in an interview.  Jenner held  Alexion shares  for more than a decade. T. Rowe
Price was Alexion’s second-biggest shareholder with a 9.5
percent stake as of Dec. 31, according to regulatory filings.  Medical Degree  Jenner earned a medical degree from  Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine  in Baltimore, then a Ph.D. in
molecular biology from Oxford University in  England . He
graduated summa cum laude from the  University of Illinois  at
Urbana-Champaign, where he was a backup quarterback on the
school’s football team.  He joined T. Rowe in 1997 and took over the Health Sciences
Fund in 2000. He has a reputation for finding lesser-known
pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms developing innovative
therapies,  Christopher Davis , an analyst at Chicago-based fund
research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in an interview after
Jenner’s departure from Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price.  Jenner’s is raising money following a period of strong
returns for the health-care industry, according to  Andrew Berens , a senior biotechnology analyst at Bloomberg Industries
in Skillman,  New Jersey . U.S. health-care stocks, as measured by
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Health Care Index, have gained 36
percent since the end of 2011, compared with a 26 percent
increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Health care is the hottest new launch sector we see,”
Omeed Malik, head of the emerging-managers program that advises
fund start-ups at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch in  New
York , said in an interview.  Short Sales  Rock Springs Capital will have significantly the same
investing strategy as his former fund at T. Rowe Price, the
person said. Moving to a hedge-fund strategy will give Jenner
the ability not only to invest in companies he believes will
rise in value, but also to bet against companies he believes
will fall, a practice known as short selling. Most mutual funds
aren’t allowed to short stocks.  Hedge funds  typically charge clients about 2 percent of
assets annually and 20 percent of profits. Jenner’s former
mutual fund charges shareholders 0.84 percent annually,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  T. Rowe appointed Taymour Tamaddon, formerly an analyst at
the firm, to replace Jenner as manager of the Health Sciences
Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  