-- Jewell Confirmed by Senate as Interior Secretary
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-04-10T21:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/jewell-confirmed-by-senate-as-interior-secretary.html
Sally Jewell, an outdoor-equipment
executive and former petroleum engineer and commercial banker,
won Senate confirmation to become U.S. Interior secretary in a 
bipartisan  Senate vote.  Jewell’s nomination won approval today 87-11.  The chief executive officer of outfitter Recreational
Equipment Inc., Jewell pledged in her confirmation hearing to
balance conflicting demands in using federal land for
recreation, conservation, mining and forestry.  “She is the right person to oversee the multitude of
programs” in the Interior Department, Oregon Democrat  Ron
Wyden , chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, said before the vote. “She understands there is an
enormous challenge to balance these dual roles of conserving and
developing.”  In hearings leading up to the vote, Republican senators
such as  Wyoming ’s  John Barrasso  had questioned her ties to
environmental groups that had opposed oil and coal use near
national parks or on government lands. While at Kent,
Washington-based REI, Jewell has helped lead groups such as the
National Parks Conservation Association that pushed the
government to curb fossil-fuel mining in or near public lands.  Jewell, 57, will replace  Ken Salazar  at the Interior
Department, a sprawling, 70,000-employee agency that manages
national parks along with 500 million acres of mineral-rich
land. Interior also oversees development of offshore resources.  ‘Pay Attention’  Given its large holdings in  Alaska  and other western
states, “when it comes to cabinet positions, this is one we are
going to pay attention to,” Republican  Lisa Murkowski  said on
the Senate floor. “We all have instances, where people from the
state we represent have to go knock on the door of some federal
agency, and they don’t feel like they are being adequately
heard.”  Murkowski said she was “very impressed with her level of
sincerity,” and said she also supported Jewell.  Jewell is an accomplished mountain climber, expert skier
and longtime bicycle commuter, and was supported for the
Interior post by environmental groups such as the  Sierra Club .  She pledged to resign her post at REI once confirmed by the
Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  