-- Karzai Assures Obama: 2014 Afghan Vote Will Be Inclusive
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2013-04-10T01:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/karzai-assures-obama-2014-afghan-vote-will-be-inclusive.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai 
affirmed his support for fair and inclusive elections in his
country next year during a phone call today with U.S. President
 Barack Obama , according to a White House statement.  The two leaders also discussed progress in transferring
responsibility for security to Afghan forces from the U.S.-led
coalition, according to the statement. Obama and Karzai are
looking forward to the point later this year when Afghan
personnel will take a leading role and the coalition’s mission
will shift to support from combat, the White House said.  Tensions with Karzai had intensified in recent months, with
the Afghan president saying on March 10, during a visit by U.S.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, that Taliban suicide attacks were
in the “service of America.” Secretary of State  John Kerry ,
during meetings in Kabul two weeks later, played down those
strains and voiced confidence that the two nations would reach
an agreement for some U.S. forces to remain after 2014.  Obama has pledged to bring most U.S. troops home from
Afghanistan by the end of next year, though he hasn’t said how
many would remain. During today’s call, Obama welcomed Karzai’s
meetings last month with the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, to advance peace talks with the Taliban.  Karzai credited the U.S. handover last month of the Parwan
detention facility outside Kabul, according to the statement.
The two leaders agreed that officials from the U.S. and
 Afghanistan  would strive to “keep dangerous detainees off the
battlefield, and work in partnership at the facility, consistent
with Afghan sovereignty,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  