-- Kazuo Okada Under Criminal Investigation, U.S. Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-04-10T08:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/kazuo-okada-under-criminal-investigation-u-s-says.html
Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) 
Chairman Kazuo Okada faces a U.S. criminal investigation related
to his Philippine casino project, sending the gaming company’s
shares down as much as 18 percent.  The U.S. asked to intervene in a lawsuit brought by  Wynn
Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , which accused Okada of making improper payments to
Philippine gaming regulators. The  Justice Department  said in an
April 8 filing in state court in Las Vegas that it doesn’t want
the civil case to disrupt its criminal investigation into the
same underlying allegations.  Okada has pushed to expand in the  Philippines  where the
government is setting up a new casino center that would compete
with Macau, where Wynn Resorts gets most of its revenue. Okada,
who became a billionaire selling machines for Japanese pachinko
parlors, won one of four provisional gaming licenses awarded
for the Manila hub in 2008. New resorts could help the Southeast
Asian nation’s gaming market expand five fold to $10 billion by
2017, its chief regulator estimates.  Wynn Resorts last year forcibly redeemed Okada’s 20 percent
stake in the Las Vegas-based company and sued him for breach of
fiduciary duty. Okada, who resigned as a director of Wynn
Resorts in February, was being probed by the U.S.  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation regarding his Philippine casino permit, the
Asian country’s gambling authority said in January.  Wynn Resorts gets more than 71 percent of its annual
revenue from Macau, the world’s largest gambling hub.  Wynn’s License  The possible violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act by a controlling shareholder could threaten Wynn
Resorts’ gaming license in  Nevada  and other jurisdictions, the
casino operator has said in court filings.  The Justice Department said in its filing that it contacted
lawyers for Okada and Wynn Resorts about its request to halt
evidence gathering related to Okada’s activities in the
Philippines.  Okada’s lawyers have said they would probably oppose the
request “in whole or in part,” according to the filing. Wynn
Resorts won’t oppose its request, the Justice Department said.  The U.S. request to stay the case with regard to any
overlap with its investigation is scheduled to be considered
April 16 by Clark County District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez,
according to the court’s docket.  Shares Fall  Universal Entertainment fell as much as 18 percent today in
 Tokyo  and closed down 16 percent at 1,666 yen.  The company has been denying the wrongdoing, “so it hadn’t
been fully reflected in the stock price,”  Kenichi Hirano ,
general manager at Tachibana Securities Co. in Tokyo, said in a
phone interview. The report on the investigation caused the
stock to plummet, he said.  Universal is cooperating fully with all investigations,
according to Eric Andrus, a spokesman for Okada who works for
RLM Finsbury in  New York .  Michael Weaver, a spokesman for Wynn Resorts, and Michael
Passman, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to comment on
the government’s filing.  The FCPA bars companies or individuals regulated or based
in the U.S. from paying bribes to foreign officials to win
business. Foreign companies and nationals also can be prosecuted
if their corrupt acts were committed in the U.S.  $40 Million Payments  Universal Entertainment, based in Tokyo, said Feb. 5 that a
third-party committee was investigating payments made through
its U.S. unit, Aruze USA Inc., in the Philippines. The committee
was looking at $40 million in payments, according to the
statement.  The FBI is examining Okada’s pursuit of his Philippine
gaming license, any tax benefits he received and the flow of
funds involved, Cristino Naguiat, chairman and chief executive
of the Philippine Amusement & Gaming Corp., the gambling
authority, said in January.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, A-12-656710-B, Clark
County District Court, Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  