-- Kelly Wins Jesse Jackson Jr. House Seat by Besting Felon
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-04-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/kelly-wins-jesse-jackson-jr-house-seat-by-besting-felon.html
Democrat Robin Kelly won the
special election to fill the vacated seat of former U.S.
Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. in a district that includes
part of  Chicago ’s South Side and southern suburbs.  Kelly, 56, was the anticipated victor in a district that
voted 81 percent for President  Barack Obama  in November, and the
 Associated Press  declared her the victor yesterday shortly after
the polls closed. Her Republican opponent, Paul McKinley, served
almost 20 years in prison for armed robbery, burglary and
aggravated battery until a 1997 parole,  according  to the  Chicago
Tribune .  When Kelly -- a friend of Obama, who attended her wedding -
- is sworn into her seat, the House will have 232 Republicans
and 201 Democrats, with two seats vacant. She had 71 percent of
the vote to 22 percent for McKinley with 99 percent of precincts
reporting, according to the AP tally.  A former Illinois state legislator, Kelly emerged as her
party’s nominee by defeating 15 other candidates in a Feb. 26
Democratic primary that culminated a campaign centered on  gun
control  and the role of outside money.  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s super-political
action committee, Independence USA, aired advertisements
criticizing one of Kelly’s primary opponents, former
Representative Debbie Halvorson, who had often sided with the
Fairfax, Virginia-based  National Rifle Association  in opposing
gun control proposals. Bloomberg is the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  Gun Debate  Independence USA spent more than $2.2 million on ads
attacking Halvorson and supporting Kelly, according to the
committee’s  filings . Kelly won the primary with 52 percent of
the vote, while Halvorson ran second with 24 percent.  Chicago has become a focal point of the national debate
over gun control because it had 506 homicides in 2012, the most
in four years. The violence has drawn the attention of Obama and
first lady  Michelle Obama , who is scheduled to speak in the city
today about youth violence.  Speaking to supporters last night after her low-turnout
victory, Kelly said she planned to take on the NRA, the anti-government-spending Tea Party and “anyone else standing in the
way of our safety.” She also told reporters she plans to push
needed economic development for the area.  Kelly’s election brings the number of women in the House to
78, or 18 percent of the 433 seats now occupied. Among the
congresswomen, 59 are Democrats and 19 are Republicans.  Obama Friend  Kelly is a New York native who moved to Illinois after high
school to attend  Bradley University  in Peoria, where according
to her campaign  website  she received her bachelor’s and master’s
degrees. She later received a doctorate from Northern  Illinois 
University, the website says.  She and Obama have known each other since they both served
in the Illinois legislature a decade ago. Cheryl Whitaker,
another Obama family friend, served as her House campaign
chairwoman.  Jackson, a Democrat and the son of the civil rights leader
Reverend Jesse Jackson Sr., was first elected to the House in
December 1995. He and his wife, former Chicago Alderman Sandi
Jackson, pleaded guilty in February to fraud involving his
campaign funds, among other charges.  Jesse Jackson Jr., 48, retreated from public view in 2012
and in June took a medical leave of absence from his House
duties, later saying he was being treated for bipolar disorder.
He resigned from Congress on Nov. 21.  Jackson Plea  In his guilty plea, Jackson acknowledged misusing about
$750,000 of campaign contributions to buy 3,100 personal items,
including a $43,000 Rolex watch and a hat that belonged to the
late pop singer  Michael Jackson . He also said he spent $15,000
of the campaign money on dry cleaning.  The vote to replace Jackson recalled the 1995 special
election in which he filled a vacancy left by Mel Reynolds, a
Democrat who was convicted of bank fraud and sexual assault. Out
of prison since President  Bill Clinton  pardoned him in 2001,
Reynolds was one of the Democratic primary candidates, receiving
less than 1 percent of the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  