-- Kenya Airways Will Start Low-Cost Unit as Growth Plan Slows
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-04-10T10:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/kenya-airways-will-start-low-cost-unit-as-growth-plan-slows.html
Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL) , sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s third-biggest carrier, will begin operating low-cost
carrier JamboJet later this year even as a failure to hit a
fundraising target forced it to revise an expansion plan.  The carrier tore up its first business plan for JamboJet
after deciding it needed more time to learn how to run a budget
airline, Chief Executive Officer Titus Naikuni said in an
interview last week. A revised version is now almost ready and
will soon be voted on by the board.  “If the board approves, we see ourselves getting started
sometime this year” on JamboJet, Naikuni said at the airline’s
headquarters in Nairobi. The new low-cost service will help
Kenya Airways compete with  FastJet Plc (FJET) , the project backed by
billionaire airline entrepreneur  Stelios Haji-Ioannou  that is
intended to be the first pan-African budget airline.  Kenya Airways said last year it plans to raise $3.6 billion
over the next 10 years to fund expansion that includes
increasing its fleet to 107 aircraft and more than doubling its
routes to 115.  An initial 20.7 billion shilling ($244 million) rights
offer last April was under-subscribed, raising just 14.5 billion
shillings. The setback forced the company to cut the plan to
five years while it decides on how best to raise the next round
of funding, Naikuni said.  “This plan is reviewed every year. We are looking at all
options that are available to us: bonds, maybe another rights
issue.”  Kenya Airways currently flies to 59 destinations worldwide,
of which 47 are in Africa. It has 38 aircraft, with an order for
an additional 31 over the next three years, and carries 3
million passengers a year, according to its  website.   Naikuni may be named as a Cabinet secretary by Kenyan
President Uhuru Kenyatta, Nairobi-based  Daily Nation  said today
without citing anyone. Kenyatta was sworn in as the country’s
fourth president yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  