-- Kerry Meets Syrian Opposition, Hinting More Aid to Come
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-04-10T17:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/kerry-meets-syrian-opposition-hinting-more-aid-to-come.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  met
today with leaders of the Syrian opposition, after indicating
the U.S. is preparing to distribute more aid to rebels seeking
the ouster of President Bashar al-Assad.  Kerry, who is participating in a conference of the Group of
Eight foreign ministers in  London , heard demands for weapons
from officials led by Ghassan Hitto, the newly elected interim
prime minister of the opposition, according to a U.S. official
who attended the meeting and asked not to be named discussing
diplomatic matters.  At stake is whether the U.S. will move beyond food and
medical supplies to give fighters items such as body armor and
night-vision goggles.  While the top U.S. diplomat didn’t make any promises to the
Syrian opposition, Kerry will resume the conversation at an
April 20 meeting in Istanbul of the “Friends of  Syria ” group
of countries, which includes many European and Arab nations, the
official said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is discussing
different ways to step up support for rebels who are demanding
more U.S. involvement in the two-year conflict that has killed
more than 70,000 people. The U.K. and  France  are pushing to lift
a European Union arms embargo on Syria and already supply rebels
with military-style equipment such as anti-tank and anti-
aircraft weapons.  Changing Calculation  “I’m not sure what the schedule is, but I do believe that
it’s important for us to try to continue to put the pressure on
President Assad and to try to change his calculation,” Kerry
said yesterday before leaving  Israel  for the trip to London.
“Those efforts have been very much front and center in our
discussions in the last week in  Washington .”  At the last Syria-centered meeting in Rome, the U.S.
disappointed expectations by Syrian rebels for military
equipment by announcing it would provide medical supplies and
ready-to-eat meals directly to the Free Syrian Army. The Obama
administration has been reluctant to do more because weapons
could end up in the hands of Islamic militants. It’s also
concerned about securing Syria’s stocks of chemical weapons.  Syrian Opposition Council President Moaz al-Khatib, who has
criticized the U.S. for refusing to provide arms, wasn’t at
today’s meeting after flying to Rome specifically to meet Kerry.  The U.S. currently provides $385 million in humanitarian
assistance to help internally displaced Syrians and refugees in
neighboring countries. In  Rome , the U.S. also gave the political
opposition $60 million to provide basic services and better
governance in areas it now controls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in London at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  