-- KKR Hires Ex-Nikko Principal Chairman Hirano as Japan CEO
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-04-10T03:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/kkr-said-to-hire-ex-nikko-principal-chairman-hirano-as-japan-ceo.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  said it hired Hirofumi Hirano, the former chairman of Nikko Principal Investments  Japan 
Ltd., to head its operations in the country.  Hirano, 52, will become managing director and chief
executive officer of the New York-based private-equity firm’s
Japanese unit on April 15, replacing Shusaku Minoda, who will
become chairman, KKR said in a statement today. Hirano was
previously at AlixPartners LLP, where he led the local business.  KKR, which formed its Japan unit in 2006, is strengthening
its buyout business in the country, hiring directors from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and McKinsey & Co. earlier this year,
as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus and monetary easing
initiatives boost Japan’s business and investor sentiment.  The appointment of Hirano “is an important step forward as
KKR continues to grow our private-equity franchise and broaden
our focus to other areas of asset management and capital
markets,” Joseph Bae, managing partner of KKR Asia, said in the
statement.  Minoda, 61, who has been CEO in Japan for six years, will
continue to maintain KKR’s relationships with clients and
governments,  Henry Kravis , the firm’s co-founder, said in the
statement.  Hirano joined Nikko Securities Co. in 1983 after graduating
from  Keio University  and became president of Nikko Principal in
2000 and chairman in 2004, leading the firm to invest 720
billion yen ($7.3 billion) in Japanese and U.K. companies and
reaping 850 billion yen from the investments.  Hirano has a master’s degree in business administration
from the  University of Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  