-- New York Knicks Win First NBA Division Title in 19 Seasons
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-10T11:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/knicks-clinch-first-atlantic-division-title-since-1993-94-1-.html
The  New York Knicks  clinched a
National Basketball Association division for the first time in
19 seasons with a 120-99 victory over the  Washington Wizards 
that pushed their winning streak to 13 games.  Carmelo Anthony , the league’s leading scorer, contributed
36 points as the Knicks secured the Atlantic Division title at
Madison Square Garden in  New York  last night. He’s the first
Knick to score at least 35 points in five straight games since
new Basketball Hall of Famer Bernard King.  “We’ve reached one of our goals that we set at the
beginning of the season,” Anthony said in a televised courtside
interview. “We’ve been playing great as a group and we’re
trying to prepare for the postseason.”  The only two seasons in which the Knicks had longer winning
streaks, they reached the NBA Finals.  New York won a franchise-record 18 regular-season games in
a row from Oct. 24 through Nov. 11, 1969, the season in which it
secured the first of two NBA titles. The team won 15 straight
games from March 1 to April 2, 1994, and that season reached the
NBA Finals before losing to the  Houston Rockets .  The Knicks are 10 games behind the defending-champion  Miami
Heat  in the Eastern Conference and are in line to be the second
seed in the playoffs with five games left for each team. Last
night’s win took New York’s record to 51-26, its first season
with 50 or more victories since 1999-2000.  “Winning a division never felt like it meant as much in
basketball as in other sports, but securing that No. 2 seed is a
very nice accomplishment,” former Knicks coach Jeff Van Gundy,
now an ESPN analyst, said in a telephone interview. “Winning
over 50 games in this league is not an easy feat. This is a team
that is primed for a really nice run in the playoffs.”  Oldest Roster  New York won its first division title since 1993-94 after
adding  Jason Kidd  and re-signing J.R. Smith, who have a combined
28 years of NBA experience. The Knicks are the oldest team in
the NBA at an average age of more than 31. Kenyon Martin, 35,
left last night’s game with a sprained left ankle.  Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  said winning the division was a
long-standing objective.  “When you set goals at the beginning of the season and you
follow through with your goals, that means guys are committed,”
Woodson told reporters.  New York won eight of its first nine games this season and
was 18-5 in December, its best 23-game start since the 1972-73
season, when it last won the NBA title.  Anthony’s Run  Anthony, 28, has scored 172 points in his past five games,
including 36 in a 125-120 road victory over  Kevin Durant ’s
Oklahoma City Thunder April 7. A six-time All-Star, Anthony
surpassed Durant for the NBA’s highest per-game scoring average.  “He’s obviously one of the premier scorers in the game,
who’s improved as a passer every year he’s been in the league,”
Van Gundy said. “He’s also a good rebounder and an adequate
defender.”  The success comes after the Knicks in July declined to
match a three-year, $25 million contract offer to Jeremy Lin by
the Houston Rockets.  Lin came off the bench to lead New York to seven straight
wins last season, drawing international attention as the
league’s first-ever Taiwanese- or Chinese-American player.  After letting Lin move to the Rockets, the Knicks added
Kidd, a 40-year-old guard; 39-year-old center Marcus Camby; 38-
year-old forward Rasheed Wallace, and re-signed guard Smith, 27.  No Time  With an older roster, the team’s window for winning a
championship is narrow, said Earl Monroe, a guard on the Knicks’
last NBA title squad.  “They didn’t get these veteran players for two years from
now,” Monroe said in an interview last week. “They got them
for this year.”  The team’s success has boosted ticket prices and
merchandise sales at a time when team owner  Madison Square
Garden Co. (MSG)  is spending $1 billion on a privately financed arena
renovation. Shares in the company have surged 66 percent,
closing at $57.06  Knicks home games had an NBA-high average listing of $480
on the secondary market this season, according to ticket
aggregator TiqIQ, a 57 percent raise from the start of the year
and 62 percent higher than the next closest team, the  Los
Angeles Lakers  at $278. New York sold out every home game this
season heading into tonight.  Knicks-themed merchandise has led sales since the beginning
of the season at the NBA’s online shop and Manhattan store,
while Anthony has the league’s best-selling jersey, the first
Knicks player to top the list since it was first released by the
NBA in 2001-02.  The Knicks will head to the postseason seeking their first
playoff series victory since 2000. In four first-round exits
since, the Knicks are a combined 3-15 and were swept by the  New
Jersey Nets  in 2004 and  Boston Celtics  in 2011.  The Knicks’ next game is tomorrow night at the  Chicago
Bulls . If the standings remain the same over the season’s final
two weeks, New York’s first-round opponent would be the Celtics,
against whom the Knicks are 3-1 this season.  “They could lose in the first round or they could
challenge Miami,”  Van Gundy  said. “Though any team coming out
of the East other than the Heat would be an upset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  