-- Koruna Weakens as Hampl Sees No Inflation Risks: Prague Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-04-10T12:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/koruna-weakens-as-hampl-sees-no-inflation-risks-prague-mover.html
The Czech koruna weakened the most
in more than six months as central bank Vice-Governor Mojmir
Hampl said inflation isn’t a risk, adding to speculation that
the bank will stimulate the economy with currency sales.  The koruna depreciated as much as 0.7 percent against the
euro, the biggest intraday decline since Sept. 27, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It traded 0.6 percent weaker at
25.868 per euro as of 2:29 p.m. in  Prague . Yields on the
country’s 10-year bonds fell 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage
point, to 1.77 percent.  The Ceska Narodni Banka, which lowered  borrowing costs 
three times to 0.05 percent last year, has debated publicly and
in private whether to engage in currency interventions amid a
record-long recession. Hampl reiterated today to lawmakers that
economic activity is subdued and risks are tilted in an “anti-
inflationary” direction.  “Data from the real economy are so far showing that we are
bouncing at the bottom, but the question is how long this
bouncing will last,” Hampl said at a hearing of the
parliamentary budget committee in Prague today. “Pro-
inflationary pressures aren’t visible.”  The Czech  economy  is more subdued than the central bank had
expected and weaker household demand signals deferred
consumption due to declining prices except for food and fuels,
the bank said last week in minutes from its March 28 policy
meeting.  Most central bank board members see risks pointing to a
need of “slightly” looser monetary policy by the middle of
next year, according to the minutes published April 5.  Inflation Unchanged  March  inflation  was 1.7 percent from a year earlier, the
same rate as in the previous month and below the central bank’s
2 percent target, the Statistics Office said yesterday.
Unemployment dropped to 8 percent from 8.1 percent in February,
the Labor Ministry said.  “The data confirmed that the Czech economy is still
fighting a recession,”  Jan Vejmelek , chief economist at Societe
Generale SA’s unit  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , said in an e-mail today.
“Domestic fundamentals are certainly not a reason for koruna
appreciation. On the contrary, in light of the current
developments, the koruna will probably again test a technical
resistance level of around 25.9 per euro in the coming days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  