-- KPN Shareholders Vote in Favor of 3 Billion-Euro Share Sale
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-04-10T17:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/kpn-shareholders-vote-in-favor-of-3-billion-euro-share-sale.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone
operator partly owned by  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, said investors gave
support for a 3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) share sale as part
of an effort to invest in operations and reduce debt.  Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil , which owns about
27.5 percent of KPN shares, had agreed to support the share sale
in return for the acceptance of two of its executives, Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno and Oscar von Hauske, to
KPN’s supervisory board.  The appointments were approved today, KPN said in a
statement, and more than 90 percent of shareholders present at
the annual meeting at corporate headquarters in The Hague
approved the rights issue.  KPN completed a 2 billion-euro bond program in March. The
Dutch carrier needs the money to strengthen its balance sheet
after spending 1.35 billion euros on wireless spectrum in the
fourth quarter. Investing in faster mobile networks is key for
carriers as consumers increasingly use smartphones to surf the
Web, download music and watch videos. KPN also faces increased
competition in the Netherlands from Stockholm-based  Tele2 AB. (TEL2B)   Strategic Flexibility  “The proceeds of the capital raise will increase KPN’s
financial and strategic flexibility and will enable KPN to
continue to invest in its operations and to reduce its net debt
level,” the company said. Details on the sale including price
and number of shares will be announced after first-quarter
results are released April 23.  Shareholders including Dutch retirement plan PGGM and
investor group VEB criticized KPN management and the supervisory
board at the meeting for the way the company handled America
Movil’s stake purchase last year.  Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok attempted unsuccessfully
to defend KPN last year against a 2.6 billion-euro offer from
America Movil for the stake in the company and failed to sell
its Belgian mobile-phone unit, Base. The company also ended
discussions on a potential merger with  Telefonica SA (TEF)  involving
KPN’s E-Plus wireless unit in  Germany .  “I believe today, we have been able to explain very well
to our shareholders how we’ve come to the the decisions we
made,” Blok said after the shareholder meeting.  KPN shares, which rose as much as 9.8 percent earlier
today, pared gains after the annual meeting actions, and closed
5.3 percent higher in Amsterdam at 2.81 euros, raising the
company’s market value to 4 billion euros.  The stock has advanced for two days as Telefonica’s
willingness to sell its  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  stake renewed
speculation on future consolidation in the German mobile market.  KPN is currently not in talks with Telefonica, but the
company still thinks a merger with its O2 unit could generate
synergies of as much as 5 billion euros, Blok said after the
meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  