-- KPN Gains on Optimism Over German Consolidation: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-04-10T09:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/kpn-gains-as-telefonica-plans-fuel-speculation-amsterdam-mover.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN)  had it biggest two-day
rise in almost a year in Amsterdam as Telefonica SA’s
willingness to sell its  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  stake renewed
speculation on future consolidation in the German mobile market.  Shares of the Hague-based KPN rose as much as 9.8 percent
today, adding to yesterday’s 4.9 percent gain and making the
shares’ two-day performance the best since May 2012.  Telefonica is willing to exit its six-year investment in
Telecom Italia, two people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday, as the company plans to focus on European markets
such as Germany and the U.K. and reduce debt to avert further
cuts by rating companies. That may signal to some investors that
 Telefonica (TEF)  is also willing to make a deal in Germany with KPN’s
E-Plus unit, said Marc Hesselink, an analyst at ABN Amro Bank NV
in Amsterdam.  “The news around Telefonica’s plans to exit Telecom Italia
is fueling some speculation around E-Plus and Telefonica
consolidation in the longer term,” Hesselink said. “At the
same time, KPN shares are very volatile at the moment, and there
is a lot of speculative trading ahead of the shareholders
meeting this afternoon.”  KPN rose 6.8 percent to 2.85 euros at 11:55 a.m. Amsterdam
time, valuing the company at 4.1 billion euros ($5.4 billion).  Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok will ask shareholders
today to support a 3 billion-euro share sale, part of a capital
increase to bolster the balance sheet.  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) , which owns about 27.5 percent of KPN shares according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, has already agreed to support the
share sale, in return for nominating two people to the
supervisory board.  Balance Sheet  KPN needs the money to strengthen its balance sheet after
spending 1.35 billion euros on wireless spectrum in the fourth
quarter. Investing in faster mobile networks is key for carriers
as consumers increasingly use smartphones to surf the Web,
download music and watch videos. KPN also faces increased
competition in the Netherlands from Stockholm-based  Tele2 AB. (TEL2B)   Blok attempted unsuccessfully to defend KPN last year
against a 2.6 billion-euro offer from  America Movil  for the
stake in the company and failed to sell its Belgian mobile-phone
unit Base. The company also ended discussions on a potential
merger with Telefonica involving its E-Plus wireless unit in
 Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  