-- Krone Slumps as Inflation Slowdown Signals Rate Cut: Oslo Mover
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-04-10T09:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/krone-slumps-as-inflation-slowdown-signals-rate-cut-oslo-mover.html
Norway’s krone weakened to the
lowest level against the euro in almost two weeks after an
unexpected slowdown in consumer price growth increased pressure
on the central bank to cut its benchmark rate.  The currency, which has emerged as a haven from  Europe ’s
debt crisis, slumped as much as 0.5 percent to 7.5034 against
the euro, the weakest level since March 28. It traded at 7.4996
as of 11:26 a.m. in Oslo. The krone was weaker against all major
currencies in a basket compiled by Bloomberg except for the
Japanese yen.  The krone weakened after data showed that underlying
inflation slowed for a second consecutive month in March to the
slowest pace since April last year. The  inflation  rate, adjusted
for taxes and energy prices, fell to an annual 0.9 percent from
1.1 percent in February,  Statistics Norway  said today. Prices
were estimated to rise 1.1 percent, according to the median of
11 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Norges Bank “can no longer look the other way while the
inflation target is slipping,” Kari Due-Andresen, an economist
at Svenska Handelsbanken AB said in a note to clients. “The
very weak development in price growth will force Norges Bank to
cut the interest rate.”  Policy makers, who left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1.5 percent last month, have signaled a possible
rate cut this year as krone gains threaten to cool growth and
inflation in Europe’s second-richest nation per capita.  The krone rose to a record on an import-weighted basis in
February and has helped keep inflation below the bank’s 2.5
percent target since 2009.  The March headline inflation rate was 1.4 percent in the
year and consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in the month. Policy
makers will announce the next  interest rate  decision on May 8.  “As Norges Bank seldom acts on a meeting that is not
backed up by a monetary policy report, we believe the cut will
come in June, rather than in May,” Due-Andresen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  