-- Natural Gas Price-Fixing Suits Revived by Appeals Court
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-10T21:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/natural-gas-price-fixing-suits-revived-by-appeals-court.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,  CMS Energy
Corp. (CMS) ,  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  and other energy companies
must face antitrust lawsuits by natural gas buyers alleging they
manipulated prices during California’s energy crisis more than a
decade ago, a federal appeals court ruled today.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  today reversed a
lower court’s dismissal of claims against companies and
reinstated a group of antitrust lawsuits, saying the allegations
weren’t pre-empted by federal law. The energy firms are accused
in the cases, consolidated in federal court in Las Vegas, of
manipulating prices from 2000 to 2002.  The appeals court concluded in its ruling that the U.S.
Natural Gas Act, which provides the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  with jurisdiction over certain rates practices,
doesn’t stand in the way of buyers pursuing state-law antitrust
cases over energy prices. During the power crisis, prices rose
10-fold, businesses and consumers endured rolling blackouts, and
California’s two largest utilities became insolvent.  Natural gas customers alleged companies manipulated prices
by reporting false data to energy industry trade publications
that used the information to calculate price indexes that were
the basis for some contracts between buyers and sellers. They
also claimed the companies engaged in “wash” sales in which
traders executed electronic transactions and then immediately
offset that trade by an equal and opposite trade, according to
today’s ruling.  Pleas, Settlements  Former traders at several energy companies, including Enron
Corp.,  pleaded guilty to price manipulation in a federal probe
and California eventually reached settlements totaling more than
$10 billion with power companies in lawsuits related to the
energy crisis.  The lower court’s finding that the federal law precludes
the claims is an “expansive reading” that “conflicts with
Congress’s express intent to delineate carefully the scope of
federal jurisdiction,” the appeals court said in its decision.  Natural gas buyers including Learjet Inc. and Sinclair Oil
Corp. filed suits beginning in 2005 against 10 groups of energy-
trading firms. They accused the groups of artificially inflating
prices.  Decision ‘Disappointing’  “The decision is disappointing and we are evaluating our
options,”  Melissa McHenry , a spokeswoman for Columbus, Ohio-
based American Electric Power, said in an e-mail. The ruling
addresses preliminary legal issues and not the merits of the
original complaint, she said.  “Duke Energy strongly disagrees with the federal appeals
court’s ruling and will defend itself vigorously as the case
moves forward,” said Dave Scanzoni, a spokesman for the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company, said in an e-mail.
“The company followed all applicable rules and regulations, and
did not engage in any of the alleged activities mentioned in the
lawsuit.”  Dan Bishop, a CMS spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Learjet Inc. v.  Oneok Inc. (OKE) , 11-16786, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  