-- New Jersey Task Force Seeks Permit Renewals, Revocation
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-10T19:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/new-jersey-task-force-seeks-permit-renewals-revocation.html
New Jersey should require gun 
buyers to renew permits periodically and cede them after a 
criminal conviction, a panel created by Governor Chris Christie recommended.  The task force, formed in response to the Dec. 14 school
shooting in Newtown,  Connecticut , released 50 proposals that
will form the basis of legislation the first-term Republican 
governor will release within 10 days,  Michael Drewniak , a 
spokesman, said in a statement. The recommendations also 
included mental-health evaluations as part of some firearms
background checks.  “While New Jersey has some of the strictest gun and 
licensing laws in the nation which the governor supports,
a wider view was necessary to not only evaluate gun control 
in the state, but to consider other elements that often 
intersect in instances of extreme gun violence,” Drewniak said.  The panel's recommendations followed an announcement 
in  Washington  today by U.S. Senators Joe Manchin, a West Virginia
Democrat, and Pat Toomey, a Pennylvania Republican, of a
bipartisan plan to expand background checks for gun purchasers.
Christie, 50, who's seeking re-election in November, has said 
since the Newtown slaying of 20 children and six educators that
he'd be willing to discuss stricter controls as part of a more 
comprehensive package that deals with mental health, substance
abuse and violence in video games.  His task force studied New Jersey’s firearms laws as well
as the roles played by drugs, mental stability and school safety.
New York, Connecticut,  Colorado  and  Maryland  have tightened gun 
laws following the Newtown killings. President  Barack Obama  
called for expanded federal limits on weapons after the crime,
and the U.S. Senate scheduled a procedural vote tomorrow on 
arms legislation.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  