-- Northern Summers Warmest in Past 600 Years, Study Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-04-10T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/northern-summers-warmest-in-past-600-years-study-says.html
Half of the last eight summers in
cold regions including parts of Greenland and  Russia  have been
the warmest since 1400, according to a Harvard University study
on climate change across high northern latitudes.  The findings, published in the journal  Nature , showed that
the summers 2005, 2007, 2010 and 2011 were hotter than any point
in the previous 600 years. Average temperatures over the last 20
years in those regions rose by about 1.16 degrees Celsius (2
degrees Fahrenheit), said Martin P. Tingley, a Harvard research
associate and the study’s lead author.  Tingley and coauthor Peter Huybers used a statistical
technique called hierarchical Bayesian analysis to crunch data
that included tree-ring density, lake sediments and ice cores
from Greenland and the Canadian Arctic. The approach produced a
more precise result than previous long-range temperature
reconstructions. The more rigorous method reduces controversy
and means “more people will start paying attention” to  climate
change , he said.  “We’ve been pushing for these methods for a number of
years now,” said Tingley. “Instead of saying, ‘Recent years
are warmer than my best bet at each year in the past,’ we
actually came up with a metric that allows for conclusions that
take into account that simultaneous-comparison problem.”  The study analyzed data from northern reaches of 45 to 85
degrees latitude. The summer in Russia three years ago was that
area’s warmest, the study found.  “Recent observations like the 2010 Russian heat wave can
be explained by a shift in the mean” temperature, Tingley said.
“These recent years really are warmer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Zimm at 
 azimm@bloomberg.net  