-- NRC Proposes No Safety Threat Finding With San Onofre
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-04-11T01:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/nrc-proposes-no-safety-threat-finding-with-san-onofre-license.html
Edison International (EIX) ’s request for
a license amendment for a proposed restart of its crippled
 California  nuclear reactor doesn’t pose significant safety
risks, federal regulators said in a preliminary finding.  Edison’s request to operate its San Onofre reactor at
reduced power does not involve an increased risk of an accident
or create the possibility of a new or different accident from
those previously evaluated for its license, the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission said in an e-mailed document.  Edison asked the commission to make the determination as
part of a request to restart its Unit 2 reactor at 70 percent
power by June 1 to meet summer power demand, the Rosemead,
California-based company said in a statement on April 8. The
nuclear plant, located 60 miles (97 kilometers) south of Los
Angeles, has been shut since January 2012 after Edison found
unusual wear on steam generator tubes.  The NRC may approve Edison’s license amendment before the
60-day waiting period normally required after a notice is
published if no hazards are found, the agency said. The public
will have 30 days after the finding is published in the federal
register to comment on the NRC’s conclusion before the agency
makes a final determination. The document will be published next
week, said Victor Dricks, a spokesman for the NRC.  Without a finding of a significant hazard, the NRC can
issue a license amendment before holding a public hearing, Shaun
Burnie, director of nuclear campaigns at Friends of the Earth,
said in a telephone interview.  “It’s a get out of jail free card,” Burnie said. Edison
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Challenging Deadline  An approval of the amendment won’t allow the plant to
restart, the NRC has said. The agency will make a separate
determination of the utility’s restart plan and it may be
challenged in meeting Edison’s June deadline, Doug Broaddus,
chief of the San Onofre special-projects branch for the NRC,
said at an April 3 meeting.  Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat, faulted the
agency’s preliminary finding.  “The NRC staff proposal, which could pave the way for the
restart of the San Onofre nuclear power plant before the
investigations of the crippled plant are completed, is dangerous
and premature,” Boxer, chairman of the Environment and Public
Works Committee, said today in a statement.  She also said the plant is in an area that’s at risk of an
earthquake and tsunami. Representative  Edward Markey  of
 Massachusetts , the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources
Committee, joined Boxer in criticizing the agency.  Gas-Fired Plants  Power grid operator California ISO has had to dispatch more
emissions-intensive, gas-fired electricity generation in San
Onofre’s absence.  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) ’s gas-fired plants in California have been
dispatched two to three times more often in the past year
because of the shutdown at San Onofre, John Chillemi, senior
vice president and president of West Region for NRG Energy, said
during a power conference in San Francisco Feb. 26.  Spot natural gas at Southern California’s City Gate hub
climbed 6 cents to $4.26 per million British thermal units
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Futures based on California carbon allowances for December
2013 delivery climbed 5 cents to $14.40 per metric ton, the
highest since March 21, according to data compiled by both
Atlanta-based IntercontinentalExchange Inc. and  CME Group (CME)  Inc.
in  Chicago .  Boxer and Markey yesterday asked the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission to delay a decision on the plant’s restart until an
“expansive investigation and safety review” are complete.  In a letter dated yesterday, the lawmakers asked the
commission to respond to their request by today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  