-- Obama Asks Congress for IMF Funding to Deliver on 2010 Pledge
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-04-10T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/obama-asks-congress-for-imf-funding-to-deliver-on-2010-pledge.html
President  Barack Obama  asked
Congress to approve a plan to boost the International Monetary
Fund’s crisis-fighting resources, trying to make good on a
pledge 2 1/2 years ago that would also increase China’s clout at
the institution.  In his 2014 budget proposal sent to lawmakers today, Obama
asked to boost the U.S.’s share, or quota, at the Washington-
based IMF by shifting about $63 billion from an existing credit
line. A request to authorize changes in the composition of the
IMF board will be sent separately, according to the budget
documents.  “The 2010 agreement results in no overall change in U.S.
financial participation in the IMF, while preserving U.S. veto
power and restoring the primacy of the IMF’s quota-based capital
structure in which the United States has the largest share,”
the administration said in the report.  The timing of the request, which would implement a global
agreement that would double the IMF’s lending capacity to $717
billion, is less than ideal as Congress grapples with the
effects of automatic spending cuts known as sequestration.
What’s more, the IMF needs new champions on  Capitol Hill  after
the departure of two longtime supporters, Republican Senator
 Richard Lugar  and Democratic Representative  Barney Frank .  It will be up to Congress to decide whether to appropriate
any funds as loan-loss reserves for the $63 billion. Four years
ago, the  Congressional Budget Office  determined an appropriation
of about $5 billion was necessary to cover the new commitments
under the temporary line of credit of about $100 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  