-- Obama Calls $3.8 Trillion Budget Recipe for Ensuring U.S. Growth
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-04-10T15:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/obama-calls-3-8-trillion-budget-recipe-for-ensuring-u-s-growth.html
President  Barack Obama , seeking to
revive a deficit-reduction deal with congressional Republicans,
said his $3.8 trillion spending plan for fiscal 2014 would both
shrink the deficit and ensure future economic growth.  “We can do both,” Obama said at the White House this
morning as his administration released details of a budget
blueprint setting out his priorities for spending and taxes.  “Our economy is poised for progress as long as Washington
doesn’t get in the way,” he said. “If we want to keep
rebuilding our economy on a stronger, more stable foundation
then we’ve got to get smarter about our priorites.”  The president is proposing to replace across-the-board
budget cuts known as sequestration with what White House budget
officials say is $1.8 trillion in additional deficit reduction
over 10 years that includes collecting more taxes from the
wealthy and trimming some federal programs. It also proposes
more spending for infrastructure, research and education.  For the first time, Obama is including in his budget an
offer made last year to congressional Republicans to change the
cost-of-living calculation for  Social Security  and tax brackets,
which would increase benefits more slowly and subjected more
income to taxation.  Compromise Plan  “I don’t believe that all these ideas are optimal, but I’m
willing to accept them as part of a compromise if, and only if,
they contain protections for the most vulnerable Americans,”
Obama said.  The budget plan was hitting resistance even before its
release as Republicans in Congress repeated their opposition to
raising  tax revenue  and some Democrats criticized the
president’s proposal to reduce cost-of-living benefit increases
in Social Security.  “The president got his tax hikes in January,” House
Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said this morning at
the Capitol. “We don’t need to be raising taxes on the American
people.”  He also said the president deserves “some credit” for
proposing changes to cut the cost of entitlement programs and
that he still hopes to reach a budget agreement with the White
House.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  