-- OCC Asks for Enforcement Powers Against Banks’ Consultants
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-04-11T17:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/occ-asks-for-enforcement-powers-against-outside-consultant-firms.html
The U.S. regulator for national
banks wants Congress to expand the agency’s authority to
sanction independent consulting firms for wrongdoing in their
work for lenders.  “The OCC faces significant jurisdictional obstacles if it
seeks to take an enforcement action directly against an
independent contractor,” Daniel P. Stipano, deputy chief
counsel for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, said
in testimony prepared for a Senate Banking subcommittee hearing
in Washington today. “The OCC would welcome a legislative
change in this area.”  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, held the hearing
amid scrutiny of consultants such as Promontory Financial Group
LLC and Deloitte & Touche LLP over their roles in a failed
review of banks’ faulty U.S. foreclosures. He said the committee
“should consider” the OCC’s plea for heightened enforcement
powers, and he said he hoped “to clarify the foggy
relationship” between consultants and regulators.  In enforcement settlements, regulators often require banks
to hire consultants to perform or review fixes. Stipano said it
would be useful for regulators to have additional reach into
that work, and also to have jurisdiction when banks outsource
work to consultants.  Representative Maxine Waters of  California , the top
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, introduced a
bill today that would require regulators’ consent orders that
call for consultant involvement be made public. She said in a
statement that a conflict of interest in such consulting work
“favors the companies which pay outside consultants over the
consumers who have been wronged.”  ‘Right Direction’  Waters said she was glad to see the OCC welcoming
legislation and “the fact that it admits that there is a
problem is a step in the right direction.”  The OCC has inserted consulting requirements in almost a
third of enforcement actions since the 2008 credit crisis,
according to Brown. The  Federal Reserve , which regulates bank
holding companies, used them in almost 15 percent of enforcement
actions in the last decade, Richard M. Ashton, deputy general
counsel for the central bank, said in his prepared remarks.  “It can be an effective enforcement tool to require
regulated organizations to retain a consultant to perform
specific tasks,” Ashton said in his statement.  Borrowers Uncompensated  When banking regulators faced the 2011 review of more than
4 million foreclosures to find people who were harmed by errors
and wrongdoing from mortgage servicers, the OCC and Fed put the
review in the hands of independent consultants. After about 18
months without the process producing compensation to harmed
borrowers, regulators scrapped the initial approach in favor of
a $9.3 billion settlement, saying that too much money had been
paid to consultants.  The Government Accountability Office released a report this
month in which it accused regulators of poor planning and
insufficient guidance for the Independent Foreclosure Review of
files from loan servicers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “The IFR process was a totally different animal, and
certainly the GAO report indicates that it wasn’t the best
approach,” Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said in an
interview. Consultants shouldn’t be judged solely by that
example, he said.  His deputy, Stipano, told lawmakers the review task was
“inordinately complex, and we did not fully appreciate that.”  ‘Grunt Work’  Outside experts have a place in doing “some of the grunt
work that needs to be done in a bank to correct deficiencies,”
Curry said. “It’s probably better for us to have someone
externally do it,” and it’s up to the regulators to make sure
the firms are independent, he said.  “Promontory Financial Group’s business model requires us
to bring a high level of independent judgment to all of our
engagements, not just when we are formally designated as
independent consultants,” Konrad Alt, a managing director for
the Washington-based firm, said in prepared testimony. “If we
merely told our clients what they want to hear, we would lose
credibility when the regulators show up and tell them something
different.”  Alt touted Promontory’s team of senior professionals, many
of whom have decades of experience. Over the firm’s 12-year
history, less than 5 percent of more than 1,400 engagements came
from regulators, he said.  Files Inconsistent  James Flanagan, a leader of the U.S. financial services
practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said borrowers’ files in
the foreclosure reviews were varied and lacked documentation;
legal obligations varied by states; and regulators added to the
parts of the loan files needing review.  “Despite the detail in the consent orders and in the
engagement letters, the scale and complexity of the IFR
engagements were unprecedented and had not been entirely
anticipated before the engagements began,” Flanagan said in
prepared testimony.  He told lawmakers his firm earned $425 million of about $2
billion in fees to the servicers for the foreclosure reviews.
U.S. Bancorp paid the firm $190 million, Citigroup $175 million
and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  $60 million, he said. Promontory’s Alt
declined to disclose his firm’s total fees, and lawmakers didn’t
ask the official from Deloitte, which had only one client,
JPMorgan.  ‘Proud’ of Work  Both PricewaterhouseCoopers and Deloitte, both more
routinely associated with large-scale review work as two of the
biggest global auditing firms, used in-house staff for the
foreclosure review, their representatives said. Promontory,
which used contractors, is “proud” of its work, Alt said, and
it met regulators’ requirements.  Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat,
confronted regulators at the hearing, saying they hadn’t
answered congressional questions on how the process worked.  “I thought this was about transparency,” Warren said.
“People want to know that their regulators are watching out for
the American public not for the banks, and the only way that we
can evaluate whether or not you’re doing your job is if you make
some of this information publicly available and so far you’re
not doing that.”  Warren and other lawmakers, including Representatives
 Elijah Cummings , a Democrat from  Maryland , and Waters, sent
Federal Reserve Board Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and OCC’s Curry a
letter yesterday urging them to provide more documents and
findings from the foreclosure review.  The lawmakers said in the letter that they met this week
with OCC and Fed staff who refused to provide information by
citing “ trade secrets ” and urged Bernanke and Curry to provide
the documents.  “We strongly believe that documents should not be withheld
from any member of Congress based on the flawed argument that
illegal activity by banks is somehow their proprietary business
information,” the lawmakers wrote. “Breaking the law is not a
corporate trade secret.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  