-- Obama Boosts Pentagon Cyber Budget Amid Rising Attacks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-04-11T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/lockheed-to-general-dynamics-target-shift-to-cyber-spend.html
The Obama administration plans to
boost U.S. spending on computer network security, including a 21
percent increase at the Pentagon, after reports of rising cyber
attacks and electronic theft of secrets linked to  China .  President  Barack Obama  yesterday proposed a $3.8 trillion
budget for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. The document, an
opening bid in negotiations with Congress, recommends more than
$13 billion for cybersecurity, U.S. Chief Information Officer
 Steven VanRoekel  told reporters on a conference call.  “There’s hardly anything that the government’s doing new
these days that doesn’t involve”  information technology ,
VanRoekel said.  Pentagon spending on cybersecurity operations would jump to
$4.7 billion in fiscal 2014 from $3.9 billion the prior year,
Defense Comptroller Robert Hale told reporters yesterday.  Defense initiatives include creating teams of cybersecurity
specialists to carry out defensive and offensive operations and
constructing a new joint programs center for U.S. Cyber Command,
the Pentagon said in its spending plan.  The White House is proposing a boost in funds to fight what
National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said in a March 11
speech is theft of intellectual property and  trade secrets 
through “cyber intrusions emanating from China at a very large
scale,” a point of contention with the Chinese government. The
Chinese army may be behind the hacking of at least 141 companies
worldwide since 2006, according to a Feb. 19 report from
Alexandria, Virginia-based Mandiant Corp.  Cyber Vendors  The overall cybersecurity spending proposal of more than
$13 billion is about $1 billion more than current levels,
according to Ari Isaacman Astles, a spokeswoman for the White
House Office of Management and Budget.  Increased U.S. computer security spending may benefit  SAIC
Inc. (SAI)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in the defense area and  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in the federal civilian space,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Cybersecurity is one of the few areas where Obama and
Congress agree on increased spending, said  Allan Holmes ,
director of technology research for Bloomberg Government.  “The White House and Congress understand that the lack of
computer security means a threat to the economy and to the
security of the nation,” Holmes said.  Heightened cybersecurity spending could benefit defense
companies with data- and network-security expertise that are
grappling with possible cuts in weapons systems.  ‘Growth Opportunities’  BAE Systems Plc (BAESY)  is “actively pursuing a number of growth
opportunities” in cyber spending, DeEtte Gray, president of the
London-based company’s intelligence and security division, said
in an e-mail.  At Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
largest federal contractor, “our portfolio of products,
services, and technologies are well aligned with the
government’s priorities” that include cybersecurity, space
exploration, health care and energy, Jennifer Allen, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The Homeland Security Department is seeking $810 million to
protect federal computers and help defend banks, utilities, and
telecommunications networks from attacks in fiscal 2014,
compared with $756.8 million enacted by Congress in the current
year.  The agency’s budget request also includes $44 million in
new funding to improve information sharing about hacker threats
between government agencies and companies, which is part of a
cybersecurity executive order Obama issued in February.  Connecting Networks  The administration’s budget plan calls for linking
cybersecurity centers across the government to coordinate
fighting online attacks.  A major potential contracting area in the budget is the
coordination of fighting online attacks through the
Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative Five (CNCI-5),
which “seeks to connect cybersecurity centers and other
cybersecurity analytics electronically and in real time,”
according to the White House.  “You’re starting to see the increase in the budgets to
back up where they’ve been trying to take those networks,”
Wendy Martin, vice president of advanced cyber solutions for
 Harris Corp. (HRS)  said in an e-mail. “We think it’s all in a
positive direction.”  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , SAIC and Northrop
Grumman were the top three contractors in defense cybersecurity,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government last year.
Dell, Hewlett-Packard and  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  were the top
three cybersecurity providers to civilian agencies.  ‘Pressing Needs’  Ralph W. Shrader, chief executive officer of McLean,
Virginia-based  Booz Allen , said in a Dec. 5 earnings call that
his company had been changing its focus to “today’s most
pressing needs” including cybersecurity and health care.  Cybersecurity is a line item in many agency budgets. These
range from a $93 million enhancement to the  Justice Department ’s
cyber efforts, including expanding data sharing and helping
state and local authorities respond to online incidents, to the
Energy Department’s $134 million in funds for research and
development, including energy-control systems for smart grids.  The Defense Department’s total discretionary budget would
increase 0.2 percent to $526.6 billion, according to a White
House budget summary.  Defense Cuts  Obama’s fiscal plan assumes the Pentagon won’t have to
absorb the $50 billion in cuts next year required under the
deficit-reduction process called sequestration. That means the
president and Congress would have to reach a deal on an
alternative. While Obama proposes about $100 billion in defense
cuts over a decade, most would be delayed until later years.  Lockheed and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , based in  Falls Church ,
 Virginia , have expanded into both cybersecurity and health care.
Lockheed conducts disability exams for the Department of
 Veterans Affairs  and develops software for the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. General Dynamics helps provide
electronic medical records and information technology for
federal  health services .  Rob Doolittle , a General Dynamics spokesman, declined to
comment.  Military contractors will continue to direct attention to
growing non-defense areas, such as health care and data
services, Bill Loomis, a Baltimore-based analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in an interview.  “Over the next couple of years, you’ll see a turn, the
services will show improvement and growth while big weapons
programs decline further,” Loomis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  