-- Tokyo Electric Boosts Coal Capacity to Cut Need for Costly Oil
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-04-10T03:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/tokyo-electric-boosts-coal-capacity-to-cut-need-for-costly-oil.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ,  Japan ’s
biggest utility, may cut its oil purchases by more than one-
third as it boosts its reliance on coal plants to reduce an
energy bill that’s ballooned since the Fukushima nuclear crisis.  Tepco, as the utility is known, will generate or buy as
much as 54 percent more electricity from coal-fired plants
starting this month compared with last year, according to
calculations based on company statements. That may enable it to
reduce its purchases of  crude  and  fuel oil  by as much as 3.95
million kiloliters, or 68,000 barrels a day, according to Osamu Fujisawa, an independent energy economist in Tokyo. Tepco bought
10.8 million kiloliters in the year ended March, the company
said today in a report on its  website .  Tepco’s fuel costs surged after the March 11, 2011,
earthquake and nuclear disaster, since it’s had to rely on oil,
gas and coal to replace idled nuclear capacity. The company will
do “whatever it takes” to return to profitability and hopes to
do so without raising rates for customers, Naomi Hirose, Tepco’s
president, said this month.  “By establishing new coal-powered plants, thermal power
generation costs can be reduced, first by cutting the use of
oil-burning units,” said Reiji Ogino, an analyst at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “Japanese government requests
to power companies that they lower the rates they charge will
encourage movement to coal-fired plants, since coal is a
relatively cheap energy source.”  Tepco will add 2.6 gigawatts a year of coal-fired power
from two new plants and electricity bought from two units owned
by  Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506)  that restarted after being damaged
in the earthquake.  Hitachinaka Plant  The No. 2 unit at Tepco’s Hitachinaka plant, which can
produce 1 gigawatt of power, began operating April 4, while the
600-megawatt No. 6 unit at its Hirono facility will start in the
middle of this month, Yusuke Kunikage, a company spokesman, said
in a phone interview.  Tepco is also purchasing half of the power produced by the
No. 1 and No. 2 units at Tohoku Electric’s Haramachi plant, each
of which can generate 1 gigawatt of electricity, Hiroki Enami, a
Tohoku spokesman, said by phone. Unit No. 2 began operating on
Nov. 3, while No. 1 started Jan. 28, Enami said.  Tepco’s coal-fired generating capacity, including power
purchased from independent producers and other utilities, was
4.77 gigawatts in the year ended March 2012, the most recent
year for which the company has released data. No additional coal
capacity was added between then and November, when the power
generated by the Tohoku Electric’s Haramachi plant became
available, Kunikage said.  Power Business  Tepco’s electric power business had an operating loss of
323.7 billion yen ($3.3 billion) during the fiscal year ended
March 2012. This was because of a 13 percent increase in
operating expenses from higher fuel prices and greater purchases
stemming from the loss of its nuclear stations, according to its
most recent  annual report . The company is expected to announce
results for the fiscal year ended March 2013 by the middle of
May.  Tepco bought 7.45 million kiloliters of fuel oil in the
year ended March, up 29 percent from the previous year, while
crude purchases rose 31 percent to 3.33 million kiloliters, the
company said on its website. Liquefied natural gas imports rose
3.2 percent to 24.9 million metric tons and coal purchases rose
1.2 percent to 3.35 million tons.  In March alone, fuel oil purchases declined 18 percent to
546,000 kiloliters and crude purchases dropped 58 percent to
183,000 kiloliters. LNG imports fell 3.6 percent to 2.12 million
tons, while coal purchases jumped 40 percent to 515,000 tons.  Low-Sulfur Crude  “The highest-priced fuel is oil,” said economist
Fujisawa, who worked for Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and Showa Shell
Sekiyu K.K. “If you’re trying to select which fuel to back out
from, you will come to the conclusion that it should be  fuel oil 
and crude.”  It would require 6.5 million tons of coal to produce 2.6
gigawatts a year, Fujisawa said. That would cost 69.1 billion
yen, based on the average price Japan paid for coal in 2012,
according to finance ministry  data . Producing a similar amount
of electricity using low-sulfur crude would cost 249.2 billion
yen, the finance ministry data show.  The Hirono and Hitachinaka coal-powered units, as well as
the No. 1 Haramachi plant are being test-run, so output may be
below normal at times, Kunikage and Enami said. Tepco’s units
will enter normal operations in December, according to Kunikage.
Tohoku Electric’s No. 2 Haramachi unit began operating normally
on March 29 and the company doesn’t know when the No. 1 unit
will end its test-run phase, Enami said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  