-- Hollande to Step Up Asset Reporting for French Ministers, MPs
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-04-10T12:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/hollande-to-step-up-asset-reporting-for-french-ministers-mps.html
French President  Francois Hollande ,
stung by one of his ministers admitting he’d hid an overseas
bank account, is preparing some of the strictest reporting
requirements in  Europe  for politicians.  Government ministers will be required to divulge their
assets and sources of income by April 15. Members of parliament,
heads of local government, and heads of administrative bodies
will follow once a law is passed later this year. The law will
be presented to the cabinet April 24.  “Elected officials must be respected, and transparency is
what allows respect,” Hollande said in a press conference after
today’s cabinet meeting in Paris. “The choices I have made will
prevent the return of scandals that have harmed our country for
too many years.”  Hollande’s popularity, already at a record low for a
president not even one year into his term, was further hit when
Budget Minister Jerome Cahuzac said April 2 that he’d been lying
for months about an undeclared Swiss bank account first reported
last December by an online newspaper.  Germany and Britain require all members of parliament to
disclose activities or assets that provide an income, though
they don’t have to disclose all their assets.  The new French requirements were criticized by the
opposition and by Bank of  France  Governor  Christian Noyer .  “It’s doesn’t further the cause of democracy,” Noyer said
today on Europe1 radio, speaking before Hollande detailed his
reporting requirements. “Democracy is about clear rules, and
respect for the rules. It’s not about reality TV.”  ‘A Smokescreen’  Jean-Francois Cope and former Prime Minister  Francois Fillon , who were deadlocked in a bitter battle last year to head
opposition party, Union for a  Popular Movement , clashed again
over the question of publishing assets.  Fillon said on France2 television April 8 that he owns a
house in central France that he bought in 1993 for 440,000
($570,000) euros, has savings of 73,000 euros, and owns a Toyota
Land Cruiser and Peugeot 306, both of which are more than 10
years old.  “I don’t want to play this game of voyeurism and
hypocrisy,” Cope said on France2 TV yesterday. “It’s just a
smokescreen to hide a minister who lied and defrauded the
taxman.”  Christian Jacob, a member of the UMP, said on Europe1
yesterday that “Deputies should not be doormats for everyone to
wipe their feet on.”  Some members of government, including Industry Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  and Health Minister Marisol Touraine, have
already disclosed their assets.  Ending Suspicion  Government spokesman Najat Belkacem-Vallaud wouldn’t say if
any reservations about disclosing assets were expressed at
today’s cabinet meeting.  “Everyone thinks that we have to respond,” she said.
“It’s demanding, but it’s useful if we want to put an end to
suspicions.”  Under the outlines of the law announced today, a special
commission will be set up that will verify the veracity of the
declarations. Providing false information would be a criminal
offense.  Hollande also reiterated that he wants an end to secret
bank accounts within the European Union, and that he wants all
EU countries to share information on earnings and assets held by
citizens in other countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  