-- Home Prices Seen Falling in Some Areas as Rates Increase
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-04-10T13:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/home-prices-may-decline-in-some-cities-as-rates-increase.html
Home prices  are climbing too fast
relative to buyer incomes, signaling that property values may
fall in some U.S. cities once mortgage rates rise and reduce
affordability, according to a study by  Zillow Inc. (Z)   Driven in part by  borrowing costs  close to historic lows,
buyers spent three times their annual incomes on homes at the
end of last year, up from a 2.6 multiple from 1985 to 1999,
Zillow said in a statement today. That means properties were
almost 15 percent pricier relative to incomes than before the
housing bubble of the mid-2000s, according to the Seattle-based
real estate research firm.  “The days of historically high levels of housing
affordability are numbered,”  Stan Humphries , Zillow’s chief
economist, said in the statement. When  interest rates  rise,
property prices “will have to either remain stagnant while
incomes catch up or, quite possibly, home values will have to
fall in some markets. This will especially be the case in some
markets that have seen strong home-value appreciation.”  Median wages aren’t keeping pace with home prices, which
are rising as low borrowing costs drive demand for a tight
supply of properties. Prices climbed 10.2 percent in February
from a year earlier, the biggest gain since March 2006,
according to CoreLogic Inc. Phoenix had the largest increase
among major metropolitan areas, with single-family home values
rising 21 percent, the  Irvine , California-based firm said.  Record Low  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to a
record 3.31 percent in November, and was 3.54 percent last week.
That compares with a 9 percent average from 1985 to 1999,
according to  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rates may rise to about 4 percent by the end of this year,
and 4.5 percent by late 2014,  Keith Gumbinger , vice president of
HSH.com, a Riverdale, New Jersey-based mortgage-information
website, said in a telephone interview.  The economic growth and wage inflation that should
accompany higher rates will help offset the negative effect of
rising borrowing costs on the housing market, Philip Weingord,
chief executive officer of New York-based Seer Capital
Management LP, said today in an interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “We’re just in the beginning of real estate prices
starting to come back,” Weingord said. “We expect to see real
estate prices continue to go up over the next several years.”  Homebuyers in 24 of the 30 largest metro areas tracked by
Zillow paid more in the fourth quarter relative to regional
median income than in 1985 to 1999, Zillow said. The areas where
price-to-income ratios rose the most from their pre-bubble
levels included San Jose, California;  Los Angeles ; Portland,
Oregon; San Diego and Denver.  Only Cincinnati, Chicago, Cleveland, Atlanta, Las Vegas and
Detroit had ratios lower than historic norms, Zillow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  