-- Hon Hai Sales Drop Most in 13 Years as iPhones, Electronics Slow
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-04-10T13:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/hon-hai-sales-drop-most-in-13-years-as-iphones-electronics-slow.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, posted its
biggest revenue decline in at least 13 years, pointing to slower
sales of iPhones, iPads and computers.  First-quarter revenue fell 19.2 percent from a year earlier
to NT$809 billion ($27 billion), the Taipei-based company said
in a statement today. That’s less than the NT$895 billion
average of 10 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg and the
largest decline since at least 2000.  Sales missed expectations by 9.6 percent, the most in more
than four years and indicate a slowdown in orders from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , Hon Hai’s largest customer. Falling computer shipments to
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and weaker sales of games machines for  Sony
Corp. (6758) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Nintendo Co. also may have
contributed to the shortfall at Hon Hai, the Taipei-listed
flagship of Terry Gou’s Foxconn Technology Group.  “These numbers are an indication that iPhone and iPad
sales are not doing as well as expected,” said Vincent Chen, an
analyst at Yuanta Financial Holding Co. in Taipei who has a buy
recommendation on Hon Hai shares. “HP’s desktop shipments are
falling and games consoles are weakening, accounting for further
declines at Hon Hai.”  Simon Hsing, spokesman for Taipei-based Hon Hai, declined
to comment on reasons for the decline. Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-
based spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple didn’t
answer two calls to her mobile phone after office hours.  Pegatron Corp. (4938) , the Taipei-based maker of iPad Mini, posted
29 percent revenue growth for the quarter, it said today. That
data indicates sales of iPad Mini may still be strong, Yuanta’s
Chen said.  Apple Slowing  Apple, which lost its title as the world’s largest
smartphone maker to Samsung Electronics Co. last year, probably
posted revenue growth of 9 percent in the quarter ended March
31, the slowest since the September quarter of 2009, according
to  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the world’s largest customer
manufacturer of laptops for clients including Apple and HP,
posted a 17 percent drop in first-quarter sales, missing analyst
estimates, according to a company statement today and Bloomberg
data.  “Consumers and businesses are continuing to delay
purchases of computers, adding to the problem the sector faces
in losing out to tablets and smartphones,” said Jitendra Waral,
a Hong Kong-based technology analyst at Bloomberg Industries.
Global notebook computer sales will probably have little growth
in 2013 with the first half weakest, Waral said, citing IDC
forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 