-- Honeywell Officers, Directors Sued on Stock Option Grants
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-04-10T19:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/honeywell-officers-directors-sued-over-stock-option-grants-1-.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , the
maker of products including thermostats and flight controls, was
sued by an investor who claims some officers and directors
wasted corporate assets by awarding excessive stock options in
violation of company policy.  An incentive plan for  Morris Township , New Jersey-based
Honeywell limits equity awards for officers and employees to no
more than 2 million shares vesting in less than three years, and
directors granted more than 4 million shares from 2006 to 2011,
the shareholder, Christine Ruckert, said in a complaint filed
today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Authorizing the stock-option grants was “not a good faith
exercise of business judgment to protect and promote the
company’s corporate interests, but rather lined the pockets” of
grantees, Ruckert said.  Ruckert is asking the court to rescind the excess stock
options and award damages to the company from those responsible
for the allegedly unauthorized grants, according to court
papers.  Rob Ferris, a company spokesman, said the claims are
without merit and the company will fight the suit.  “The plaintiffs are confusing our standard long-term
options grants” with special option grants, he said in an e-
mailed statement. “This special 2 million share option pool is
used very infrequently and the company has never exhausted the
entire allocation.”  Honeywell rose 79 cents to $74.33 at 2:29 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares gained 16 percent
this year before today.  The case is Ruckert v. Cote, CA8469, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  