-- Hong Kong Home Prices Nearing Peak, John Swire Chairman Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-04-10T02:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/hong-kong-home-prices-nearing-peak-john-swire-chairman-says.html
Hong Kong   home prices , the highest
among major global cities, are close to peaking after more than
doubling since early 2009, said John Swire & Sons Ltd. Chairman
James Hughes-Hallett.  Continued price gains will lead to a “competitive
disadvantage,” and property curbs taken by Hong Kong Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying make sense, said Hughes-Hallett in a
Bloomberg Television interview. John Swire & Sons controls  Swire
Properties Ltd. (1972) , a luxury property developer.  A shortage of housing supply, low mortgage costs, and a
buying spree by mainland Chinese have seen  home prices  shrug off
repeated attempts by the government to curb gains amid an outcry
over affordability. Prices could fall as much as 20 percent over
the next two years, according to Deutsche Bank AG, after lenders
last month raised home-loan rates by 25 basis points in response
to tighter risk rules.  “We’re at the very top of the market for our global
comparison,” Hughes-Hallett said. “If you look at the price
equivalent you pay in New York, Paris, London,  Tokyo , there
should be a price ceiling somewhere very soon.”  A 20 percent price decline is unlikely, he said. Resale
home prices will probably fall though it’s too early to measure
the impact of the curbs on new properties, he said.  Swire Properties in November sold an apartment in Opus Hong
Kong, a building designed by  Frank Gehry , for HK$455 million
($58.6 million), or a record HK$68,083 per square foot. John
Swire controls about 44.99 percent of  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) ,
according to Swire Pacific spokeswoman Maisie Shun Wah. Swire
Pacific owns about 82 percent of Swire Properties, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Leung has imposed extra property transactions taxes, raised
mortgage down-payment requirements, and accelerated the pace of
government land sale since taking office in July.  Hong Kong has the highest home prices among major global
cities including London, New York, and Tokyo, according to a
report by  Savills Plc (SVS)  last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  