-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Declines; OPEC Trims Demand Forecast
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2013-04-10T12:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/top-oil-market-news-crude-declines-opec-trims-demand-forecast.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Halts Two-Day Advance as Supplies Rise to Three-Decade High  West Texas Intermediate halted a two-day advance as a
report showed stockpiles of U.S. crude increased to the highest
level since 1981.  TOP MARKET STORIES  China Keeps Fuel Prices Unchanged in First Review of New System  China , the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, won’t
adjust gasoline and diesel prices in the first review under a
new mechanism because international crude costs have remained
relatively stable.  Iraq Narrows Discount on All May Shipments of Basrah Light Crude  Iraq narrows discount for Basrah Light crude to be shipped
to  Asia  in May to 70 cents/bbl less than average of Oman/Dubai
benchmarks, according to e-mailed statement from Oil Ministry.  Hindustan Petroleum Said to Buy Nigerian June Crude From Vitol  Hindustan Petroleum Corp.,  India ’s third-largest state
refiner, bought 2 million barrels of Nigerian crude from Vitol
Group for loading from June 1 to June 30, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter.  API Snapshot: U.S. Crude-Oil Inventories Rose 5.06 Mln Barrels  The following table is a summary of the latest Weekly
Statistical Bulletin from the  American Petroleum Institute . *T  OPEC MONTHLY REPORT  OPEC Trims Oil Demand Growth Forecast After March Output Drops  OPEC trimmed its estimate for global oil demand growth
after the group’s crude production dropped last month.  Oil-Tanker Surplus Is Seen by OPEC Curbing Returns for Owners  A surplus of the largest oil tankers is curbing returns for
owners of the vessels, according to the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  REFINERIES
Map global refinery outages  Imperial Sarnia Refinery Operations Not Affected by Weather  Imperial Oil’s Sarnia refinery extinguished a fire and
sounded an all clear within 20 minutes after a lightning strike
at 7:40 p.m. on April 9.  Suncor Has Emissions at Commerce City Oil Refinery: NRC Filing  Co. releases an unknown amount of sulfur dioxide at
Commerce City,  Colorado , oil refinery “possibly due to an
equipment failure,” according to filing with the U.S. National
Response Center.  Yeochun NCC Cuts Naphtha Cracker Run Rates to 90% From Yesterday  Yeochun NCC Co. reduced operating rates at its naphtha
crackers in  South Korea  after an outage at a customer’s plant,
according to a company spokesman.  Sinopec Shanghai Says Refining Unit to Resume Within Two Days  Sinopec Shanghai vice chairman Wang Zhiqing comments in
Hong Kong  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  European Naphtha Cargoes Heading to Asia Rise to Seven in April  European naphtha cargoes heading to Asia rose to seven
shipments from two a week earlier, shipping data showed.  Basrah-Saudi Discount Widens; TNK-BP Offers ESPO: Asia Crude  Iraq widens Basrah Light’s discount to Saudi Arabia’s Arab
Medium to the most in three months.  Mozambique Cabinet Backs Oil Law That Clarifies Investor Rules  Mozambique’s Cabinet approved the southern African nation’s
petroleum law, which sets out timelines on reporting discoveries
and stipulates that some revenue from fields must be allocated
to communities.  Gasoline Cargoes to U.S. Seen Declining as Refinery Output Gains  The number of gasoline cargoes shipped to the U.S. from
ports in northwest  Europe  is set to drop during the next two
weeks as American refineries increase production of the auto
fuel, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Iran Oil-Export Capacity Seen Up 14% According to Ship Signals  The combined carrying capacity of  oil tankers  leaving
Iranian ports last month was 14 percent higher than in February,
vessel-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China’s Crude Imports Fall to Lowest in Six Months in March  China’s net daily crude imports fell to the lowest level in
six months in March as refineries shut units for maintenance.  Asia Fuel Oil Backwardation Widens, BP Buys Gasoil: Oil Products  Asia fuel oil backwardation widens for a third day,
signaling increased demand for prompt supplies. BP buys gasoil
cargoes in  Singapore .  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Asian LNG Set to Rise as Premium at Two-Year Low: Energy Markets  Liquefied natural gas prices in Asia are poised to reverse
an eight-week drop that brought them to a two-year low relative
to cargoes for Europe as  Japan  faces delays in starting nuclear
reactors.  Exxon Mobil to Seek Second MTBE Win in New Hampshire Appeal  Exxon Mobil Corp. will appeal a $236 million  New Hampshire 
verdict in a case over the use of the gasoline additive MTBE,
after having gotten a much larger award in a similar dispute
thrown out by a court in  Maryland .  Lowest Swiss Water Levels in 13 Years Set to Boost Power Prices  The lowest hydro reserves in 13 years in  Switzerland , which
generates more of its power using water than any other non-
Nordic European country, may boost prices in neighboring France,
Germany, Italy and Austria.  Tokyo Electric Boosts Coal Capacity to Cut Need for Costly Oil  Tokyo Electric Power Co., Japan’s biggest utility, may cut
its oil purchases by more than one-third as it boosts its
reliance on coal plants to reduce an energy bill that’s
ballooned since the Fukushima nuclear crisis.  OTHER MARKETS  Stocks Climb With Euro on Stimulus as S&P 500 Futures Advance  Stocks gained for a third day, U.S. equity-index futures
advanced and the euro strengthened before the  Federal Reserve 
releases minutes of its last meeting and on speculation central
banks will keep supporting stimulus efforts. The Australian
dollar gained as Chinese imports jumped.  Mine Town Rents Beating  Manhattan  Show Aussie Pain: Commodities  A furnished two-bedroom apartment in Port Hedland, the
world’s biggest bulk export terminal, on Australia’s cyclone-
battered north-western coast rents for almost the price of a
three-bedroom penthouse in Manhattan.  Obama Proposes $3.77 Trillion Budget in Bid to Revive Debt Deal  President  Barack Obama  sends a $3.77 trillion spending plan
to Congress today that calls for reductions in  Social Security 
and other entitlement spending in a political gamble intended to
revive deficit-reduction talks.  China’s Trade With North Korea Falls After December Launch (1)  China’s exports to North Korea fell in the first three
months of this year, in what may be a signal to Kim Jong Un’s
regime to change its behavior following a December rocket launch
and subsequent nuclear test.  SPORTS  New York Knicks Clinch First NBA Division Title in 19 Seasons  The  New York  Knicks clinched a National Basketball
Association division for the first time in 19 seasons with a
120-99 victory over the  Washington Wizards  that pushed their
winning streak to 13 games.  Kansas’s McLemore, Indiana’s Oladipo to Enter 2013 NBA Draft  University of Kansas freshman guard Ben McLemore and
Indiana University junior guard Victor Oladipo will enter this
year’s  National Basketball Association  draft and forgo their
remaining college eligibility.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       93.83  -0.37  -0.4  Nymex      May
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    105.86  -0.37  -0.3    ICE      May
Gasoil ($/Ton)         890.25  +8.25  +0.9    ICE      May
Gasoline (c/Gal)       290.85  -3.39  -1.2  Nymex      May
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    4.07  +0.06  +1.4  Nymex      May
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    105.40  -0.02   0.0    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            296.09  -0.04   0.0  Nymex      May
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.36  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,586.70  +0.9
MSCI World Index     1,439.96  +0.5
Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  