-- Lowest Swiss Water Levels in 13 Years Set to Boost Power Prices
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n ,   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-04-10T09:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/lowest-swiss-water-levels-in-13-years-set-to-boost-power-prices.html
The lowest hydro reserves in 13
years in Switzerland, which generates more of its power using
water than any other non-Nordic European country, may boost
prices in neighboring France, Germany, Italy and Austria.  Hydro levels dropped to 9.2% full in the week through April
8, the least since 2000, according to data from the  Swiss
Federal Energy Office . In two weeks time, levels of water and
snow available to generate electricity in the Alpine region may
fall to 5.9 terawatt-hours less than normal for the time of
year, according to Markedskraft ASA data on Bloomberg.  Dry, cold winter weather has depleted reservoirs, boosted
demand for heating and driven prices higher in Switzerland.
January precipitation was 58 percent less than a year earlier in
the nation and 16 percent lower in the Alpine region, according
to CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg. Last month was
Switzerland’s coldest March in 26 years, according to the
country’s national weather service MeteoSwiss.  “A shortage of hydroelectric power requires more thermal
production, which may in turn lead to higher power prices,”
Chris Rogers, a senior analyst in London at Bloomberg
Industries, said in an e-mailed research note.  Europe produces about 1.6 percent of its power from hydro
while in Switzerland water meets more than 11 percent of
electricity demand, according to data from  Eurostat . Prices in
neighboring Austria, France, Germany and Italy may feel the
impact of low hydro levels as Europe moves toward a single
integrated market by 2014.  Price Premium  The next-week peak contract in Switzerland, for power
supplied between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., was trading at 54 euros
($70.64) a megawatt-hour at 11:30 a.m. Geneva time, a premium of
8.75 euros to the equivalent contract in Germany, according to
broker data.  Higher electricity prices “encourage power producers to
market the energy today instead of storing the water until next
winter,” Andreas Meier a spokesman for  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) , which
operates hydro stations in Switzerland, Italy and Scandinavia,
said by e-mail.  Kraftwerk Hinterrhein AG’s 197 million cubic meter Lago di
Lei and Forces Motrices Hongrin Leman SA’s Hongrin lake in
Switzerland have been drained for maintenance for the first time
in 50 years and 40 years respectively, according to the
companies’ websites.  Low Point  Hydro reserves usually reach their  lowest point  at the end
of April and then start to increase as snow and ice melts, data
from the Swiss Federal Energy Office show. The amount of power
demand and rainfall in April will be key for short-term prices
across the region, according to Rogers.  “If there is a drought this spring or summer it would
affect refilling of hydro reserves because nuclear and coal
plants are river-cooled and the water may be used rather than
stored,” he said in an interview.  The impact of low hydro levels may be felt more acutely as
Germany’s phase-out of nuclear plants decreases back-up
capacity. Availability of  Electricite de France SA ’s nuclear
reactors in France is currently about 75 percent and the company
said in February that its nuclear outage program will be
“busier” than last year, with seven 10-year inspections
compared with six in 2012. Output in 2012 fell to 405 terawatt-
hours from 421 terawatt-hours in 2011.  German Renewables  Germany is getting more power than ever before from sources
dependent on wind and sunshine. Solar and wind generation has
increased 80 percent in the past three years, damping prices on
sunny, gusty days and boosting them when natural gas or coal
plants are required to offset shortfalls.  “I don’t think Germany will see any supply problems this
summer,” Arne Oesterlind, Stockholm-based manager of the
Shepherd Energy Fund, said on March 27 by phone. “It’s the
first summer we will see with such high renewable energy
capacities installed. There is no precedent.”  The low levels of hydropower may prompt the Alpine region
to import excess power from Germany, Oesterlind said. Germany
had record net electricity exports of 22.8 terawatt-hours last
year, almost four times more than in 2011, the  German Federal
Statistical Office  said on April 2.  The biggest buyers of German electricity were the
Netherlands with 22.6 terawatt-hours, Austria with 15.9
terawatt-hours and Switzerland with 12.7 terawatt-hours. Germany
meanwhile imported from France, Denmark and the Czech Republic.  Nordic electricity prices climbed for 11 days through March
27, the longest period of gains for a month-ahead contract since
at least 2003, as water supply for hydropower producers fell to
its lowest in two years. Hydro levels are forecast at 22.4
terawatt-hours below normal in two weeks, compared with 24.3
terawatt-hours below normal today, Markedskraft data shows.  Cold Weather  Norwegian grid operator Statnett SF said on April 4 that
the hydro levels were  unusually low , limiting the system’s
ability to react to unplanned power outages in two out of its
five market areas.  “Snow-melting usually starts to increase water reservoirs
at the end of April,” Per Lekander, a Paris-based analyst at
UBS AG, said in an e-mailed report on April 5. “With cold
weather continuing throughout northern Europe, we see the
possibility that this might be delayed by a week or two.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  