-- Toyota-Ford Tiff Shows Challenge of Counting Global Sales
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-04-10T20:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/toyota-says-corolla-topped-ford-focus-in-12-global-sales.html
For the second time in seven
months,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  both claim to
produce the world’s top-selling car. The clash shows how
counting in the global automotive industry is complicated.  Ford said yesterday that its Focus compact car was the
leading global nameplate, with 1.02 million sales last year,
citing R.L. Polk & Co. data that pegged Toyota’s Corolla
deliveries at 872,774. Toyota replied with a statement late
yesterday that said it sold 1.16 million Corollas.  Determining which company is correct isn’t clear cut.
Yesterday’s dispute followed a similar spat in August, when Ford
claimed a six-month global sales lead for Focus and cited IHS
Automotive data that excluded some derivatives of the Corolla
such as Matrix in the U.S., the Auris in  Europe  and the Verso in
 Japan . Analysts also calculate global sales differently on the
basis of autos sold by joint-venture partners.  “There’s no simple answer here -- it’s basically for
bragging rights, so you define it however you like to suit your
purposes,” Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates, an auto
consulting firm in West Bloomfield, Michigan, said by telephone.
“Suffice it to say these are both global models that are
extremely popular and whose sales are likely to grow as the
volumes in developing countries increase.”  The differing tallies emerged as Ford and Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM)  revamp their U.S. car offerings to win sales
in segments dominated for decades by Toyota and Tokyo-based
 Honda Motor Co. (7267)  Fusion, Ford’s mid-size sedan that was
redesigned last year, is gaining ground on Toyota’s Camry, the
top-selling U.S. car for 11 consecutive years. Camry held a lead
over Fusion of 100,830 to 80,558 after the first quarter.  ‘Pure Number’  Erich Merkle, Ford’s U.S. sales analyst, reiterated late
yesterday that Focus was the “best-selling nameplate.” The
1.02 million figure “is a pure number that is verified by a
third party,” Merkle said in an e-mail.  Polk is unable to provide data on global sales by nameplate
beyond what Ford has released, said Michelle Culver, a Polk
spokeswoman who works for Lambert, Edwards & Associates. The
Southfield, Michigan-based company’s global reporting typically
lags by three to four months because it tracks more than 80
markets worldwide.  “Toyota sold 1.16 million Corolla nameplate vehicles
globally in 2012,”  Mike Michels , the carmaker’s U.S. vice
president of communications, said late yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “Corolla registrations attributed to Polk come up
short by nearly 300,000 units. This discrepancy is glaring and
we have requested clarification.”  F-Series, Fiesta  Ford’s F-Series pickup line was the No. 3 nameplate
globally last year, behind Focus and Corolla, and Ford’s Fiesta
subcompact was No. 6, according to the Polk data released by
Ford. GM’s Chevrolet Cruze small car was No. 8, ahead of Honda’s
Civic compact.  Ford rose 2.5 percent to $13.12 at the close in New York.
The shares have climbed 1.3 percent this year, compared with a
11 percent increase for Standard and Poor’s 500 Index. Toyota’s
American depositary receipts rose 1.2 percent to $108.80. The
ADRs have gained 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net 
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  