-- Parents Not Informed Premature Babies at Risk in Study
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/parents-not-informed-premature-babies-at-risk-in-study.html
A  study  in 1,316 premature infants
has drawn a reprimand from U.S. officials who say parents of the
babies weren’t adequately advised of “reasonably foreseeable
risks,” including blindness and death.  The  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services, in a
 letter  dated March 7, said a research team led by Richard Marchase at the University of  Alabama  at Birmingham “failed to
adequately inform parents of the reasonably foreseeable risks
and discomforts of research participation.”  In the study, infants were given different amounts of
oxygen, a critical component of their care. The parents weren’t
told previous research suggested more oxygen may be tied to
blindness and lower levels might boost the risk of death. The
department’s letter was made public yesterday by  Public Citizen ,
a watchdog group that criticized the HHS response as
insufficient and urged U.S. officials to apologize to the
families of the infants.  “The word ‘unethical’ doesn’t even begin to describe the
egregious and shocking deficiencies in the informed-consent
process for this study,” Michael Carome, deputy director of
Public Citizen’s Health Research Group, said in a statement.  The Public Citizen communication, sent to Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius , urged the agency to review
other studies on premature babies for similar breaches and
investigate how its oversight of clinical trials failed in this
case in order to prevent future mistakes.  Balancing Risks  The research sought to determine the ideal balance between
the survival benefit for premature babies who received high
levels of oxygen and their risk of a form of blindness linked to
premature birth. The infants in the study were born from 24
weeks to 28 weeks of gestation. Newborns are considered to be
full term after 40 weeks.  The study funded by the  National Institutes of Health  was
carried out from 2005 to 2009 at 23 hospitals and medical
centers. The amount of oxygen given was within the range
commonly used to treat premature infants at the time. Doctors
until then guessed the best level for each baby based on their
understanding of earlier research and personal experience.  The infants who participated in the study were less likely
to die than babies at the same institutions who weren’t in the
trial, regardless of how much oxygen they received, Marchase
said yesterday in a statement. The mortality rates were also
lower than expected based on historical levels, he said.  Consent Forms  The HHS criticism centered on the consent forms and the way
they outlined the possible risks to infants, he said. There were
no complaints about the medical approach, Marchase said.
Physicians involved in the research at the 23 medical centers
worked together to craft the consent form, which was approved by
all their institutional review boards, he said.  Carome,  Public Citizen ’s deputy director, served on the HHS
Office of Human Research Protections staff for 10 years before
joining the government watchdog group. If the parents had known
of the risks, it is likely “many, if not most, parents would
not have allowed their babies to be in this study,”  Public
Citizen  said in its statement.  The review of the issue is continuing, said Jerry Menikoff,
director of HHS’s Office for Human Research Protections. The
medical center will propose steps needed to correct the process
and ensure parents and patients are properly informed in the
future, then the agency will determine if those measures are
appropriate, he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Unresolved Issues  There wasn’t a problem with the design of the study itself,
which was examining an unresolved issue that is critical to the
care of premature newborns, Menikoff said.  More education is needed to ensure that researchers and
those who oversee them know what information should be provided,
he said. The agency has an initiative under way to improve the
process, he said.  “This is certainly the start of a longer process to make
sure people know what occurred, why it was wrong and make sure
that it doesn’t occur again,” Menikoff said.  The department’s letter last month was directed to the
 University of Alabama at Birmingham , which served as the lead
medical center for a portion of the clinical trial. Most of the
other 22 hospitals and medical centers that helped conduct the
research were copied on the HHS letter, including  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , and  Duke University  in
Durham,  North Carolina .  Research Sought  While premature babies are routinely given oxygen as part
of their treatment, there have been calls for more study into
the appropriate levels, HHS wrote in its letter to Marchase.
Higher levels have been associated both with greater survival
rates and higher rates of a retinal condition that can lead to
blindness.  In the study, called Support, babies were split into groups
receiving higher and lower oxygen levels, both within the range
considered the general standard of care, the department wrote.  A higher percentage of babies given the lower oxygen levels
died during the trial, while half as many cases of retinal
damage were seen in the surviving infants, according to the
results  published  in 2010 in the New England Journal of
Medicine, the department said in its letter.  Researchers conducting the study in U.K. and Australian
infants ended their work early as a result, the department said.  HHS requires researchers to disclose any “reasonably
foreseeable risks and discomforts.” Researchers failed to
inform parents of the risks and include an explanation of how
the infants would be treated if they weren’t in the study, the
department wrote.  Awaiting Changes  The department asked the  University of Alabama  at
Birmingham to provide a plan by March 22 to make sure future
information given to parents and patients fully explains the
risks and address all the necessary issues that should be
covered when they give consent to participate in research.  The government’s “guidance is invaluable to any research
institution committed, as we are, to constantly improving
patient outcomes through research and patient care,” Marchase
said in the statement. “We will ensure that any future consent
form clearly delineates risks to all arms of a study as
completely as possible, including studies in which all arms are
operating within the accepted standard of clinical care.”  Public Citizen argued that the U.S. hadn’t gone far enough.
The group said in its letter to Sebelius that each medical
center should be required to show how it would avoid future
deficiencies in consent as well as investigate its own oversight
of the trial. The department also should identify and suspend
any unethical similar research involving premature infants
funded by HHS, the group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  