-- Paulson Officials Accused of Conflict in Golf Resort Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-04-10T19:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/paulson-executives-sued-by-five-mile-over-resorts-bankruptcy.html
Paulson & Co. executives were sued
for alleged conflicts in the handling of assets in the
bankruptcy of a group of resorts including Miami’s Doral golf
course, where  Tiger Woods  won his 76th PGA Tour event last
month.  Michael Barr , Daniel Kamensky and Jonathan Shumaker were
sued in  New York  state court by Five Mile Capital Partners,
which accused them of failure to get the highest value for
intellectual property as directors.  “The conflicted directors not only ignored these valuable
assets, but took affirmative steps to render them less valuable
before, during and after the bankruptcy,” Five Mile said in the
complaint filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan.  The lawsuit stems from the bankruptcy filing in 2011 of
five resorts owned by Paulson, a hedge-fund firm: the Grand
Wailea in Hawaii, La Quinta and PGA West in California, the
 Arizona  Biltmore, the Claremont in California and the Doral.
Doral was sold to  Donald Trump  and the other four were sold to
 Government of Singapore Investment Corp. , a sovereign wealth
fund, for $1.5 billion.  The lawsuit is “completely without factual basis or legal
merit,”  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Five Mile Capital has filed numerous other claims
directed at other parties and every one of them has been
decisively rejected by the  bankruptcy court ,” Leslie said. “We
are confident that this suit will be rejected in its entirety.”  Mezzanine Loan  Five Mile is a lender under a $50 million mezzanine loan to
an affiliate of MSR Hotels & Resorts Inc., which guaranteed the
debt. MSR Hotels is one of a related group of companies that
owned and operated the resorts, and it separately owns resort
trademarks, logos and copyrights, according to the complaint.  Barr, Kamensky, Shumaker and a fourth defendant, Mohsin Meghji, were conflicted because they served as directors of MSR
Hotels at the same time they were directors of subsidiary
companies that owned the resort hotels, Five Mile said in the
complaint.  They allowed the entities in bankruptcy to use the
intellectual property without paying for the assets and allowed
the Singapore fund to continue to use them at no cost, according
to the filing. Five Mile, saying it’s entitled to damages of $59
million, is seeking a receiver to take control of the assets so
they can be sold or licensed.  The case is Five Mile Capital SPE B LLC v. MSR Hotels &
Resorts Inc., 651267-2013, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  