-- Microsoft Windows Weak Demand Spurs Worst PC Slump on Record
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-04-11T20:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/pc-shipments-shrink-14-in-first-quarter-for-worst-recorded-drop.html
Personal-computer shipments
plummeted in every region of the world in the first quarter as
buyers opted for smartphones and tablet computers and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s newest operating system met with weak demand.  Global PC unit shipments fell 14 percent in the first
quarter -- the worst such decline on record -- to 76.3 million,
a bigger drop than the 7.7 percent decline IDC had forecast, the
market researcher said in a statement yesterday. The slump was
the steepest since IDC began tracking shipments in 1994.  Every PC maker except  China ’s  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  experienced
declines as businesses chose to install Microsoft’s Windows 7
operating system on employees’ computers instead of the newer
Windows 8,  Jay Chou , an analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-
based IDC, said in an interview. Consumers also shunned Windows
8 in favor of smartphones and tablets, which can handle many of
the same tasks, he said.  “We don’t have a lot of reason to be optimistic that the
market will remain in more than replacement-cycle mode,” Chou
said. Consumers have found Windows 8’s redesigned user interface
disorienting, and prices for touch-screen enabled computers that
run the software are still too high, he said.  The last time worldwide PC shipments experienced a double-
digit percentage decline was in the third quarter of 2001, when
the market was roiled by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the
impact of a decline in technology stocks, Chou said.  Windows Impact  Chou said Windows 8’s absence of the familiar “Start”
button and the necessity for users to switch between desktop and
tile modes are turning off potential buyers in stores.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , introduced the
latest version of Windows and a tablet called Surface in October
to appeal to consumers, who are increasingly adopting mobile
devices to surf the Internet, access e-mail and store pictures,
music, documents and other information.  Surface sales have gotten off to a slow start.  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) 
has blamed the poor reception to Windows 8 for weak PC sales,
while  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Executive Vice President  Todd Bradley 
said in January that sales of Windows 8 had a disappointing
debut.  Microsoft said the data reflects an “evolving and highly
dynamic” PC market, where handheld computers perform like PCs
and laptops can convert into tablets.  “Windows 8 sold over 60 million licenses in its first few
months, a strong start by any measure,”  Mark Martin , a
spokesman for Microsoft, said. “Along with our partners we
continue to bring even more innovation to market across tablets
and PCs.”  Microsoft’s shares dropped 4.4 percent to $28.94 at the
close in  New York , while Hewlett-Packard retreated 6.5 percent
to $20.88.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , whose chips run more than 80 percent of
the world’s PCs, fell 2 percent to $21.83.  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD) , the biggest semiconductor maker, fell 3.5 percent
to $2.52.  Lenovo Holds  Gartner Inc., another market-research firm, said PC
shipments declined 11 percent in the first quarter to 79.2
million units. Quarterly global shipments fell below 80 million
machines for the first since 2009, Gartner said. IDC and Gartner
both reported that PC shipments fell in the U.S.,  Europe  and
 Asia .  Lenovo was the only top-five manufacturer that didn’t see a
decline in worldwide or U.S. shipments, IDC said. Shipments at
the second-largest global PC supplier were unchanged from the
first quarter of 2012, giving it a current market share of 15
percent.  Hewlett-Packard remained the No. 1 worldwide supplier with
a market share of 16 percent, although unit shipments declined
24 percent from a year earlier.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  was third with 12
percent of the market after shipments declined 11 percent.  The severity of the declines at Hewlett-Packard and Dell
stem from the companies’ protracted attempts to turn around
their businesses, IDC said. Hewlett-Packard has been seeking to
recover from years of strategy shifts, including an aborted plan
to spin out its PC business, and Dell is pursuing a plan to go
private amid a worsening outlook for desktop and laptop sales.  U.S. Market  In the U.S., Hewlett-Packard and Dell held the top two
spots in market share, with 25 percent and 22 percent
respectively.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was third with a 10 percent share.
Lenovo, which was fifth with 9 percent, saw shipments climb 13
percent.  “Lenovo continues to outperform its traditional PC
competition and there is still plenty of room to take share in
this market,” Brion Tingler, a spokesman for Lenovo, wrote in
an e-mailed statement.  Apple’s  market-leading  iPad tablet and its iPhones are
helping the company cope with slumping PC demand compared with
other manufacturers, Chou said.  “They are certainly better hedged against the decline of
PCs than other vendors,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  