-- Philippine Peso Snaps Six-Day Drop on Dollar-Sales Speculation
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-10T08:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/philippine-peso-snaps-six-day-drop-on-dollar-sales-speculation.html
The peso rose, snapping a six-day
decline, on speculation exporters and overseas workers sold
dollars after the Philippine currency reached the weakest level
in almost five months. Two-year  government bonds  rallied.  The peso touched 41.315 per dollar on April 8, the lowest
level since Nov. 16. Financial markets were shut for a holiday
yesterday. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is watching market
developments, including Japan’s stimulus measures, and their
impact on the local economy will be considered at its April 25
policy meeting, Governor Amando Tetangco said this week.  “The exchange rate near a five-month low becomes
attractive for the likes of overseas workers, especially those
that are starting to pay the fees for the June start of
classes,” said Roland Avante, president of Philippine Business
Bank in  Manila .  The peso gained 0.5 percent to 41.055 per dollar at the
close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency
advanced 4.4 percent in the past year, the second-biggest rally
in  Asia  after the  Thai baht . One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, fell four basis points to 4.90 percent.  Exports fell 15.6 percent in February from a year earlier,
the biggest decline in 14 months, official data showed today.  Bangko Sentral will keep open the option of cutting the
 interest rate  it pays on its special-deposit accounts rate this
month, Tetangco said on April 2. The central bank reduced the
rate on the accounts by about half a percentage point each in
January and March.  The yield on 12.375 percent bonds due February 2015 fell 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 2.54 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  