-- Poland Leaves Rates at Record Low on Recovery Expectation
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-04-10T16:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/poland-leaves-rates-at-record-low-on-recovery-expectation.html
Poland’s central bank kept  interest
rates  unchanged for the first time in five months as policy
makers expect record-low borrowing costs will reinvigorate the
European Union’s largest eastern economy.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw left the benchmark
seven-day  reference rate  at 3.25 percent today after reducing
them by 150 basis points since November. The decision matched
the estimates of all 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rate setters are still open to further monetary easing as
they try to gauge whether a recovery has begun, Governor Marek Belka said at a briefing after today’s decision. While the
central bank projects a “gradual” recovery, the recent reports
showed contraction in manufacturing deepened last month,  retail
sales  fell in February and  unemployment  rose to a six-year high.  ““We never barred the door to further cuts, but nobody
expected one today and our statement isn’t promising one next
month,” Belka said at the news conference. “I won’t say how
much time we’re giving ourselves.”  The 10-year bond yields extended their decline after his
comments, falling 7 basis points on the day to 3.53 percent. The
zloty advanced 0.3 percent to 4.1005 per euro at 5:47 p.m. in
Warsaw.  Derivatives traders are betting on another quarter-point
reduction through June, according to the difference between two-
month forward-rate agreements and the Warsaw interbank offered
rate.  Recovery Doubt  The recovery scenario is in doubt after European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi said on April 4 that risks to the
outlook remain on the downside for the euro region, Poland’s
biggest trading partner. Policy makers may cut rates “in
several months” unless the economy starts to recover, policy
maker Andrzej Bratkowski told Radio PiN on March 26.  “The tone of the statement and the press conference leaves
the door open for further easing,” Rafal Benecki, chief
economist for Poland at ING Groep NV in Warsaw, said in e-mailed
comment today. “It seems the MPC is anticipating that inflation
can surprise on the downside in coming months but wants to know
how sustainable this can be.”  While Polish monetary-policy makers are hoping for a
rebound, the Hungarian central bank last week announced steps to
spur lending and tap currency reserves in a bid to end the
country’s second recession in four years. Bank Rossii must use
its own tools to help economic growth, Elvira Nabiullina,
President Vladimir Putin’s central bank chief nominee, told
lawmakers in Moscow yesterday.  ‘Painful Consequences’  Domestic borrowing costs are nearing a level where
“monetary policy stops being conventional,” Belka told
reporters today. That makes any decision to cut rates further is
“difficult,” he said.  ‘Some euro-area countries whose economies are similar to
Poland’s have suffered painful consequences from interest rates
that were set too low,” Belka said  Belka and his fellow rate-setters were so confident that
the economy would weather the euro region’s debt crisis that
they unexpectedly raised borrowing costs in May 2012 to curb an
 increase  in consumer prices. Nine months later, the rate of
inflation fell to 1.3 percent, below the central bank’s
tolerance range of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent.  No Deflation  Policy makers saw “no risk of deflation” and they may
consider steps if there was “high” probability of inflation
staying below the central bank’s target “in the long term,”
Belka said today.  While Poland became the only EU economy to defy recession
since 2008 debt crisis, the going has gotten tougher. Four years
ago it relied on tax cuts that boosted consumer spending and
widened the  budget deficit . Now, the government has pledged to
narrow the gap and fiscal cuts were “the most important
factor” behind the slowdown, Belka said last week.  The central bank’s March staff projection, which showed
inflation will stay close to 1.5 percent through 2015, was the
main reason policy makers unexpectedly cut borrowing costs
by 50 basis points last month, he said. The outlook assumed the
pace of economic expansion will double to 2.6 percent next year
from 1.3 percent in 2013, the worst performance in 12 years.  “We continue to attach a 40 percent probability to another
rate cut, with June or July the most likely timing,” Nora Szentivanyi, an economist at JPMorgan & Chase Co. in London,
said in an e-mailed note. “The vagueness of today’s policy
guidance suggests the MPC is not yet convinced that growth and
inflation will materially undershoot its projections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  