-- Policy Changes Shrink FHA Taxpayer Subsidy in Obama Budget
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-04-10T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/policy-changes-shrink-fha-taxpayer-subsidy-in-obama-budget.html
The Federal Housing Administration
spending plan released today by President  Barack Obama  projects
a $943 million taxpayer subsidy for the agency as fee increases
and tighter underwriting shrink a $16.3 billion shortfall
predicted in November by an independent actuary.  The subsidy would mark the first time the government
mortgage insurer has taken aid from the Treasury in its 79-year
history. The agency’s estimated losses on defaulted loans,
especially those in its reverse-mortgage portfolio, are worse
than those in the actuary’s report, FHA Commissioner Carol Galante said. Still, the policy changes will generate about $18
billion this year, almost enough to offset the costs, she said.  “FHA, while still under stress from legacy loans, has made
significant progress and is on a sound fiscal path,” Galante
said during a conference call with reporters today.  An improvement in the FHA’s finances could affect
congressional efforts to rein in its operations. Spurred by
concerns that the agency may start adding to the federal
deficit, Democrats and Republicans in Congress have been working
on legislation to limit the FHA’s housing-market role.  Rising real-estate prices improved the agency’s outlook,
Galante said. Still, those gains were more than offset by
declining interest rates, which cause drops in the agency’s
revenue by inducing customers to refinance out of FHA loans, she
said.  The housing recovery did benefit  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac , the mortgage financiers seized by the U.S. in 2008. Obama’s
budget predicts for the first time that the government bailout
of the two companies will turn a profit of as much as $51
billion by 2023.  Future Losses  FHA is required to keep enough cash on hand to cover all
expected future losses. The agency has until Sept. 30, the end
of the fiscal year, to make a final determination of whether it
will require aid from the Treasury for the first time ever.  The FHA’s shortfall stems largely from loans it backed from
2007 to 2009 when it expanded its book of business as private
capital evaporated. Those loans alone are projected to cost the
agency $70 billion.  While policy changes have ensured the FHA can cover costs
in its traditional mortgage business, its need for a subsidy is
now being driven entirely by losses from reverse mortgages,
Galante said. The FHA backs 90 percent of such mortgages, which
enable homeowners age 62 or older to withdraw equity and repay
it only when their homes are sold. Declining home prices have
left FHA holding properties worth less than the amount borrowed.  Mitigate Losses  FHA will mitigate losses in the program with new
requirements for financial assessments of potential borrowers
and mandatory escrow accounts for payment of insurance and taxes
on the properties.  The agency insures $1.1 trillion worth of  mortgages  and
backs about 15 percent of the U.S. loan originations for home
purchases, almost quadruple the 4 percent share it covered in
2007. About 9.5 percent of loans insured by the FHA are at least
90 days delinquent.  The budget prediction for the FHA is being followed in
Congress, where Democrats and Republicans are working on
legislation that would further tighten the agency’s
underwriting.  Leaders of the Senate Banking Committee have pledged to
work on a bipartisan bill to restructure the agency. Republicans
in the  House of Representatives  are working on their own
measure.  Under consideration are policies that would reduce the
share of the government guarantee on an FHA loan, which now
stands at 100 percent, possibly through a risk-sharing
arrangement with private guarantors. Lawmakers are also
considering policies that would limit the agency’s role to
providing insurance to low- or moderate-income borrowers.
Currently, borrowers at any income level can qualify for FHA
coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  