-- Portugal Said to Need New Budget Cuts to Unlock Longer Loans
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-10T15:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/portugal-said-to-need-new-budget-cuts-to-unlock-longer-loans.html
Portugal ’s chances for a seven-year
extension of its bailout loans may hinge on the government
delivering budget cuts to replace measures that were thrown out
by judges in Lisbon, a European official said.  Portugal and Ireland are counting on a decision by  European
finance (IRF)  ministers this week to lengthen the repayment times,
smoothing the way out of the debt crisis for both countries.  Portugal’s case is less clear cut after last week’s supreme
court ruling blocked 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) in
savings, forcing Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  to find new
reductions to appease creditors. Coelho has ordered spending
cuts and ruled out tax increases to close the gap.  The  European Commission  has championed a lengthening of the
loan maturities, with Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  telling reporters in Brussels today that such a concession
would be “a core part of our exercise to support the exit of
the two countries from the programs.”  Creditor governments led by the  Netherlands  and Germany
want to proceed more slowly, unwilling to grant leniency while
Portugal’s budget policy is in flux. Creditors are also wary of
making concessions without backing from their own parliaments.  As a result, the maturity extensions, in the works for
several months, might only get a conditional endorsement from an
April 12 meeting in Dublin, a European official told reporters
in Brussels today on condition of anonymity.  ‘Next Month’  A failure to decide in Dublin would mean that “it will be
done next month,” Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem,
who chairs the euro meetings, said today in The Hague.  A seven-year extension is the most likely of five options
in a paper for the Dublin session that was prepared by the
“troika” of the commission,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund , along with the European Financial
Stability Facility.  “Given the current volatility in the markets, quick
implementation is recommended to maximize benefits in shielding
Ireland and Portugal from possible contagion effects,”     said
the paper, which was distributed to German lawmakers and seen by
 Bloomberg News .  Ireland aims to exit its bailout at the end of this year,
while Portugal’s program ends in May 2014. While both have
returned to bond markets since tapping official aid, Portugal’s
“market access can only be considered as limited and
opportunistic,” the paper said.  Portugal will use the euro meeting to “mobilize” support,
Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said at a conference in Lisbon
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin at   bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  