-- Porter to Buy Jets in Long-Haul Challenge to Air Canada
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-10T20:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/porter-to-buy-jets-in-long-haul-challenge-to-air-canada.html
Porter Airlines Inc., the Canadian
carrier that now flies only turboprops, plans to add its first
jets to start long-haul flights in an expanded challenge to  Air
Canada  and  WestJet Airlines Ltd .  Los Angeles and Vancouver will be among the new cities
served beginning in 2016 with the conditional purchase of at
least 12  Bombardier Inc.  CSeries airliners, Toronto-based Porter
said today in a statement. The 107-seat planes are valued at
about $870 million at list prices.  Buying jets breaks with closely held Porter’s strategy of
making shorter flights with Bombardier Q400 turboprops from
close-in Billy Bishop airport in Toronto. Flying the smallest
CSeries model, the CS100, at Billy Bishop would require
lengthening the runway, lifting the airport’s ban on jets and
overcoming opposition from nearby residents.  With turboprops and routes such as Toronto to Newark, New
Jersey, Porter isn’t a broad competitor for Canada’s two biggest
airlines. Air Canada has an international network as well as
domestic routes, and WestJet serves Caribbean tourist
destinations along with U.S. and Canadian cities.  Porter said today it will make a request “shortly” for
two amendments to permit CS100s to fly to Billy Bishop, which is
on an island near downtown Toronto. They would permit the use of
that model and add a “modest” 168-meter (551-foot) extension
over water to each end of the main runway, Porter said.  Political Review  No changes will be considered “until a determination is
first made by the elected representatives on Toronto City
Council,” according to a statement from the Toronto Port
Authority, which runs the facility under an agreement with the
city and Canada’s government. The accord bans jets until 2033.  The agency said today it “takes no position on Porter’s
business aspirations.”  The longest of Billy Bishop’s three runways stretches 3,998
feet. That’s shorter than the minimum landing distance of 4,400
feet for the CS100, according to a Bombardier fact sheet
provided at a press event last month in Mirabel, Quebec.  Air Canada fell 1.5 percent to C$3.18 at the close in
Toronto, while WestJet slid 1.3 percent to C$24.61. Bombardier,
which announced the CSeries order in December without
identifying the buyer, rose 0.5 percent to C$4.09.  The planemaker is poised to conduct the CSeries’ first
flight by the end of June, a commitment that Chief Executive
Officer  Pierre Beaudoin  reiterated to reporters in Montreal
yesterday. The goal is six months later than planned, a delay
the company attributed to unspecified issues with suppliers.  Less Fuel  Bombardier projects that the CSeries will cost about 15
percent less to operate and burn about 20 percent less fuel than
existing competitors. The jet will feature composite materials
and the new geared turbofan engine from  United Technologies
Corp.’s  Pratt & Whitney.  Bombardier has amassed 180 firm orders for the CSeries
family, and the company is on pace to meet a goal of 300 by the
time the jet enters service in mid-2014, Beaudoin said March 21.  For Porter, adding the CSeries will put destinations such
as Florida and the Caribbean as well as Canadian cities
includling Winnipeg and Calgary within reach. The Q400’s maximum
range is 1,014 nautical miles (1,878 kilometers), while the 
CS100 can fly as far as 2,950 nautical miles, according to
 Bombardier .  Porter’s order includes options for another 18 CS100s, as
well as purchase rights on six Q400s. Should all purchase rights
and options be exercised, the value of the deal would increase
to about $2.3 billion at list prices, Bombardier said.  Porter doesn’t anticipate difficulties in financing the
purchase, CEO  Rob Deluce  said at a press conference in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  