-- Prison Ties Bind Malaysia Opposition in Election: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-04-11T02:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/prison-ties-bind-malaysia-opposition-in-election-southeast-asia.html
After  Malaysia ’s leaders locked up
more than 100 dissidents in 1987, Lim Guan Eng found himself in
the same prison as Muslim politicians whose party advocated
Islamic punishments like stoning and amputation.  Lim, an ethnic Chinese member of a party pushing for a
secular government in the Muslim-majority country, began
interacting with members of the Pan-Malaysian Islamic party,
known as PAS, for the first time. Following months of lengthy
discussions on theology and politics, he realized they could
work together even while disagreeing on Islamic law.  “When they detained us, they forced us to live together,
and we found that we have the same stand on many issues,” Lim
said last month in an interview. “It is a friendship formed in
bondage of iron, of pain, of suffering. When you suffer together
and you don’t give in, that is an unbreakable bond.”  Anwar Ibrahim ’s resurgent three-party opposition alliance
is banking on those relationships to overcome ideological
differences and end the 55-year reign of Prime Minister Najib Razak’s ruling coalition in the coming weeks, a scenario that is
unsettling investors. A previous attempt by opposition parties
to unite fell apart in 2001, and they’ve yet to state publicly
who will be prime minister if they defeat Najib.  “If they win the election, God knows what kind of a common
policy they’ll have, how they’d work out the Cabinet lineup,”
said Clive Kessler, emeritus professor at the University of New
South Wales in Sydney who has been writing about Malaysian
politics for half a century. “It’s a coalition that is in fact
simply a no-competing-against-one-another-on-election day pact.
Whether or not that’s a viable government is a huge question.”  Populist Policies  The opposition’s platform is centered on lowering prices of
utilities and cars, giving cash handouts to senior citizens,
breaking monopolies and fighting corruption. It plans to pay for
the policies by eliminating graft and wasteful  government
spending  that Anwar has said amounts to about 20 billion ringgit
($6.6 billion) per year.  “It doesn’t look like there’s a lot of reforms in that
package,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, referring to the
opposition’s manifesto. “A lot of things tend to be a bit
populist, which may not go so well with the markets.”  Brokerages from CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets to RHB Investment
Bank Bhd. have warned of a market sell-off if the opposition
wins on concerns over government stability and changes to
investment projects approved under Najib. Anwar has said his
coalition may renegotiate government contracts for toll-roads
and power generation if they are found to be flawed.  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index extended gains
after reaching a record yesterday, rising 0.5 percent as of
10:33 a.m. local time. For the year, it has underperformed its
regional peers, some of which have gained more than 13 percent.  Declining Support  Public satisfaction with Najib’s 13-party Barisan Nasional,
also known as National Front, has fallen to 48 percent over the
past year, according to a  Merdeka Center for Opinion Research 
survey of 1,021 voters conducted Jan. 23 to Feb. 6 on the
country’s peninsula. The same survey showed dissatisfaction with
Najib rising to 32 percent, the highest since he took power in
2009, about a year after the last election.  Barisan Nasional is seeking to extend its winning streak in
a May 5 election, building on a legacy of success helped by
opposition parties that competed against each other for decades.
That changed in 1999 after Anwar was fired by former Prime
Minister Mahathir Mohamad and later jailed for corruption and
sodomy. The sodomy conviction was overturned in 2004.  Shariah Law  PAS, Lim’s ethnic Chinese-majority Democratic Action Party
known as the DAP, and two parties that later merged under
Anwar’s leadership, united at the time to form the Barisan
Alternatif. The bloc won 22 percent of seats in the 1999
election, up from 8 percent in the previous vote.  The coalition unraveled two years later when the DAP left
shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks because it
disagreed with PAS’s push to create an Islamic state with
Shariah law. In the 2004 election, Barisan Nasional won 90
percent of seats for its biggest-ever parliamentary majority.  The opposition regrouped informally before the 2008 vote
and won 37 percent of 222 seats, denying the ruling coalition a
two-thirds parliamentary majority for the first time in three
decades. Afterward, the DAP, PAS and Anwar’s People’s Justice
Party formed the Pakatan Rakyat, or  People’s Alliance .  While its manifesto avoids mentioning Shariah law, Pakatan
Rakyat won’t stop PAS from advocating its implementation nor the
DAP’s push for a secular state, Anwar said in a Feb. 19
interview. The coalition agrees to respect rights to freedom of
religion and speech guaranteed in the constitution, he said.  “Any change to be introduced must be achieved through a
consensus,” Anwar said.  Getting Along  The opposition’s ability to work together since 2008 in
state governments in Selangor and Penang -- the two states where
all three parties are represented -- shows they can focus on
fiscal responsibility and effective governance, according to Ong
Kian Ming, a DAP strategist. Pakatan Rakyat’s parties are
becoming more diverse and focusing on policies that don’t hinge
on race or religion, he said.  “We are not at each other’s throats every day, although
there are areas where we disagree,” Ong said. “At the federal
level, if we take power, we’ll find the same spirit in wanting
to cooperate.”  Even so, in opposition, Pakatan Rakyat has failed to name a
shadow Cabinet, and PAS has yet to say it will back Anwar as
prime minister if it wins. PAS and DAP clashed earlier this year
over whether Christians can use the word “Allah” for “God”
in Malay-language Bibles.  ‘More Focused’  PAS only wants to implement Shariah law for criminal
matters in states where it controls a majority, and views hudud
punishments as fairer than current laws that allow for hanging
and caning, President Abdul Hadi Awang said in an interview. The
push to defeat Barisan Nasional has helped unite the opposition,
he said.  “We are more focused this time around compared with
previous years,” Hadi Awang said at his party’s  Kuala Lumpur 
office on March 19. “We will respect each other.”  PAS wants to wait until after the election to announce who
it supports as prime minister, Hadi Awang said. Lim, now the DAP
secretary-general and currently Malaysia’s only ethnic Chinese
state leader, said Anwar is the “sole candidate.”  “On experience in running government matters, Anwar is far
ahead of anyone,” Lim said. “He will be able to bring everyone
together.”  For Lim, his experience in detention in the 1980s under the
Internal Security Act along with other political leaders,
including members of governing parties, is now helping to smooth
over the DAP’s differences with PAS. When tensions rise in the
coalition, he’ll often call up Mohamad Sabu, PAS’s deputy
president who was also jailed at the time.  “You cannot win power alone -- you can only win it
together,” Lim said. “Either you win in concert or you lose
separately in disarray. The choice is very clear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  