-- Qatar Airways Says Boeing Very Close to 787 Battery Fix
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-04-11T00:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/qatar-airways-says-boeing-very-close-to-787-battery-fix.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is “very close” to
getting approval from regulators for a fix to its 787
Dreamliner’s batteries that would let flights resume, said  Qatar
Airways  Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Akbar  Al Baker .  Boeing has “nearly completed the recertification program
and is going to send engineers to my company in order to make
the aircraft ready for commercial operations,” Al Baker said in
an interview yesterday.  Qatar’s 787s should be back in service well before the May
31 target given earlier this week by  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) , Al Baker said. He spoke in Chicago, home to Boeing’s
headquarters, for an inaugural flight from Doha.  Qatar had five 787s in its fleet when the model was
grounded in mid-January and is scheduled to receive the same
number this year out of a total order for 30 of the jets, whose
list price starts at $207 million. The Doha-based carrier is in
talks with Boeing for compensation, Al Baker said.  Regulators around the world ordered airlines to stop flying
the 787 after two battery faults that month caused a fire in one
plane and forced an emergency landing by another. Boeing has
since redesigned the  lithium-ion batteries  and their enclosure
and is working with the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration on
approval for flights to resume. The planemaker completed tests
for certification last week.  The grounding slowed Qatar’s expansion into the U.S., where
the carrier is doubling its network with new service to Chicago,
Atlanta, Boston and Detroit, Al Baker said. Qatar is starting
its Chicago service with three flights a week instead of the
planned seven because the Boeing 777s it needs to fly the route
are filling in elsewhere for Dreamliners, he added.  Qatar is also broadening its global reach by joining the
Oneworld marketing alliance, and could complete integration
efforts as early as October, Al Baker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in  Chicago  at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  