-- Raiffeisen Expects Loan Losses as Eastern Europe `Tense'
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-04-10T07:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/raiffeisen-expects-loan-losses-as-eastern-europe-tense-.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, expects loan losses to
put a drag on profits this year because of economic uncertainty
in several countries.  Raiffeisen, which reported its first quarterly loss since
at least 2005 in the final three months of last year, foresees
provisions for loan losses this year similar to the 1.01 billion
euros ($1.32 billion) it set aside for 2012, the Vienna-based
company said in its annual report today.  “In light of the economic prospects, the situation remains
tense in several of our markets,” Raiffeisen said. “In 2013,
we therefore expect a similar net provisioning requirement as in
the previous year.”  Raiffeisen confirmed preliminary earnings published in
February that showed a loss of 117 million euros in the fourth
quarter compared with 222 million euros a year previously,
caused by a 37 percent rise in bad debt charges and goodwill
writedowns in Ukraine.  Overdue loans are proving persistent in eastern Europe,
where they make up more than a fifth of all lending in countries
including Ukraine,  Hungary  and Romania. Policy makers and
economists warn bad debt is choking off credit and hurting
prospects for growth in the former communist part of the
continent. Raiffeisen Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic
said in January that non-performing loans will continue to grow.  An increase in bad debt charges in the fourth quarter was
mainly caused by problems with large corporate loans in Austria,
Raiffeisen said. Non-performing loans in Hungary,  Poland , the
 Czech Republic  and Slovenia also weighed, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  