-- Kent Says Currency, Lower Mine Investment to Hurt ‘13 Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-10T02:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/rba-s-kent-says-aussie-lower-mining-spending-to-hurt-13-growth.html
Australia ’s strong currency, a
deceleration in resource investment from a peak this year, and
tightening of  government spending  are likely to hurt growth in
2013, central bank Assistant Governor Christopher Kent said.  “The peak in resources investment is now close,” Kent
said in a speech to the Bloomberg Economic Summit in Sydney
today. “Once it has passed, the decline in mining investment --
and the effect of the still high level of the  exchange rate  and
ongoing fiscal consolidation -- will weigh on economic growth.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered the benchmark
 interest rate  by 1.75 percentage points in the 14 months through
December as it seek to rebalance a two-speed economy away from
mining regions in the north and west toward industries including
construction in the south and east. The currency has held above
parity with the  U.S. dollar  for more than nine months, the
longest stretch since it was freely floated in 1983, and a
private report today showed  consumer confidence  fell this month.  “There has been a significant easing in monetary policy,”
Kent said today. “There are signs that the low level of
interest rates is having some of the expected effects and these
are likely to have further to run. The effects are clearly
evident in the established housing market.”  Lower Rates  Responding to a question on the currency’s strength, Kent
said the RBA has tried to take that into account in the setting
of monetary policy.  “We’ve reduced interest rates more than we would have
otherwise if the exchange rate hadn’t been so high,” he said.
“So those are the settings we have. That’s the hand that the
world has dealt us and we’re doing the best we can.”  The Australian dollar, together with the  New Zealand ,
Canadian, Swedish and other currencies, has strengthened as
nations such as the U.S., Japan and the U.K. hold rates near
zero and undertake quantitative easing to boost their economies.  Asked whether the central bank would be prepared to
consider intervention in the  currency markets  to weaken the
Australian dollar, Kent reiterated Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s
comments to a parliamentary panel in February.  “The system we have in place is one that has served us
pretty well for quite a while,” Kent said today. “We’re really
quite a long way from having to consider those sort of more
extreme measures, including because interest rates in Australia
are at reasonable levels compared to elsewhere. So there’s room
to cut should that be necessary.”  Rate Traction  The central bank has kept rates unchanged this year at 3
percent, matching a half-century low, as data indicate that the
earlier reductions in borrowing costs are gaining traction.  “Higher consumption growth will also help to support
business activity and investment,” Kent said. Better conditions
in the housing market and a pickup in dwelling investment
“should, in time, provide a measure of support to employment
and activity in the non-mining business sector,” he said.  A  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  report today showed consumer
sentiment declined 5.1 percent in April, after three months of
increases. “This result emphasizes how fragile consumer
confidence has become in the current environment,” said  Bill Evans , chief economist at Westpac.  Demand from  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, for
 iron ore  and coal has fueled the resource investment boom.
Prices of Australia’s key export, iron ore, rebounded since
reaching a three-year low in September.  ‘Very Significantly’  Exports of bulk commodities have been growing strongly and
shipments of liquefied natural gas are forecast to increase
“very significantly” as new production plants come on line
from about 2015, Kent said.  “While this welcome boost to exports will help to support
growth of GDP, the demand for labor in resource and resource-
related activities should wane as the sector moves from the
investment to the operational, and less labor intensive, phase
of the boom,” he said.  A central bank paper released in February showed that one
in 10 Australian jobs is tied to resource extraction and
industries that service it. The share of total employment in the
resource economy is estimated to have doubled since the
mid-2000s to about 9.75 percent in the 12 months through June
30.  “While the exact timing of the peak in mining investment
and the profile thereafter are uncertain, there is still a
sizeable amount of work in the pipeline, including a number of
large liquefied natural gas projects,” Kent said today. “This
means that the level of mining investment is likely to remain
quite elevated for a time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  