-- RBS Said to Fire Trader Weeks After Libor Fine
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-04-11T10:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/rbs-dollar-rates-trader-dismissed-amid-internal-probe-int.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
dismissed a London-based interest-rates trader, weeks after
settling with regulators over its part in the Libor scandal, two
people with knowledge of the situation said.  Simon Green, who traded derivatives tied to short-term
moves in interest rates in dollars and euros, was fired last
month, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the matter hasn’t been made public. He is the seventh individual
to be dismissed from the bank for Libor-related misconduct, one
of the people said. Officials at the Edinburgh-based lender
declined to comment.  Green, who joined RBS as a trainee in 2002, has been listed
as inactive since Feb. 26 on the U.K. regulator’s register of
approved individuals. He couldn’t be located yesterday through
directory searches and a message left with a LinkedIn account
with the same name wasn’t returned.  RBS was fined $612 million by U.K. and U.S regulators on
Feb. 6 for making hundreds of attempts to rig rates including
yen, Swiss franc and U.S. dollar Libor from 2006 to 2010. More
than a dozen banks and brokers are being probed around the world
for manipulating benchmarks including the London interbank
offered rate, which underpins at least $300 trillion of
financial contracts from derivatives to student loans.  ‘Disciplinary Process’  RBS said in February it had dismissed six individuals,
including two managers, following an internal probe. Eight more
left before disciplinary action could be taken, while an
additional six were “severely disciplined” or were “going
through a disciplinary process,” the bank said. Green is one of
the latter six, one of the people said. In all, 21 employees
have left, been disciplined or are facing disciplinary action
over rate-rigging.  Separately, RBS Securities Japan Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer Ryusuke Otani is preparing to resign as the company
faces further censure for rate rigging, according to two people
with knowledge of the situation. Atsuko Yoshitsugu, a Tokyo-
based spokeswoman for RBS, said Otani wasn’t available to
comment as he is on “compliance leave.”  The Japanese Financial Services Agency will announce
penalties including a business-improvement order as early as
tomorrow, the people said. The agency oversees the Securities
and Exchange Surveillance Commission, which on April 5
recommended administrative action against the unit. Hiroshi
Okada, an FSA spokesman, declined to comment.  Libor is determined by a daily survey that asks banks to
estimate how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for different time-frames and in different currencies. The top
and bottom quartiles are excluded and an average is taken of the
remaining quotes. Traders sought to influence where the rate was
set to boost the profits of their derivatives positions,
regulators found.  Regulators including the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission are now investigating whether other financial
benchmarks were manipulated. The Washington-based CFTC is
probing brokers at  ICAP Plc (IAP)  and as many as 15 banks over the
alleged manipulation of interest-rate swap prices used as a
benchmark in the $379 trillion market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  