-- Treasury Inflation Bets Near Three-Month Low Before Debt Auction
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-04-10T07:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/treasury-inflation-expectations-are-near-lowest-since-january.html
Treasuries investors’ expectations
for U.S. inflation were near a three-month low, supporting the
 Federal Reserve ’s decision last month to continue its asset-
purchase program to stimulate growth.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  will discuss
the economy and monetary policy with reporters today as the
central bank releases minutes of its March 19-20 meeting. The
gap between yields on 10-year notes and inflation-linked
securities -- the so-called  break-even rate  -- was at 2.444
percentage points after touching 2.438 yesterday, the least
since Jan. 2. The government will auction 10-year notes today.  “Declines in the break-even rate reflect rising concern
about the U.S. economic outlook, as well as the slowdown in
inflation,” said Shinichiro Kadota, a strategist for non-yen
debt in  Tokyo  at Barclays Plc. “I expect the 10-year auction to
go smoothly because demand for safe assets remains strong.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note was little changed
at 1.76 percent as of 8:21 a.m. London time. The 2 percent
security due in February 2023 traded at 102 6/32, Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices showed.  Japan ’s bonds declined, led by longer-maturity debt, with
30-year yields gaining seven basis points to 1.45 percent. Ten-
year yields rose seven basis points to 0.60 percent, according
to Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest inter-dealer
debt broker. The rate on two-year securities advanced two basis
points to 0.13 percent.  Import Prices  The U.S. Labor Department will say tomorrow that the
 import-price  index fell 0.5 percent in March from February,
according to the median estimate of 40 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. That would be the first decline in three months.  The personal-consumption expenditure index deflator, the
Fed’s favored inflation gauge, rose 1.3 percent from a year
earlier in January and February, near the slowest pace since
October 2009.  The Treasury will offer $21 billion of 10-year notes today,
followed by a $13 billion sale of 30-year debt tomorrow. The
shorter-term securities scheduled for sale today yielded 1.75
percent in pre-auction trading. Securities at a previous 10-year
auction on March 13 yielded 2.03 percent, the lowest since
January.  Investors bid for 3.19 times the amount of available debt
last month, the highest  bid-to-cover  ratio since October.
 Indirect bidders , which include foreign central banks, bought
47.7 percent of the securities, the most since December 2011.  Benchmark Rate  The  Federal Open Market Committee  reiterated last month it
will keep the benchmark rate near zero as long as unemployment
remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation is for a
rate of less than 2.5 percent. The central bank currently buys
$85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a month to spur the
economy by putting downward pressure on borrowing costs.  The “FOMC 19-20 March meeting minutes could hint at Fed
purchases tapering off,”  Ciaran O’Hagan , the head of European
rates strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris, wrote in a
research note today. “Any suggestion of more tapering to come
could prove hawkish.”  The benchmark 10-year yield will rise to 2.3 percent by
year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists with the
most recent projections given the heaviest weightings. That
would mean investors who buy 10-year notes today will lose 3.1
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “In the next six months, yields are more likely to rise,”
said Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-rate strategist in Tokyo at
BNP Paribas SA. “When we start to see signs of economic
recovery, the market will price-in possible unwinding of
monetary easing by the Fed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  