-- Repsol Says $9.8 Billion Canaries Offshore Investment Needed
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-10T13:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/repsol-says-9-8-billion-needed-in-canaries-offshore-investment.html
Repsol SA,  Spain ’s largest oil
producer, will invest at least 7.5 billion euros ($9.8 billion)
to produce the fuel off the Canary Islands near  Morocco  should
exploration studies be successful.  Potential fields about 60 kilometers (37 miles) off the
Canaries’ coastline could produce about 100,000 barrels a day,
or about 10 percent of Spain’s daily consumption, Pedro Fernandez Frial, director of strategy, said in comments at a
Madrid conference yesterday confirmed by the company.  Spain imports more than 95 percent of its oil and natural-
gas needs from nations including  Russia ,  Iran ,  Saudi Arabia  and
Nigeria. Jose Manuel Soria, the industry minister, said last
year that discovering oil off the Spanish islands could be the
“salvation” of the regional economy.  Repsol expects to receive environmental and project
approvals in time to begin  drilling  before the end of 2014. The
Madrid-based company has said the area off the Canaries holds
900 million to 2.2 billion barrels of prospective resources.  Those are deposits that might be pumped from yet-to-be-
discovered fields, with no certainty that any portion will be
found to be commercially viable.  The 900 million-barrel lower estimate compares with the 6
billion barrels Repsol and its partners are setting out to
prospect in 2014 outside of the  Canary Islands .  Developing fields in the Canaries, which lie in the
Atlantic Ocean channel between the islands and Morocco,
potentially could reduce Spain’s trade deficit by 28 billion
euros during their production years, based on estimates of
barrels pumped at the average price of oil, Repsol spokesman
Kristian Rix said today in a telephone interview.  The 7.5 billion-euro investment estimate was previously
reported by Expansion newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  