-- Republicans to Dine With Obama Amid Budget-Day Criticism
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-10T23:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/republicans-to-dine-with-obama-amid-budget-day-criticism.html
Senate Republicans say curbing the
growth in entitlement spending and shrinking the deficit are the
main topics during a dinner discussion with President  Barack Obama  tonight at the White House.  A dozen senators are dining with Obama just hours after the
president released a $3.8 trillion fiscal 2014 budget proposal.
Republican leaders criticized the spending plan for relying too
much on raising tax revenue, even though it also includes steps
to reduce outlays for entitlements that are designed to spur a
new round of deficit-reduction talks.  “It’s an open agenda, but I think it will be a lot about
finances, about the debt, about the deficit, about spending,
about tax reform on the corporate side, and I hope it’s the
predicate for another meeting,” Georgia Senator Johnny Isakson,
said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television. Isakson
organized the dinner at Obama’s request.  Neither the White House nor Isakson released a list of the
invitees. Senators Lamar Alexander of Tennessee,  John Boozman  of
Arkansas and  Susan Collins  of Maine said they would be
attending. The offices of Senators  Mike Crapo  of Idaho,  Pat Roberts  of Kansas, Marco Rubio of Florida,  John Thune  of  South
Dakota ,  Mike Enzi  of Wyoming, Deb Fischer of Nebraska,  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, and  Roger Wicker  of Mississippi confirmed they
were going to the dinner.  Isakson said he wants the session to be  “a step along the
way” to a deficit-reduction agreement that lawmakers of both
parties say is possible between now and the next time Congress
needs to raise the federal debt ceiling, probably in late July
or early August.  Latest Effort  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said this week Obama
also plans to discuss progress on legislation to rewrite U.S.
immigration law and measures to reduce gun violence.  This is Obama’s latest effort to court lawmakers who he
needs for a broad fiscal agreement. Last month, the president
held a similar dinner a different group of about a dozen Senate
Republicans at a restaurant a few blocks from the White House.
He also traveled to Capitol Hill for meetings with the
Democratic and Republican caucuses in both the House and Senate.  “I hope that the president will indicate a willingness to
educate the American people about the budget, about the tough
choices that we face and will indicate a willingness to work
across the aisle,” Collins said.  Several Republicans said following the last dinner on March
6 that they were encouraged by Obama’s willingness to listen to
points they raised.  ‘Frank Discussion’  Boozman said tonight’s White House dinner provides “an
opportunity to have a frank discussion” about the economic
“uncertainty” caused by gridlock in  Washington  that he said
has been troubling his constituents.  In his budget today Obama proposed reducing Social Security
recipients’ annual cost- of-living adjustments by changing the
inflation calculation.  Alexander said he viewed that element of Obama’s budget
plan as a positive sign, calling it  “an important step” that
represented the “kind of change long-term in entitlement
programs that will help solve the problem.”  “So if he’s ready to go along a path in that direction,
why those of us who’ve been working for the last two years to
create an environment to fix the debt welcome that,” Alexander
added. “I don’t know where it will go, but I think we have to
give him credit for doing what presidents should do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  