-- Republicans Seize What They See as Keystone Momentum
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/republicans-seize-what-they-see-as-keystone-momentum.html
House Republicans  said President
 Barack Obama  is taking too long to decide on the Keystone XL
pipeline as they defended a bill that again seeks to force a
decision on one of the nation’s most-political energy debates.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee’s panel on energy
and power held a hearing yesterday on legislation that would
allow the pipeline to be built without Obama’s approval. The
committee may vote on the bill next week. The Senate isn’t
considering a similar measure.  TransCanada Corp.’s (TRP)  $5.3 billion pipeline, which would
carry tar-sands oil from Canada to U.S. refineries near the  Gulf
of Mexico , has been among the most prominent energy fights for
the past two years. The hearing shows the issue probably will
remain so until the Obama administration makes a final decision.  “Unfortunately, this is far from the first hearing on the
topic and far from the first bill designed to grant Keystone XL
its long-overdue federal approval,” said Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and chairman of the panel.
“The approval process has dragged on for over four years and
there is still no clear end in sight.”  The bill, introduced by Representative  Lee Terry , a
Nebraska Republican, would also expedite judicial reviews and
limit further environmental analyses of the proposed pipeline.  Some backers say they have momentum following a bipartisan,
though nonbinding, vote in the Senate favoring Keystone, and a
State Department report that showed the project presented no
significant environmental risks.  Senate Opposition  Whitfield said he doubted the Democratic-led Senate would
take up the bill under consideration in the  House of
Representatives , which would embarrass Obama if it were to pass.  Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat, said
Keystone would worsen climate-change risks by promoting the
development of  oil sands  in the Canadian province of  Alberta .  The hearing was held as supporters and opponents stepped up
their lobbying efforts over the pipeline-permit decision.  Officials from Alberta, where the almost 1,180-mile (1,900
kilometer) pipeline would begin, met with several lawmakers
yesterday. Diana McQueen, Alberta’s environmental minister, met
with Representative Eliot Engel of New York, the top Democrat on
the Foreign Affairs Committee. Engel, who is also on the energy
panel, said in an interview that he encouraged McQueen to
provide more assurance that Keystone oil would benefit U.S.
consumers and not be sent overseas, as critics have said.  Venezuelan Oil  Engel said he would prefer to buy oil from  Canada  than from
 Venezuela  or  Saudi Arabia  if environmental issues involving
Keystone can be addressed. He said he opposed Terry’s bill
because it would circumvent the process, which he believes will
end with Obama’s approval of the pipeline.  Canadian officials haven’t said publicly whether they
support Terry’s measure.  Alex Pourbaix, president of TransCanada’s energy and oil
pipelines division, told the House panel the company supported
the “sentiment behind” the bill.  The State Department is reviewing the project because it
would cross the border with Canada. The agency is expected to
complete its review in September.  The analysis released last month didn’t recommend building
the line, while finding no significant environmental reasons why
it shouldn’t receive a permit. The department is now accepting
public comments and will hold a hearing in  Nebraska  next week.  Senate Action  The release of the department’s study was followed by a 62-
37 vote favoring the project in the Senate. The vote was part of
a budget agreement that differs with a House version. Lawmakers
aren’t trying to reconcile the differences, so the Keystone
language won’t take effect.  Even if Terry’s bill passed Congress, the margins aren’t
likely to be high enough to overcome a presidential veto.  Some Republicans on the energy subcommittee said the new
efforts are unlikely to sway anyone.  “Those of us who are for it are going to be for it, those
of us who are against it are going to be against it,”  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican, said at the hearing.  Barton said the committee should just vote on the bill
instead of spending hours debating it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  