-- Robusta Coffee at One-Week Low as Investors Sell; Cocoa Retreats
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-10T09:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/robusta-coffee-at-one-week-low-as-investors-sell-cocoa-retreats.html
Robusta coffee fell to the lowest
level in more than a week in  London  on speculation investors
will continue to sell the futures, boosting a discount between
the May and July contracts on NYSE Liffe. Cocoa dropped.  Robusta coffee for May delivery was cheaper than the
futures for July, reversing a premium a month ago. That market
structure, in which earlier dated contracts are cheaper than
later ones, is known as contango and may indicate ample
supplies. Money managers  reduced bets  on higher prices of
robusta coffee traded on NYSE Liffe for a second week in the
seven-day period ended April 2, the exchange said on its website
two days ago.  “Roaster buying is slow and there is some managed money
liquidation weighing on the market,” Sterling Smith, a futures
specialist at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , wrote in a daily report
e-mailed yesterday.  Robusta coffee for delivery in July slid 0.4 percent to
$2,028 a metric ton by 10:23 a.m. on NYSE Liffe, the lowest for
a most-active contract since April 2. Arabica coffee for
delivery in May gained 0.1 percent to $1.355 a pound on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York . It fell 0.4 percent yesterday.  Money managers  reduced bets  on higher robusta coffee prices
by 23 percent in the week end April 2, NYSE Liffe said in its
Commitments of Traders report. The net-long position fell to
24,632 futures and options from 32,188 a week earlier. Robusta
futures for May were $47 a ton cheaper than the July contract. A
month ago, they were at a premium of $2 a ton.  Indonesian Beans  Traders are turning to beans from  Indonesia , the third-
largest grower of robusta beans, as the harvest there starts
this month. Sales in top grower  Vietnam  are “slow” because
premiums in the physical market are “unattractive,” Nguyen Chi Cuong, chief executive officer at trading company NC Group Ltd.,
which has offices in  Ho Chi Minh City , Vietnam, said in an e-
mail today. Vietnamese beans are offered at a premium of $50 a
ton to Liffe, he said.  “Vietnamese product movement has turned sluggish as cash
buyers have become more willing to buy cheaper Indonesian
robusta,” Citigroup’s Smith said.  White sugar for August delivery was down 0.1 percent to
$491 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Raw sugar for July delivery rose 0.2
percent to 17.76 cents a pound on ICE.  Cocoa for July delivery slid 0.4 at 1,480 pounds ($2,267) a
ton in London. Cocoa for July delivery was down 0.2 percent to
$2,229 a ton in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 