-- Romania’s Inflation Slows More Than Forecast on Cheaper Food
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-04-10T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/romania-s-inflation-slows-more-than-forecast-on-cheaper-food.html
Romanian  inflation  slowed more than
analysts estimated in March as prices for food and non-food
products declined, offsetting a rise in service tariffs.  The inflation rate dropped to 5.25 percent, compared with
5.65 percent in February, the Bucharest-based National
Statistics Institute said today. The figure was below the median
estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg of 5.5 percent.
Prices grew 0.04 percent from the previous month.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei, which kept its main
 interest rate  unchanged at a record-low 5.25 percent for an
eighth meeting on March 28, expects a peak in price growth in
the first half as “inflationary expectations are diminishing,”
Governor Mugur Isarescu said after the policy session. Inflation
will probably slow to its targeted band of 1.5 percent to 3.5
percent by the end of the year.  “For the following months, we see the inflation rate
remaining significantly above the central bank’s target
corridor, fueled by exogenous supply-side factors and a low
statistical base,” Roxana Hulea, a Bucharest-based economist at
 BRD-Groupe Societe Generale (BRD)  SA, wrote in a note before the data
release. “Agricultural forecasts favor a scenario of a sharp
deceleration in the second half.”  Growth in food costs slowed to 5.46 percent in March from a
year earlier on lower oil, eggs and sugar prices, compared with
5.65 percent in February. Inflation for non-food items also
eased to 5.81 percent from 6.22 percent, the institute said.  The increase in service prices advanced to 3.52 percent
from a year earlier, compared with 3.2 percent in February, as a
weaker currency boosted transport and water and sewage prices,
according to the statement.  The leu, which has gained 1.2 percent so far this year,
traded at 4.3960 per euro at 9:32 a.m. in Bucharest, little
changed from yesterday’s close. It lost 1.4 percent in March,
the second-worst performance among currencies in eastern  Europe 
and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ; 