-- Romanian Leu Heads for Longest Winning Streak in Five Months
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-04-10T10:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/romanian-leu-heads-for-longest-winning-streak-in-five-months.html
Romania’s leu headed for the
longest winning streak against the euro in more than five
months, helped by improved economic indicators.  Industrial output  expanded 5.4 percent in February from a
year earlier, up from 3.4 percent the previous month, the
statistics office reported yesterday. Retail sales advanced in
the same month, while the economy expanded more than initially
estimated in the fourth quarter of last year, the agency
reported last week.  “The leu was propped by a swath of sound macroeconomic
releases,” analysts at  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale (BRD)  SA,
including Bucharest-based Roxana Hulea, wrote in a note today.  The leu appreciated for a fifth day, adding 0.1 percent to
4.3910 per euro by 1:34 p.m. in Bucharest and boosting this
year’s advance to 1.2 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency gained 0.2 percent yesterday.  Romania’s economy averted a recession in the fourth
quarter, growing more than initially announced, as gross
domestic product rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent from the
previous three months, the statistics service said on April 3.
That compares with a 0.1 percent expansion announced in a March
6 preliminary report. Retail sales grew 1.4 percent in February,
the agency reported on April 2.  “Should industrial output remain flat in March, the
seasonally-adjusted quarterly growth of the first quarter would
be 2 percent, the fastest since the first quarter of 2011,”
Vlad Muscalu, a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank  Romania  SA
wrote in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 