-- Ryanair Mulls Slovak Base as Next Step in East European Push
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-04-10T13:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/ryanair-considers-slovak-base-as-next-step-in-east-european-push.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  is looking at
setting up a base in Slovakia to help double passenger traffic
there in the latest step of an expansion into Eastern  Europe .  Europe’s biggest discount airline aims to lift passenger
numbers on routes to Bratislava from the 800,000 projected for
this year to more than 2 million and is in talks about basing
planes there, Chief Executive Office  Michael O’Leary  said today.  Ryanair serves Bratislava from 16 locations, among them
London and  Rome , and ranks as the top carrier to the city after
starting operations in 2005. The airport’s capacity jumped to 5
million passengers a year from 2 million after a recent upgrade.  “There is room to grow and I’d like to see some Boeings
based in Bratislava,” said O’Leary, who last month placed an
order for 175 737-800 planes with a list price of $15.6 billion.  Dublin-based Ryanair has 54 bases, defined as cities where
it stations aircraft, with three more due to open this month.
The company advertises the Slovak route as being to “Bratislava
Vienna” because of the airport’s location about 44 miles from
the Austrian capital, to which it doesn’t fly.  Filling a Gap  Czechoslovak Airlines ended operations under that name in
1995, two years after the country it served split in two,
rebranding as Czech Airlines and leaving Slovakia without a
national carrier. Bratislava became a base for discount operator
SkyEurope Airlines before folding in 2009, and other local
startups including Air Slovakia have also failed.  O’Leary said today that Ryanair has no plans to add
operations to locations in the  Persian Gulf , after no-frills
rival Wizz Air Ltd. of  Hungary  was this month announced as a
first client of the new Dubai World Central airport, which it
will serve from Budapest, Kiev, Bucharest and Sofia.  “Other low-cost carriers are looking for markets where they
don’t need to compete with Ryanair,” he said. “Once you go
outside the European Union it’s a regulated market -- you need
to get permission from some Middle Eastern government. We don’t
want to grow in the  Middle East ; we want to grow in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  