-- S&P, TrueEx Start Credit-Spread Futures Linked to S&P 500 Index
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-04-10T16:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/s-p-trueex-start-credit-spread-futures-linked-to-s-p-500-index.html
Standard & Poor’s is starting three
indexes that measure corporate creditworthiness tied to the S&P
500  stock index  and is linking with swaps exchange trueEX Group
LLC to create futures contracts on them.  One of S&P Dow Jones Indices’s gauges, which begin today,
will be tied to 120 issuers of the most liquid investment-grade
debt in the stock index. The S&P/ISDA U.S. Corporate 120 Credit
Spread Index, combined with the S&P/ISDA U.S. Financial 30
Credit Spread Index, make a third basket, the S&P/ISDA U.S. 150
Credit Spread Index.  “Investors have longed for a transparent and standardized
way to express views on credit spreads of the largest and most
liquid corporate and financial debt issuers in the U.S.,” Sunil Hirani, chief executive officer of New York-based trueEX, said
in a press release distributed by PR Newswire today. The futures
contracts “will provide a transparent, standardized way for the
global investor community to express its view on corporate
credit spreads in futures form - something that has never been
offered before.”  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed in 2010 to overhaul financial-
market regulation, is moving most credit swaps into
clearinghouses. The contracts will also trade on electronic
systems after the unregulated transactions contributed to and
complicated efforts to resolve the credit crisis. Futures on
credit swaps would open the market to small hedge funds and
other investors who couldn’t afford to participate or didn’t
want to take the risk.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , based in Atlanta, said in
October that it obtained the right to link futures contracts to
credit-default swap indexes owned by Markit Group Ltd. Credit
swaps tied to Markit’s indexes are the most actively traded
derivatives in credit markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  