-- S&P Prosecutor’s Stalled Nomination Is Bump in Fast-Track Career
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-04-10T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/s-p-prosecutor-s-stalled-nomination-is-bump-in-fast-track-career.html
The Justice Department suit against
Standard & Poor’s has entered a phase where lawyers spend months
arguing over procedure, and progress is slim. Tony West, who’s
overseeing the case. knows the feeling: His nomination to become
the agency’s No. 3 official has been blocked for half a year.  West has run financial-crime prosecutions, led efforts to
crack down on health-care fraud and navigated legal thickets
ranging from the rights of gay partners to Guantanamo detainees.
He once defended the “American Taliban” and raised millions
for President  Barack Obama ’s first presidential campaign.  Now, as his nomination to become associate attorney general
is held up in the U.S. Senate in part over a lawmaker’s
questions about his role atop the department’s civil division,
West, 47, faces a hurdle in a career that has been on the fast
track since he worked on election campaigns as a grade-schooler.  “People always said he’d be president one day -- and they
didn’t mean of the student body,” said Jude Barry, who was a
senior during West’s freshman year at Bellarmine College
Preparatory high school in San Jose, California.  From judicial appointments and financial regulators to
cabinet officials, Senate Democrats have struggled to overcome
the scrutiny and holds that the chamber’s Republicans have
placed on Obama’s nominees. West, first nominated to move to
associate attorney general from the civil division in September
2012, hasn’t received a hearing.  Procedural Sparring  Still, the “acting” tag on his title has done little to
slow his efforts at the Justice Department, which include a role
in the $5 billion civil claims against S&P, the New York-based
unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  The department, in concert with state
attorneys general from around the U.S., has alleged the company
knowingly inflated credit ratings for profit and market share.  The company will “vigorously” defend itself against the
Allegations, which don’t have “legal or factual merit,” Kenneth
Vittor, McGraw-Hill’s chief counsel, said on a Feb. 12
conference call.  The investigation, being led by the division West used to
lead and the U.S. attorney’s office in Los Angeles, is at a
stage of procedural sparring. S&P is seeking to consolidate
lawsuits from 16 states and the District of Columbia and
transfer them to federal court as the Justice Department pushes
to keep the cases under state jurisdiction.  Staying Unruffled  The suit marks the latest high-level dispute in the career
of the  California  native.  “In cases where the emotions run high, the pressures are
enormous, the stakes are very serious, he remains unruffled and
programmatic,” said James Brosnahan, a senior partner at
Morrison & Foerster LLP in San Francisco who recruited West to
the firm in 2001. “He’s not distracted by pressures from any
source. He simply goes about his business to get the job done.”  West was picked by Obama to lead the department’s civil
division in 2009 after serving as one of the top fundraisers and
surrogates during the presidential campaign. He has modeled his
role partly on another figure known for balancing the legal and
political worlds: Robert F. Kennedy.  West began his tenure the same way Kennedy did when he
arrived at the Justice Department in 1961, by traveling to U.S.
attorneys’ offices around the country, establishing
relationships with the prosecutors responsible for implementing
the administration’s policies.  Supporting Carter  Like Kennedy, whose official portrait from his time as
attorney general sits in West’s office, West has played in
politics almost from the start. He worked on his first
Democratic campaign in 1976, when he was still in grade school,
canvassing for Jimmy Carter. He has worked on every presidential
campaign since, except for 1996 when he was an assistant U.S.
attorney and last year, because of his job in the Justice
Department.  West declined to comment for this story.  He was the 1982 California high school champion for
oratory, and departed for Harvard University the next year.  He became publisher of the Harvard Political Review, the
politics and public policy magazine that counts former Vice
President Al Gore and  Washington  Post columnist E.J. Dionne
among its alumni.  He then went to work for former Massachusetts Governor
Michael Dukakis’s presidential campaign in 1988, before heading
back to California to attend Stanford Law School. While there he
was elected president of the Stanford Law Review.  Family Connection  West also met the woman who would eventually become his
wife, Maya Harris, an attorney who now serves as vice president
of the Ford Foundation’s Democracy, Rights and Justice program.
That established a family connection, which has come into play
in the S&P suit: Kamala Harris, the California attorney general
who is among the 16 state officials who have filed suit against
the company, is now his sister-in-law.  “Can you imagine what Thanksgiving is like for that
family?” Brosnahan said with a laugh. “It’s got to be
extraordinary.”  West moved to Washington after Bill Clinton’s election as
president, serving at the Justice Department before taking a job
as a federal prosecutor in San Francisco. In five years as an
assistant U.S. attorney, his workload crossed the spectrum, from
child-trafficking cases to the emergence of high-technology
crime.  In 1999, West left the federal government to join the
California attorney general’s office as a senior adviser. It was
from that post where he took his only two shots at political
office for himself. He failed both times, first in seeking a
seat on the San Jose city council and then, in 2000, in the
state assembly.  ‘American Taliban’  After another year working for the state, West left for
private practice, settling on Morrison & Foerster after a
sustained recruiting pitch by Brosnahan, one of the top trial
lawyers in the country.  Just a few months into his stay at the firm, West was
called into Brosnahan’s office and asked to join the defense
team for John Walker Lindh, the so-called “American Taliban”
captured in  Afghanistan  in 2001.  For someone craving elected office, the offer was
potentially devastating. West said yes.  “It was a gutsy decision, one that most people assumed was
the death knell to his political career,” said Barry, the
former schoolmate who is now a political consultant for Catapult
Strategies in California. “Everyone thought it was nuts.”  Right Time  While West hasn’t re-entered the political arena since the
case, he was an early supporter of Obama after meeting the then-
Senate candidate at the 2004 Democratic National Convention. He
flew to Springfield,  Illinois , on the frigid February morning in
2007 when Obama announced his candidacy for president and
eventually became co-chairman of Obama’s California finance
team.  “Something like this is the unique convergence of the
right person and the right time,” West, who like Obama is
black, said in a March 2008 interview with the San Francisco
Chronicle. “A lot of it is about Obama, a lot of it is about
the moment, and a lot of it is about who came before him.”  He helped Obama raise more than $75 million in California
during the 2008 campaign and served on the candidate’s national
steering committee.  Days after Obama was sworn in, West was nominated to take
over the Justice Department’s civil division.  Senator Jim Inhofe, in floor remarks before the Senate
voted on the confirmation in April 2009, said the defense of
Lindh disqualified the nominee.  Traitor, Terrorist  “Lindh is a traitor and terrorist, but after a plea deal
that Mr. West helped obtain, he is only serving 20 years in
prison,” the Oklahoma Republican said.  Inhofe’s opposition didn’t derail West’s nomination, and he
was confirmed 82-4.  West’s nomination to take the permanent No. 3 job at the
department has been stalled by Senator Charles Grassley over an
unrelated issue: concerns that West’s division played a role in
a “quid pro quo” with the city of St. Paul,  Minnesota .  Republican lawmakers are probing an agreement made by
Justice Department officials with the city, under which the
federal government declined to join two whistle-blower lawsuits
against St. Paul, and the city, in turn, dropped a Supreme Court
appeal that risked harming lending-discrimination cases.  Justice Department officials said the role of senior
officials in the deal was deemed appropriate by ethics officials
and that it isn’t rare for the department to decide not to join
a whistle-blower suit.  Lingering Questions  Grassley, the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, said West was involved in the arrangement in his
capacity as head of the civil division, whose lawyers choose
whether to join whistle-blower suits through the False Claims
Act. Grassley has threatened to hold West’s nomination until his
requests for documents and briefings are met.  Grassley’s spokeswoman, Beth Levine, said the Iowa senator
still has questions about West’s involvement in the St. Paul
deal. The Justice Department’s efforts were led by Assistant
Attorney General Tom Perez, now Obama’s nominee for Labor
secretary. Until questions about the involvement of both Perez
and West are answered, Grassley “has problems giving any of
them a promotion,” Levine said.  West’s time in charge of the department’s largest
litigating division has brought him to the center of some of the
most complex legal issues.  The unit has handled petitions from detainees at Guantanamo
Bay and the government’s position on the rights of gay partners
since Obama decided that his administration wouldn’t defend the
constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act, a 1996 law
that’s now before the Supreme Court.  Into Trenches  Robert Raben , a lobbyist and former assistant attorney
general, said West is willing “to really get into the trenches
on the hard stuff.” That includes the things that don’t receive
headlines, Raben said, such as tribal land issues or the
availability of lawyers for the poor.  “To some people it’s eye glazing, but it’s the nuts and
bolts of the administration of justice,” said Raben, who now
runs the Raben Group, a government affairs firm.  For now, West’s focus is on the S&P lawsuit.  Settlement discussions between the lawyers overseen by West
and the company’s legal team broke down over the dollar size of
the resolution and the request that the company admit guilt,
according to two people familiar with the matter. There has been
little movement toward any resolution, said the people, who
requested anonymity to discuss an active case.  Timid Response  The suit against S&P came as the department continues to
receive criticism from lawmakers for what they say has been a
timid legal response to the financial crisis.  As that criticism has increased, two people familiar with
West’s role said he and his top aides have moved to exert more
influence inside the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force,  the
group  of federal and state prosecutors and regulators in charge
of bringing cases for mortgage and securities fraud. West is the
vice chairman of the task force’s steering committee.  There is no shortage of speculation about West’s future.
Political office in California, from local to statewide, is
mentioned as a possibility by his home-state consultants. Raben
says he’s on a path to be deputy attorney general or maybe even
the top law enforcement official in the land one day.  For his part, West still walks or jogs to work each day
from his apartment a few blocks from the Robert F. Kennedy
Department of Justice Building. He spends most weekends in  New
York  City, where his wife is based.  His portfolio has also continued to grow -- something that
has drawn positive reviews from those who regularly work with
the department.  “Sometimes at DOJ you feel like you’re talking to a wall
mural -- they say ‘thank you’ and move on -- but you get more
from him,” Raben said. “With him, people are heard, and it
feels collaborative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  