-- San Francisco Gasoline Falls as Chevron Readies Unit for Startup
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-04-10T20:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/san-francisco-gasoline-falls-as-chevron-readies-unit-for-startup.html
Spot gasoline in San Francisco slid
against futures as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  prepared the crude unit at the
Richmond refinery for startup after an eight-month shutdown.  The 240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond plant was cleared by
state regulators April 5 to resume service at the No. 4 crude
unit, shut since a fire Aug. 6. The refinery was performing a
“pre-startup safety review” of the equipment last week, Nigel Hearne, the refinery’s manager, said in an April 5  letter .  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in San Francisco
weakened 1 cent against futures traded on the New York
Mercantile Exchange to a premium of 9.5 cents a gallon at 3:59
p.m. New York time, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The fuel
gained yesterday to the highest level against futures since Feb.
6 after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Martinez refinery was said to
shut units for maintenance.  The Richmond refinery has been producing fuel at about half
its capacity since the fire damaged a tower at the crude unit.
Chevron, based in San Ramon,  California , expects the unit to
restart this quarter, Melissa Ritchie, a company spokeswoman in
Richmond, said by e-mail today.  Carbob in Los Angeles climbed 2 cents against futures to a
premium of 7.5 cents a gallon.  The  premium  for Carbob in San Francisco versus the fuel in
Los Angeles narrowed 3 cents to 2 cents a gallon, the smallest
in a week.  Diesel Prices  California-blend diesel in San Francisco was unchanged
against ultra-low-sulfur diesel futures on the Nymex at a
premium of 7 cents a gallon. Diesel in Los Angeles held at 5
cents a gallon above futures.  In  Portland ,  Oregon ,  low-sulfur diesel  dropped 3 cents to
an 11-cent-a-gallon premium versus ULSD futures. Gasoline there
gained 1.5 cents against gasoline futures to a premium of 5
cents a gallon, the highest level since Feb. 27.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles dropped for the
first time in three days, narrowing by $2.23 to $16.40 a barrel
at 4:07 p.m.  New York  time. The spread, a rough indicator of
refinery profit margins, hit a one-year low of $3.86 a barrel in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  