-- Schaefer, Caterpillar CEO Who Changed Company Name, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-04-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/schaefer-caterpillar-ceo-who-changed-company-name-dies.html
George Schaefer, who led
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  from losses to a period of record profits from
1985 to 1990 and removed “Tractor” from its name, has died. He
was 84.  He died yesterday in Peoria, Illinois, where Caterpillar is
based, according to a statement by the company. No cause was
given. Caterpillar is the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment and, since 1991, has been one of the  30 companies  that
make up the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Schaefer’s five years as chairman and chief executive
officer culminated a 39-year career with the company that began
in accounting. Caterpillar, which had endured losses and
initiated a cost-cutting campaign in the early 1980s, posted
record profits during Schaefer’s tenure and took steps toward
worker-manager collaboration, according to accounts in the  New
York  Times.  “George Schaefer will be remembered as one of the great
leaders in Caterpillar’s history,” current chairman and CEO
 Doug Oberhelman  said in the statement. “He pushed the company
to move away from a centralized model to its current business
unit structure during the late 1980s, a significant and
difficult decision that positioned Caterpillar for the
remarkable growth and success that has followed.”  Schaefer’s decision in 1986 to change the company’s name
from Caterpillar Tractor Co. recognized “that we had become
much more than just a tractor company,” Oberhelman said.  George Anthony Schaefer was born on June 13, 1928, in
Covington,  Kentucky , according to Marquis Who’s Who. He married
Barbara Ann Quick in 1951 and had two children, Mark and Sharon,
according to the biographical guidebook.  He earned a degree from Saint Louis University in Missouri
in 1951, then joined Caterpillar as a trainee in the accounting
department.  He was named chief accountant in 1960, general manager of
the manufacturing facility in Decatur,  Illinois , in 1973 and, in
1976, a vice president with administrative responsibilities for
the company’s financial and data processing groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  