-- SEC Urged to Give Stronger Guidance on Cyber Disclosure
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   W a s s e r m a n
-- 2013-04-10T13:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/sec-urged-to-give-stronger-guidance-on-cyber-disclosure.html
A U.S. Senate leader asked the new
Securities and Exchange Commission chairman to give more
authoritative guidance to companies on disclosing cyber attacks,
saying reporting so far is “insufficient.”  “While the staff guidance has had a positive impact on the
information available to investors on these matters, the
disclosures are generally still insufficient for investors to
discern the true costs and benefits of companies’ cybersecurity
practices,” Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Jay Rockefeller
said in a letter today to agency Chairman Mary Jo White.  “The SEC should elevate this guidance and issue it at the
Commission level as well,” Rockefeller wrote to White, who was
confirmed April 8. Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat,
convinced the SEC to issue staff-level guidance to companies on
cybersecurity in October 2011.  The SEC declined to comment before White responds to
Rockefeller,  John Nester , an agency spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  The 27 largest U.S. companies disclosing cyber attacks to
the SEC this year all said they sustained no major financial
losses, according to a Bloomberg review of company filings. The
reports contrasted with statements from U.S. government
officials who say billions of dollars in corporate secrets are
being stolen.  “Investors deserve to know whether companies are
effectively addressing their cybersecurity risks -- just as
investors should know whether companies are managing their
financial and operational risks,” Rockefeller said in the
letter to White. “Formal guidance from the SEC on this issue
will be a strong signal to the market that companies need to
take their cybersecurity efforts seriously.”  ’Malicious Actors’  Rockefeller in May 2011 wrote to then-SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro pointing out the growing risk posed to U.S. companies
by “malicious actors” who “attack and disrupt computer
networks to steal valuable trade secrets, intellectual property,
and financial and confidential information.”  He asked the SEC to develop and publish guidance to clarify
disclosure requirements pertaining to “information security
risk, including material information security breaches involving
intellectual property or trade secrets.”  The SEC then advised publicly traded companies to disclose
to investors the threat and potential impact of cyber attacks
that pose a “specific and material” risk.  Rockefeller has since pushed legislation to make the SEC
issue stronger guidelines for disclosing risks of cyber attacks,
urging that it be included in cybersecurity legislation in 2012.
That measure died in the Senate.  In 2012 annual reports filed with the SEC, companies
including  MetLife Inc. (MET) , Coca-Cola Co., and  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  were among the 100 largest U.S. companies by
revenue to disclose online attacks. Citigroup Inc. reported
“limited losses” while the others said there was no material
impact.  Attack Origin  The SEC staff is interested in knowing the origin of cyber
attacks, including whether the intruder is a competitor, foreign
government or hacker group, Mark Kronforst, the SEC’s associate
director for disclosure operations, said at a panel discussion
in Washington April 5. The staff also wants to know when an
attack isn’t discovered by the company and found by a third
party.  The SEC staff hasn’t asked those questions in
correspondence with public companies, Lona Nallengara, the SEC’s
corporation finance director, said in an interview after the
panel discussion.  “If you’re an investor and you want to see the company you
are investing in is adequately protected against cyber attack,
you’d want to know did their systems detect it?” Nallengara
said. “Did they know they got breached? Or did they find out a
month later when someone told them that we found records this
came from your company?”  Information about the source of an attack could yield
insight into whether it’s material to investors, Nallengara
said. “Is it a competitor? Someone seeking your proprietary
information or your technology. Or on the contrary, is it
someone simply out to destroy or simply not motivated by
financial gain?”  Disclosure about specific attacks “is still fairly rare at
this point,” Kronforst said on the panel discussion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Wasserman in Washington at 
 ewasserman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  