-- Paulson, Macy’s, Samsung, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-04-11T11:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/sec-approves-id-theft-rules-in-white-s-first-meeting-as-chairman.html
Paulson & Co. executives were sued
for alleged conflicts in the handling of intellectual property
assets in the bankruptcy of a group of resorts including Miami’s
Doral golf course, where Tiger Woods won his 76th PGA Tour event
last month.  Michael Barr, Daniel Kamensky and Jonathan Shumaker were
sued in New York state court by Five Mile Capital Partners,
which accused them of failing to get the highest value for the
IP assets as directors. The complaint was filed April 9 in New
York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  The lawsuit stems from the bankruptcy filing in 2011 of
five resorts owned by Paulson, a hedge-fund firm: the Grand
Wailea in  Hawaii , La Quinta and PGA West in  California , the
 Arizona  Biltmore, the Claremont in California and the Doral.
Doral was sold to Donald Trump and the other four were sold to
 Government of Singapore Investment Corp. , a sovereign wealth
fund, for $1.5 billion.  The lawsuit is “completely without factual basis or legal
merit,”  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Five Mile Capital has filed numerous other claims
directed at other parties and every one of them has been
decisively rejected by the bankruptcy court,” Leslie said.  Five Mile is a lender under a $50 million mezzanine loan to
an affiliate of MSR Hotels & Resorts Inc., which guaranteed the
debt. MSR Hotels is one of a related group of companies that
owned and operated the resorts, and it separately owns resort
trademarks, logos and copyrights, according to the complaint.  Five Mile alleged in the complaint that Barr, Kamensky,
Shumaker and a fourth defendant, Mohsin Meghji, were conflicted
because they served as directors of MSR Hotels at the same time
they were directors of subsidiary companies that owned the
resort hotels. They allowed the entities in bankruptcy to use
the intellectual property without paying for the assets and
allowed the Singapore fund to continue to use them at no cost,
according to the filing.  The case is Five Mile Capital SPE B LLC v. MSR Hotels &
Resorts Inc., 651267-2013, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  Martha Stewart Gets ‘Secondary Matter’ Tossed in Macy’s Trial  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  persuaded a judge to
reject a “secondary” claim in a breach-of-contract lawsuit by
Macy’s Inc. over the exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart- branded products in its stores.  Martha Stewart Living didn’t violate the confidentiality
requirement of its Macy’s contract by disclosing it to rival
J.C. Penney Co., New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey
Oing ruled yesterday.  The judge is hearing motions by the three retailers after
the conclusion of Macy’s case. If any part of the lawsuit
survives, Martha Stewart Living and J.C. Penney may be forced to
present a defense. Afterwards, the judge will deliver a verdict
in the non-jury trial.  Oing today will hear Martha Stewart Living’s arguments that
he dismiss Macy’s more central contract claim.  J.C. Penney (JCP) ,
which is also being sued by Macy’s for carrying some Martha
Stewart products, will seek dismissal of Macy’s claims, and
Macy’s will seek to extend Oing’s preliminary injunction.  Macy’s seeks to include a bar on the retailers’ sale of
unbranded products, in certain exclusive categories, designed by
Martha Stewart Living.  The three sides returned to court this week to resume a
trial of Macy’s lawsuits following a monthlong break, during
which mediation efforts ordered by Oing were unsuccessful. The
trial, which began Feb. 20, has featured testimony from Martha
Stewart, Macy’s Chairman Terry Lundgren and former J.C. Penney
Chief Executive Ron Johnson, who was ousted the day the trial
resumed.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Bayer Sues FDA Seeking to Block Sales of Generic Baytril  Bayer AG (BAYN)  sued the U.S. Food and Drug Administration seeking
to block sales of a generic form of the livestock antibiotic
Baytril 100 being sold by competitor Norbrook Laboratories Ltd.  Bayer, in a complaint filed yesterday in  Washington , said
the FDA’s approval of Norbrook’s Enroflox 100 product to treat
bovine respiratory disease was unlawful because the agency
hadn’t responded to Bayer’s concerns that the generic would be
used for an off-label dosage. The Leverkusen, Germany-based
company asked a judge to halt sales of the generic while the
lawsuit is being considered.  The FDA approved Norbrook’s application for its Enroflox
product on March 29, according to the complaint. Norbrook, based
in the U.K., sought FDA approval in 2008 to market a generic
version of Baytril 100 that would be labeled as a multiday
dosing regimen. Bayer alleges the product will be used in a
single dose.  Sandy Walsh, an FDA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  A telephone message seeking comment on the lawsuit left at
Norbrook’s U.S. office in Lenexa,  Kansas , after regular business
hours wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Bayer Healthcare LLC v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 13-cv-00487, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  Apple, Google Not Interested in Patent Settlement, Judge Says  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit are
more interested in using litigation as a business strategy than
in resolving disputes over the use of patented technology, a
federal judge in  Florida  said.  “The parties have no interest in efficiently and
expeditiously resolving this dispute; they instead are using
this and similar litigation worldwide as a business strategy
that appears to have no end,” U.S. District Judge Robert Scola
in Miami said in an order dated April 9 in which he denied a
request for a case-management conference and refused to extend
some deadlines.  The companies have accused each other of infringing patents
related to wireless technology and the case has grown with
additional patents since first filed in 2010. It’s part of a
global battle for market share as Apple challenges what it
considers copycats of its iPhone that run on Google’s Android
operating system.  The case in Florida involves more than 180 claims related
to 12 patents and disputes over the meaning of more than 100
terms, Scola said in his order. Cupertino, California-based
Apple and Mountain View, California-based Google were unable to
streamline the case, he said, calling the companies’ actions
“obstreperous and cantankerous conduct.”  He gave them four months to narrow the case’s scope. If
they don’t, he said, he will put the case on hold until he
resolves all of the disputes over the definition of patent
terms.  Matt Kallman, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment.
Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  Other judges have complained about the hard-nosed legal
fighting between the two. A federal judge in  Wisconsin  last year
threw out breach-of-contract claims brought against Motorola
Mobility. U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb had planned to set a
royalty rate on certain Motorola Mobility patents until Apple
said it would agree to take a license only if the judge set the
rate at $1 or less for each iPhone.  The case is Motorola Mobility LLC v. Apple Inc., 12-
cv-20271, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets  Samsung Office Searched by Police in OLED Technology Leak Probe  South Korean police searched the offices of  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ’s display-making unit April 9 in connection with
an investigation into alleged technology theft.  Samsung Display Co., which dominates the market for organic
light-emitting diode, or OLED, panels, said investigators at the
Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency went to its headquarters in
Asan, south of the capital, and searched for documents related
to the technology.  Police are investigating whether partners of rival panel
maker  LG Display Co. (034220)  leaked technology secrets and whether
Samsung is involved, Nathan Kim, a spokesman for Samsung, said
by phone yesterday. The two companies have been involved in
criminal probes of alleged technology theft since last year. In
July, six employees of LG Display were charged over theft of
OLED technology from Samsung.  “We have no reason to steal other companies’ technology,
as we have the world’s best OLED technology,” Jun Eun Sun, a
spokeswoman for Samsung, said by phone yesterday in Asan.  LG Display said it didn’t report Samsung to police in
connection with the current investigation.  “The latest investigation is related to large-sized OLED
TV panel technology, but the police have made the allegation
themselves,” Son Young Jun, a Seoul-based LG Display spokesman,
said by phone yesterday.  LG said in July the information its employees were charged
with leaking or stealing at the time was widely known in the
industry and wasn’t considered to contain trade secrets.  Copyright  Taymor Settles With ‘Spider-Man Turn Off the Dark’ Producers  Julie Taymor, the original director of the Broadway musical
“Spider-Man Turn Off the Dark” settled a suit over her
dismissal from the show against the musical’s producers, Glen
Berger and 8 Legged Productions LLC.  According to a statement yesterday from the parties, the
agreement resolves Taymor’s claims against 8 Legged in
connection with her work on the book of the musical. A
settlement has been in the works since last summer.  Taymor was removed from the $75 million show in March 2011,
after it was criticized during an extended 182-performance
preview period. She sued the producers in November 2011, saying
they violated her intellectual-property rights by making changes
without her permission and didn’t pay royalties due her as a co-
book writer.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in Manhattan, who
presided over the case, on Jan. 10 restored the lawsuit to her
active court calendar, saying that while both sides told her in
August they had agreed to a tentative settlement over royalties
and creative control, they hadn’t completed it. Forrest also
scheduled a May trial date. The parties told the judge the case
settled on Jan. 22. The agreement was only announced yesterday.  Michael Cohl and Jeremiah Harris of 8 Legged Productions
said in a joint statement: “We’re happy to put all this behind
us. We are now looking forward to spreading ‘Spider-Man Turn Off
the Dark’ in new and exciting ways around the world.”  Taymor said in the statement that she was “pleased to have
reached an agreement and hope for the continued success of
‘Spider-Man,’ both on Broadway and beyond.”  Taymor’s lawyer Charles Spada, a partner at Lankler Siffert
& Wohl LLP, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the
settlement.  Dale Cendali , a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP who
represents Cohl, Harris and 8 Legged Productions, declined to
comment other to say that the final deal was signed April 9. 
The case is Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 11-cv-08002,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Internet  Google Sued by Streetmap for Anti-Competitive Behavior  Google Inc., operator of the world’s largest search engine,
was sued in  London  by a U.K. Internet company for promoting its
own maps over those of competitors.  Streetmap, a provider of Internet maps, filed a complaint
in London March 15, according to court records. Google’s actions
have made its products “harder to find,” the U.K.-based
company said yesterday in a statement.  Streetmap said its complaint mirrors an antitrust probe by
the European Union into whether Google favors its own services
over competitors in search results. The European Commission has
asked Mountain View, California-based Google to submit proposals
that could lead to a settlement.  “We have had to take this action in an effort to protect
our business and attract attention to those that, like us, have
started their own technology businesses, only to find them
damaged by Google’s cynical manipulation of search results,”
Kate Sutton, commercial director of Streetmap, said in the
statement.  A spokesman for Google declined to comment on the suit.  The case is Streetmap.eu Ltd. v. Google Inc., case no
13-1013, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  Law Firm News  Bingham McCutchen LLP expanded its intellectual property
and litigation practices with the addition of five partners in
its Santa Monica, California, office.  Richard de Bodo, Siegmund Gutman, Andrew Devkar, Olga
Berson and Bruce Kuyper are joining the firm from DLA Piper LLP.
De Bodo, co-chairman of DLA Piper’s patent litigation and life
sciences practices, will serve as co-chairman of Bingham’s
intellectual property and life sciences practice groups.  The group brings a patent litigation and counseling
practice that includes pharmaceuticals, biologics,
biotechnology, electronics, software and Internet technologies,
with strong industry connections in the U.S. and Japan, Bingham
said in a statement.  Bingham has approximately 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in
the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Cybersecurity  SEC Adopts Identity-Theft Rules as White Takes Over  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday
approved rules requiring brokers and investment advisers to
adopt identity-theft prevention programs.  The meeting was the first for newly confirmed SEC chairman
Mary Jo White.  The five-member panel unanimously approved an identity-
theft protection rule almost identical to one previously issued
by the Federal Trade Commission. It requires financial firms to
administer identify-theft “red flags,” the SEC said.  Companies subject to the rule will have seven months to
comply, the SEC said in a fact sheet.  “These rules are a common-sense response to the growing
threat of identity theft to all Americans who invest, save or
borrow money,” White said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  