-- Senate Republicans Show Scant Opposition to Court Nominee
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/senate-republicans-show-scant-opposition-to-court-nominee.html
A recent White House push to build
Republican support for judicial nominees showed signs of headway
yesterday, as senators signaled little opposition to a candidate
for a seat on a powerful appellate court in Washington.  The nomination of Sri Srinivasan to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit went before the
Senate Judiciary Committee yesterday. The appellate panel is
considered the nation’s second most influential court because
its jurisdiction over federal rulemaking means it often hears
major environmental, labor and national-security cases.  Srinivasan is a deputy solicitor general at the Justice
Department, and the White House has tried to bolster his
nomination by releasing a letter of support from former
officials, including six Republicans. They include Kenneth Starr, who was solicitor general under President George H.W.
Bush and investigated President Bill Clinton in the 1990s, and
Ted Olson, solicitor general under President George W. Bush.  “I intend to support you based on what we’re talking about
here,” Senator Orrin Hatch, a Utah Republican, said at
yesterday’s hearing. “You’re a very impressive person as far as
I’m concerned. I don’t believe judges should be filibustered.”  The committee must vote on the nomination before it can go
to the full Senate for consideration.  Filibustered Out  Last month, President  Barack Obama  withdrew his nomination
of former New York state solicitor general Caitlin Halligan for
a seat on the D.C. appellate bench after Republicans used a
procedural maneuver known as a filibuster to block her
nomination. Halligan, whom Obama nominated three times -- in
2011, 2012 and 2013 -- and who asked to have her name withdrawn,
was to fill one of four vacancies among 11 seats on the court.  No nominee to the panel has been confirmed since 2006.
Judges on its bench regularly move up to the U.S. Supreme Court,
where four of the nine current members, including Chief Justice
John Roberts, previously served on the lower court. Democrats
blame politics for the impasse.  “I think the hard right wants to use the D.C. Circuit to
undo all kinds of governmental decisions,” Senator Charles Schumer, a  New York  Democrat, said at the Srinivasan hearing.
“If they don’t approve you, let you come to vote, it’ll mean
they are just totally dedicated to keeping the Circuit empty.”  Confirmation of appellate and district-court nominees took
an average of 227 days in Obama’s first term, compared with 176
days in George W. Bush’s first four years and 98 days during
Clinton’s first term, according to an analysis by Russell
Wheeler, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, a nonprofit
research organization in Washington.  Rising Vacancies  The number of appeals-court vacancies rose to 17 during
Obama’s first term from 14 when he took office in January 2009,
according to Wheeler’s analysis. During Bush’s initial four
years, appellate vacancies declined to 18 on his second
inauguration from 27 when he entered the White House.  “When a president submits a qualified candidate, of good
character and sound legal mind, absent exceptional
circumstances, that candidate is entitled to a vote,” Senator
Christopher Coons, a Delaware Democrat and chairman of the
Bankruptcy and the Courts subcommittee, said yesterday.  “Every time the Senate holds up a nominee for political
reasons, we lose not only the contributions of that candidate,
but we also make it harder to find talented individuals who are
willing to serve,” Coons said.  Jay Carney, a White House spokesman, cited during a news
briefing this month “the uniqueness” and “arbitrariness” of
the delays that Obama’s judicial nominees have faced.  ‘Other Side’  Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on
the Judiciary Committee, said the White House bears some
responsibility for not submitting enough nominees.  “We always get from the other side of the aisle that we’re
not moving fast enough,” Grassley said, adding that the chamber
has confirmed 10 judges this year. “The Senate has been doing
its job and doing it quickly.”  Srinivasan, who was born in India, would become the first
federal appellate judge of South Asian descent if confirmed. He
was nominated in June.  “I don’t have an overarching, grand unifying judicial
philosophy,” Srinivasan said in response to questions from
Republican senators. “I would have an impartial adherence to
the rule of law,” if confirmed, he said.  “It’s a duty of a judge to abide by precedent,” he said,
adding that is something that isn’t negotiable.  Twelve of the committee’s 18 members were present at the
hearing, including five of the panel’s eight Republicans. Most
senators asked Srinivasan about his beliefs and opinions and
making the transition from lawyer to judge.  “My personal views have not played a role in the arguments
I’ve made on behalf of clients,” Srinivasan said. “My personal
views certainly wouldn’t play a role” as a judge, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  