-- Shale Boom Transforming U.S. Industry to Boost BHP, CFO Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n ,   L a u r i e   H a y s   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-04-11T07:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/shale-boom-transforming-u-s-industry-to-boost-bhp-cfo-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest
mining company, said the shale boom in the U.S. will spur an
industrial revival and transform the world’s largest economy.  “There are always opportunities for exports in the U.S.
and Canada, but I think there’s a push and a growth of re-
industrialization in the U.S. that will consume a lot of the
energy in that country and give them a great opportunity to grow
going forward, and we’re well positioned for that,” BHP Chief
Financial Officer Graham Kerr said yesterday at the  Bloomberg
Australia Economic Summit .  In contrast, in Melbourne-based BHP’s homeland, Australia,
companies from  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to  ConocoPhillips (COP)  are investing
almost $200 billion on plants to export liquefied natural gas to
Asia. Under outgoing Chief Executive Officer Marius Kloppers,
BHP spent $20 billion in 2011 buying shale assets in the U.S. to
tap a projected increase in demand for energy.  “The energy division is very important to BHP and perhaps
it didn’t receive much investment in the previous years so they
needed to underpin the growth story there,” Tom Price, a
Sydney-based analyst at UBS AG, said yesterday in an interview
at the economic summit. In terms of strategy, “they seem to
have positioned themselves well,” he said.  U.S. crude-oil output in the fourth quarter this year will
exceed imports for the first time since 1995, as fields in North
Dakota and Texas put the nation on track to surpass a production
record set a quarter-century ago, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said last month. Domestic gas output is forecast
by Bloomberg New Energy Finance to increase 25 percent by 2020.  Beat Saudis  The U.S. will surpass Saudi Arabia in oil production in the
next decade, making the world’s biggest user almost self-
reliant, the International Energy Agency said last year.  “Traditionally they have been short energy” in the U.S.,
Kerr said. Now the shale opportunity is “hard not to be excited
about. It’s transformational,” he said.  The U.S. shale-gas revolution, which has revitalized
chemicals companies and prompted talk of domestic energy self-
sufficiency, is attracting a wave of investment that may revive
profits in the steel industry.  Austrian steelmaker Voestalpine AG last month chose Texas
as the site for a new 550 million-euro ($721 million) factory,
to benefit from cheap gas, while  Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the most valuable
U.S. steelmaker, plans to start up a $750 million Louisiana
project in mid-2013.  Fortune Reversal  There’s been a reversal of fortune for chemical producers
after years of decline. Shares of LyondellBasell Industries NV
have more than doubled since it emerged from bankruptcy in 2010.
It’s now among chemical producers planning billions of dollars
of plants around the Gulf of Mexico to gain from cheaper gas.
Fertilizer companies including CF Industries Holdings Inc. also
are planning to build gas-fueled plants.  Shale oil is the “next energy revolution,” with output
accelerating in the U.S. at a rate of about 26 percent a year
since 2004, PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a February report.  “It’s liquids that can really transform the U.S.
economy,” Jock O’Callaghan, the energy, utilities and mining
leader for PwC Australia, said in an interview yesterday in
Sydney, where he attended the Bloomberg summit.  BHP plans to focus on higher-priced liquids in the Eagle
Ford region of Texas after buying Petrohawk Energy Corp. for
$15.1 billion, including debt, Kerr said. BHP, which also
purchased assets from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  for $4.75 billion,
is spending $4 billion this fiscal year on shale.  Self Sufficient  “Today, the majority of our drill rigs and our operations
are focused toward building out and developing our liquids-based
business in shale in the Eagle Ford,” Kerr said. “That
continues to be the path that we go down because that’s where we
see the highest returns.”  The boom in oil and gas production has helped the U.S. cut
its reliance on imported fuel. The U.S. produced 84 percent of
its own energy in 2012, the most since 1991, EIA data show. The
measure of self-sufficiency rose to 88 percent in December, the
highest since February 1987.  Hydraulic fracturing of shale formations in the U.S. has
boosted supplies of gas and sent prices tumbling. The process,
in which water, sand and chemicals are injected into shale to
release gas, has drawn opposition from environmental groups
concerned about tainted water supplies and air pollution.  CEO Kloppers gave up his fiscal 2012 bonus after booking a
$2.84 billion charge last August to write down the value of the
shale gas assets in the U.S. after prices fell. BHP’s copper
unit head Andrew Mackenzie will take over from Kloppers in May.  Questionable Spend  The strategy in buying the assets is fine, UBS’s Price
said. “It’s the price they paid and the timing of that
investment that’s questionable. They just seemed to have rushed
into it without properly analyzing it, that’s the market view.”  In the U.S., policymakers and industry leaders are divided
over how tightly to control gas exports for fear of driving up
domestic energy prices. Three gas export projects got approval
to ship LNG from Canada’s Pacific Coast to destinations such as
Japan and China, compared to just one in the U.S., on the Gulf
Coast, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. “should encourage the export of their onshore oil
and gas because that would have geopolitical benefits around the
world, apart from the fact it would create a lot of highly
skilled jobs,” BHP Chairman Jac Nasser said after a speech
today in Melbourne.  Record Gas  In Australia, BHP is a partner in Woodside Petroleum Ltd.’s
 North West Shelf LNG  development in Western Australia. The cost
of the project, which started shipping LNG in 1989, was A$27
billion, according to Woodside’s website.  Near-record gas demand from U.S. electricity generators has
driven prices back up to more than $4 for the first time since
September 2011 even as output climbs. Natural gas yesterday rose
0.4 percent to $4.032 per million British thermal units on the
New York Mercantile Exchange.  “What we’ve seen is people switch, for example with power
stations, from coal to gas quicker than we expected,” Kerr
said.  Gas futures have doubled since trading at a 10-year low as
utilities switched from coal and unusually hot weather spurred
cooling demand. Gas futures averaged $5.93 per million British
thermal units in the five years through 2011, before prices
collapsed to a decade low $1.902 in April 2012.  The shale-energy revolution is “going to be something that
we’re going to be hearing more about over time,” said Paul Xiradis, chief executive officer at fund manager Ausbil Dexia
Ltd. in Sydney. The timing of BHP’s acquisitions wasn’t perfect
though , “5, 10 years from now, I’m sure we would look back and
say what a great acquisition it was,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Hays in  New York  at 
 lhays1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  