-- Shanghai to Start Emissions-Trading Trials Before End of June
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-10T06:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/shanghai-to-start-emissions-trading-trials-before-end-of-june.html
Shanghai , China’s financial center,
said it will start trials of  emissions trading  before the end of
June in an effort to reduce the intensity of its energy use and
carbon discharges.  Shanghai aims to cut its energy consumption and carbon
releases per unit of gross domestic product by 3.5 percent this
year, according to  a document  posted on the website of the
Shanghai Municipal Development & Reform Commission.  China, the world’s biggest emitter, has approved pilot
programs to cap and trade emissions in seven manufacturing
centers as part of its plan to reduce  greenhouse gases  per
economic unit by as much as 45 percent before the end of the
decade. The nation will regulate 800 million to 1 billion metric
tons of emissions by 2015 in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade
program outside of Europe, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
forecasts.  Trading will take place on the Shanghai Environment &
Energy Exchange, and total emissions covered by the city’s
pilot program is 120 million to 130 million tons, according to
estimates from New Energy Finance.  Shanghai’s trial program will cover producers of steel,
petrochemicals and electricity with annual carbon emissions of
at least 20,000 tons, as well as some smaller emitters, the
municipal government said in August. The program will involve
200 companies in 16 industries that discharged about 110 million
tons of carbon dioxide a year. That’s about half of the city’s
total emissions, Jiefang Daily reported last year.  PetroChina and Sinopec, China’s state-owned oil companies,
as well as international  companies  such as  BASF SE (BAS)  and
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  are among those bound by Shanghai’s emissions
cap, the government said.  Shanghai may allow participants to trade credits for
emission-reduction projects in other parts of the country.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  