-- Slovenia Would Benefit From Precautionary EU Deal, IIF Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-10T08:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/slovenia-would-benefit-from-precautionary-eu-deal-iif-says.html
Slovenia would benefit from a
precautionary deal with the European Union rescue mechanism as
its bonds would be eligible for primary-market purchases, the
Institute for International Finance said.  With the export-driven economy forecast to struggle with a
recession this year and little progress in the government’s
privatization efforts, general government debt could surge to
over 80 percent of economic output by 2015, Jeffrey Anderson and
Jessica Stallings from the Washington-based institute said in a
report late yesterday. The need to recapitalize banks will
require cash raised from bond issues, they said.  “The longer this is delayed, the greater will be the
downward pressure on bank credit, economic activity and the
remaining capital of the state-owned banks,” Anderson and
Stallings wrote. “Deficient capital would increase the risk
that state-owned banks would be judged by the  European Central
Bank  to lack the creditworthiness to borrow under regular
financing facilities.”  The Adriatic nation’s largest banks, such as state-owned
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., are saddled with rising bad loans
and at the center of investors’ concern that the country may
need to ask for a bailout if an increase in borrowing costs shut
it out of debt markets.  Rising Yields  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 rose to 6.04 percent at 9:58 a.m. in Ljubljana after
reaching a two-week low of 5.6 percent on April 5. The  Finance
Ministry  failed to raise the targeted amount in an auction
yesterday.  Slovenia needs to borrow 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion)
this year, the institute estimates, while in an adverse
recapitalization scenario, borrowing needs for 2014-2015 could
jump to 5.8 billion euros, bringing the three-year total to 9.3
billion euros, the Washington-based institute said.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek vowed in Brussels yesterday
to avoid asking for a bailout. The main priority of her Cabinet
will be to fix the bank industry, Bratusek said, with the
extension of a bad bank plan worth as much as 4 billion euros.
The Institute for International Finance said the government
should move “forcefully” on bank restructuring.  “A sharp upward revision to initial discounts charged
banks by NAMA, Ireland’s workout institution, and the resulting
jump in bank recapitalization needs, was a key factor causing
the Irish government to lose bond maker access in late 2010.”
Anderson and Stallings said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  