-- Slovenia, Spain Warned of Excessive Economy Imbalances by EU
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-04-10T12:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/slovenia-spain-warned-of-excessive-economic-imbalances-by-eu.html
The European Commission warned of
“excessive” risks to the economic health of Slovenia and
Spain, calling on both governments to take urgent action to stem
the spread of the euro crisis.  Slovenian banks are likely to need fresh capital injections
as over-indebted corporate borrowers struggle to pay back loans
amid a double-dip recession, the Brussels-based commission said.
It said Spain is encumbered by public and private debt.  Slovenia’s ailing banks have made it a target for financial
markets, with shrinking demand in a debt auction yesterday
signaling investor expectations that it will be forced to seek a
bailout. Spain is already tapping aid for its banking system.  Political gridlock and legal snags “have prevented
Slovenia from addressing its imbalances adequately and enhancing
its adjustment capacity, thus increasing its vulnerability at a
time of heightened sovereign funding stress in Europe,” the
commission, which enforces European Union regulations, said in a
report today.  Both countries were given a May 29 deadline to make reforms
or risk becoming the first to be punished under a year-old
“macroeconomic imbalances procedure” designed to deal with the
lagging competitiveness and overstretched  banking systems  that
fueled the debt crisis.  Economic Policy  The commission detected less severe imbalances in 11 other
countries: euro members Belgium, Finland, France, Italy, Malta
and the Netherlands, as well as euro outsiders Bulgaria,
Denmark, Hungary, Sweden and Britain. While all were urged to
adjust economic policy, none were threatened with the
disciplinary procedure that could lead to fines.  The assessment is a “wake-up call for several member
states to take decisive action for restoring competitiveness,”
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn told reporters.  Today’s recommendations will test whether European
authorities have gotten ahead of the curve in dealing with the
more than three-year economic and fiscal crisis or remain a step
behind in anticipating the next country to face the bond
market’s wrath.  ‘Further Recapitalizations’  Slovenia, with a 35 billion-euro ($46 billion) economy that
makes it the fourth smallest in the 17-nation euro zone, lurched
into the crossfire after European creditors and the
International Monetary Fund forced losses on bank depositors in
last month’s aid package for Cyprus.  While Slovenia is less reliant on banking than the Cypriot
economy, it faces a credit contraction that leaves the state as
the main source of capital and “further recapitalizations are
likely to be needed,” the commission said.  On her first trip to Brussels yesterday, newly elected
Slovenian Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek said the government is
determined to avoid falling back on financial aid, echoing
pledges once made by leaders in Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain
and Cyprus.  The commission’s recommendations for Spain focused on the
“negative feedback loops” of recession, unemployment heading
toward 27 percent, and rising household and government debt.  Spain needs more deregulation in the transport and energy
industries, more wage flexibility, better access to financing
for small and midsized companies and a “structural” long-term
solution for the social security system, the commission said.  ‘Additional Reforms’  “Despite significant progress last year, there are still
excessive macroeconomic imbalances,” Rehn said. “Additional
reforms will be necessary in a number of areas.”  While the commission flagged risks in Finland and the
Netherlands, two countries that have conserved AAA credit
ratings throughout the crisis, it didn’t take on Germany, which
has faced criticism elsewhere for running sizable external
surpluses.  In contrast, France and Italy, the second- and third-
largest euro economies, were cited for declines in
competitiveness, further evidence of how the crisis has turned
Germany into Europe’s undisputed powerhouse.  Rehn defended the decision to spare Germany, saying that
its current-account surplus with the rest of the euro area has
declined since 2007. Still, he urged Germany to spur consumer
demand by deregulating service industries, getting more women
into the workforce and allowing wages to rise in line with
productivity.  ‘Domestic Demand’  “There is much more Germany can do in order to boost its
domestic demand,” Rehn said. However, he said, the government
doesn’t need to spend more money to do so. He said that compared
with the rest of Europe, Germany is pursuing a looser fiscal
stance in 2013.  The commission said French President Francois Hollande,
facing record-low popularity ratings, needs to do more to boost
France’s export performance and loosen hiring and wage
restrictions that hobble employment.  “While these reforms are steps in the right direction,
they will not be sufficient to solve the competitiveness issues
and, in view of the challenges ahead, further policy response
will be needed,” the commission said.  Italy, with a caretaker government after February’s
election failed to produce a clear winner, is plagued by
“longstanding structural weaknesses” such as high government
debt, slow productivity growth and an “unfriendly business
environment,” the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  