-- SM Investments Said to Tap Banks for Property Merger Plan
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-04-10T06:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/sm-investments-said-to-tap-banks-for-property-merger-plan-1-.html
SM Investments Corp. (SM) , controlled by
Philippine billionaire Henry Sy, is working with  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , Macquarie Group Ltd. and  BDO Unibank (BDO)  Inc. as it considers
merging its property units into a single company, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  The businesses may be combined as soon as this year,
creating one of the Philippines’ largest companies by market
value, said the people, asking not to be named as the
information is private. Four publicly traded real-estate
companies controlled by the group, including  SM Prime Holdings
Inc. (SMPH) , the nation’s biggest shopping mall operator, have a
combined market value of about 480 billion pesos ($11.7
billion), data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Merging the units would give the 88-year-old tycoon a
builder topping  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , currently the Philippines’
largest developer, in both sales and market value, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Ayala, which developed the Makati
business district in Manila, said last month that it expects to
report record profit this year as it fills a nationwide housing
shortage and builds new business districts.  SM said last month that it is considering the creation of a
single publicly traded property company. The business will be
tax efficient and combine development income and recurring
income from properties into a single entity, Henry Sy Jr., Sy’s
eldest son and vice chairman of SM Investments, said then.  Richest Man  The company’s real estate ventures also include residential
builder  SM Development Corp. (SMDC) ,  Highlands Prime Inc. (HP)  -- the
developer of a mountain resort south of  Manila  -- and Belle
Corp., which is building a casino in the capital.  SM Development rose as much as  3.5 percent  and Belle gained
as much as 2.9 percent, the most in three weeks for both stocks.
SM Prime rose 1.7 percent, and SM Investments fell 0.5 percent
to 1,112 pesos at 2:48 p.m. in Manila today.  Officials at SM Investments, JPMorgan, Macquarie Group, and
BDO Capital, the investment banking unit of BDO Unibank,
declined to comment. SM Investments controls BDO Unibank, the
Philippines largest bank.  The companies generate annual sales of about 53 billion
pesos, compared with Ayala Land’s 49.9 billion pesos in annual
revenue, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Ayala has a market
value of about  436 billion  pesos.  Sy, who migrated from China in 1936, is the Philippines’
richest man with an estimated net worth of $15 billion,
according to  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . SM Investments
reported last month that its 2012 profit rose to a record 24.7
billion pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  