-- SMA Leads European Solar Surge on U.S. Optimism: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-04-10T09:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/sma-leads-european-solar-surge-on-u-s-optimism-frankfurt-mover.html
SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) , Germany’s
biggest solar-energy company by market value, led a surge of
European peer stocks after a higher-than-expected forecast by
 First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  of the U.S. fueled optimism the industry may be
emerging from a slump.  SMA climbed as much as 18 percent, the steepest intraday
gain in more than three months, and was up 6.2 percent at 19.40
euros as of 11 a.m. in Frankfurt. Volume was more than twice the
three-month daily average. Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar, the
biggest maker of thin-film panels, gained the most on record
yesterday after it said it anticipates sales as high as $4
billion this year.  “The solar industry has passed its low point and that’s
benefiting stocks across the industry,” Stefan Freudenreich, an
analyst at Equinet AG, said today by phone from Frankfurt.
“First Solar’s impressive numbers show that its thin-film
technology based solar power plants still can generate good
sales volumes despite previously pessimistic market
expectations.”  Solar stocks across Europe surged, with  Solarworld AG (SWV) ,
Germany’s biggest panel maker, climbing as much as 15 percent,
and Munich-based  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , which supplies the industry
with polysilicon, rising as much as 8.2 percent.  Renewable
Energy Corp ASA (REC) , the Norwegian solar maker facing excess
capacity and falling demand, rose as much as 13 percent in Oslo.  SMA, a Niestetal-based supplier of inverters that convert
power from photovoltaic panels for use in the grid, last month
predicted  a “tough year” for the solar industry and said it
may lose money in 2013.  This year “won’t be as bad when it comes to demand as some
thought a few months ago,” said Freudenreich, who expects about
35 gigawatts of global solar installations this year. While
China may not reach 10 gigawatts of installations, Japan and
Europe may surprise positively, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  