-- Soccer Players in Europe Face 10-Game Bans for Racism, UEFA Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-10T13:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/soccer-players-in-europe-face-10-game-bans-for-racism-uefa-says.html
Soccer players face 10-game bans
and supporters could be barred from stadiums under anti-racism
measures being drawn up by the sport’s European governing body.  UEFA General Secretary Gianni Infantino said soccer needs
to do more to tackle racism following a wave of high-profile
incidents in recent months. UEFA  today ordered  Ukraine’s Dynamo
Kyiv to play a game without spectators next season following
“racist conduct by supporters” at matches against French teams
Paris Saint-Germain and Bordeaux.  “We have to have sanctions and they must have a deterrent
effect, and what we are proposing is if a player or official is
convicted of racism they should receive a 10-match suspension at
least,” Infantino said at the Soccerex convention in
Manchester, northwest  England , today.  Under the plans, which would only be applicable to games in
UEFA’s Champions League and Europa League, there would also be
partial closure of stadiums for a first incident of racist abuse
by fans and a full closure for a second offense.  “If supporters at a club are found guilty of racist abuse
the first sanction will be a partial closure of the part of the
stadium from which the racist abuse took place,” Infantino
said.  A second offense will incur a total closure and a fine of
at least 50,000 euros ($65,000), he said.  Soccer has struggled to grapple with racism, and Sepp Blatter, who heads global governing body FIFA, in January
suggested that fines don’t work and proposed that teams should
face points deductions or even relegation. He appeared to
backtrack on that suggestion last month, saying that some groups
might then try to deliberately get games abandoned.  AC Milan Incident  Blatter’s initial reaction was sparked by an incident
during a game in  Italy  between top-league AC Milan and fourth-
division Pro Patria, when Milan’s Kevin-Prince Boateng and his
teammates walked off in protest at racist abuse from opposition
fans. After initially saying players shouldn’t leave the field,
Blatter made his suggestion for tougher sanctions.  England’s Premier League has also been embroiled in racism
controversies in recent times.  Former England captain John Terry was fined and banned for
four matches this season for using racist language toward Queens
Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand during a Chelsea league
game in 2011. Liverpool’s Uruguayan striker Luis Suarez served
an eight-game ban last season after racially abusing Manchester
United defender Patrice Evra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at  Tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 