-- Suntech Fall Highlights Risks of Structured Notes Tied to Stocks
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-04-10T01:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/suntech-fall-highlights-risks-of-structured-notes-tied-to-stocks.html
The plunge in shares of  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the Chinese solar-panel maker forced into
bankruptcy last month, highlights risks with structured notes
that can leave investors exposed to collapsing equities.  Deutsche Bank AG sold three-year notes linked to Suntech’s
 American depositary receipts  in four offerings from February to
May in 2011, according to data provided by the issuer to
Bloomberg. In return for paying coupons as long as the shares
remain in certain ranges, the reverse-convertible notes at
maturity force the buyers to take the underlying asset at lower
values than their initial investments if a drop in the stock
exceeds predetermined levels, according to the data.  “If you’re buying a reverse convertible, there is a
possibility you end up tracking a stock down when the stock
collapses the way Suntech has,”  Jamie Smith , the chairman of
the U.K. Structured Products Association, said by phone. “The
risk is always there, and it should be made absolutely clear.”  Suntech became the solar industry’s biggest corporate
failure in March, after the company defaulted on $541 million of
bonds. The ADRs dropped to a record low of 36 cents on April 1.
That’s a 96 percent slide since Deutsche Bank sold the first of
its notes tied to the securities on Feb. 3 2011, according to
Bloomberg data. The products are the only notes of their kind
tied solely to Suntech’s stock, the data show.  Amy Chang, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment on terms of the securities. Queries sent by
e-mail to a generic address for the company’s Tokyo staff
handling matters related to the products weren’t answered.  Buyout Speculation  While Suntech’s shares rallied in  New York  on April 8
following a report billionaire  Warren Buffett  may be interested
in buying the company, such speculation likely won’t prevent an
eventual delisting, according to  Gordon Johnson , a New York-
based analyst at Axiom Capital Management Inc. It’s only “a
matter of time” before the stock is delisted, Johnson wrote in
response to e-mailed questions.  The  shares  surged 16 percent on April 8 after a news
service owned by the  Hong Kong Economic Times  said Buffett’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. may buy the company. Tina
Potthoff, a spokeswoman for MidAmerican in  Des Moines ,  Iowa ,
said by e-mail the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Suntech’s stock, which reached a record high at $88.35 in
December 2007, was at  62 cents  April 9. Its decline has also led
to lost principal on certain U.S. reverse convertibles that had
protection buffers of 25 percent to 30 percent.  Lost Principal  Bank of Montreal  issued  $641,000 of three-month notes tied
to Suntech in one U.S. offering in 2011 and Barclays Plc sold a
total of $5.25 million of the securities with maturities ranging
from three to six months in five placements the previous year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  All except for two of the products cost the buyers’
principal at maturity, according to terms in prospectuses for
the notes filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Martha McInnis, a spokeswoman for Bank of Montreal,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the securities.
 Mark Lane , a spokesman for Barclays, declined to comment by e-
mail.  Suntech’s founder Shi Zhengrong became one of the world’s
first solar billionaires. The company hasn’t reported a profit
since the first quarter of 2011 as a supply glut drove down
prices and damped margins.  “Nobody knows what the market’s going to do in the
future,” U.K. Structured Products Association’s Smith said.
“Unfortunately, this company has been doing very, very badly.
Anybody with an investment link to it is going to have to
suffer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  