-- Swiss Stocks Rally Most in a Month as Credit Suisse Gains
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-04-10T16:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/swiss-stocks-rise-on-china-imports-data-givaudan-gains.html
Swiss stocks  climbed the most in a
month, led by banks and luxury-goods makers, as Chinese imports
rose more than forecast and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rallied to an all-time high in  New York .  Credit Suisse AG and  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest lenders,
soared more than 3.5 percent as a measure of European banks
jumped the most since November.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA gained at least 1 percent.  Gurit Holding
AG (GUR)  dropped to the lowest price this year after reporting a
decline in first-quarter sales.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rallied 1.5 percent to 7,771.37 at
the close in Zurich, the biggest advance since March 5. The
benchmark gauge has surged 14 percent this year as U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a budget compromise and data fueled optimism
the world’s biggest economy is recovering. The broader Swiss
Performance Index added 1.6 percent today.  “The China imports data was more than double the expected
figure and might signal strong domestic demand,” said
Alessandro Fezzi, senior market analyst at LGT Bank Schweiz in
Zurich. “There’s a good chance that we see a more risk-on
environment this week with the start into the earnings season in
the U.S. Investors hope that earnings will surpass the rather
moderate expectations for the quarter.”  The number of shares changing hands in companies on the SMI
was 4.5 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China ’s  imports  surged 14.1 percent in March, compared with
a drop of 15.2 percent in February, according to the customs
administration in Beijing. That beat the 6 percent gain forecast
by economists in a Bloomberg survey. Exports rose less than
anticipated.  Fed Easing  In the U.S., several Federal Reserve officials said the
central bank should begin tapering its quantitative easing
program later this year, minutes of their March meeting showed.  The Federal Open Market Committee members “thought that if
the outlook for labor market conditions improved as anticipated,
it would probably be appropriate to slow purchases later in the
year and to stop them by year-end,” according to the record of
the March 19-20 FOMC meeting released today.  Alcoa Inc. unofficially began the U.S. earnings season on
April 8, with earnings that topped estimates. Companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will report a 1.8 percent profit
decline for the first quarter, according to analysts’
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  of U.S. equities touched an intraday record of
1,586.39 at 5:55 p.m. Zurich time today.  Banks Surge  Credit Suisse rallied 4.7 percent to 26.07 Swiss francs and
UBS climbed 3.9 percent to 14.88 francs. A gauge of banking
shares was the  best performer  among the 19 industry groups in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, rising 3.5 percent.  Bailout loans to Ireland and  Portugal  should be extended by
seven years to aid each country’s return to the market, the
nations’ international creditors said. The so-called troika and
the European Financial Stability Facility made the
recommendation in a joint report before a meeting of European
Union finance ministers in Dublin on April 12-13, when further
measures to help Ireland and Portugal are to be discussed.  Luxury stocks also gained today. Swatch, the biggest maker
of Swiss watches, advanced 2.1 percent to 530.50 francs and
 Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the largest maker of flavorings and fragrances,
added 0.9 percent to 1,130 francs. Richemont, the owner of the
Cartier brand, increased 1.4 percent to 72.15 francs.  Lonza, Fortimo  Lonza Group AG, a drug-ingredient maker, advanced 3.7
percent to 60.45 francs. Shareholders at an annual meeting
yesterday approved all of the board’s proposals, including a
dividend payment of 2.15 francs a share on April 16.  Fortimo Group AG (FOGN)  surged 10 percent to 132 francs after the
real estate developer said it will buy back shares at 136 francs
each as it turns private.  Gurit dropped 2.4 percent to 377.50 francs, the lowest
level since Dec. 28, after the Swiss maker of materials for
turbine propellers said first-quarter sales fell 37 percent from
a year earlier to 60.8 million francs ($65.3 million). Low
activity in  Asia  and a slow recovery in the U.S. hurt sales in
wind-energy markets, the company said in a statement late
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  