-- Syria Says al-Qaeda Merger ’Real Test’ for Rebel Supporters
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-04-10T10:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/syria-says-al-qaeda-merger-real-test-for-rebel-supporters.html
The merger of al-Qaeda in  Iraq  and
the extremist al-Nusra Front represents a “real test” to the
credibility of the  United Nations  and the international
community, which should choose between supporting terrorism or
the Syrian government, state-run SANA news agency said today.  The announcement of the merger by al-Qaeda’s chief in Iraq
Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is a “fact” that the Syrian government of
President Bashar al-Assad has long warned of, SANA said. It came
two years after the Syrian crisis began so al-Qaeda could amass
weapons and money from international donors, SANA said.  Opposition leader Burhan Ghalioun voiced concern yesterday
that the merger would play into the Syrian government’s argument
that it is fighting an insurrection by Sunni Muslim extremists.
He said all liberal, democratic-minded and moderate Syrians
should “redouble our efforts to restore the real face of the
uprising.”  The conflict in  Syria  began in 2011 with peaceful protests
and turned violent after government troops began attacking the
demonstrators. At least 70,000 people have been killed in the
unrest.  Warnings Ignored  SANA said Western governments have “ignored Syria’s
warnings and the documents that it has presented to the United
Nations” about this issue.  “Did these countries that profess progressiveness want
terrorism to destroy Syria to serve their interests?” the
agency said.“It is incumbent on everyone now to choose between
al-Qaeda and international law and legitimacy,” SANA added.  The merger was disclosed April 8, The  Associated Press 
said.  Links between al-Qaeda in Iraq and the al-Nusra Front
“were well known before this announcement,” the State
Department’s acting spokesman, Patrick Ventrell, said in an e-
mail yesterday. “We have long made clear our serious concerns
with respect to the threat of violent extremist elements present
in Syria, including al-Nusra Front.” The U.S. in December
designated al-Nusra as an alias of al-Qaeda in Iraq, he said.  The importance of al-Nusra is that its members are among
the most effective fighters in the Syrian rebellion, the Austin,
Texas-based geopolitical consulting firm Stratfor said in an e-
mailed report yesterday. “The rebels and their sponsors cannot
afford to isolate the group if they want to make real gains on
the battlefield,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  