-- U.S. Schools Need New Science Standards to Compete, Group Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-04-10T15:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/u-s-schools-need-new-science-standards-to-compete-group-says.html
Science in U.S. schools needs to be
more comprehensive, hands on and rigorous to produce more
engineers, doctors and inventors to help the U.S. compete,
according to groups that are promoting new education standards.  The  Next Generation Science Standards , developed by
organizations such as the National Research Council and the
National Science Teachers Association, were released yesterday.
Twenty-six states, including  California ,  New York  and  New
Jersey , took part in drafting the voluntary guidelines and will
consider adopting them for state curriculums.  The science guidelines follow a similar effort to create
uniform expectations in math, writing and reading, called Common
Core State Standards, issued in 2010 and which have been adopted
in 45 states. The science standards were devised in part by
looking at what is taught in countries that lead international
tests, such as Singapore,  South Korea  and Finland. The U.S.
ranked 17th in science and 25th in math in a 2009 assessment,
according to the Next Generation Science Standards website.  “The U.S. system of science and mathematics education is
performing far below par and, if left unattended, will leave
millions of young Americans unprepared to succeed in a global
economy,” the group said.  The new science standards are organized around teaching
scientific ideas and using them to investigate or solve problems
through engineering. Students will also learn concepts that cut
across different scientific disciplines.  The standards have performance expectations for each grade
level, from kindergarten through 12th grade. Fourth graders, for
example, should know and demonstrate that energy can be
transferred from place to place, while high school students are
expected to understand concepts such as DNA and  climate change .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  