-- Ukraine Fails to Seal Bailout After 2nd IMF Visit of 2013
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-04-10T09:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/ukraine-fails-to-seal-bailout-after-2nd-imf-visit-of-2013.html
Ukraine  failed to agree on a
bailout from the International Monetary Fund after the lender’s
representatives visited the recession-hit former Soviet republic
for the second time this year.  The fund and the government will to continue discussing
Ukraine’s request for about $15 billion in aid, its third rescue
in four years, according to an e-mailed statement today.  “The mission made good progress in discussing these
issues, and our dialog will continue in the coming weeks,”
Christopher Jarvis, the Washington-based mission chief, said in
the statement. “The key building blocks of a new program would
be measures to reduce Ukraine’s fiscal and external current-
account deficits, and energy sector and banking reforms, in
order to create the conditions for sustained economic growth and
job creation in Ukraine.”  Ukraine’s economy fell into recession in July as global
prices for exports such as steel plunged. The eastern European
nation’s junk credit rating was downgraded in December by
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
foreign financing requirements. The government has said it can
survive without the IMF as it’s retained access to foreign debt
markets, selling $1 billion of Eurobonds in February and an
additional $1.25 billion yesterday.  Yields Rise  Ukraine’s hryvnia, which has lost 1.06 percent against the
dollar this year, strengthened to 8.1360 as of 12 p.m. in the
capital, Kiev, from 8.1370 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The yield on government bonds due 2022 rose to 7.286
percent, the highest level since April 3.  The cost to insure the country’s debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps rose to 562.500 basis
points from 561.7 yesterday.  As a condition of aid, the IMF wants Ukraine to trim
heating subsidies to narrow its budget deficit. President Viktor Yanukovych, who faces re-election in 2015, refuses, saying
people can’t afford to pay higher prices.  Ukraine’s economy contracted 0.8 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months after a 1.5 percent
decline in the July-September period, confirming the country’s
second recession in four years. Industrial production slumped
4.8 percent from a year earlier in the first two months as
metals and chemical-product demand sank.  S&P cut Ukraine’s rating one level to B, five steps below
investment grade in December, while Moody’s lowered it to B3,
six levels below investment status.  Central bank reserves fell to $24.7 at the end of March
from $38.2 billion in August 2011 as the central bank spent
foreign currency to keep the hryvnia stable. The current-account
gap widened to a record 8.4 percent of gross domestic product
last year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  