-- Hungary Trails Neighboring Countries in Luring Investment
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-04-10T10:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/hungary-trails-neighboring-countries-in-luring-investment.html
Hungary  is trailing its neighbors
in luring investment, dimming the prospects for economic
recovery from recession and a boost in employment, among the
lowest in the European Union, according to a survey.  About 29 percent of respondents plan to reduce investments
this year and 22 percent are considering job cuts, according to
the survey of 1,600 company executives and ranking 16 countries
in central, eastern  Europe  and the Baltic countries, according
to a survey by German chambers commerce, distributed by the
Hungarian affiliate via e-mail today.  “Hungary is bringing up the rear in central and eastern
Europe in terms of companies’ investment and employment
preferences,” the  German-Hungarian Chamber of Commerce , said in
the report.  Hungary is battling its second  recession  in four years as
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s self-styled unorthodox policies,
including retroactive industry taxes, the nationalization of
private pension fund assets and mandatory utility price cuts,
undermined investor confidence and sapped investments.  The central bank announced plans last week to offer
preferential loans to small businesses to reignite growth.  Investments in Hungary declined 5.2 percent last year to
account for 17 percent of gross domestic product, the worst
after  Latvia  among the 16 countries in the survey, according to
Eurostat figures.  The forint gained 0.2 percent to 296.49 per euro by 10:27
a.m. in Budapest, its strongest level in more than a month and
paring this year’s loss to 1.7 percent.  Investment, Growth  Hungary’s economy shrank 1.7 percent in 2012, the most
since 2009 as the euro area crisis dwindled export demand and
domestic consumption fell. Hungary will post an “unexpected
growth surprise” this year, Orban said April 5.  The government expects the economy to expand 0.9 percent in
2012 versus an International Monetary Fund projection for
economic stagnation.  “The lack of economic policy predictability remains the
most criticized factor in Hungary with four companies out of
five dissatisfied with government policies,” chamber of
commerce said in the report.  The number of respondents who view the performance of
Hungary’s economy as “bad” fell to 57 percent from 68 percent,
according to the survey, which didn’t give a margin of error or
the dates of the inquiry.  The central bank cut  interest rates  to a record-low 5
percent last month and indicated it may continue lowering
borrowing costs if market conditions turn favorable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  