-- Hungary Rate Cuts Hinge on Risk Amid Price Turnaround, MNB Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-10T14:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/hungary-rate-cuts-hinge-on-risk-amid-price-turnaround-mnb-says.html
Hungarian monetary easing hinges on
“benign” market conditions as inflation is poised to
decelerate further below target, the central bank said.  Recent data show a “turning point” in inflation, which
will slow further in the near term, according to the minutes of
the March 26 policy meeting, where policy makers voted seven to
two to cut the main rate to a record-low 5 percent.  “Members agreed that the council would only consider a
further reduction in the policy rate if medium-term inflationary
pressures remained moderate and the uncertainty surrounding
financial-market developments diminished,” according to the
minutes, which were posted on the bank’s  website  today.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the  two-week deposit rate 
for an eighth month in March as policy makers seek to lead the
economy out of recession. New central bank Governor Gyorgy Matolcsy announced a set of measures last week aimed at offering
preferential loans to small businesses to boost investment and
refinance foreign-currency debt. The bank plans to use a tenth
of the nation’s foreign-currency reserves to fund the plan.  The forint fell 0.3 percent to 298.10 per euro by 2:39 p.m.
in Budapest, extending this year’s loss to 2.3 percent. The cost
of insuring state debt against non-payment using credit-default
swaps dropped 3 basis points to 318, the lowest in four weeks.  Risk Perception  Risk perception can “materially” affect the central
bank’s room to maneuver and council members disagreed on the
reasons for March’s deterioration in Hungarian assets, according
to the minutes. While the majority argued that events in Cyprus,
uncertainty over central bank management changes and a cut in
 Hungary ’s credit-rating outlook were to blame, others said
expectations of further policy easing also played a role, the
minutes showed.  Deputy Governor Julia Kiraly, who along with Ferenc
Karvalits voted to keep rates unchanged, submitted her
resignation this week, saying the bank’s credibility was being
jeopardized by Matolcsy’s overhaul. Karvalits’s six-year mandate
as deputy governor ended last month.  Consumer-price growth was the slowest in almost seven years
in February as the government cut household energy costs. The
inflation rate dropped to 2.8 percent, less than the bank’s 3
percent target and down from 3.7 percent in January. Inflation
will average 2.6 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2014,
according to the bank’s Inflation Report published March 26.  The impact of previous rate cuts on lending is “difficult
to judge,” policy makers said, according to the minutes. The
biggest risks are the size of the economy’s spare capacity,
future developments in bank lending and risk perception, the
minutes showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  