-- Turkey Seeks to Lure Foreign Companies to $326 Billion Bourse
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-04-10T15:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/turkey-seeks-to-lure-foreign-companies-to-326-billion-bourse.html
Turkey’s  stock exchange  is seeking
the help of brokerages to attract foreign companies to list as
the nation works toward becoming a global financial hub.  Borsa Istanbul signed agreements with eight companies today
as part of its “ListingIstanbul” initiative, under which it
will solicit the help of partners to lure new listings from 45
countries. Turkey’s National All-Shares Index has a market value
of $326 billion, compared with $830 billion for South Africa’s
FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index and $439 billion on Singapore’s
 Straits Times Index (FSSTI) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The listing push comes amid plans by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to boost Turkey’s regional status and make the
economy one of the world’s 10 biggest by 2023. Only one foreign
company,  Do & Co AG (DOCO) , a  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  catering partner, now
trades in Turkey out of 332 listings, Borsa Istanbul data show.
Foreign companies make up 79 percent of London’s stock exchange
and 8 percent of Singapore’s bourse.  “An international financial center implies companies from
other countries coming to your market as well,” Borsa Istanbul
Chairman Ibrahim Turhan said at a press conference today. The
listing program is part of a plan that may lead the exchange to
sell shares in an initial public offering by late 2015, he said.  ‘Good Idea’  Borsa Istanbul, which replaced the 28-year-old Istanbul
Stock Exchange on April 5, includes the Istanbul Gold Exchange
and the Izmir-based Derivatives Exchange.  The exchange signed deals with brokerages including
PhillipCapital Menkul Degerler AS, the Turkish unit of
Singapore’s PhillipCapital Group, and Unlu Menkul Degerler AS,
part-owned by South Africa’s Standard Bank Group Ltd.  Invest AZ Menkul Degerler AS, majority-owned by Azerbaijani
businessman Elshan Guliyev, is also among brokerages that will
undertake “promotional and marketing activities” to encourage
foreign companies to consider trading in Istanbul, Borsa
Istanbul said.  “Activating brokerages is a good idea,” said Attila Koksal, who signed the agreement on behalf of Unlu Menkul
Degerler. “If, during our contacts abroad, we manage to
describe the transformation that Turkish capital markets are
going through, we will get some results.” Koksal is a board
member at Borsa Istanbul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  