-- Turkey-Kurdistan Pipeline Is Set for Midyear Completion
-- B y   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-04-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/turkey-kurdistan-pipeline-set-for-completion-this-summer.html
Genel Energy Plc (GENL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Hayward , the former head of  BP Plc (BP/) , expects a
pipeline transporting oil from  Iraqi Kurdistan  to the Turkish
border to be completed by about the middle of the year.  “The conversion of an existing gas line to an oil line can
get nine-tenths to the Turkey border” and the rest of the
capacity will be newly built, he said yesterday in an interview.
“They’ll have that infrastructure by the middle of the year.”  Genel, the largest producer in Iraq’s Kurdish region, also
said yesterday that the first of five Chia Surkh wells flowed
11,950 barrels of oil a day and 15 million cubic feet of gas.
The company began drilling a second well this week. Hayward said
the field may hold more than 300 million barrels of oil
equivalent.  The company rose 6.4 percent to 850 pence in London.  The pipeline will allow the semi-autonomous Kurdish region
to bypass control over its oil exports by the central government
in Baghdad and ship them directly to Turkey. Genel, Exxon Mobil
Corp. and  DNO International ASA (DNO)  are among companies caught up in
disputes between the Iraqi administrations over the right to
control contracts, territorial claims and crude oil revenues.  Oil from northern Iraq is currently trucked to the border
at Fishkabur, creating a bottleneck, Genel says on its website.  The pipeline also gives Turkey a foothold in the region’s
energy industry. Genel is talking to four Turkish utilities to
sell gas from its Miran field, Hayward said, declining to name
them. Genel said in February it had 3.8 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable resources in Miran and 90 million barrels of oil.  Energy Minister  Turkey has informed the Iraqi government that it’s ready to
build new pipelines to transport oil from Kurdistan, Turkish
Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  told reporters yesterday in Ankara.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  met Nechirvan
Barzani, leader of Iraq’s Kurdish region, in Ankara last month.  “We may add new pipelines to our pipeline from Kirkuk, and
among them may be a natural- gas pipeline ,” Erdogan said on CNN
Turk after the meeting. Northern Iraq had signed a commercial
agreement with Turkey based on the region’s constitutional right
to 17 percent of Iraq’s oil revenue, he said.  A gas pipeline joining the  Taq Taq  site in northern Iraq
with the Iraq-Turkey Pipeline at Fishkabur is being built. It’s
expected to reach the town of Dohuk about 40 kilometers from the
Turkish border in the second quarter, Genel said in February. It
plans to boost Taq Taq’s capacity to 200,000 barrels a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  