-- Musk Presses Texas Lawmakers for Direct Electric Car Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-04-10T18:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/musk-pushes-texas-lawmakers-to-allow-direct-electric-car-sales.html
Elon Musk, the billionaire who
leads  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , pressed the  Texas  legislature to pass a
measure that would allow the electric carmaker to sell directly
to consumers.  Musk said at a news conference today in Austin, the state
capital, that current law requiring cars be sold by franchise
dealers is hurting his business.  Texas would make up 15 percent to 20 percent of Tesla’s
U.S. sales, up from 6 percent now, if lawmakers approve a bill
to allow direct purchases of 100 percent electric- or battery-
powered vehicles, he said.  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla’s
revenue will be $489 million in the quarter ended March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Because of opposition from Texas auto dealers who object to
changing the law, “Everyone warned me that you are going to get
your ass kicked,” Musk said. “But we’re going to try.”  Tesla, seller of Model S electric sedans priced from
$69,900 to more than $100,000, depending on battery size and
options, said on March 31 it delivered more than 4,750 of the
cars in the quarter that ended that day. Musk also said the 10-
year-old company, named for inventor  Nikola Tesla , attained its
first quarterly profit in that period.  Arranging Purchase  A potential buyer in Texas must contact Tesla
representatives in other states to arrange a purchase, including
shipping the car to the buyer’s house, Musk said.  Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, told Musk last month
that he would support allowing direct sales of electric cars if
approved by lawmakers, Musk said. Josh Havens, a spokesman for
Perry, declined to comment on Musk’s remarks.  Texas has the most restrictive laws among U.S. states on
auto manufacturers selling to consumers, Musk said. Tesla
earlier this year won dismissal of a lawsuit in Massachusetts
seeking to stop it from operating its own showrooms.  Musk, 41, is also Tesla’s largest shareholder, with about a
24 percent stake in the carmaker’s outstanding shares, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tesla also counts  Daimler AG (DAI)  and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which have purchased its battery packs and
motors, as investors.  Allowing Tesla or other manufacturers to sell directly to
consumers would “limit free enterprise and inflate the cost of
vehicles because there would be no competitive reason for
manufacturers to keep their costs down,” said Karen Phillips,
general counsel of Texas Auto Dealers Association in Austin,
which represents 1,250 new-car dealers.  Musk also heads Space Exploration Technologies Corp., based
in Hawthorne,  California , which is considering building a launch
site in south Texas or Florida. The car legislation won’t be
used in negotiations with Texas officials over state incentives,
Musk said.  Tesla shares increased $1.25, or 3.1 percent, to $41.75 at
2:11 p.m.  New York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  