-- Luxembourg To Ease Bank Secrecy Rule, Share Data In 2015
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-10T11:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/luxembourg-to-ease-bank-secrecy-rule-share-data-in-2015.html
Luxembourg  will begin the automatic
exchange of tax data in 2015, easing its bank-secrecy rules as
part of efforts to fight the financial crisis.  Luxembourg will change its rules to coordinate with policy
in the U.S. and 25 of the EU’s 27 member nations, Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  told his nation’s parliament today.
Luxembourg and Austria have been holdouts in the EU’s efforts to
coordinate savings taxes and hold talks with non-EU countries.  “We can now participate as of Jan. 1, 2015, because our
financial sector has been preparing in the knowledge of this
international development,” Juncker said. He said the move
would ensure that Luxembourg could work with U.S. standards and
aid global efforts to crack down on  tax evasion .  “Luckily, our financial sector has subscribed to a
resolute white money strategy,” Juncker said. “Our financial
sector doesn’t live off black money and tax evasion.”  The tax-data decision took on a “certain acuteness” after
Cypriot bailout talks roiled financial markets, the Luxembourg
Finance Ministry said in a statement. Luxembourg had been
preparing changes to its regulations for several months prior to
today’s announcement, the ministry said.  Luxembourg and  Austria  last year vetoed negotiations over
the extension of a savings-tax agreement because of concerns
that they would be forced to give up banking-secrecy measures
that attract foreign depositors. The two countries blocked the
European Union from starting talks on updating the seven-year-
old tax accord with  Switzerland , Liechtenstein,  Monaco , Andorra
and  San Marino .  Savings-Tax Accord  “This means that Austria is the last member state not to
be applying the automatic exchange of information,” Emer
Traynor, spokeswoman for EU Taxation Commissioner Algirdas Semeta, said today in Brussels. “We understand that there are
discussions ongoing in Austria at this moment on this issue and
we hope that they will be able to follow Luxembourg’s lead.”  The Austrian government said yesterday that it may revise
its laws shielding information about foreign account holders. EU
finance ministers will discuss the savings-tax accord when they
meet in Dublin later this week.  Under a 2005 accord, Austria and Luxembourg withhold tax on
interest income paid to depositors from other EU states while
protecting their identities. Other EU states transfer the income
data to the depositor’s home tax authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  