-- Vanguard Wellesley Wins With Income Tilt: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-04-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/vanguard-wellesley-wins-with-income-tilt-riskless-return.html
Vanguard Wellesley Income Fund (VWINX)  has
used a mix of high-quality bonds and dividend-paying stocks to
outperform all peers in the past five years, when record low
interest rates put a premium on the assets it favors.  Vanguard Wellesley, which has about two-thirds of its $34
billion of assets in bonds, had the best risk-adjusted
performance among large U.S. balanced funds since 2008, beating
rivals holding a greater proportion of stocks. Managers John
Keogh and W. Michael Reckmeyer III produced the third-lowest
volatility and the second-highest total return among 34 U.S.
balanced funds with at least $2 billion in assets, and had
better absolute performance than both the stock and bond markets
in the period, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN
RANKING.  The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to hold rates  near zero 
since 2008 has sent investors scrambling for higher yields,
creating demand for the income-producing securities and dividend
stocks that Vanguard Wellesley buys. The fund’s focus on
corporate debt, typically 75 percent of the fixed-income
portfolio, also proved advantageous in an era in which such
bonds outpaced government debt and stocks. The fund’s tilt
toward bonds could be a handicap if rates climb over the next
few years.  “This fund’s performance gives lie to the notion that
active management doesn’t work,” Daniel Wiener, editor of the
New York-based newsletter Independent Adviser for Vanguard
Investors, said in a telephone interview.  Mirror Image  The Vanguard Wellesley, started in 1970, keeps 60 to 65
percent in bonds and was designed to be the mirror image of the
$69 billion  Vanguard Wellington Fund (VWELX) , created in 1929, which
holds 60 to 65 percent of its assets in stocks and the rest in
bonds. Vanguard Wellington wasn’t part of the ranking because it
has a relatively high weighting to stocks and is in a different
fund category, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vanguard Group Inc., the biggest U.S. mutual-fund company
with more than $2 trillion in assets, is best known for its low-
cost index funds. The  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based firm also
offers active strategies through funds managed by firms such as
Boston-based Wellington Management Co., which runs $250 billion
for Vanguard. Wellington Management, which oversees about $758
billion in total, manages both the Wellesley and Wellington
funds.  The Vanguard Wellesley fund is aimed at investors “who
have a goal of steady income and who are willing to accept
modest movement in share price,” Vanguard said on its website.  Beating Rivals  “I think of Wellington and Wellesley as the original
target-date funds,” Dan Newhall, a principal at Vanguard, said
in a telephone interview, referring to funds designed to shift
to more conservative investments as investors approach
retirement. The Wellington fund is more suitable for someone in
the accumulation phase, said Newhall, while the Wellesley fund
is a better fit for retirees or more risk-averse investors.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Vanguard Wellesley gained 5.6 percent, adjusted for price
swings, in the five years ended April 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The $2.9 billion  Hartford Balanced Income
Fund (HBLAX) , gained 4.4 percent, with the best absolute returns and
below average volatility. The $34 billion  Pimco All Asset Fund (PAAIX) ,
also rose 4.4 percent, combining the third-highest absolute
return and the fifth-lowest volatility.  The Vanguard Wellington fund, had it been included in the
ranking, would be in the bottom third with a risk-adjusted
return of 2.2 percent over the past five years.  Rising Rates  Vanguard Wellesley also had the top risk-adjusted return
over the past three years, two years, one year and so far in
2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That run may not last if interest rates rise.  “This is a great steady-Eddie fund, but you have to wonder
how it will hold up in a different environment,” said Steven
Roge, a portfolio manager with Bohemia, New York-based R.W. Roge
& Co., which oversees $200 million.  Keogh, 56, who has run the bond portion of Wellesley since
2008, anticipates continued improvement in the  U.S. economy  and
an eventual withdrawal of stimulus from the Fed.  “With rates where they are now, I don’t see room for much
price appreciation in bonds, which is different from what we
have experienced over the past five years,” he said.  ‘Defensive’ Fund  Keogh said his challenge would be to cut the fund’s
sensitivity to  interest rates  when they begin to climb. He would
do so mainly by adjusting the duration, a measure of how much a
change in rates will impact prices, of the bonds that he holds,
Keogh said. Based on its current holdings, the fund would fall
0.6 percent were rates to rise 25 basis points, according to an
analysis of  portfolio data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Like many conservative funds, Wellesley held up well in
2008 and 2011, difficult years for the stock market, said Kevin
McDevitt, an analyst for Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The fund
beat at least 96 percent of peers in both years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A lot of defensive funds gave up all of that advantage
during rallies, but not Wellesley,” said McDevitt, in a
telephone interview.  Over the past five years, Wellesley fell only about two-
thirds as much as peers in declining markets while almost
matching their gains in periods when they advanced, Morningstar
data show.  ‘Ideal Environment’  Keogh said the fund benefited in the past five years by
being in the right place at the right time, citing declining
interest rates and demand for dividend-paying stocks.  “We have had the ideal environment,” he said in a
telephone interview.  The fund also benefited from holdings in corporate debt as
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch US Corporate Index returned 8
percent a year in the five years ended April 8, compared with
5.6 percent for the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index and 5.1
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Wellesley had one other edge over its peers: it is cheaper.
The fund charges investors 25 cents for every $100 invested.
U.S. balance funds charge an asset-weighted average of 87 cents,
according to Morningstar.  Keogh said Vanguard Wellesley has been able to add value in
both stocks and bonds through security selection.  Bank Bonds  In the 10 years ended Sept. 30, 2012, the fund’s equity
portfolio returned 10.3 percent a year, compared with 8 percent
for the  S&P 500 ,  according to a November regulatory filing . Over
the same stretch the bond portion gained 5.9 percent annually
compared with 5.3 percent for the Barclays Aggregate. Over the
past two years, Keogh said, his belief that the U.S. economy was
gradually improving led him to invest in the bonds of banks,
food and beverage firms and cable operators, decisions that
enhanced the fund’s returns.  Bank bonds returned a total of 17 percent over the past two
years, food bonds gained 20 percent and telecommunications bonds
advanced 19 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The Barclays Aggregate Index returned 13 percent in the
same two years.  Keogh manages the fund with Reckmeyer, 53, who oversees the
equity portion of the portfolio. The two managers work in
different cities. Keogh is based in Boston and Reckmeyer in
Radnor,  Pennsylvania . While they speak regularly about the
economy and how their two asset classes should be divided in the
portfolio, they make investment decisions separately.  Dividend Yield  Keogh pays attention to both the broader economy and
individual industries, searching for sectors whose potential may
be underestimated. Reckmeyer, a value investor, tries to find
fundamentally strong companies whose shares are temporarily
depressed.  On the equity side, Reckmeyer looks for quality stocks with
high and sustainable dividends that can provide income to the
fund’s shareholders. Vanguard Wellesley’s stocks yield about 3.2
percent, he said, in a telephone interview. The comparable
number for the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  is  2.1 percent , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Reckmeyer said his decision to buy beaten down consumer
stocks such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  during the financial crisis
boosted returns over the five-year period. He more than doubled
his stake in the Atlanta, Georgia-based home-improvement
retailer between Sept. 30, 2008, and March 31, 2009, according
to regulatory filings, making it one of his largest holdings.  “We used that opportunity to buy high quality names that
could grow their way of the recession,” said Reckmeyer, who has
managed Wellesley since 2007.  Home Depot  Home Depot returned almost twice as much as the S&P 500
Index between March 31, 2009 and Sept. 30, 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In an  October letter  to
shareholders, Reckmeyer said he sold Home Depot because it had
reached his target price.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S. energy company, has
been one of the fund’s largest stock holdings over the past five
years. In that time, shares of the  San Ramon , California-based
company returned about seven times as much the S&P 500 Energy
Index, according to data  compiled by Bloomberg .  Reckmeyer said his results will lag behind the stock market
if equity prices surge. For investors, a spike in rates is a
bigger concern.  “Everyone believes that, given where we are with interest
rates, the only eventual direction is up,”  Thomas Chow , a
Philadelphia-based  money manager  at Delaware Investments who
helps oversee about $170 billion, said in an interview last
month.  Wiener, the newsletter editor, said in the next five years,
Vanguard Wellington, with its greater allocation to stocks, is a
better bet than Vanguard Wellesley.  “Would I expect Wellesley to beat funds like it? Yes,” he
said. “Do I expect it to generate returns that beat the stock
market? Probably not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  