-- Vienna Bourse Seeks ‘Friendly’ Merger With Warsaw Exchange
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-04-10T13:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/vienna-bourse-seeks-friendly-merger-with-warsaw-exchange.html
The  Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW)  and the
Vienna bourse will decide in the next few months on whether to
start advanced merger negotiations after the Austrian operator
proposed “friendly” consolidation.  The exchanges, which have fought for dominance in central
 Europe  in past years, are discussing a merger that would create
a hub for equities trading and initial share offerings, three
people familiar with the talks said yesterday. Michael Buhl,
chief executive officer of the Vienna bourse’s parent company
will meet Warsaw’s new CEO, Adam Maciejewski, in coming days,
Vienna exchange spokeswoman Beatrix Exinger said yesterday.  “The talks are at an early stage and non-binding,” Leszek Pawlowicz, chairman of the Warsaw exchange’s supervisory board,
said in a phone interview today. “A decision on whether we
should continue or halt the negotiations should be made in the
next few months.”  Vienna expanded by buying the bourses in Ljubljana and
 Prague  in 2008 and Budapest in 2004, creating CEE Stock Exchange
Group holding and beating Warsaw’s bid for Prague. While Vienna
and Prague had one initial public offering apiece since 2011,
Warsaw attracted 41 as it lured companies by offering access to
 Poland ’s cash-rich pension and mutual funds.  Various Scenarios  “A merger plan hasn’t yet crystalized and it will be up to
investment banks to consider various scenarios,” Pawlowicz
said. “We will need to check if there are synergies coming from
such a merger and also whether this consolidation will benefit
the Polish capital market and our economy.”  The combined domestic market capitalization of Vienna,
Prague, Budapest and Ljubljana was 130 billion euros ($170
billion) at the end of January, according to the most recent
data on the CEE Stock Exchange Group website, which is roughly
equivalent to Warsaw’s 514 billion zloty at the end of March.
Trading volume at the Vienna-led group amounted to 6 billion
euros in January and February, compared with 8.9 billion euros
in Warsaw.  Pawlowicz said it is too early to decide on whether Poland,
which hold a controlling stake in the Warsaw bourse, should lose
its “privileged shares” after the merger. The government
considered selling a majority stake in the exchange to  Deutsche
Boerse (DB1)  in 2009, then opted for an IPO in late 2010.  The Vienna bourse’s parent company is largely owned by
Austrian banks and by companies listed on the Vienna bourse. A
merger of Vienna and Warsaw “would make sense,” Herbert Stepic, CEO of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  told reporters
today. The Austrian bank has 7 percent of the holding company.  “This would make a lot of sense, as well as further
inclusions of smaller bourses,” Stepic said. “There’s enormous
consolidation going on in the exchange business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  