-- Vietnam’s Stocks Tumble Most Among Asian Markets: Hanoi Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-10T09:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/vietnam-s-stocks-tumble-most-among-asian-markets-hanoi-mover.html
Vietnam ’s stocks plunged the most
in six weeks on speculation exchange-traded funds sold shares to
rebalance their investment portfolios.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  sank 2.7
percent to 496.50 in the last minute of trading, the steepest
decline since Feb. 26 and the biggest loss among Asian markets.
The index earlier gained as much as 1.6 percent after local
retailers cut fuel prices. Gemadept Corp., a shipping company,
plunged 5.6 percent, the most since March 18.   Vietnam Dairy
Products Joint-Stock Co. (VNM) , known as Vinamilk, fell 2.3 percent.  “Portfolio rebalancing of index trackers caused the market
slide,” said  Attila Vajda , a Ho Chi Minh City-based broker at
ACB Securities Co. The index surged 1.4 percent on March 15 as
investors bought shares of Gemadept after the company was
included in the FTSE Vietnam Index as part of its quarterly
rebalancing, according to Viet Capital Securities.  The market was operating “normally” today with no
technical issues, Phan Thi Tuong Tam, chief executive officer of
the country’s main bourse, said by phone.  The VN Index has rallied 20 percent this year, the second-
best performer in  Asia  after  Japan , after the country’s central
bank cut borrowing costs to spur growth amid slowing inflation.  Vietnam National Petroleum Corp., the largest importer of
petroleum products, lowered the price of gasoline by 500 dong (2
cents) per liter yesterday after the Ministry of Finance ordered
the reduction to bring local prices in line with recent declines
in global markets, according to a statement on the company’s
website. Petrolimex also cut prices of diesel and kerosene.  PetroVietnam Gas Joint-Stock Co., the biggest-listed
company by market value, lost 2.7 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  