-- Weiner’s Return May Shake Up NYC Mayoral Race, Pollster Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-04-10T17:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/weiner-s-return-may-shake-up-nyc-mayoral-race-pollster-says-1-.html
Anthony Weiner, the former U.S.
congressman who resigned two years ago after engaging in lewd
online behavior, would be a formidable candidate in a crowded
New York mayoral field, pollster  Maurice Carroll  said.  Weiner, 48, who served 12 years in the U.S. House of
Representatives, is considering a return to politics, the New
York Times reported today. One reason why he would have an
impact on the race is that he still holds  $4.3 million  from an
aborted 2009 run for the Democratic mayoral nomination, said
Carroll, director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute
in Hamden,  Connecticut .  “His political savvy and his money are two real pluses,”
Carroll said. “Everybody knows what the negatives are.”  Weiner’s entry into a race that already includes five
Democrats would almost guarantee a Sept. 10 primary in which the
top vote-getter fails to win 40 percent, Carroll said. That
would force a runoff with the second-place finisher. Polls show
City Council Speaker Christine Quinn leading among Democrats,
though with less than 40 percent support.  “Weiner in or Weiner out, you’d probably have a runoff,”
Carroll said. “If he entered the race, it would be a
certainty.”  Weiner, a former  New York  City Council member, said in an
e-mail that he was “kinda swamped today,” declining to comment
further. In Congress from 1999 to 2011, he was an advocate for
universal health care, stricter gun regulations and increased
tax rates on the high-income earners.  Matching Funds  Under city law, a candidate needs $250,000 in donations of
$175 or less to qualify for 6-to-1 matching funds. Weiner, who
has $248,710 in such claims, needs just $1,290 in contributions
to qualify for about $1.5 million in public funds, said Eric
Friedman, spokesman for the city Campaign Finance Board.  His deadline to be eligible for matching funds requires him
to run for local office this year, Friedman said.  “He would have to run a full bore, honest-to-goodness
campaign or he would be required to give back that money,” said
 William Cunningham , a political adviser to former New York
Governors Hugh Carey and  Mario Cuomo , and Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  “His late entry, with this cloud over his head, makes his
chances of winning remote, to say the least,” he said.  Twitter Photo  Weiner’s resignation came after he admitted that he engaged
in “inappropriate conversations” with six women over the
previous three years, including on Facebook, e-mail, Twitter and
on the phone with one of them.  He had publicly denied sending a racy photograph of himself
to a Seattle woman via Twitter, and claimed that his account was
hacked. The photo showed a man from the waist down in gray
underwear.  Weiner mused about a possible political future for himself
in a New York Times magazine article to be published April 14,
in which he said he remains undecided about a mayoral bid this
year. He described himself as a political underdog, citing
private polls he’s paid for, the Times reported.  “The fact that I don’t know tells me I shouldn’t run. Or I
should not run now,” the Times article quotes him saying. The
former Brooklyn-and-Queens-based congressman now lives in
a “sprawling apartment” on  Manhattan ’s Park Avenue South, the
newspaper reported.  “If Anthony wants to be mayor, he should run,” City
Comptroller  John Liu , who is seeking the Democratic nomination,
said today after a speech. “I would just suggest getting rid of
his phone and closing down the Tweeting account.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  