-- Wilmar Sees China Importing Fewer Soybeans on Bird Flu
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-04-11T09:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/wilmar-sees-china-importing-fewer-soybeans-first-time-since-04.html
China , the world’s largest soybean
buyer, will probably import less this year as an outbreak of
bird flu curbs demand for poultry, a  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) 
executive said. The price of the oilseed fell in  Chicago .  Consumption is slowing and at best imports of soybeans,
crushed to yield oil for cooking and meal for livestock feed,
will be the same as last year, said the Singapore-based
executive at Wilmar, which ships the most supply to China. A
drop in imports would be the first since 2004, according to data
from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Soybean futures slumped into a bear market in November on
expectations that farmers would respond to record prices reached
two months earlier by planting the biggest-ever crop. The extra
supply will be reaped just as China endures an outbreak of the
H7N9 virus that’s killed nine people since March. The government
told citizens April 8 to avoid contact with live poultry.  “Consumption of chicken will be reduced for now because
nobody knows how it’s being transmitted, how it passes from
birds to humans,” Joyce Liu, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte.,
said by phone from Singapore. “That will definitely reduce need
for soybean imports.”  Soybeans dropped as much as 0.7 percent to $13.825 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade and traded at $13.87 at 5:11 p.m.
in Singapore. The price has declined 22 percent since reaching a
record $17.89 in September. Wheat, corn, sugar and arabica are
also in bear markets and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture
Index of eight commodities fell 21 percent from its peak in July.  ‘Concerns Deepen’  “Wilmar’s forecast may help push prices lower as concerns
deepen that overseas purchases will decline,”  Hiroyuki Kikukawa ,
general manager for research, at Tokyo-based Nihon Unicom Inc.,
said by phone today.  Consumption of soybeans in China, which buys 64 percent of
global imports, retreated in the 2003-2004 marketing year as an
outbreak of avian influenza cut demand, USDA data show. The
department forecast record purchases of 61 million tons this
year, 3 percent more than 2012, according to a report yesterday.  The bird-flu outbreak has hurt farmers “tremendously”
because it’s curbing demand for chicken in eastern regions, Liu Yonghao, chairman of New Hope Liuhe Co., China’s biggest poultry
supplier, said April 9. The cities of Shanghai, Nanjing and
Hangzhou ordered live poultry markets to close and seized birds,
according to reports on state-run CCTV and Xinhua News Agency.  China consumed 13.54 million metric tons of chicken last
year, the most globally and an almost fourfold expansion in
about two decades, USDA data show.  Rising Infections  The strain was first reported in an 87-year-old male in
 Shanghai  on Feb. 19. While the number of infections has risen to
33, there is no evidence yet that the virus is spreading from
human to human, according to the  World Health Organization .  A 4-year-old boy in Shanghai was discharged from a hospital
yesterday after recovering from the flu, making him the first
patient declared cured. China expects to develop a vaccine
within seven months, Xinhua said, citing an official statement.  Shares of Wilmar dropped 0.9 percent to S$3.34, the day’s
second-biggest loser on the benchmark Straits Times Index, which
advanced 0.5 percent. The stock is unchanged this year after
falling 33 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  