-- Worst Stock Pickers Burned by Bovespa Rout: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-10T17:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/worst-stock-pickers-burned-by-bovespa-rout-corporate-brazil-1-.html
Brazilian analysts are proving to
have the world’s worst record for picking stocks after failing
to foresee how government intervention in the economy would curb
growth and cut into corporate profits.  Stocks on the benchmark Bovespa index are trading 45
percent below the price targets that analysts set a year ago,
the biggest disparity among the 45 markets in the MSCI All-
Country World Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Homebuilder  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  and electric utility  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  are trading as much as 85 percent lower
than prices forecast by Sao Paulo-based analysts at Itau
Unibanco Holding SA and Barclays Plc.  The  slowdown  in  Latin America ’s biggest economy deepened
last year, confounding analysts who predicted the lowest
 interest rates  on record and President Dilma Rousseff’s stimulus
measures would spark a rebound. The government moves, which
included pressuring utilities to lower electricity rates and
pushing banks to cut profit margins, have instead eroded
investor confidence and stunted growth, according to Nicholas Cowley, an investment manager at Henderson Global Investors Ltd.  “Analysts are always more positive than they should be,”
Cowley, who helps oversee about $100 billion, said by phone from
 London . “They always assume a reasonably healthy economy, and
in  Brazil  at the moment we’ve had quite a lot of
disappointments. There’s a lot of political uncertainty with a
lot of intervention from the government.”  Earnings Estimates  Analysts overestimated corporate earnings for a fifth
straight quarter, the longest such stretch since 2007, in the
October-to-December period. Sixty-six percent of companies on
the Bovespa missed analysts’ earnings targets in the quarter.
The Bovespa has slumped 7.8 percent this year, erasing last
year’s 7.4 percent advance.  Analysts’ 45 percent mis-pricing on Brazilian stocks is 4
percentage points more than the gap in any other country.
Russian analysts, off by 41 percent, were second worst while
those in  South Korea  were third worst at 31 percent.  Much of the Brazilian analysts’ mistake stemmed from their
misread on utilities, which  plunged  after Rousseff forced them
in September to either cut power prices or relinquish the right
to renew their concessions when they expire.  The voting stock of Eletrobras, as state-controlled
Centrais Eletricas is known, plunged 61 percent over the past 12
months to 6.29 reais. Analysts at Itau’s brokerage unit had set
a price target of 42.30 reais, marking the worst forecast on the
stock. Itau BBA’s utilities analyst Marcos Severine declined to
comment on his estimates for Eletrobras.  ‘Dream Scenario’  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said that analysts and
investors didn’t pay attention to signals the government was
giving them before it unveiled the new energy pricing policy.  “If some companies didn’t do the appropriate calculations,
if some analysts were misled, that’s just tough,” Mantega said
at a Nov. 23 speech in Sao Paulo. “Some analysts were doing
estimates based on the assumption that concessions would be
renewed with rates just as high as before, but that’d be a dream
scenario” for the utilities, he said.  Recommendation Cut  Severine cut his recommendation on the stock to the
equivalent of sell from buy on Aug. 30 and said he might reduce
his share estimate to as low as 13 reais, citing concern that
Brazil could change rules for the sector when offering the
companies the chance to renew concessions.  Energy Minister Edison Lobao had told reporters on July 26
that the government would demand energy rate cuts in order to
renew the licenses. The analyst lowered the 12-month price
estimate for the stock to 13 reais on Oct. 16, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. He’s ranked by Bloomberg as the best analyst on
the voting stock of Eletrobras based on his ratings for the
shares. An investor who had followed his buy and sell
recommendations over the past year would have gotten a return of
57 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rossi, the Sao Paulo-based homebuilder, has dropped 62
percent in the past year, the fourth-biggest drop on the
Bovespa, to 3.66 reais after it posted its first annual  loss  in
nine years. Barclays had the worst estimate on the stock,
predicting a price of 21.52 reais. Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman
at Barclays, which closed its Brazilian equity research
department earlier this year, declined to comment on the firm’s
stock forecasts.  Rate Reductions  The selloff in Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
companies also caught analysts off-guard. OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, Batista’s oil producer, has  sunk  88 percent to
1.65 reais in the past 12 months after failing to meet output
targets. The average analyst forecast was 23.29 reais.  Officials at OGX, Rossi and Eletrobras declined to comment
on their share performance.  Analysts may have overestimated the boost that interest-
rate reductions and Mantega’s tax cuts would give the economy,
according to Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380 million reais
at Sao Paulo-based Legan Administracao de Recursos.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent last year, the
slowest pace since 2009. At the start of 2012, Mantega predicted
the stimulus would help the economy expand 4.5 percent, while
economists surveyed by the central bank forecast growth of 3.3
percent.  ‘Fooled Everyone’  “Mantega fooled everyone,” Gouveia said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “And the additional measures taken
throughout 2012 not only didn’t boost economic activity, but
also pushed stocks lower.”  The central bank has held the benchmark rate at a record-
low 7.25 percent since October even as inflation  quickened  to
6.3 percent, within 0.2 percentage point of the upper end of its
target range. Mantega told lawmakers on March 21 that missing an
economic forecast isn’t a “mortal sin” given that the world
economy remains sluggish.  The  Finance Ministry ’s press office declined to comment
further on Mantega’s forecasts and the Bovespa’s slump. The
Presidential Palace’s press office didn’t respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  While Brazilian analysts’ stock forecasts were the worst in
the world, this shouldn’t be seen as a reflection of their skill
level because everyone was surprised that the economy didn’t
pick up, said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of New York-based
Marketfield Asset Management.  Bovespa Plunge  “I wouldn’t have expected the analysts to see the
deterioration,” Shaoul, who has had an underweight position on
Brazilian stocks since mid-2011, said in a phone interview.
“Everybody fell into the same trap.”  The Bovespa’s 7.5 percent plunge in the  first quarter  marks
the worst start to a year since 1995 as economic data signal a
pickup remains elusive. Industrial production contracted 2.5
percent in February from January, the most since Dec. 2008,
while  consumer confidence  dropped for a sixth month in March.  “We’re at a patch where it’s hard to tell if the economy
is going to accelerate or remain in the slow growth period we’ve
seen in the last year,” Henderson’s Cowley said.“And that’s
feeding through to analysts’ estimates, as companies are not
meeting expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  