-- Yen Drops to Weakest Level Since April 2009; Aussie Dollar Rises
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-10T21:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/yen-pares-drop-as-kuroda-indicates-monthly-adjustments-unlikely.html
The yen sank to the weakest level
since last trading at 100 per dollar four years ago as the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  reiterated its stimulus program, driving investors into
an array of higher-yielding assets.  Japan ’s currency briefly pared losses after BOJ Governor
 Haruhiko Kuroda  indicated policy adjustments are unlikely every
month while saying the central bank will take “all necessary
measures” to boost inflation.  Australia ’s dollar climbed after
 China ’s imports rose. The euro fell versus the dollar as minutes
showed the  Federal Reserve  debated the end of its stimulus.  “The effects of the BOJ announcement are obviously quite
substantial,”  Robert Lynch , a New York-based currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a telephone interview.
“You’ve got yen weakness against a host of currencies.”  The yen slid 0.8 percent to 99.78 per dollar at 5 p.m.  New
York  time and touched 99.88, the weakest level since April 14,
2009. Japan’s currency dropped 0.7 percent to 130.41 per euro
and touched 130.54, the least since January 2010. The euro fell
0.1 percent to $1.3070.  Thailand ’s currency rose to a 16-year high after overseas
investors pumped the most money into the nation’s bonds in four
weeks following monetary easing in Japan, according to Thai Bond
Market Association data. The baht touched 28.87, the strongest
since July 1997.  Biggest Losers  The yen and  Norway ’s krone were the biggest losers among
the dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts. The Nordic currency
slid after an unexpected slowing in consumer-price growth raised
pressure on the central bank to cut its key  interest rate . The
krone weakened 0.5 percent to 5.7422 to the dollar.  Australia’s currency rose against most major counterparts
as China, the nation’s biggest trade partner, reported a 14.4
percent increase in imports last month, more than forecast. The
Aussie dollar advanced 0.5 percent to $1.0543. It touched
$1.0552, the strongest since Jan. 24.  BOJ Chief Kuroda said markets are still adjusting to the
Japanese central bank’s new policies to fight deflation.  “The biggest commitment is that we will take all necessary
measures,” Kuroda said at a press gathering in  Tokyo  today, six
days after announcing unprecedented stimulus to double the
monetary base over two years.  Investors are seeking a sense of what more could be in
store after Kuroda unveiled plans April 4 to double bond
purchases, extending the yen’s decline against the dollar to 19
percent from mid-November through today.  Investor Purchases  Japanese and investors following them may have purchased
about $13.5 billion of non-Japanese bonds since the stimulus
announcement, 10 times more than the previous period, according
to an estimate by Societe Generale SA.  “Yen is on a downtrend, and we don’t expect that to change
any time soon,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist
in New York at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said in a phone interview.  The prospect of the Japanese currency weakening to 130 per
dollar isn’t unreasonable, Jonathan Beinner of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in New York said on Bloomberg Television.  That level is “not an unreasonable place to be,” Beinner,
head of global fixed-income at Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
which overseeing $500 billion, said in an interview on “Market
Makers” with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker . “We’re not
calling for that in the near term here, but I think that’s a
distinct possibility.”  The yen last touched 130 per dollar in April 2002. It last
traded at 100 in April 2009.  ‘Spillover Effects’  Japan’s currency declined 1.4 percent today versus  New
Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, and 0.8 percent against
the pound. The greenback weakened against 10 of its 16 most-
traded peers.  “The gains in the yen crosses -- euro-yen, Aussie-yen,
even sterling-yen, kiwi-yen -- they’re helping those currencies
also move higher against the dollar,” HSBC’s Lynch said. The
“spillover effects the cross-yen trade has had on the dollar
majors” are helping keep the U.S. currency weaker, he said.  A technical gauge indicated the yen may change direction
against the dollar. The Japanese currency’s 14-day relative-
strength index versus the greenback was at 27.6 today, its third
straight day below the level of 30 that some traders see as a
sign an asset has fallen too quickly.  Since the BOJ’s announcement, the yen has appreciated on
only one day versus the dollar, gaining 0.3 percent yesterday.  The yen has fallen 12.7 percent this year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 1
percent and the dollar advanced 2 percent.  FOMC Minutes  Minutes released of the Federal Open Market Committee
meeting last month showed several members said they “thought
that if the outlook for labor-market conditions improved as
anticipated, it would probably be appropriate to slow purchases
later in the year and to stop them by year-end.”  The U.S. central bank is buying $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage debt each month to spur economic growth until it sees
significant improvement in the labor market.  The March 19-20 meeting took place before the Labor
Department reported last week that U.S. payrolls grew by 88,000
workers in March, less than half the forecast in a Bloomberg
survey and the least in nine months.  The euro rose for a fifth day against the yen, the longest
winning streak this year, amid speculation Japan’s stimulus will
encourage funds in the nation to seek greater returns abroad.  “The euro is being supported by anticipation of Japanese
investors being encouraged to move toward riskier assets such as
higher-yielding euro-zone debt,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  