-- Yuan Rises to 19-Year High as Central Bank Sets Record Fixing
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-04-10T08:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/yuan-rises-to-19-year-high-as-central-bank-sets-record-fixing.html
China’s  yuan  climbed to a 19-year
high after the central bank set a record  reference rate  for the
currency amid speculation of rising capital inflows.  The People’s Bank of China raised the  fixing  by 0.15
percent, the biggest increase since Feb. 8, to 6.2548 per
dollar. The nation’s export growth fell short of estimates in
March for the first time in four months, while imports increased
at a faster pace than predicted, leaving an unexpected trade
deficit of $880 million, official data showed today.  “China is still seeing capital inflows and therefore there
is a lot of demand for the renminbi,” said Khoon Goh, a senior
strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Singapore. “My guess is that the PBOC is trying to accommodate
some of the onshore demand for the  renminbi  by allowing the fix
to be stronger.”  The yuan gained 0.14 percent to 6.1939 per dollar in
Shanghai, prices from the China Foreign Exchange Trade System
show. It touched 6.1923 earlier, the strongest level since the
government unified official and market rates at the end of 1993.
China limits the currency’s movement to 1 percent on either side
of the daily fixing.  Shipments abroad increased 10 percent from a year earlier,
the customs administration said today in Beijing. That compares
with 21.8 percent growth in February and the 11.7 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 36 economists. Imports
rose 14.1 percent, beating the 6 percent advance predicted.  Australian Dollar  “The overall trade numbers should not be viewed as
negative because the deficit is coming from the surprise on the
import side,” said  Ju Wang , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “It could just be
a correction of under-reporting in January and February. It
suggests economic growth is not as weak as expected.”  HSBC will start direct trading between the yuan and
Australian dollar today, joining two other banks in getting
approvals from China as market makers. The People’s Bank of
China has already cleared  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  for the trades, Australian Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  announced April 8 in Shanghai during an
official visit.  The Australian dollar becomes the third major currency
allowed to have direct trading links with the yuan after the
greenback and Japan’s yen. The PBOC announces a daily reference
rate for the yuan against the Australian currency around 9:15
a.m. in Shanghai each day. The rate was set at 6.54 per
Australian dollar today, compare with 6.5314 yesterday according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, China’s currency gained
0.10 percent to 6.1865 per  U.S. dollar , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards advanced
0.29 percent to 6.2596 in Hong Kong. The contracts traded at a 1
percent discount to the spot rate in Shanghai.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
increased nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 1.3950
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  