-- Yum’s China Sales Tumble 13% in March
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-04-11T20:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-10/yum-s-china-sales-tumble-13-in-march.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
and  Pizza Hut  dining chains, said sales at stores open at least
a year fell 13 percent in  China  in March as its ads failed to
regain customers concerned about the quality of its chicken.  Analysts projected a drop of 10 percent, the average of
four estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. Sales dropped 16
percent at KFC while gaining 4 percent at Pizza Hut, the
Louisville, Kentucky-based company said in a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.  Yum is trying to revive sales and win back consumers with
new ads in China after former chicken supplier Liuhe Group was
found to have supplied meat with too much antibiotics. In
February, Yum said it would start a marketing campaign after the
Chinese New Year ended. It also pledged to improve  food safety 
and tighten standards for its suppliers in the Asian nation,
where the fast-food company has more than 5,200 stores.  Yum rose 0.7 percent to $67.23 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have gained 1.3 percent this year, while the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index has added 12 percent.  An outbreak of bird flu may also curb demand for KFC this
month in China, where Yum last year got about half of its
 revenue .  “Within the past week, publicity associated with Avian flu
in China has had a significant, negative impact on KFC  sales ,”
Yum said in yesterday’s filing.  Jeremy Lin  During the chicken antibiotic scare, Yum “didn’t see any
real impact” from offering free ice cream and drinks to attract
consumers to its stores in China, Chief Executive Officer  David Novak  said during an investor conference in March.  “We need to give time to recover from this setback,” he
said at the time. The company in March said it was planning to
introduce 30-second commercials about its commitment to quality.  It’s planning other promotions, too, Novak said. In the
Asian nation, Yum is working on a marketing campaign for later
this year with National Basketball Association player Jeremy Lin. The owner of KFC will also introduce new foods to help
increase dinner sales in China, Novak said.  In February, same-store sales were unchanged at KFC and
rose 13 percent at Pizza Hut, compared with January declines of
41 percent and 15 percent in China, respectively.  Yum  plans  to announce quarterly  earnings  on April 23 and
April comparable-store sales results for China on May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  