-- 
‘Lehman Shock’ Is Kid Stuff Next to Fukushima: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-31T19:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/-lehman-shock-is-kid-stuff-next-to-fukushima-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Of all the tremors being felt in
Tokyo, Masaaki Shirakawa is experiencing some of the biggest.  The Bank of  Japan  head is under greater pressure than any
of his predecessors over the last 20 years to get radical. With
Japan facing the triple whammy of an earthquake, tsunami and
nuclear crisis, Shirakawa is getting shouted at from every
direction to bring the BOJ back to the 1930s.  He must tread carefully. Wherever he takes monetary policy
over the next 12 months, the BOJ is likely to be shackled with
those decisions for the next 12 years. It’s said that central
banking is about gradualism. In Japan, it’s glacialism. Even
when Japan was growing in the 2000s, the furthest the BOJ got
 interest rates  from zero was 0.5 percent. Then, back to zero.  Japan has three paths to revival. One, issue loads of debt
that may prompt credit downgrades and raise taxes. Two, dump its
$886 billion of  U.S. debt , destabilizing the biggest economy and
enraging a key ally. Three, get the BOJ to monetize public debt.
Not surprisingly, lawmakers like what’s behind door No. 3.  Shirakawa become governor in April 2008 -- talk about
baptism by fire. That was just after Bear Stearns Cos. blew up
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was about to. The phrase
“Lehman shock” has great resonance among Japanese who watched
contagion rush from  Wall Street  to Tokyo in the financial
equivalent of a tsunami.  ‘Fukushima Shock’  These days, economists are more concerned about the
“Fukushima shock” at the heart of Japan’s worst postwar
crisis. And Shirakawa faces the challenge of a lifetime:
balancing demands to take Japan further into uncharted territory
today and to ensure financial stability tomorrow.  Things get mighty disorienting during crises. Remember that
in 2008, the  Federal Reserve  effectively bought Bear Stearns for
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The odds favor Shirakawa also acting
unconventionally. Since the quake, the BOJ has pumped hundreds
of billions of dollars into the financial system. Expect it to
face demands to buy up everything from bonds to real estate to
stocks as economic news darkens.  Forecasters have only just begun to mull the countless
knock-on effects from nuclear reactors leaking radiation into
the skies. This will not be a good year, no matter how many
construction projects get underway in the devastated northeast.
The Fukushima fiasco increases the odds of a third “lost
decade” of stagnation and deflation.  Psychology of Radiation  The responses to Lehman were doctrinaire. The BOJ added yen
to the economy, the government loosened fiscal policy and
Japan’s business lobby hit the airwaves to boost confidence. The
Fukushima crisis is far more complex, not least because there’s
an almost indefinite quality to it.  There’s no way to assess how many Japanese ships and cargo
planes will be turned away in the months ahead. Never mind that
radiation traces found in milk in Washington state or cabbages
in  Singapore  are miniscule. The science loses out amid the
powerful psychology of radiation scares. Look no further than
how fast Hong Kong hotels took sushi off menus.  There’s no goalpost to measure how the nagging risks of
earthquake aftershocks and reactor leaks will hit business and
consumer spending. There’s no way to calculate the “ fly-jin ”
factor -- how an exodus of foreign talent, or gaijin, that may
never return affects an economy that’s long needed more of it.  Nor is the international picture bright. U.S. growth is
tentative,  Portugal  is the latest focus of  Europe ’s debt crisis,
Chinese inflation is heating up and  Libya  is in chaos.  BOJ’s Money  Even so, the intense focus on the BOJ is misplaced.
Quantitative easing didn’t end deflation. What makes us think
fresh bouts of it suddenly will? Japan’s problem isn’t the
supply of yen. It’s that investors and households lack enough
confidence in the economy to do anything with BOJ-created money.
If the BOJ goes too far, Japan’s bond market could collapse.  Lawmakers want the BOJ to make 1930s-style purchases of
 government bonds  to fund quake-rebuilding efforts. Shirakawa
argues it would undermine the yen and could occur only in
extraordinary circumstances with the permission of lawmakers.  Diet member Kozo Yamamoto speaks for many when he asks:
“If this isn’t a special situation, what is?” He advocates a
20 trillion yen ($242 billion) reconstruction program funded by
BOJ debt purchases, and he’s hardly alone.  If only things were that simple. Yamamoto hails from the
 Liberal Democratic Party , which ran Japan for 54 virtually
uninterrupted years until 2009. It browbeat the BOJ into the
zero-rate policies for which Japan is notorious globally.  It also coddled  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., which runs the
Fukushima reactors, for decades as Tepco falsified safety
reports and underestimated risks. Now, the LDP wants the BOJ to
do more as lawmakers do little. It’s the job of leaders, not
unelected central bankers, to forge a road to revival.  Add Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s  Democratic Party  of Japan to
the list of those nudging the BOJ to act. As Shirakawa navigates
the political gauntlet, he must remember that the fallout from
his actions will be with Japan long after Fukushima goes quiet.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  