-- 
‘Superman’ Film’s KIPP Schools Leave Kids Out, Study Says

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-31T15:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/-waiting-for-superman-kipp-schools-leave-kids-out-study-finds.html
Taxpayer-funded  KIPP  schools,
praised in the film “Waiting for Superman,” succeed in sending
poor graduates to college because the lowest-performing students
drop out or don’t enroll at all, a study found.  KIPP academies have higher attrition rates than traditional
public schools and enroll fewer students with disabilities and
limited English skills, according to the study released today by
 Western Michigan University  in Kalamazoo and  Columbia
University’s Teachers College  in  New York . KIPP oversees a
network of 99  charter schools , publicly funded institutions
operated by outside organizations, and enrolls more than 27,000
students in 20 states and the  District of Columbia .  The  American Federation of Teachers , with 1.6 million
members, is among the groups concerned that charter schools may
“cherry pick” the best students, according to a union  policy
paper . The new study shows that KIPP isn’t educating the same
population as local districts, undercutting its claims for
superior academic performance, said Gary Miron, the lead author.  “There’s a perception that KIPP is a model for turning
around troubled schools,” Miron, a professor at Western
Michigan University, said in a telephone interview. “That’s a
myth.”  The study relies on inaccurate data and flawed methodology,
said Steve Mancini, a spokesman for San Francisco-based KIPP,
which stands for Knowledge is Power Program. Its approach, which
feature a longer school day and three weeks of summer
instruction, accounts for its superior results, he said.  Motivated Teachers  “We attract a very motivated group of teachers who believe
that not only all students can learn, but all students will
learn,” Mancini said in a telephone interview. “We have a
strong student culture. We set high standards for the kids.”  KIPP’s financial backers include the philanthropic
foundations of the late  Gap Inc. (GPS)  founder Donald Fisher,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman  Bill Gates ,  KB Home (KBH)  co-founder Eli Broad and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Walton family.  Teachers Mike Feinberg and Dave Levin founded KIPP in 1994
after completing their work with “Teach for America,” which
sends college graduates into public schools. The first academy
opened in Houston and the second in  New York City ’s South Bronx.
“Waiting for Superman,” directed by Academy Award winner Davis Guggenheim, chronicles how families enter lotteries to enroll in
KIPP and other charter schools.  Point of Agreement  The new study of KIPP received no funding outside of
Western Michigan, Miron said. In the past, his research has
received financial support from the U.S. Education Department,
the Cleveland Foundation, the Great Lakes Center for Education
Research & Practice, an East Lansing,  Michigan  nonprofit
primarily funded by teachers’ unions, and ConnCAN, a  New Haven ,
Connecticut organization that favors charter schools, he said.  KIPP and the study’s authors agree the schools have strong
academic results and draw more than their share of poor
families.  More than 85 percent of KIPP alumni have gone to college,
and more than 80 percent are eligible for federal free or
reduced-price meals programs, according to its website.  The researchers said KIPP’s success results primarily from
student selection and retention. Fifteen percent of KIPP
students leave each year, five times the rate of the school
districts from which the organization draws students, the study
found, citing federal data.  Forty percent of black males depart KIPP from sixth- to
eighth-grade and more low-performing kids leave and aren’t
replaced, the study said.  English Skills  KIPP runs  schools  for students from pre-kindergarten
through 12th grade. Sixty of the 99 are middle schools for
fifth- to eighth-graders, according to the program’s website.  About 12 percent of KIPP students have limited English
skills, compared with 19.2 percent in the districts from which
KIPP draws students, the study found. About 6 percent were
classified as disabled students needing special education
services, half the level in the regular public schools.  KIPP is working to recruit more students with disabilities
and limited English skills, Mancini said.  KIPP’s annual attrition rate is 12 percent, Mancini said.
He cited a KIPP-commissioned June 2010 study from Princeton, New
Jersey-based  Mathematica Policy Research Inc. , which found that
KIPP’s attrition rate wasn’t higher than that of the schools
that students would have attended.  The Mathematica study looked at student-level data, while
the Western Michigan research relied on publicly available
federal information for districts and schools, Miron and Mancini
said. The federal information includes errors and has missing
data, Mancini said.  Includes ‘Guestimates’  For that reason, the Michigan study includes
“guesstimates,” Mancini said. “They are not precise
numbers.”  KIPP schools are also more richly funded than traditional
public schools, the Western Michigan and Columbia study found.
KIPP received $12,731 per student, compared with $9,579 for the
average U.S. charter school and $11,937 for the average U.S.
public-school district, according to researchers’ analysis of
2007-2008 federal data.  Adding another $5,760 in private contributions, KIPP
received an average of $18,491 per student, or $6,500 more than
local districts, the researchers said, citing public tax
filings. The higher funding levels contradict the idea that KIPP
can serve as a model for cash-strapped public schools, Miron
said.  The researchers’ figure for private donations is about
twice as high as the reality, said Mancini. The study used
incomplete data and included money raised for capital projects,
he said. KIPP typically gets $9,000 to $10,000 per student in
public money, he said.  “We’re not spending demonstrably more” than local
districts,” Mancini said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  