-- 
Acer, China Eastern,  Jollibee Foods, Zijin: Asia Ex-Japan Equity Preview

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-03-31T21:06:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/acer-china-eastern-zijin-asia-ex-japan-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes today in Asian trading, excluding  Japan .
Stock symbols are in parentheses and share prices are from the
previous close, unless noted otherwise.  Acer Inc. (2353)  (2353 TT): The world’s second-largest maker of
personal computers said Chief Executive Officer Gianfranco Lanci
quit after clashing with board members over the company’s future
strategy. Chairman J.T. Wang will take on Lanci’s role on an
interim basis immediately, the Taipei-based company said in a
statement. The company has begun planning for organizational and
operational adjustments, it said. Acer dropped 1.2 percent to
NT$60.  China Eastern  Airlines Corp. (670 HK):  China  Eastern’s
Chairman Liu Shaoyong said an earthquake in Japan will have a
“minimal” impact on the carrier’s profit. Tourists shunning
trips to Japan are instead visiting other destinations, while
business travelers are still flying to the country, he said.
China Eastern fell 0.7 percent to HK$2.99.  Jollibee Foods Corp. (JFC)  : The biggest Philippine
restaurant operator said it bought extra shares in Chow Fun
Holdings LLC for $3.24 million, raising its stake in the U.S.-
based company to 80.6 percent from 12 percent. Chow Fun is the
developer and owner of Jinja Bar and Bistro in New Mexico,
according to a stock-exchange filing by Manila-based Jollibee.
The stock advanced 0.1 percent to 87.20 pesos.  Nickel Asia Corp. (NIKL)  : The largest Philippine
producer of the metal said a venture that includes Sumitomo
Metal Mining Co. Ltd. estimates it will spend $1.4 billion for a
second nickel-processing plant in the province of Surigao del
Norte, President Gerard Brimo said. Nickel Asia will have about
22.5 percent stake in the project and Sumitomo will have about
55 percent, he said. The stock rose 0.3 percent to 20.30 pesos.  Wan Hai Lines Ltd. (2615)  (2615 TT): Taiwan’s third-largest
shipping company plans to sell as much as NT$12 billion of bonds
to help raise working capital, repay bank loans, and purchase
containers and ships, the Taipei-based company said in a
statement to the Taiwan stock exchange. The notes will have
maturity of no more than seven years, according to the statement.
Wan Hai added 0.2 percent to NT$20.6.  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899 HK): China’s biggest gold
producer by market value plans to spend as much as 9 billion
yuan ($1.4 billion) this year for acquisitions and expansion as
prices of the precious metal surge to a record. Zijin will set
aside 4 billion yuan for buying rivals and between 4 billion
yuan and 5 billion yuan for  capital spending , Vice Chairman Lan
Fusheng told reporters in  Hong Kong . He did not provide year-
earlier comparisons. Zijin rose 0.2 percent to HK$6.20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  