-- 
Acer CEO Lanci Quits After Clashing With Board on Strategy

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-03-31T09:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/acer-ceo-lanci-quits-after-clashing-with-board-wang-takes-over.html
Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s second-
largest maker of personal computers, said Chief Executive
Officer Gianfranco Lanci quit after clashing with board members
over the company’s future strategy.  Lanci, temporarily replaced by Chairman J.T. Wang effective
immediately, disagreed with the majority of Acer’s board on
company’s "future development," the Taipei-based company said in
a  statement  today. The CEO held different views on strategic
topics including the importance of scale, growth, branding,
resource allocation and implementation, it said.  The resignation comes less than a week after the company
lowered its sales forecast, which led to a four-day, 18 percent
rout of the stock. Analysts at 10 brokerages including Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have lowered
their investment ratings on Acer since March 25, citing concerns
about the company’s earnings.  “The company has been lagging behind in new products such
as tablets, and other wireless devices such as smartphones,”
said Vincent Chen, who rates Acer “sell” at Yuanta Securities
Co. in Taipei. “Under Lanci, the company has also lost market
share in the small-to-medium business market for PCs, as he had
been more focused on the consumer side.”  Stock Rout  Acer fell 1.2 percent to close at NT$60 in Taipei today
before the announcement. The stock is headed for its biggest
weekly decline since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks almost a
decade ago roiled financial markets.  First-quarter revenue from PCs may fall about 10 percent
from the previous three months because of “relatively weaker”
demand in Western Europe and the U.S., Acer said on March 25.
Second-quarter sales are expected to be little changed from the
current quarter even as demand for tablet device increases, the
company said.  Acer overtook  Dell Inc. (DELL)  as the world’s second-largest maker
of personal computers in 2009 under Lanci, who had been
president of the company since 2005, overseeing acquisitions of
rivals including Gateway and Packard Bell.  The 56-year-old executive earned a civil engineering degree
from the Politecnico of Turin, where he was born. He joined
 Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) ’s Italian unit in 1981 and became country
manager for the Portable Computers and Printers Division in
 Italy , the Middle East and  Africa  by age 37, according to Acer’s
website. In 1997, he was named managing director of Acer Italy
after Texas Instruments’ portable PC business merged with Acer.  Lanci, who enjoys reading and playing tennis, was promoted
to president of the International Operations Business Group in
2003 after heading Acer’s operations in  Europe , the Middle East
and Africa, according to  Acer .  Wang, born two months before Lanci, became chairman in 2008
after Lanci succeeded him as CEO. Wang has a bachelor’s degree
in electrical engineering from National  Taiwan  University and an
Executive Master of Business Administration degree from Taiwan’s
National Cheng-Chi University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  