-- 
Ackman’s Pershing Square Purchases 9.9% of Honolulu's Alexander & Baldwin

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-04-01T02:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ackman-s-pershing-square-purchases-9-9-of-honolulu-s-alexander-baldwin.html
Activist investor  William Ackman ,
head of New York-based Pershing Square Capital Management LP,
teamed up with a former associate to acquire a 9.9 percent stake
in  Alexander & Baldwin Inc. (ALEX) , a regulatory filing shows.  Ackman and  Richard McGuire , the managing member of Marcato
Capital Management LLC in  San Francisco , spent $168.8 million to
purchase 4.1 million common shares, according to a Schedule 13D
filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
That works out to an average of $41.04 a share.  Alexander & Baldwin is based in Honolulu and owns about
87,840 acres on various Hawaiian islands, its most recent annual
report shows. The company also provides container ship service
between the western U.S., Guam and  China .  Ackman and McGuire “expect to engage in discussions with
management, the board, and other stockholders,” according to
the filing. McGuire, a former partner at Pershing Square,
started his own hedge fund last year with backing from a unit of
New York-based Blackstone Group LP.  McGuire, known as “Mick,” declined to comment through a
representative at his firm. Neither Ackman nor Bethany Norvell,
a spokeswoman for Pershing Square, immediately returned a call
seeking comment.  Suzy Hollinger, a spokeswoman for Alexander & Baldwin, said
the company was aware of the filing and looked forward to
“constructive” dialog with the investors. She said the company
already held talks with representatives from Marcato, while
declining to elaborate.  Ackman invests in companies he deems undervalued and then
urges changes he says will boost shareholder returns. Since last
fall, he has bought stakes in  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO) , the maker of
Jim Beam bourbon and Titleist golf balls, and J.C. Penney Co.,
the third-largest department store chain in the U.S.  General Growth  Pershing Square has also invested in real estate companies
such as General Growth Properties Inc. Ackman was part of an
investor group that committed more than $8 billion to bring the
mall owner out of bankruptcy last year.  In addition to the Alexander & Baldwin shares purchased
outright, Pershing Square and Marcato have economic interest in
about 372,900 common shares through total return swaps that will
be settled in cash, according to the filing. The swaps, which
have a reference price of $45.12 a share, raise the investment
group’s economic stake to about 11 percent of shares
outstanding.  Alexander & Baldwin rose 9.3 percent to $49.88 at 5:58 p.m.
New York time on electronic markets after the close of regular
U.S. trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Miles Weiss} in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  