-- 
ACS Says Hochtief Board List Isn’t Fair, Will Propose Own Plan

-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-03-31T15:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/acs-says-hochtief-board-list-isn-t-fair-will-propose-own-plan.html
Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA said it will offer its own plan for the  Hochtief AG (HOT) 
supervisory board after the German builder it’s acquiring
proposed a list of candidates with only two ACS representatives.  Hochtief included ACS executives Angel Garcia Altozano and
Marcelino Fernandez Verdes in its nominations for the eight-
person board in an invitation to the May 12 shareholder meeting
in Essen,  Germany , posted on its  website  today.  The proposal was “disappointing,” and didn’t respect
“market-usual rights,” Oda von Dreising, an ACS spokeswoman,
said in e-mailed comments. “ACS will communicate their
intentions” for the meeting “in due time,” she said. ACS
controls more than 43 percent of the  voting rights  when adjusted
for Hochtief’s treasury stock, and is sticking to a plan to
attain 50 percent in the medium term, von Dreising said.  If Madrid-based ACS offers its own list, shareholders at
the meeting will choose between representatives suggested by
Hochtief or by its largest shareholder, in a showdown that may
be decided by the stake ACS holds until then and by how many
investors attend the meeting.  Hochtief’s management had unsuccessfully opposed the
takeover, drawing criticism from ACS, shareholders, and from
labor representatives on its supervisory board.  Hochtief also nominated Yousuf Al Hammadi, representing the
second-largest shareholder, Qatar; Detlev Bremkamp, the current
supervisory board chairman; former Chief Executive Officer Hans- Peter Keitel; Heinrich von Pierer, former CEO of Siemens AG;
Wilhelm Simson, former co-CEO of E.ON AG; and former Continental
AG CEO Manfred Wennemer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 