-- 
Active Weather Patterns Cut Confidence in Extended Forecast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-31T12:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/active-weather-patterns-cut-confidence-in-extended-forecast-1-.html
A series of storms and large
weather systems moving across the U.S. has eroded confidence in
the 6- to 15-day weather outlooks,  Matt Rogers , president of
 Commodity Weather Group  LLC, said.  Rogers’ April 5 to April 9 forecast predicts potential
pockets of cool air over  North Dakota  and Southern California.
He calls for an area of warmth across the South and lower Great
Plains, stretching as far north as southern Nebraska.  MDA EarthSat Weather’s forecast for the same time period
shows the cooler air centered more over Montana with some also
seeping into northern Maine. The warmth stretches farther west,
into  Arizona .  “A very active springtime flow pattern with multiple
weather systems and conflicting large-scale teleconnections all
argue a strong case for cratered confidence in the 6-15 day
window,” Rogers wrote today in a note to clients.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures.  In CWG’s 11- to 15-day outlook, Rogers is calling for an
area of cooling from the upper Great Plains through the Ohio
Valley and into New York and New England. An area of warmer-
than-normal air will stretch up the spine of the Rocky Mountains
as far north as southern Montana.  MDA Differs  MDA shows less cooling and warming in its forecast map for
the 11- to 15-day period. Cooler air is forecast for North
Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan. The areas expected to
be warmer are  Florida  and the Southwest.  “Timing could still cause some major headaches in this
period,” MDA said.  Some models suggest there may be a faster warming in the
central U.S., the forecast said.  New York ’s normal average temperature for first week of
April is about 49 degrees Fahrenheit (9.4 degrees Celsius),
according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In Boston, the
normal average temperature is about 45; in St. Louis about 55;
in  Chicago , 44; and in Houston, 66, according to EarthSat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  