-- 
JPMorgan Shouldn’t ‘Escape’ $6.4 Billion Madoff Suit, Trustee Picard Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-31T17:18:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/madoff-trustee-picard-says-jpmorgan-shouldn-t-escape-bankruptcy-court.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  shouldn’t
“escape” a $6.4 billion lawsuit in  bankruptcy court  by
switching the case to district court, the trustee liquidating
Bernard Madoff’s collapsed firm said.  “The issue of JPMC’s misconduct belongs before the
bankruptcy court as the court most versed in the nuances of the
Ponzi scheme and the roles of other, related wrongdoers in that
scheme,”  Irving Picard , the trustee, said in a filing yesterday
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. “JPMC seeks refuge in this
court to escape the scrutiny of the bankruptcy court.”  Picard sued JPMorgan in December, claiming the bank aided
Madoff’s fraud. Denying wrongdoing, New York-based JPMorgan said
it had a right to a  jury trial  in the district court. Picard’s
suit raised “unsettled questions” of law beyond the expertise
of a bankruptcy court, the bank said.  JPMorgan “no doubt hopes to distance itself both from the
thousands of victims of that scheme and from other alleged
wrongdoers,” Picard said in the filing. “Yet there is no
escaping the fact that JPMC was at the very center of Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme. It was the debtor’s primary banker for over two
decades and touched virtually every cent that flowed through the
Ponzi scheme.”  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment.  ‘Backdoor’ Suit  JPMorgan accused Picard of fighting a “backdoor” class
action suit and said a bankruptcy trustee generally can’t sue
third parties on behalf of creditors. Calling the argument
“frivolous,” Picard disagreed.  According to Picard, JPMorgan’s case can be resolved in
bankruptcy court by a “simple application” of law and doesn’t
require the judge to “engage in significant interpretation” of
commercial banking and other law, as JPMorgan said.  “It wouldn’t be shocking if JPMorgan managed to get the
case moved,” said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at
Greenebaum Doll & McDonald PLLC in Louisville,  Kentucky .
“Congress has said district courts should hear cases that
involve unsettled questions of non-bankruptcy law.”  Picard said his probe of JPMorgan isn’t done. He lost
“precious time” in his investigation when JPMorgan
“unilaterally decided to revise the trustee’s definition of
JPMC to include only 11 employees and confine the search for
responsive documents to those 11 employees,” he said in the
filing.  The suit against JPMorgan is one of more than 1,000
adversary cases Picard is pursuing or trying to settle.
“Judicial efficiency” would be served by keeping it before
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , who is handling many other
Madoff cases, Picard said.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. He’s serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  