-- 
FTSE 100 Index Advances, Led by Barclays; Shares of Irish Banks Decline

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-04-01T16:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/aib-irish-l-p-taylor-wimpey-u-k-irish-equity-market-preview.html
U.K. stocks advanced, led by banks,
as investors speculated that the Irish government’s plan to make
its lenders raise more capital will absolve senior bondholders
from taking any losses for now.  Barclays Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc led the gains, each rising more than 3
percent. Bank of Ireland Plc surged 41 percent as the country’s
largest lender by revenue outlined plans to avoid state control
after the country’s government ordered it to raise 5.2 billion
euros ($7.4 billion) in additional capital.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  advanced 1.7 percent to
6,009.92 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , extending this week’s
gain to 1.9 percent. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  increased 1.6
percent today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index jumped 2.3 percent.  The FTSE 100 rose 0.2 percent last quarter, as concern that
 Japan ’s stricken nuclear power plant had discharged radioactive
vapor into the atmosphere limited gains.  “Consensus seems to be that there’s little to fear for the
consequences of the stress tests on Irish banks,” Yusuf Heusen,
senior sales trader at IG Index in London, wrote. “However, the
big driver at the moment appears to be resurgent hopes that the
U.S. economy is looking upbeat.”  The  U.S. economy  added more jobs than forecast in March and
the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to a two-year low of
8.8 percent, a sign the labor-market recovery is gathering
speed. The jobless rate dropped from 8.9 percent in February,
its fourth straight decrease.  The U.S. Labor Department’s report showed payrolls
increased by 216,000 in March. Economists had projected a March
gain of 190,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Barclays, RBS, Lloyds  Barclays jumped 4.3 percent to 289.5 pence today. RBS
increased 3.8 percent to 42.3 pence. Lloyds advanced 5 percent
to 61 pence.  Bank of Ireland soared 39 percent to 30.5 euro cents. The
lender said it plans to turn to existing shareholders to raise
capital. Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  yesterday said he
expects lenders will share some of their recapitalization costs
with subordinated shareholders. Bank of Ireland signaled it
would do so when it also said yesterday that it will raise money
through “capital-management initiatives.”  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  surged 8.3 percent to 20 cents after
earlier rising as much as 32 percent and falling as much as 25
percent. The lender, which is 93 percent owned by Ireland’s
government, needs 13.3 billion euros of additional capital, the
country’s central bank said, when it announced the result of a
stress test yesterday.  Ireland instructed its four-largest lenders to raise a
total of 24 billion euros. The government will merge two of them
as it tries to clean up  Europe ’s worst banking crisis.  Irish Life & Permanent  Irish Life & Permanent Plc plunged 58 percent to 17 cents.
The lender needs 4 billion euros, the central bank said.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the sovereign credit rating of
Ireland to BBB+ from A- today. The ratings firm left its outlook
for the country’s debt as stable.  3i Group Plc (III)  sank 4.4 percent to 285.8 pence. The London-
based private-equity firm boosted its investments in leveraged
buyouts and said its assets in the U.K. showed a “weaker
performance” than elsewhere.  BP Plc (BP/)  added 3.5 percent to 470 pence. BP was added to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s analyst focus list.  Premier Foods Plc (PFD)  jumped 6.3 percent to 29.7 pence. The
stock was raised to “overweight” from “equal weight” at
Morgan Stanley.  Victrex, 888 Holdings  Victrex Plc (VCT) , the maker of PEEK thermoplastic products,
climbed 3.3 percent to 1,395 pence after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. recommended buying the shares in new coverage.  “Victrex has the strongest industry positioning, highest
returns and best profitability in the sector and offers 36
percent upside potential,” Alex Stewart and other Goldman Sachs
analysts wrote in a note.  888 Holdings Plc (888) , the U.K.-listed Internet gambling company
that supplies services to Caesars Entertainment Corp., jumped 16
percent to 50 pence. Reuters, citing unidentified sources,
reported that  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  is mulling a bid of more than 70
pence a share. Spokesmen for both companies declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 