-- 
Air France-KLM May Split Widebody Aircraft Order, Lebel Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-31T12:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/air-france-klm-may-split-widebody-aircraft-order-lebel-says.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group,  Europe ’s
biggest airline, might split an order for about 100 widebody
aircraft between Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) , the company’s
secretary general said.  A decision on the possible order of Airbus A350 and Boeing
787 passenger planes will probably come “before the end of the
year, maybe during the summer,” Bertrand Lebel said in an
interview in Brussels today. The need for delivery slots from
the planemakers affects the timing, he said. Neither model has
yet entered service.  “Everything is on the table,” Lebel said. “One of the
complexities is the fact that none of them is flying at the
moment. But we know that we need to move because there are slot
issues after that in the manufacturing process. So it’s a trade-
off between being at the right time to have the slot when we
need the aircraft and not making the choice too early to be sure
that we are going to make the right choice.”  Lebel said the airline intends to resume direct flights to
 Tokyo  from Paris as soon as Japanese authorities can contain the
nuclear accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  After the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that caused the
world’s worst nuclear crisis in 25 years, the carrier decided to
serve Tokyo via  Seoul  to prevent crew members from having to
stay 48 hours in the Japanese capital.  The airline also opted to use Boeing 777 aircraft for the
two daily Tokyo flights instead of a 777 and an Airbus A380
because a “purely technical issue” prevented the Seoul airport
from being able to handle the Air France superjumbo, he said.  “We are keen to fly again directly to Tokyo as soon as
possible,” he said. “At the moment, there is not unfortunately
enough pressure to add capacity for Seoul-Tokyo.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  