-- 
Airbus Has Order Backlog Bias to Middle East: Chart of the Day

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   D o u g l a s   R o t h a c k e r
-- 
2011-03-31T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/airbus-has-order-backlog-bias-to-middle-east-chart-of-the-day.html
Airbus SAS, the world’s biggest
commercial-plane maker, has become increasingly reliant on
airlines from the Middle East for its order book of aircraft.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows carriers from the Middle East
now account for about a quarter of the value of Airbus planes on
order, worth a total of $492 billion at list price. A decade
earlier, the region barely registered on the company’s books.  The regional shift is borne out of the rise of Emirates,
Qatar Airways Ltd., and Etihad of  Abu Dhabi , the largest
customers for wide-body and superjumbo Airbus aircraft. The
airlines are using long-range aircraft to market the Middle East
as a global hub, often luring passengers with discounts.  “Emirates and others have managed to attract people to fly
with them over two legs to get where they want in the world,”
says Paul Sheridan, head of risk management at London-based
Ascend Ltd., which collects aviation data. “As they continue to
fill those dots it gets harder and harder for other airlines to
compete.”  Emirates is the biggest buyer of the 525-seat double-decker
Airbus A380, and among the largest customers of the long-range
A350 slated for  service  in 2013. The three state-owned airlines
make up almost three quarters of Airbus’s Middle East backlog.  Airbus is a subsidiary of European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. The company leapfrogged  Boeing Co. (BA)  as the largest
maker of commercial aircraft in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Rothacker in New York at 
 drothacker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  