-- 
Airbus Picks Pratt’s Geared Turbofan Engine First on A320Neo

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-06T16:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/airbus-limits-engineering-work-on-a320neo-to-meet-deadlines.html
Airbus SAS picked  Pratt & Whitney ’s
geared turbofan as the first engine for its A320neo jet, in a
vote of confidence for a power plant that has yet to fly
commercially.  Since announcing plans for the upgraded A320 single-aisle
aircraft, Toulouse, France-based Airbus has won orders from
carriers including  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and IndiGo of  India .
Pratt has secured three customers for the A320neo, which also
comes with the Leap-X variant by the CFM International joint
venture run by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF)  of France.  “This is a big deal for Pratt,” said  Nick Cunningham , an
aerospace analyst at London-based Agency Partners. “It leaves
CFM in some difficulty, and it also raises the question about
what Boeing does.”  Airbus announced yesterday that it will accelerate
introduction of the A320neo by six months, with entry into
service now slated for the end of 2015.  Boeing Co. (BA) , which
competes in the single-aisle market with its 737 jet, has said
it will decide by June whether to build an all-new jet rather
than follow Airbus’s route of adding new engines to an existing
frame. Existing 737 models, the world’s most widely flown jet,
only come with CFM engines.  Leap-X Engine  Airbus had said it would use whatever engine was ordered
first for the A320neo and the Leap-X engine’s service target
date remains 2016 for this application, said Jamie Jewell, a CFM
spokeswoman. Having its engine chosen for the first jet doesn’t
assure it will capture most of the market in the long run, she
said. GE now has more orders for its GenX engine on the Boeing
787, even though Rolls-Royce Group Plc was chosen for the first
engine, for example, Jewell said.  “We’re not worried about this,” Jewell said. “If nothing
else, it gives us time to fine-tune Leap-X. This is a long-term
process. It’s a marathon, not a sprint.”  Airbus has collected about 300 commitments for the plane
since beginning marketing at the end of last year. The jet
promises higher  fuel efficiency  because of the new engines.  Pratt & Whitney has a version of its geared turbofan engine
available on Bombardier Inc.’s CSeries aircraft, which has a
seat range of 100 to 149, smaller than the A320neo, with an
introduction date of 2013. A version of CFM’s Leap-X is slated
for launch on Commercial Aircraft Corp. of  China ’s C919 aircraft
in 2014.  ‘Good Opening’  Airbus’s decision to lead with Pratt was “market driven,”
said  Stefan Schaffrath , a company spokesman. A320neo customers
that picked Pratt’s geared turbofan include Lufthansa, which
ordered 30 planes, Indigo, which has ordered 150 A320neos, and
International Lease Finance Corp.  “We’ve been blessed with a good opening,” Bob Saia, who
runs the geared turbofan program for Pratt & Whitney, said in a
telephone interview. “In our case, we’re ready, we’re anxious
to be the first. The other key benefit of being first is that if
you get a six- to nine-month jump start on the competition, it
can open up the market.”  ILFC plans to take 100 A320neos and has said that 60 of
those will be powered by Pratt’s geared turbofan. The engines
for the other 40 haven’t yet been chosen.  The A320neo’s two other customers,  Brazil ’s Tam and Richard Branson’s Virgin America, have yet to specify an engine choice.
Airbus’s classic A320 series of aircraft offer a choice of CFM
56 engines or V2500 engines built by International Aero Engines,
a joint venture that includes Pratt, Rolls-Royce Plc, MTU of
 Germany , and several Japanese companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  