-- 
Ajinomoto Will Supply Extra Power to Tokyo Electric; Kirin May Follow Suit

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-03-31T10:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ajinomoto-will-supply-extra-power-to-tokyo-electric-kirin-may-follow-suit.html
Ajinomoto Co., the Japanese
seasonings maker that first sold monosodium glutamate, will
supply power to  Tokyo  Electric Co., whose nuclear plant was
crippled by the March 11 earthquake and its ensuing tsunami.  Ajinomoto’s Kawasaki factory, south of Tokyo, will provide
14,000 kilowatts, half of its gas-generated capacity, to Tepco,
as the utility is known, spokeswoman Naoko Obara said today by
phone. Tokyo-based Kirin Holdings Co. may also contribute excess
electricity generated at its Yokohama plant, spokesman Kan
Yamamoto said.  Tepco, which serves the Japanese capital and surrounding
areas, is asking companies and households to conserve energy to
avoid large-scale blackouts. Japanese automakers will consider
taking turns to operate their factories, Toyota Motor Corp. said
on March 27.  Ajinomoto “is operating at 24 hours a day to supply
products,” Obara said. The Kawasaki site, which has relied on
in-house generation since 2007, stopped using air conditioning
and elevators to free up electricity, she said.  Tepco was unchanged at 466 yen at the 3 p.m. close on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange after losing 78 percent of its value since
March 10. Ajinomoto fell 0.5 percent to 867 yen. Kirin rose 0.6
percent to 1,093 yen.  10 Hoover Dams  Parts of Tokyo and its surrounding prefectures have been
experiencing power outages since the earthquake and tsunami,
which destroyed 21 million kilowatts of electrical generating
capacity, equal to the amount that would be generated by 10
 Hoover Dams , according to Bloomberg calculations.  Tepco plans to boost its capacity to 46.5 million kilowatts
by the end of July through buying supply from other utilities
and opening idled thermal plants. Tepco had a capacity of 37.5
million kilowatts today.  The company expects a shortage of 8.5 million kilowatts
this summer as it estimates seasonal demand will peak at about
55 million kilowatts.  The utility began rolling blackouts to avoid bigger power
outages after the 9.0-magnitude temblor and tsunami on March 11
crippled its Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant. The facility
generated almost a 10th of the energy of the Kanto region, which
encompasses Tokyo and contains about one-third of  Japan ’s 127
million people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  