-- 
Malaysia Sees Wider Yuan Use in Trade, Favors Dollar Reserves

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h
-- 
2011-03-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/malaysia-sees-wider-yuan-use-in-trade-favors-dollar-reserves.html
Malaysia  will see increasing use of
the yuan in trade with China, while keeping the dollar as its
key reserve currency, Prime Minister Najib Razak said.  “We have to maintain the  U.S. dollar  as the most important
international reserve currency,” Najib said in an interview
this week in Putrajaya, near Kuala Lumpur, ahead of his two-year
anniversary in office April 3. “New currencies can emerge. I
think we are quite open about it. It has of course to have the
traction with countries around the world whether that happens,”
he said, adding that it’s “very likely” trade in yuan will rise.  Finance chiefs from the world’s biggest developed and
emerging economies yesterday debated the future of a global
monetary system that’s been dominated by the U.S. unit since
World War II.  China ’s government has sought to boost the use of
its yuan in trade, while at the same time rejecting calls to
allow the currency to float freely in financial markets.  “China is internationalizing its currency for trade
settlement in a very gradual manner,” said Jimmy Koh, head of
treasury at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . “The yuan
isn’t likely to overtake the dollar for trade settlement or as a
global reserve currency any time soon.”  Bank Negara Malaysia , the central bank, doesn’t disclose it
reserve holdings and said it doesn’t yet have figures on local
currency trade settlement between Malaysia and China.  Faith in Euro  “The euro is also an important reserve currency. Despite
what’s happened in  Europe , we have confidence in the long-term
stability of euro currency,” Najib said in the March 29
interview in Putrajaya, the administrative center created in the
1990s to alleviate overcrowding in Kuala Lumpur.  Europe’s governments have struggled to contain a sovereign
debt crisis that has so far forced bailouts of Greece and
Ireland.  China is promoting global use of the yuan after Premier Wen Jiabao said in March he was “worried” about holdings of
dollar-denominated assets. Cross-border yuan trade settlement
was 506.3 billion yuan ($77 billion) last year, the People’s
Bank of China said on March 2.  “It’s a new China, because it’s a fact that they are more
assertive than before,” Najib said. “Having said that, we
believe China would not want to do something that will undermine
the peace and stability of this region because they are quite
focused on becoming the economic power in the world.”  Japan ,  Vietnam  and the  Philippines  last month protested
against China’s actions in disputed waters, drawing attention to
the potential for clashes in resource-rich areas that are key to
trade. The Malaysian leader said he sees the U.S. remaining a
power in the Asia-Pacific region.  U.S. Balancing China  “We see a kind of equilibrium in terms of the major powers
in the region,” he said. “As long as there’s a nice
equilibrium, I’m optimistic that there will be peace and
prosperity, and that this region will continue to lead global
growth in the future.”  Malaysia, which imposed  capital controls  after during the
1998 Asian Financial Crisis, eased regulations last August to
allow exporters and imports to use the ringgit and other
currencies to settle trade with foreign companies. At the same
time, China began official foreign-exchange trading between the
countries’ currencies.  Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Bhd., which sets the global
benchmark for crude palm oil, started accepting yuan as margin
collateral for trading on the Malaysian derivatives in November.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Robyn Meredith in  Hong Kong  at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Hong Kong at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  