-- 
Malaysia May Sell Islamic Bonds to Fund $16 Billion Rail Project

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r ,   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h
-- 
2011-03-31T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/malaysia-may-sell-islamic-bonds-to-fund-16-billion-rail-project.html
Malaysia may sell ringgit-
denominated Islamic bonds to help finance construction of a mass
railway in  Kuala Lumpur  as part of a $444 billion investment
program, Prime Minister Najib Razak said in an interview.  The government estimates the network will cost 48 billion
ringgit ($16 billion) to build, making it the single biggest
development project undertaken by  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest
economy. Najib’s 10-year plan aims to attract overseas investors
and includes an initiative to create a new international
financial district, the Muslim world’s equivalent to  Wall Street .  “Our preference would be to borrow domestically and it can
be in a form that is Islamic,” Najib, 57, said in Putrajaya
outside Kuala Lumpur on March 29 as he prepares to mark his
second year in office on April 3. “We have big savings in
 Malaysia , especially our Employees Provident Fund.”  Malaysia is revamping its public transportation system amid
increasing traffic congestion in the capital. The mass rapid
transit system will cover a 20-kilometer (12 miles) radius
around Kuala Lumpur’s city center and carry 2 million passengers
a day when completed, the government said in a report last year
on the country’s 10-year development plan.  ‘Leadership Role’  The nation began offering Islamic services almost 30 years
ago and a sale of sukuk, or debt that complies with Islam’s ban
on interest, would enhance Malaysia’s position as the world’s
biggest market for the debt. The government will take a final
decision on the type of financing for the railway project in the
second half of the year, Najib said.  “We have all the ingredients in place to continue to play
a leadership role in Islamic finance,” Najib said. The new
financial district is “going to be another significant boost to
our leadership role.”  Sovereign wealth funds from Malaysia and  Abu Dhabi  signed
an agreement in October to jointly build the business hub on a
34-hectare (84-acre) site in Kuala Lumpur. The government
estimated it will cost 26 billion ringgit.  Malaysia sold dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in May last
year. The yield on the 3.928 percent sukuk maturing in June 2015
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.79
percent as of 6:15 p.m. yesterday, prices from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group showed. The notes returned 1.1 percent this year.  Sales of Islamic bonds in Malaysia totaled $94 billion as
of last year and accounted for 66 percent of the amount
outstanding globally, the central bank said in its 2010 annual
report published on March 23.  Rival to  Singapore   The mass railway and financial district are part of Najib’s
aim to make Kuala Lumpur a more attractive place to work, invest
and live. He has also announced plans for a shopping district to
rival Singapore’s Orchard Road, better tourist attractions and
mobilized more police to fight inner-city street crime. Kuala
Lumpur was ranked 79th out of 130 cities for livability in the
Economist Intelligence Unit’s 2010 survey.  Gamuda Bhd. (GAM)  and MMC Corp., who are among Malaysia’s biggest
builders, were appointed in December as partners to help the
government plan the rail network. Syarikat Prasarana Negara Bhd.,
a fully-owned subsidiary of the Ministry of Finance, will be the
infrastructure owner of the project, with the Land Public
Transport Commission as the supervising authority, Najib said in
December. Tunneling and other works will be put out to tender,
the government has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry in Hong Kong at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 