-- 
Malaysia Plans Investments, May Adjust Subsidy Cuts, Najib Says

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h
-- 
2011-03-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/malaysia-plans-investments-may-adjust-subsidy-cuts-najib-says.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
said he will unveil more investments to spur growth and consider
slowing subsidy cuts to shield consumers from rising prices, as
the government seeks to bolster support ahead of a regional
election this month.  “We have to be seen as doing something,” Najib, 57, said
in a March 29 interview in Putrajaya, near  Kuala Lumpur . “We
want to satisfy the confidence of the global market towards
Malaysia and at the same time we have got some domestic
considerations.”  Malaysia joins neighboring Thailand and  Indonesia  in trying
to reduce budget deficits and support economic expansion while
preventing accelerating inflation from upsetting voters. Thai
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has promised to “put money in
people’s pockets” so that families can cope with rising fuel
and food costs that threaten to undermine his party’s gains
ahead of this year’s national elections.  Najib will complete his second year as leader on April 3,
after inheriting a contracting economy and a ruling coalition
with the smallest majority in parliament since independence in
1957. Now, voters and investors are waiting for him to deliver
on pledges to transform the Southeast Asian country into a
developed nation by 2020, narrow the budget gap and ensure
preferential economic policies benefiting the Malay majority are
extended to the poor of other races.  Time, Social Pressure  “We are all waiting for the execution,” said Scott Lim,
who oversees the equivalent of $670 million of assets as chief
executive officer of Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset
Management Bhd. “Time is against him. Social pressure is
against him. People at the lower end of the strata are
suffering. Fuel and housing prices have gone up so much.”  The country is due for a general election within the next
two years, and Najib said this month’s regional polls in eastern
Sarawak state will be used to gauge public opinion.  Malaysia ’s export growth has slowed to 3 percent in January
after surging as much as 37 percent last year as the rebound
from the global recession eased. Since then, a surge in oil to
above $100 a barrel and the March 11 Japan earthquake,
subsequent tsunami and nuclear power crisis have threatened
demand for Asian goods.  Inflation accelerated to a 22-month high of 2.9 percent in
February after the government cut subsidies on fuel and sugar in
December, boosting retail prices.  Needs Flexibility  “We don’t want rising prices in Malaysia to be a major
burden for the people,” Najib said. “We have to adjust in the
process of subsidy rationalization. We are committed to it as a
medium-term goal, but there must be some flexibility in the way
we implement it.”  Najib said in June he aims to slash the budget shortfall to
2.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2015, from a 22-year
high of 7 percent in 2009. The 2011 deficit is forecast by the
government to total 5.4 percent of GDP. Part of the plan
includes trimming subsidies, estimated by Najib in 2010 at about
73 billion ringgit ($24 billion) a year for essential items
ranging from fuel to flour.  The government is “looking at” whether it needs to pause
subsidy cuts in the short-term and do more later, Najib said in
this week’s interview. The government’s fuel subsidy bill could
jump by 4 billion ringgit to 14 billion ringgit this year if
pump prices aren’t raised to reflect a jump in global crude oil,
Najib said on March 9.  Cutting Deficit  “We have to see how much more subsidy we can bear,” he
said, adding that the government will seek cost savings to
offset a bigger subsidy bill while trying to boost revenue. “At
the same time, we are committed to reducing the deficit.”  Malaysia plans to introduce anti-inflation initiatives,
including increasing the supply of products like chicken to
reduce consumer prices, Najib said. The government is also
looking at whether shops can sell products at discounted prices,
he said.  The country also won’t introduce a goods and services tax
this year, the prime minister said. The levy will be implemented
once it gets “a buy in from  Under a so-called economic transformation program, the
government has identified $444 billion of private sector-led
projects in the current decade, including 60 announced over the
past four months with investments by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Carrefour SA. (CA)   Najib, who is also finance minister and the son of
Malaysia’s second premier, is scheduled to reveal the next batch
of initiatives on April 7.  Exciting Months Ahead  “The next few months will be very exciting,” he said.
“There will be a series of major announcements. It’s not just
infrastructure projects. It’s the whole works, including high
investment projects that will create high value to the economy
and jobs.”  Malaysia’s economy rebounded with growth of 7.2 percent
last year, the most in a decade, after shrinking 1.7 percent in
2009 amid the global economic slump. GDP may increase by as much
as 6 percent this year, the central bank said last month.  “I believe we are still on track,” Najib said.  Malaysia’s ringgit has climbed more than 7 percent and the
benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index is up 17 percent over
the past year, as  Asia ’s faster economic growth and rising
interest rates lured investors to the region.  The country is monitoring capital flows closely, Najib
said. “We do not like excessive volatility, whether it is in
the stock market or in our currency,” he said. “If it gets
overheated in any way, I think we will take necessary steps.”  Gradual Liberalization  Najib has rolled back some policies favoring the country’s
biggest ethnic group to spur investment. He eased a requirement
that foreign companies investing in Malaysia and locally listed
businesses set aside 30 percent of their equity for so-called
Bumiputeras, who comprise ethnic Malays and the indigenous
people of Sabah and Sarawak states. He also pledged to make
assistance more merit-based and to helping all poor irrespective
of race.  “We are moving towards gradual liberalization, even on the
Bumiputera policy,” Najib said. “But the fact that they have
been left behind for so long, we do need to help them and I
believe that the idea of a socially just society is important
for the long-term stability of Malaysia.”  Surging fuel prices and unhappiness over the implementation
of the race-based policies contributed to the ruling National
Front coalition losing control of five of Malaysia’s 13 states
to the opposition in 2008 national elections. It has since
regained control of one of the states.  ‘Confident’  “We are confident of regaining some of the states,” Najib
said. “In a mature democracy, it is difficult to get huge
majorities. Traditionally in Malaysia, two-thirds has always
been a benchmark. Some would consider a good comfortable
majority as a good election result.”  The government will decide when is the best time for a
national vote after the Sarawak state polls, he said, adding
that the ruling coalition has been “doing very well” in recent
by-elections.  Political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa won’t
spill over, to Malaysia, Najib said.  “What’s happened in the Middle East stays there and it
will not impact Malaysia because we have a vibrant democracy,
because we have policies that are attuned with the aspiration of
the people, because we have strong economic growth, we have
jobs,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Robyn Meredith in  Hong Kong  at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Hong Kong at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  