-- 
All Blacks Must Disregard Domestic Load to Win Rugby World Cup, Kirk Says

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-31T04:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/all-blacks-must-disregard-domestic-load-to-win-rugby-world-cup-kirk-says.html
New Zealand ’s rugby team needs to
ignore domestic expectations and pressures to maximize its
chances of winning the World Cup it hosts this year, according
to former captain David Kirk.  The All Blacks shouldn’t feel they have an obligation to
lift the mood of a nation that endured two major earthquakes and
a mining disaster during the past five months, said Kirk, who
led New Zealand to victory at the inaugural World Cup in 1987.  “It’s detrimental for the players to feel as if they’ve
got some other burden or expectation or requirement,” Kirk said
in a phone interview from Auckland. “They need to stay calm and
realize that they have a personal responsibility to play as well
as they can, but they don’t have a responsibility to right the
wrongs of mother nature or the mood of New Zealand.”  A Feb. 22 earthquake in Christchurch killed at least 160
people and damaged buildings in New Zealand’s second-largest
city, forcing the relocation of the seven World Cup matches
scheduled there. The quake came less than six months after a 7-
magnitude temblor rocked Christchurch early on Sept. 4.  The earlier quake, in which no one was killed, caused
widespread damage to the city. The destruction and mounting
economic costs also follow the death of 29 miners after an
explosion at a  coal mine  at  Pike River  on New Zealand’s  South
Island  in November.  Politicians including Prime Minister John Key have this
month supported suggestions that the All Blacks could swap the
iconic silver fern on their jerseys for a red fern during the
World Cup games as a symbolic gesture to Christchurch.  Tournament Favorites  The  top-ranked  All Blacks are rated favorites to win the
Webb Ellis Cup and end New Zealand’s 24-year title drought.  The coaches and players are experienced enough to guard
against using external factors as a source of motivation, said
Kirk, the former chief executive officer of  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) ,
Australia’s second-largest newspaper publisher.  “They know the drill,” he said. “It’s just unhelpful and
they’ll be well aware of that.”  While New Zealand has won 75 percent of its international
games, the best record in rugby, that hasn’t translated into
sustained success at World Cups. Since winning in 1987, the All
Blacks have lost a quarterfinal, three semifinals and were
runners-up once. They were the bookmakers’ favorites to win the
past four editions. This year’s tournament starts Sept. 9.  Graham Henry’s team, which has won 19 of its past 20 Tests,
is in a “good place to win,” though needs to continue to
develop its playing style to stay ahead of rivals including
 Australia  and Six Nations champion  England , Kirk said.  “The preparation will be good, the players just need to be
calm and not worry about the weight of expectation in the
country,” Kirk said. “If they play the best they can and
execute with as much composure as they possibly can, the result
will look after itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 