-- 
Amazon Said to Explore Mobile-Payment Service for Handsets

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-03-31T20:30:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/amazon-com-said-to-be-considering-mobile-payment-service-for-smartphones.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is considering the
introduction of a service that would let consumers pay for goods
in brick-and-mortar stores using their mobile phones, according
to two people with knowledge of the project.  The company’s  Amazon Payments  unit is exploring whether to
start a service based on so-called  near-field-communication 
technology, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the project isn’t public. NFC lets devices transmit data such as
payment information, loyalty points and coupons by tapping them
against specially equipped cash registers.  Amazon, based in  Seattle , aims to parlay its dominance in
Internet retailing into mobile commerce. It’s also keeping in
step with other technology leaders such as Microsoft Corp.,
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which have introduced or are said to
be planning software, devices or services with NFC. The value of
mobile transactions is expected to surge more than sevenfold by
2014, according to research firm Gartner Inc.  Offering NFC services could pit Amazon against Google,
Apple and Isis -- a joint effort between AT&T Inc., T-Mobile USA
Inc. and  Verizon Wireless  -- which are developing their own
mobile-wallet services.  Amazon has been pushing to become one of the biggest
players in mobile commerce for months. On March 22, Amazon
opened the  Amazon Appstore for Android , which sells applications
for mobile devices based on Google’s Android operating system.
Earlier this week, the retailer unveiled a music-streaming
service that works on Android smartphones.  Mobile Payments Soar  In 2014, 340 million global mobile users will use mobile
payments, with such transactions totaling $245 billion, up from
$32 billion last year, according to  Gartner .  Amazon is also considering creating NFC-based marketing
services, one of the people familiar with Amazon’s project said.
For instance, a consumer shopping for jeans who can’t find the
right size in a retail store might be able to tap a handset
against the item’s NFC tag to locate the correct item for order
through Amazon.com.  Amazon already offers an application for Apple’s iPhone,
called  Price Check by Amazon , that lets consumers compare prices
of in-store items with Amazon’s by scanning bar codes, snapping
pictures, or saying or typing the product’s name.  The online retailer will decide whether and when to unveil
the NFC mobile-payment services in the next three to five
months, one of the people said.  NFC Devices  New NFC services are being paired with special NFC-enabled
handsets, which are starting to emerge in greater numbers. The
number of phones with NFC will double in 2012, from 35 million
shipped in 2011, consultant  ABI Research  estimated.  In December, Samsung Electronics Co. and Google unveiled
the Nexus S smartphone with NFC. Apple is said to be working on
adding the feature to its iPhone, people familiar with the
company’s plans said in January. And Microsoft plans to include
mobile-payment capabilities in the next version of its Windows
Phone operating system, two people with knowledge of the
company’s plans said this week.  Amazon Payments already lets consumers pay for goods and
services online using payment methods associated with their
Amazon.com accounts, and since 2009 the company has offered  a
mobile version  of the service.  Amazon rose 71 cents to $180.13 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares are little changed this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  