-- 
Amazon Is Said to Talk With Music Labels on Cloud Storage

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-31T20:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/amazon-is-said-to-talk-with-music-labels-on-cloud-storage-for-new-service.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the biggest online
retailer, is negotiating with record labels over licensing
rights related to music storage on its new cloud service, two
people with knowledge of the discussions said.  The company unveiled a service this week that lets
consumers store digital music on its servers and play tracks on
computers and smartphones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android. Amazon
started the service “without a license,” said Brian Garrity, a
spokesman for  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s music unit.  Amazon, which says it doesn’t need new music-license rights
for the service because storage in the so-called cloud is no
different from keeping music on a personal computer’s hard
drive, is talking to the labels to reach an agreement, said the
people, who requested anonymity because the talks were private.  Digital music libraries can be uploaded to Amazon’s new
 Cloud Drive , with 5 gigabytes of memory available free, the
Seattle-based company said on March 29. Users who purchase an
album from Amazon.com will be upgraded to 20 gigabytes of Cloud
Drive space, which can be used to store music, photos, videos
and other digital files.  By licensing the music, Amazon wouldn’t have to store
separate copies of the music for each customer, instead letting
multiple users stream tracks from the same copy kept on Amazon’s
servers.  Google, Apple  The unveiling of the service by Amazon places it a step
ahead of rivals including Google and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which aim to
start similar services.  Record companies  have struck licensing
deals with existing music-streaming sites, such as Spotify Ltd.,
Rdio Inc. and Music Unlimited, to help counter the effects of
piracy and a drop in purchases of compact discs.  Amazon’s service now requires each customer to store
individual copies of purchased tracks. A license would make the
service more efficient by allowing users to access songs from a
central database, according to the Wall Street Journal, which
reported the talks previously.  Amazon rose 71 cents to $180.13 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares are little changed this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  