-- 
Manchester City Fines Balotelli for Throwing Darts at Youth Team: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-03-31T09:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/manchester-city-fines-balotelli-for-throwing-darts-at-youth-team-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Dart Fine  Manchester City  is fining striker  Mario Balotelli  a week’s
wages, about 100,000 pounds ($161,300), after the Italian threw
darts at youth team players from a window at the training ground,
 the Sun said .  Balotelli, who was signed before the season for 24 million
pounds, was fined two weeks wages earlier this year for being
sent off in a match against  Dynamo Kiev , the Sun said. He will
have meeting with coach  Roberto Mancini  and executives to
discuss his behavior, the newspaper said.  Buffon for Arsenal  Arsenal may try to solve its goalkeeper problems by signing
 Gianluigi Buffon , who is a free agent at the end of the year
when his Juventus contract expires,  the Mail said .  The 33-year-old World Cup winner has struggled with
injuries and is paid 125,000 pounds a week, the newspaper said,
but would be cheaper than other options including Liverpool’s
Pepe Reina.  Spurs Success  Tottenham may have beaten back challenges from Arsenal and
 Manchester United  to sign Ipswich teenager Connor Wickham with a
15 million-pound offer,  the Mirror said .  Spurs’ assistant academy manager Byran Klug ran Ipswich’s
facility when Wickham joined as a 13-year-old, the newspaper
said.  Chelsea Miss  Chelsea has failed to sell the naming rights to Stamford
Bridge, with dozens of companies rejecting the 100 million pound
price for a 10-year sponsorship,  the Sun said .  Chelsea has been trying to sell naming rights to the
stadium for 17 months, the newspaper said, and Chief Executive
Officer Ron Gourlay said the issue won’t be “resolved in the
near future.”  Poulsen Plan  Danish national team captain Christian Poulsen wants to
leave Liverpool to save his international career,  the Mail said.   Denmark coach Morten Olsen said Poulsen, who didn’t feature
in the team’s most recent game, won’t be in the starting squad
for a June 4 match against Iceland if he doesn’t play for the
Premier League team, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 