-- 
Andina de Fomento Considers Peso Bond Sale in Chile to Diversify Funding

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-31T18:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/andina-de-fomento-considers-peso-bond-sale-in-chile-to-diversify-funding.html
Corporacion Andina de Fomento, the
Andean development lender known as CAF, may sell peso bonds in
 Chile  this year for the first time as it diversifies funding
sources, said Hugo Sarmiento, vice president of finance.  CAF plans to sell about $2 billion of bonds this year in
markets that could include the U.S.,  Japan  and  Panama , Sarmiento
said in an interview. The lender already has sold $500 million
in bonds and is considering sales in other Latin American and
Caribbean markets, including the  Dominican Republic .  CAF is evaluating Chile’s market and hasn’t yet determined
the value of the potential bond sale, Sarmiento said. The lender
is studying proposals from banks that would help it issue debt
in Chile after the South American country this month changed
regulations to allow multilateral organizations to sell peso
bonds, he said.  “The main advantage of a bond sale in Chile is the
diversification of sources of financing,” Sarmiento said in a
telephone interview from Caracas. “We issue a lot in the U.S.,
European and Japanese markets. But we also like to diversify in
other markets.”  CAF’s Purpose  CAF raises funding in international markets to provide
financial products and services including loans, structured
financing and equity investments to shareholder countries in
Latin America and the Caribbean, according to the lender’s
website.  Chile in coming months may see other foreign entities such
as the Inter-American Development Bank sell “huaso” bonds, as
the instruments are known locally, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said last week. Huaso is the Chilean term for cowboy.  The government is promoting the sale of the bonds by
expanding the universe of issuers to states, companies from
emerging markets and multilateral organizations. Previously,
authorization to issue peso-denominated bonds was limited to
entities that traded in exchanges recognized by the local credit
rating regulator. Only three peso bonds, totaling less than $500
million, have been issued by foreigners since they were allowed
to do so in 2006.  Selling peso-denominated bonds in Chile, which is a
shareholder in CAF, could help develop the South American
country’s financial market, Sarmiento said.  “We can offer institutional and individual investors a new
instrument to diversify their investment portfolio,” he said.
“We’re also interested in helping to create more liquidity and
depth in markets by increasing the number of issuers and
instruments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  