-- 
Anglo Irish's CEO Says Buybacks of Senior Bank Debt Shouldn't Be Ruled Out

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-31T10:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/anglo-irish-says-shouldn-t-rule-out-senior-debt-voluntary-deals.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Aynsley  said voluntary buybacks of senior
debt shouldn’t be ruled out following the lender’s announcement
of the country’s largest corporate loss.  “A voluntary buyback, a cooperative situation, is a far
different scenario from forcing losses on senior debt holders,”
Aynsley said in an interview in Dublin today. “I don’t think
anyone should rule out a consensual transaction” to help
address banks’ capital shortfalls, he said.  The Irish Central Bank will today publish the results of
stress tests which, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News, will require lenders to raise another 27.5 billion euros
($39 billion) of capital. Incoming Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  wants the backing of other European leaders to impose part
of that burden on bondholders after the end of a real-estate
boom forced the nation to accept an international bailout in
November.  “Our view is that Ireland will look to voluntary
buybacks” of senior, non-guaranteed debt of  Anglo Irish  and
Irish Nationwide Building Society, Harvinder Sian, a senior
fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London , wrote in a note today. “Is there a risk of an
involuntary haircut on senior paper? Yes, but we continue to
think it is low,” he wrote.  Stark Opposed  European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark
said the ECB is opposed to Ireland making bank bondholders share
in the costs of a restructuring,  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung 
reported this week, citing an interview.  Anglo Irish, which has received 29.3 billion euros in funds
from the state, said today that its 2010 pretax loss widened 38
percent from a year earlier to 17.7 billion euros, a record for
an Irish company. The Dublin-based lender, which is being wound
down after being nationalized, said in unaudited results on Feb.
8 that it expected a 17.6 billion-euro loss.  Imposing senior bond haircuts on “one or two banks in
Ireland” wouldn’t “be wise,” Aynsley said. ”We think the
signals that that would send to the foreign investor community
would not be productive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  