-- 
Hanjin-Cosco Transpacific Ship Service Initially Bypasses Japan

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-31T10:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/hanjin-cosco-transpacific-ship-service-initially-bypasses-japan.html
Hanjin Shipping Co. and China Cosco
(Holdings) Co.’s new transpacific service will initially bypass
Japan, as power shortages and damage to factories following a
tsunami disrupt production.  The Central China  Long Beach  Express will call at three
Chinese ports before sailing to Long Beach,  California , when
operations begin on April 5, according to a  notice  on Hanjin’s
website today. The route, also operated with Wan Hai Line Ltd.
and Pacific International Lines Pte, will add a call in Yokohama
beginning in mid-May, it said.  Hanjin spokeswoman Sonya Cho declined to comment on the
timings for the new service. The Seoul-based company has other
routes calling at Yokohama and  Tokyo , she said. The new Long
Beach route will be operated with five ships able to carry as
many as 3,850 20-foot boxes each.  “The shipping lines may be delaying the introduction of
Yokohama because they’re worried there won’t be enough auto-
parts and other cargo to be carried out from  Japan ,” said Jee Heon Seok, an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  Japan’s manufacturing deteriorated at the fastest pace in
at least nine years this month after an earthquake and tsunami
hit the northeastern Tohoku region on March 11. The natural
disaster damaged factories, caused supply disruptions and forced
the shutdown of a nuclear-power plant, compelling companies from
Toyota Motor Corp. to Sony Corp. to curb production.  Yokohama handled 3.3 million containers last year,
according to  Alphaliner .  Shanghai , the world’s busiest container
port, moved 29 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  