-- 
Antitrust Oversight of Health-Care Networks Will Be Shared

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-31T23:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/antitrust-oversight-of-health-care-networks-will-be-shared-1-.html
The U.S.  Federal Trade Commission 
and the Justice  Department  will conduct antitrust reviews of
proposals to form networks under the new health-care law, ending
for now a debate over which agency would take the lead.  The  FTC  and Justice Department will decide on a case-by-
case basis which agency will investigate, much like they now
determine merger reviews,  Christine Varney , who heads the
Justice Department’s antitrust division, said in an interview
today.  “I don’t anticipate there will be any problem in dividing
this up,” she said.  The U.S.  Department of Health and Human Services  issued
rules today for so-called accountable care organizations, or
ACOs, to be formed by hospitals, insurers and doctors. ACOs are
a centerpiece of the health-care law backed by President  Barack Obama  and may save the government as much as $960 million in the
next three years after any performance incentives are paid to
providers.  On a conference call with reporters, FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said agencies cooperated in developing the guidance.
“The coordination among our agencies here was unprecedented,”
he said.  Earlier this month, FTC Commissioner Thomas Rosch, a
Republican, said the Obama administration would risk “sub-
optimal enforcement” and a “turf war” if it didn’t clarify
which agency had authority to do the reviews.  ‘Wholly Inadequate’  If “the agencies will simply divide review and enforcement
responsibilities equally, I think it is will be wholly
inadequate,” Rosch said in an e-mailed statement today.  If experience in health-care mergers determines who is in
charge, he said, “That will result in the antitrust division
undertaking very little, if any, review and enforcement.”  The FTC in the past 20 years has conducted 88 “substantial
investigations” of hospitals, physicians and health-insurance
plans, said Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Over the last decade alone, the FTC has investigated 44
cases involving health-care providers, who “are expected to
lead the way in the creation of the ACOs,” she said.  The  Justice Department  said in a statement today it has
conducted 60 “substantial investigations” into health
insurance plans, hospitals and physicians over the past 20
years. In that period, the department said, it issued 62 letters
in response to health-industry requests for guidance on
antitrust matters.  Any physicians’ group that has less than 30 percent market
share in its local area and is approved as an ACO by Medicare
will be presumed legal, the agencies said in a joint statement.
Any group with 50 percent of market share or more will need
preapproval from antitrust regulators for an ACO.  For those that have between 30 percent to 50 percent market
share, the review is voluntary, although the agencies have the
option to conduct an investigation later if they think it’s
necessary.  “You’re talking about a very small, in my view, potential
universe” of reviews, Varney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  