-- 
Apollo Accreditor May Ask for Recruiting ‘Corrective Action’

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T20:58:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/apollo-accreditor-may-ask-for-corrective-action-on-recruiting.html
Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , operator of the
University of Phoenix, said an accreditor’s panel may recommend
“corrective action” after a review of recruitment and
financial aid practices at the largest U.S. for-profit college.  The  Higher Learning Commission , the college’s principal
accrediting body, sent a letter saying the panel had questions
about recruiting, admissions and financial aid prompted by the
examination, the Phoenix-based company said today in a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Apollo said it will
give a “thorough response” to the March 29 request by the
April 29 due date.  The Higher Learning Commission formed a panel to review
Apollo’s practices after the U.S. Government Accountability
Office released a report Aug. 4 on recruiting at for-profit
colleges, including campuses of the University of Phoenix.
Commission officials may meet with representatives of the
university in late May if questions persist, the filing said.  Since the GAO report, Apollo has changed its recruiting,
admissions and compensation, “in an effort to improve student
outcomes and ensure compliance with stricter regulations and
potential new rules,” said Jeff Silber, an analyst with BMO
Capital Markets in  New York , in a note to clients today. He
rates Apollo shares “outperform.”  The Higher Learning Commission sent requests for
information to Apollo and three other colleges investigated in
the GAO report last year, said  Sylvia Manning , president of the
accreditor. One of the colleges withdrew its request for
accreditation and is no longer affiliated with the commission,
Manning said today in a telephone interview. She declined to
give the names of the other institutions that were asked to
respond to the organization’s inquiries.  GAO revised the report in November without changing its
conclusions.  Attorneys general  in four states and the U.S.
Department of  Veterans Affairs  have begun examining student
recruitment in the industry since the GAO’s report.  Apollo rose 31 cents, or less than 1 percent, to close at
$41.71 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading. The shares have declined 32 percent in the past 12
months. Manny Rivera, a company spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 