-- 
Marine Harvest Aims to Raise Dividend Declared in February

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-03-31T09:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/marine-harvest-aims-to-raise-dividend-declared-in-february-1-.html
Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s
largest salmon farmer, proposed increasing an annual dividend
declared last month by 33 percent on the back of “strong” cash
flow.  Marine Harvest rose to a six-week high in Oslo trading. The
board suggested boosting the payout of 0.6 krone a share
declared on Feb. 9 to 0.8 krone, the company said today in a
statement. Marine Harvest also said it plans to call an
extraordinary meeting in the second part of this year to propose
a semiannual dividend.  The announcement reflects an “extremely favorable first
quarter, cash-flow-wise,” Kolbjoern Giskeoedegaard, an analyst
at  Nordea Markets  in Oslo, said by phone today. “Stronger-than-
expected cash flow is allocated back to the shareholder.”  Cash flow  from operations almost tripled from a year
earlier to 305.2 million kroner ($55 million) in the fourth
quarter, the company said last month. That rounded out an annual
gain of 9.7 percent to 2.60 billion kroner. Investors will vote
on the proposed dividend increase at Marine Harvest’s annual
meeting on May 23.  “My take is that they have such a good speed, cash-flow-
wise, during the first quarter, and they see that this will
continue during the second quarter,” said Giskeoedegaard, who
advises buying the shares. The company is scheduled to report
first-quarter results on May 11, its website shows.  Shares Climb  Marine Harvest rose as high as 6.945 kroner, the highest
price since Feb. 15. The stock was up 0.135 krone, or 2 percent,
at 6.91 kroner by 10:55 a.m. Oslo time, leading gains in
 Norway ’s benchmark OBX Index of equities. The shares are up 12
percent this year, headed for a third annual gain.  “The increased dividend proposal reflects Marine Harvest’s
strong operational cash flow in the recent quarter and is
further supported by the company’s strong balance sheet,” the
company said in today’s statement.  Norwegian export prices for fresh or chilled salmon gained
6 percent to 40.79 kroner a kilogram (2.2 pounds) from the week
of Jan. 3 to the week of March 21, Statistics Norway data shows.
Prices are up 3 kroner in the  spot market  compared with the
fourth quarter and 6 kroner higher than a year ago, according to
Giskeoedegaard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at   mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  