-- 
Harper Says Canada Could Guarantee Loans for Lower Churchill Hydro Project

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-31T20:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/harper-says-canada-in-talks-on-possible-support-of-churchill-hydro-project.html
A Conservative government would
guarantee loans for the development of the Lower Churchill
hydroelectric project in Newfoundland if re-elected, Canadian
Prime Minister Stephen Harper said.  The guarantees would help ease financing for a project that
will help  Canada  reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, Harper
said today at a campaign stop in  St. John’s , Newfoundland.
Harper said other projects in Canada may also qualify for
similar types of arrangements.  Two party officials, who spoke to reporters on condition
they not be identified because details of the arrangements
haven’t been completed, said the federal government will
guarantee all debt issuance for the project, worth C$4.2 billion
($4.3 billion), through the government’s business financing or
 export financing  agencies.  The government would need to make a provision in its  budget 
for a percentage of the total loans to be guaranteed, the
official said.  Harper, at an election campaign stop in Halifax, Nova
Scotia earlier today, said the benefits of the project are
“evident” because it will help the country reduce greenhouse
gas emissions.  “It is a big chance to shift an entire region of the
country towards greener energy,” Harper said at a press
conference. “There is a lot of discussion yet to go but I think
the opportunities of the project for this country are evident.”  Financing Required  Nalcor Energy and Nova Scotia’s  Emera Inc. (EMA)  agreed last year
to invest C$6.2 billion ($6.4 billion) in a hydroelectric
project to ship power from Labrador’s Lower Churchill River to
customers in eastern Canada and  New England . The project
requires financing for an undersea transmission line between
Newfoundland and Nova Scotia. Nalcor, which is owned by the
province of Newfoundland and Labrador, will build a C$2.9
billion, 824-megawatt generating facility.  The project will allow Newfoundland and Labrador to bypass
Quebec, whose state-owned utility, Hydro-Quebec, has refused to
let Nalcor use its transmission network to export power to the
U.S. Nalcor has also contested a 1969 contract to supply power
to Hydro-Quebec because it says the accord, which runs until
2041, fails to account for rising electricity prices.  Nathalie Normandeau,  Quebec ’s natural resources minister,
said in a Nov. 18 telephone interview with Bloomberg News that
the province isn’t opposed to the Lower Churchill River project.
Still, Quebec would contest any request from Nalcor and Emera
for Canadian government subsidies because any federal funding
would lead to a “distortion” of electricity prices, she said.
Quebec has never received federal subsidies to build its own
transmission network, Normandeau said.  Construction of the generating station and transmission
links is scheduled to begin in 2013 once environmental and
regulatory approvals have been secured, with service slated to
start in 2017.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 