-- 
Irish, Portuguese Bonds, Stocks Fall on European Debt Woes; Oil Rallies

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-31T20:33:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/asian-stocks-erase-losses-since-japan-s-quake-australian-dollar-oil-gain.html
Bonds of  Europe ’s most-indebted
nations slid and stocks retreated amid concern the debt crisis
is worsening after Ireland said four banks need to raise more
capital and Portugal missed deficit targets. Oil rose to a 30-
month high of almost $107 a barrel amid fighting in Libya.  Portugal’s two-year note yields surged 75 basis points to
8.78 percent, above the rate on 10-year bonds for the first time
since 2006, while Irish 10-year yields jumped 12 basis points to
10.22 percent at 4 p.m. in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
lost 1 percent as its banks sank the most as a group in two
weeks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent to
trim its best first-quarter rally in 13 years.  Irish regulators instructed four banks to raise 24 billion
euros ($34 billion) in additional capital following a  stress
test  on the nation’s lenders. Portugal reported a budget deficit
of 8.6 percent of gross domestic product last year, higher than
a government target of about 7 percent. U.S. stocks extended
losses late in the day as the Wall Street Journal reported that
a Federal Reserve official said the central bank may need to
raise interest rates this year to fight inflation.  “With some of the austerity measures taken by these
troubled European countries, they end up in a kind of negative
feedback loop,” said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as
chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,
 Pennsylvania . “With Ireland giving their banks more aid, there
seems to be deeper problems than what was initially thought.”  Portugal  Bonds  Portugal announced an auction of one-year notes tomorrow,
saying it has “specific demand” for the securities, after
concern the nation may need a bailout to avoid default drove its
debt yields to records today. The yield on Portugal’s 10-year
bond rose 31 basis points to 8.41 percent, driving the
difference, or spread, to benchmark German bunds to as much as
508 basis points, a euro-era record.  The Iberian nation’s debt is down 7.7 percent in the first
quarter, the worst performance among 26 indexes tracked by the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Credit-
default swaps protecting Portugal’s debt rose 13 basis points to
a record 579, while contracts on Spain climbed six basis points
to a two-week high of 231, according to CMA.  Portugal is facing a “difficult situation,” and
authorities will need to sustain efforts to narrow the country’s
budget deficit, an International Monetary Fund spokeswoman said.  ‘No Request’  “We have had no request for financial assistance from
Portugal,” IMF director of external relations  Caroline Atkinson 
told reporters in  Washington  today. The commitments made by the
government to improve public finances and promote growth “are
important steps that will need to be continued.”  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index lost 2.3 percent as Belgium’s KBC
Group NV sank 3.2 percent and Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  fell
4.5 percent.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  sank 3.2 percent after the
world’s second-largest clothing retailer reported profit that
missed analysts’ projections.  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) , maker of the low-
calorie sweetener Splenda, gained 3.2 percent after saying it
will meet estimates for the year.  The Irish two-year note yield increased 34 basis points to
9.87 percent.  Allied Irish Banks Plc, the biggest lender during the
decade-long economic boom, requires 13.3 billion euros, the
central bank in Dublin said today after publishing the results
for four banks. Bank of Ireland Plc must get 5.2 billion euros,
while Irish Life & Permanent Plc and EBS Building Society make
up the remainder of the 24 billion euros, the central bank said.  Quarterly Gain Trimmed  Consumer-discretionary and financial companies led losses
in eight of 10 industry groups in the  S&P 500 , with Home Depot
Inc. losing 1.4 percent and JPMorgan Chase & Co. dropping 0.8
percent to pace declines. The index pared its first-quarter
rally to 5.4 percent, the biggest since 1998.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Class B shares fell 2.1 percent
after  David Sokol , once a candidate to succeed  Warren Buffett  as
the head of the company, resigned as it was disclosed he helped
negotiate a takeover while buying stock in the target company.
The cost to protect debt from Berkshire Hathaway jumped by the
most since Feb. 16. The contracts climbed 4.4 basis points to
109.9 basis points at 8:50 a.m. in  New York , according to data
provider CMA.  Monsanto Co., the world’s biggest seed maker, paced gains
that sent producers of raw materials to the biggest gain among
ten groups as corn, soybean and wheat prices jumped at least 2.8
percent. Corn rose the most allowed by the Chicago Board of
Trade as concerns mounted that food costs will climb after the
latest U.S. government forecasts on supplies and acreage.  Interest-Rate Watch  The S&P 500 extended its drop in the final half hour of
trading and the dollar pared losses after Minneapolis Fed
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said in an interview with Dow
Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal that the central
bank may need to boost short-term rates by the end of the year
if inflation accelerates as he anticipates.  The S&P 500 usually climbs further following first-quarter
gains similar to this year’s, according to Birinyi Associates
Inc. The index has risen about 7.1 percent in the final three
quarters of years following January-March gains of 5 percent to
7 percent, Birinyi data dating back to 1928 show.  The benchmark gauge of U.S. stocks is trading for about
13.7 times its companies’ estimated operating earnings, compared
with an average multiple of 18.1 times reported profits over the
last decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. Treasuries fell, with the yield on the 10-year U.S.
note up three basis points at 3.47 percent. Two-year yields
climbed three basis points to 0.82 percent.  Jobs Data  U.S. initial jobless claims fell by 6,000 to 388,000 in the
week ended March 26, Labor Department figures showed. That
compares with the median estimate of 380,000 in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. The data comes before tomorrow’s Labor
Department non-farm payrolls release for March.  Other reports showed U.S. factory orders unexpectedly fell
0.1 percent after a 3.3 percent gain in January, the Commerce
Department said. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc.’s business barometer fell in March, while the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index rose for the first time in five weeks to
minus 46.9 from a seven-month low of minus 48.9 the prior week.  The euro appreciated 0.6 percent against the yen and 0.3
percent versus the  U.S. dollar  after euro-region inflation
unexpectedly accelerated in March, bolstering the case for the
 European Central Bank  to raise  interest rates  next week.  Europe Inflation  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.6
percent in March from 2.4 percent in February, European Union
estimates showed today. That’s the fastest pace since October
2008, and exceeds the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a fourth month.
Economists had forecast inflation to hold steady.  The dollar depreciated against 12 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts today and has weakened about 6 percent versus the
euro in the first quarter.  Oil extended its quarterly advance to 17 percent in New
York, the biggest gain in seven quarters. Prices advanced as
much as 2.5 percent today after troops loyal to Libyan leader
Muammar Qaddafi retook control of the oil port of Ras Lanuf and
were shelling Brega, another energy hub to the east.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 0.9 percent,
capping a third straight quarterly advance. The Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index jumped 0.8 percent, advancing for an
eighth day in the longest stretch of gains since April 2009, as
software exporters including Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.
climbed on speculation demand from the U.S. will grow.  Emerging-market stocks may rally 14 percent as central
banks slow the pace of monetary tightening, food inflation eases
and  China ’s economy accelerates, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. wrote
in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  