-- 
AT&T’s $140 Million Among Top U.S. Retiree Health Payments

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-04-01T15:23:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/at-t-and-verizon-received-retiree-health-subsidies-u-s-says.html
Eight U.S. companies that earned
more than $10 billion last year, led by  AT&T Inc. (T) , were among
recipients of a government program that paid $1.8 billion toward
elderly retirees’ health-care costs, a  report  shows.  The program created by last year’s health overhaul sets
aside $5 billion to help companies pay health insurance for
workers who retire early and aren’t yet eligible for Medicare,
the U.S. program for the elderly and disabled. The Detroit-based
United Auto Workers union received the most, at $207 million,
followed by Dallas-based AT&T, at $140 million, and New York-
based  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , with $92 million, according
to the report the government released yesterday.  President Barack Obama’s administration defended payments
from the fund as evidence of a health system in peril, saying
the money helped retain insurance coverage for tens of thousands
who may otherwise lose it as firms drop retiree plans.  “The overwhelming response to this program demonstrates
exactly how broken the current health system has been, and
exactly why we needed reform in the first place,” Steve Larsen,
director of the Health and Human Services Department office
implementing the law, said yesterday in a conference call.  Obama has said that helping people maintain their health
coverage and allowing businesses to continue coverage for
workers are among the law’s priorities. Business groups led by
the Washington-based U.S. Chamber of Commerce have been critical
of the overhaul, saying it contains costly new mandates their
members can’t afford.  AT&T’s Profit  Representative Cliff Stearns, a Florida Republican,
peppered Larsen with questions about the program at a U.S. House
hearing today, repeatedly interrupting Larsen’s responses.  “Why in the flip are you giving out so much money from
taxpayers so freely and so overwhelmingly to companies that are
so profitable?” Sterns asked.  Larsen said of the companies at one point that “the program
allows them, positions them to continue to offer this critical
benefit to early retirees.”  AT&T’s net income in 2010 was $19.9 billion, according to
Bloomberg data.  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for the company,
declined to comment in an e-mail.  Eight of the 17 U.S. companies that had more than $10
billion in profit last year received money from the retiree
fund, according to the report and Bloomberg data.  Citigroup, IBM  The list includes  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which received
$1.8 million;  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , at $2.9 million;
 International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , at $13 million;  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , at
$2.5 million;  General Electric Co. (GE) , at $37 million;  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
at $950,000; and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , at $6.6 million.  Larsen said yesterday the government didn’t limit which
employers were eligible to apply for the fund.  “This program helps all companies to continue the retiree
coverage they’re offering today,” he said.  Richard Popper, who directs insurance programs for Larsen’s
office, said 80 percent of payments from the fund were less than
$1 million.  Democratic sponsors of the health-care overhaul said the
retiree fund is intended as a stop-gap measure to prevent more
Americans from becoming uninsured before subsidized coverage is
expanded to about 32 million people beginning in 2014.  Among firms with 200 workers or more, only 28 percent
offered early retiree health coverage in 2010, according to the
 Kaiser Family Foundation , a  Menlo Park ,  California , research
institute. That’s down from 66 percent in 1998.  Retiree Program  Under the retiree program, the government pays as much as
80 percent of early retirees’ health-care expenses, amounting to
$15,000 to $90,000 for each person.  The administration had approved 5,850 applications as of
March 17. So far, 1,300 organizations have received money to
cover more than 100,000 early retirees, according to the report.  At least 44 groups received more than $5 million. Some of
the biggest recipients were unions and states. In addition to
the UAW, the state of  New Jersey  received $39 million, the
California Public Employees Retirement System, or Calpers, got
$58 million, and the Georgia Department of Community Health also
received $58 million, according to the report.  Also among the groups were  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Boeing
Co. (BA) , which each received $19 million, and Alcatel-Lucent SA,
with a payment of $13 million.  Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives estimated
in a report last week that the retiree health fund would run out
of money as soon as this year. Melissa Nitti, an HHS
spokeswoman, said the fund would be closed to new applications
as of May 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  