-- 
Australia Retail Sales, Loans Rose in February, Sending Dollar to Record

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-31T02:40:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/australia-retail-sales-loans-to-businesses-rise-sending-dollar-to-record.html
Australian retail sales rose in
February and lending to businesses climbed for the first time in
nine months, according to government reports that sent the
nation’s currency to a record against the  U.S. dollar .  Sales advanced 0.5 percent from a month earlier, when they
gained 0.4 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. That was the biggest increase since July and was higher
than the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 24
economists for a 0.4 percent increase.  A separate report from the  Reserve Bank of Australia  showed
total credit extended by Australian lenders last month jumped by
the most since May, led by business loans. The signs of stronger
 consumer spending  and a lending revival boosted the local dollar
as confidence grew that natural disasters didn’t derail the
economy’s expansion.  “This is a good result,” said  Adam Carr , senior economist
at ICAP  Australia  Ltd. in Sydney. “There is some evidence to
suggest that flood-affected consumers in Queensland have acted
early to rebuild. This may mean that the overall impact of the
floods on first-quarter growth is quite small.”  After the report, the Australian dollar touched $1.0347,
the highest level since the currency was freely floated in 1983,
from $1.0329 in  New York  yesterday. The local dollar, the third-
biggest gainer in the past year among G-10 currencies, traded at
$1.0337 at 12:34 p.m. in Sydney.  Clothes, Shoes  Spending on household goods rose 2 percent, and consumers
spent 0.9 percent more on clothing, footwear and personal
accessories, today’s retail report showed. They spent 0.4
percent less at department stores, it showed.  JB Hi-Fi Ltd., Australia’s second-biggest electrical
retailer, said last month profits rose in the first half as
unemployment was near 5 percent. Net income advanced 15.6
percent to A$87.9 million ($90.9 million), according to a Feb. 7
regulatory filing.  The central bank’s monthly report on credit showed total
lending gained 0.5 percent in February, the largest increase
since a rise of the same amount in May, while loans to
businesses added 0.6 percent after no change in January. Housing
credit was up 0.5 percent, the  Reserve Bank ’s report showed.  “We expect households to reverse recent outsized
precautionary saving as the year unfolds and heading into
2012,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at
TD Securities in Singapore.  Building Permits  A third government report today showed building approvals
in February dropped for a second straight month because of
disruptions from the natural disasters.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments fell 7.4 percent from January, when they declined
a revised 11.6 percent, the statistics bureau said. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists was a 4
percent increase.  Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens has paused raising
interest rates for the past three meetings after boosting
borrowing costs seven times from October 2009 to November 2010,
increases that spurred the local dollar to parity with the U.S.
currency. Economic growth accelerated in the final three months
of last year, the eighth straight quarterly expansion before
floods hit the northeast in January.  In minutes of its March 1 meeting, the Reserve Bank said it
left  interest rates  unchanged as slower borrowing by households
and businesses offset a mining investment boom.  Appropriate Stance  Policy makers saw the borrowing restraint “as a welcome
development, particularly as  household debt  remained at a
historically high level and debt-servicing requirements had
recently increased with the rise in interest rates,” according
to minutes released March 15 in Sydney. A “mildly restrictive
stance of policy continued to be appropriate,” the minutes said.  Australian employers unexpectedly reduced workers in
February for the first time in 18 months as floods and a cyclone
disrupted hiring.  The central bank’s staff estimated the floods lowered
growth in the December quarter by 0.5 percentage point and would
have the same effect this quarter. Torrential rains in
Queensland in December and January affected about 30,000
properties, shut mines, cut rail lines and damaged crops.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  