-- 
Australian Exports to Japan May Decline by $2.1 Billion After Earthquake

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-31T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/australian-exports-to-japan-may-drop-by-a-2-billion-after-quake.html
Japan ’s strongest earthquake,
tsunami and nuclear crisis may cut Australian exports by A$2
billion ($2.1 billion) this fiscal year on reduced orders for
coal and iron ore,  Australia ’s Treasury said.  Demand from Japan will be slower “in the short term,”
according to an e-mailed statement, before recovering to support
prices of non-farm commodities.  The March 11 quake and tsunami in northeastern Japan shut
factories of companies including Toyota Motor Corp. and  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and crippled a nuclear power plant. The number of dead and
missing rose to 27,979 as of 3 p.m. yesterday, Japan’s National
Police said.  Australia’s global "terms of trade" are at their highest
level since the 1950s,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn
Stevens said in February. The nation’s mineral and energy
commodity exports are forecast to be A$185.6 billion in the year
to June 30.  Australia, the world’s biggest shipper of coal and iron
ore, is still "determined" to bring its budget back to surplus
in 2012-13, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said. The government forecasts
a A$3.1 billion  budget surplus  for that year, even as a series
of disasters adds billions in emergency spending.  “The tragic events in Japan -- together with the impact of
floods and Cyclone Yasi at home -- will clearly mean revenues
take a substantial hit in the near term,” Swan said in an e-
mailed statement. “So we’ll be framing the budget in really
tough circumstances this year, but we’re determined to bring the
budget back to surplus as planned.”  Tropical Cyclone Yasi in February tore through sugar- and
banana-producing areas, following two months of flooding in
Queensland that killed 36 people, shut mines and wiped out
crops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  