-- 
Australia Retail Sales Rise Fourth Month on Consumer Goods, Clothes Buying

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-31T00:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/australia-retail-sales-rise-fourth-month-on-consumer-goods-clothes-buying.html
Australian retail sales gained for
a fourth straight month in February as consumers increased
spending on household goods and clothing.  Sales advanced 0.5 percent from a month earlier, when they
gained 0.4 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. That was more than the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 24 economists for a 0.4 percent increase.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens has paused
raising interest rates for the past three meetings after
boosting borrowing costs seven times from October 2009 to
November 2010, increases that spurred the local dollar to parity
with the U.S. currency. Economic growth accelerated in the final
three months of last year, the eighth straight quarterly
expansion before floods hit the northeast in January.  “Home rebuilding and replacement of possessions damaged in
the recent Queensland floods boosted retail sales,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney who
forecast a 1 percent gain, said before the report. “Above-
average confidence, low unemployment, and steady interest rates
also supported consumer demand.”  Spending on household goods retailing rose 2 percent, and
consumers spent 0.9 percent more on clothing, footwear and
personal accessories, today’s report showed. They spent 0.4
percent less at department stores, it showed.  5% Joblessness  JB Hi-Fi Ltd.,  Australia ’s second-biggest electrical
retailer, said last month profits rose in the first half as
unemployment was near 5 percent. First-half net income advanced
15.6 percent to A$87.9 million ($90.8 million), according to a
Feb. 7 regulatory filing.  A separate government report released at the same time
showed building approvals in February dropped for a second
straight month.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments fell 7.4 percent from January, when they declined
a revised 11.6 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 23
economists was a 4 percent increase.  In minutes of its March 1 meeting, the RBA said it left
 interest rates  unchanged as slower borrowing by households and
businesses offsetting a mining investment boom.  Policy makers saw the borrowing restraint “as a welcome
development, particularly as  household debt  remained at a
historically high level and debt-servicing requirements had
recently increased with the rise in interest rates,” according
to minutes released March 15 in Sydney. A “mildly restrictive
stance of policy continued to be appropriate,” the minutes said.  Australian employers unexpectedly cut workers in February
for the first time in 18 months as floods and a cyclone
disrupted hiring.  The central bank’s staff estimated the floods lowered
growth in the December quarter by 0.5 percentage point and would
have the same effect this quarter. Torrential rains in
Queensland in December and January affected about 30,000
properties, shut mines, cut rail lines and damaged crops.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  