-- 
Taylor Wimpey Sale Allows North American Unit to Focus on Growth, CEO Says

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-31T21:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/taylor-wimpey-sale-allows-north-american-unit-to-focus-on-growth-ceo-says.html
Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) ’s North American
unit will be able to focus on growth after its sale for $955
million to a group of private equity funds, the subsidiary’s
chief executive officer said.  “This is a real opportunity with this new partnership to
capitalize on the market at the right time,” Sheryl Palmer,
president and chief executive of Taylor Morrison Inc., the U.S.
and Canadian arm of the British homebuilder, said in a telephone
interview from her office in Scottsdale,  Arizona . “I expect to
continue to outperform our competition.”  The deal is the largest acquisition involving a North
American homebuilder since  Pulte Group Inc. (PHM)  bought Centex Corp.
in 2009 for $3.09 billion including debt. It occurs as U.S.
homebuilders face competition from discounted foreclosures amid
low consumer confidence and unemployment of about 9 percent.
New-home sales sank last month to their lowest pace in records
dating to 1963, according to the Commerce Department.  The buyer of the U.S. and Canadian divisions was TMM
Holdings LP, a property investment firm backed by Oaktree
Capital Management LP, TPG Capital and JH Investments Inc.,
Taylor Wimpey said in a statement today. Palmer, 49, declined to
say how much each fund contributed to the purchase.  The industry is unlikely to see a surge of mergers and
acquisitions because most homebuilders are still trying to fix
their balance sheets five years into the housing slump,
according to Jade Rahmani, an analyst with Keefe Bruyette &
Woods Inc. in  New York .  ‘Legacy Land’  “We view large combinations of major U.S. builders as
unlikely given the industry’s high gross leverage and legacy
land,” Rahmani wrote in a note to investors today. “Further,
an M&A transaction would result in a change in control, limiting
the value of deferred tax assets, and would require the fair
valuing of company balance sheets, potentially resulting in
additional writedowns.”  Bidders for Taylor Morrison included publicly traded
homebuilders, private equity funds and other companies, said
Palmer, who declined to name them.  “Everybody approached it differently from wanting the
company in its present status to some that wanted to rip it
apart,” Palmer said.  “This was a big deal,”  John Burns , chairman of John Burns
Real Estate Consulting in  Irvine ,  California , said in a
telephone interview. “Any deal that was consummated was going
to involve several partners,”  ‘Turning a Profit’  Taylor Morrison, which sells homes in 127 communities in
the U.S. and 21 communities in  Canada , had total revenue of
$1.28 billion in 2010, Palmer said.  “We have a U.S. business that’s turning a profit in every
market we do business in,” she said. “And we have a Canadian
business that’s remarkably robust.”  More than half of Taylor Morrison’s land is in Florida and
Arizona, Rahmani said. The two states are among those with the
country’s highest rates of foreclosure and negative equity, in
which a mortgage holder’s debt is more than their house is
worth. About half of Taylor Morrison’s communities are on land
purchased in the past two years at post-peak prices, allowing
the company to sell homes at lower prices and still make money,
Palmer said.  “What makes them different is they’re in all the right
long-term markets with some large land projects in relatively
good locations,” said Burns, who advised one of the bidders on
the deal, which he declined to name. “We grade all markets A to
F and they have a high concentration in A and B locations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 