-- 
Taylor Wimpey Sells North American Units for $955 Million to Buy U.K. Land

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-03-31T10:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/taylor-wimpey-sells-its-north-american-homebuilding-units-for-955-million.html
Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , the U.K.’s
second-largest homebuilder, agreed to sell its North American
units for at least $955 million to cut debt and purchase land.  The buyer of the U.S. and Canadian divisions was TMM
Holdings LP, a property investment firm backed by Oaktree
Capital Management LP, TPG Capital and JH Investments Inc.,
Taylor Wimpey said in a statement today. The price was at the
top end of the High Wycombe, England-based company’s estimates,
Chief Executive Officer Peter Redfern said.  Taylor Wimpey reported three years of losses through 2009
as the collapse of the U.K. housing market led to falling sales
and writedowns. The company sold shares and renegotiated loans
after borrowings soared to 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) by
July 2008, bringing it close to violating loan agreements.  “The sale is the final stage of getting the balance sheet
in the right shape and puts us in a strong position for the next
five years,” Redfern said on a conference call. “We can
participate more fully in the U.K. land-buying market.”  Taylor Wimpey rose 3 percent to 42.6 pence at 10:54 a.m. in
 London  trading, increasing the company’s market value to 1.36
billion pounds. The stock, which has climbed 35 percent this
year, reached a low of 3.34 pence on Nov. 25, 2008.  “The price was not as low as feared, but Taylor Wimpey is
now just one of seven U.K. housebuilders with a balance sheet
that’s not especially strong,” said Charlie Campbell, an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. with a “hold” rating on the
stock. “If you want a pure U.K. housebuilder with a bit of
debt, why not buy Persimmon, which has a much better landbank.”  California ,  Florida   Taylor Wimpey’s U.S. unit has operations in  Arizona ,
California,  Colorado , Florida and  Texas . Its Canadian business
operates under the name Monarch Homes.  Proceeds from the deal will help Taylor Wimpey invest in
its U.K. homebuilding business, especially the land market, the
company said. The homebuilder will retire 350 million pounds of
a 950 million-pound revolving credit facility.  The transaction is subject to approval by shareholders and
is expected to be completed by the end of May, according to the
statement.  Taylor Wimpey was formed by the 5 billion-pound merger of
Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey in 2007. When the combined
company started trading on July 3 of that year, it had a stock
price of 379.5 pence and a market value of 4.35 billion pounds.  Like other U.K. homebuilders, Taylor Wimpey has been trying
to widen margins by acquiring cheap land and selling fewer homes
with higher margins on each sale. U.K. house prices fell for a
ninth month in March as growth in the supply of homes for sale
outpaced demand, Hometrack Ltd. said today. Barratt Developments
Plc. is the country’s biggest homebuilder by volume.  North America  Share  Taylor Wimpey reported net income of 259 million pounds for
last year. North America accounted for 32 percent of its revenue
in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The operating profit margin in North America was 11.2
percent in 2010, compared with 7.1 percent in the U.K., the
company said in March. Taylor Wimpey in January reported net
debt of about 660 million pounds, beating an average estimate of
716 million pounds by 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Oaktree, based in  Los Angeles , manages $82 billion in
assets including $4 billion of real estate assets and $55
billion of distressed and high-yield debt, according to its
website. TPG Capital of Texas has $48 billion of capital under
management, its website says. Vancouver-based JH Investments has
holdings in real estate, construction services and aircraft
supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 