-- 
Bank of China New York Branch Was Second-Largest Fed Borrower in Aug. 2007

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-03-31T18:53:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/bank-of-china-s-new-york-unit-deutsche-bank-led-august-2007-fed-borrowers.html
The New York branch of  Bank of
China Ltd. (3988)  was the second-largest borrower from the  Federal
Reserve ’s discount window during a nine-day period in August
2007 as subprime-mortgage defaults first roiled broader markets.  The unit of China’s oldest bank borrowed $198 million on
Aug. 17 of that month as two  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  divisions borrowed
$1 billion each, according to a document released today, which
covered outstanding credit in the period from Aug. 9 through
Aug. 17. The firms were the largest borrowers listed.  While details of many of the Fed’s emergency lending
programs were made public in December under last year’s Dodd-
Frank law, for the first time records released today by the
central bank provide transaction-level details of loans from its
discount window, which began operations in 1914.  There was “nothing special” about the Fed loan to the
Bank of  China  unit, said Dale Zhu, the New York-based head of
the division’s treasury. The banking company is China’s third-
largest lender by market value and partly government-owned.  “It was just routine borrowing, some of the payments that
should have come to us, did not come to us,” Zhu said today in
a telephone interview. “In the years that I’ve been in the
bank, we’ve done that a couple of times. We have a procedure for
that, that’s for emergency purposes.”  He said he couldn’t remember the particular clients whose
payments weren’t received as expected at the time.  The main function of the discount window is to be a
“backup source of short-term funds for generally sound
depositary institutions,” according to the Fed’s  website .  Lenders listed as “BANK OF NY,” which borrowed $20
million on Aug. 10, 2007, and “NORDEA BK FINLAND PLC NY BR,”
which received $25 million on Aug. 16, led borrowers tapping the
window earlier in the period covered by the document.  Surprise Announcement  The Fed, in a surprise announcement on Aug. 17, 2007, cut
the rate on such loans by 0.5 percentage point, to 5.75 percent,
and extended the term from overnight to 30 days to combat the
uncertainty over asset values that had spread to money markets.  Weekly averages for primary discount-window loans soared
from $2 million during the week ended Aug. 1, 2007, to $7.2
billion in the week ended Sept. 12, regular Fed data showed.  John Gallagher , a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, declined to
comment. The Financial Times reported the Frankfurt-based bank’s
borrowing in 2007, saying it was taking advantage of lower
rates. Kevin Heine, a spokesman for  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK) , declined to immediately comment, and Kati Tommiska, a
spokeswoman for Nordea Bank AG, didn’t immediately return an e-
mail seeking comment.  Then New York Fed President  Timothy Geithner  encouraged the
Clearing House, a group of major banks including Citigroup Inc.,
and JPMorgan Chase & Co., to hold a conference call on Aug. 17,
2007.  Freedom of Information  On the call, Geithner and then Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  encouraged banks to use the discount window and said it was
a “sign of strength,” the group said in a statement that day.  Fed documents were released after federal courts ordered
the central bank to respond to requests submitted under the
Freedom of Information Act by Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News, and News Corp.’s Fox News Network LLC. The
late Mark Pittman, a Bloomberg reporter, submitted the first of
the FOIA requests in May 2008.  Bloomberg News is posting the raw documents here for
subscribers to the Bloomberg Professional Service as well as
 online  at www.bloomberg.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  