-- 
Bond Risk Rises on Concern Bank Stress Is Deeper Than Forecast

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-03-31T13:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/bank-bond-risk-rises-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Credit-default swaps on European
debt rose as a failed bank merger in Spain and stress tests in
Ireland fueled concern the cost of saving the region’s financial
system will be greater than forecast.  Credit-default swaps on Ireland, Spain,  Portugal  and  Greece 
rose, pushing up the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
15 governments. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of 25 banks
and insurers increased 5 basis points to 153.5, the highest
since March 16, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Investors are concerned there will be mounting pressure for
bondholders to share the burden of bank losses after results of
the third round of stress tests on Irish lenders today.  Caja de
Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM)  sought a state bailout because three
other Spanish savings banks rejected a merger after the lender
said it needs almost double the amount of capital forecast.  “This news that Spanish banks may need more capital should
heighten worries about all of Europe’s weaker banks,” said  Bill Blain , head of strategy at Newedge Group in  London . “If the
Irish throw the nuclear button of burden sharing, that would be
a massive hit across the banking sector.”  Default swaps on Ireland increased 20 basis points to 645,
according to CMA. Contracts on Spain jumped 13 to 238, Portugal
climbed 21 to a record 587 and Greece rose 20 to 1,001.  Markit Group Ltd.’s sovereign index rose 3 basis points to
174 and its gauge of subordinated financial risk rose 11 basis
points to 275. An increase signals deterioration in perceptions
of  credit quality .  Bond Prices  Bonds of Anglo Irish Bank Corp., the lender that’s received
more than 29 billion euros ($41 billion) of government cash and
is being wound down, declined. The company’s 400 million-pound
($645 million) floating-rate note due June 2012 was quoted down
3.5 pence in the pound at 58 pence, according to Jefferies
International Ltd. prices on Bloomberg. Its 1.25 billion euros
of floating-rate bonds maturing in January next year were down
2.5 cents at 60 cents in the pound, according to Jefferies.  Senior bonds of Allied Irish Banks Plc and Bank of Ireland
Plc, the two biggest lenders, were little changed ahead of a
speech by Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  this afternoon.  Allied Irish’s 650 million euros of 12.5 percent
subordinated bonds maturing in 2019 declined 0.5 cents and were
at 23.5 cents in the euro, according to Jefferies. Bank of
Ireland’s 747 million euros of subordinated 10 percent notes due
2020 were little changed at 52.5 cents on the euro.  Eoin Dorgan, a spokesman for Noonan, declined to comment
before the minister speaks.  ‘Aggressive Rhetoric’  “I think we’ll get aggressive rhetoric, we’ll learn what
the holes in the banks’ capital are and their liquidity needs,”
said  Tom Jenkins , an analyst at Jefferies in London. Anglo Irish
and Irish Nationwide “are dead banks, so they may decide to
start harvesting the organs.”  In  Spain , Cajastur, Caja de Extremadura and Caja Cantabria
voted against combining their businesses with CAM in a new
entity known as Banco Base. CAM said it would seek support from
the state rescue fund, which operates by taking ordinary shares
with  voting rights , meaning at least partial nationalization of
any lender that seeks help.  The decision, two days after a Bank of Spain deadline for
lenders to submit capital-raising plans, may complicate
government efforts to rebuild confidence in Spain’s financial
system by shepherding savings banks into mergers and
strengthening their capital.  “In a market where banks are generally perceived as
dangerous, stories like this raise the uncertainty threat
level,” Blain said. “We should be more skeptical of what real
losses are going to be at the banks. The amount we’re going to
have to recapitalize them by is an ever moving number - in the
case of Ireland, usually up!”  The cost of insuring corporate debt also rose. The Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of 40 companies with mostly high-yield
credit ratings rose 3 basis points to 390. The Markit iTraxx
 Europe  Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings
increased 0.5 basis point to 103.25, JPMorgan prices show.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.2 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  