-- 
Bank of Japan Said to Consider Supporting Loans for Companies After Quake

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 
2011-04-01T01:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/bank-of-japan-is-said-to-consider-emergency-program-to-avert-cash-shortage.html
The  Bank of Japan  is considering
offering temporary loans to banks to aid companies with cash-
flow shortages in the wake of the record March 11 earthquake,
three people familiar with the matter said.  The plan may be presented to the central bank’s board as
early as this month, the people said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because the discussions weren’t public. BOJ Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa and his colleagues are scheduled to meet on
April 6-7 and on April 28.  Companies may face funding challenges as they fix damage
and pay wages while production is suspended due to power cuts,
particularly smaller firms with less cash on hand or lines of
credit. The BOJ effort would help avoid a jump in bankruptcies
amid calls from lawmakers and business leaders for the central
bank to do more to support the economy after the disaster.  “With sales plunging, companies are running out of cash on
hand and they are asking for loans to stay in business,” said
Hiroshi Shiraishi, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  Tokyo .
“The Bank of Japan will probably give some support to
accommodate such demand.”  Japan’s top three commercial lenders said corporations have
asked for loans totaling 2.6 trillion yen in the first two weeks
after the quake, equivalent to 1.3 percent of city banks’
outstanding lending. About 600 businesses have asked for advice
on post-quake financing from the Chamber of Commerce in Sendai,
the largest city in the northeastern region.  ‘Out of Cash’  “Companies are concerned about the risk of running out of
cash on hand,” said Masanobu Abe, deputy head of Sendai Chamber
of Commerce’s small business finance division, urging officials
to ensure loans are made to smaller firms. “They are also
worried because they can’t sell products due to the breakdown in
transport and they may fail to collect debt and pay salaries.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  aims to compile a supplementary
budget this month to pay for relief and rebuilding after the
magnitude-9.0 earthquake and tsunami in northeastern Japan left
more than 27,000 dead or missing. It also crippled a nuclear
energy plant that helps power Tokyo and surrounding areas.  Shirakawa has focused on providing liquidity to maintain
financial stability, while rejecting more aggressive proposals
for the central bank to directly finance  government spending .
The first business day after the temblor, the BOJ injected a
record 15 trillion yen into money markets.  Equities Rebound  A surge in bankruptcies would threaten to deepen the hit to
the nation’s economy just as investors grow more confident Japan
will rebound later this year. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average,
which had fallen as much as 18 percent from its March 10 close,
rose for a second day yesterday. It fell 0.1 percent at 10:23
a.m. in Tokyo, taking losses since the quake to 6.6 percent.  Details of the potential BOJ lending program haven’t been
completed, the three people said. One said that credit may be
offered in the form of one-year loans, and another said the rate
on the funds could be 0.1 percent, equivalent to the upper bound
of the central bank’s benchmark overnight rate target range.  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan’s fiscal commission
yesterday urged the BOJ carry out monetary policy flexibly in
cooperation with the government. Keidanren, the country’s
biggest business lobby, also urged the central bank to maintain
“powerful” monetary policy easing.  Damage Estimate  Japan ’s government last month said that direct damage from
the disaster may reach 25 trillion yen, about 5 percent of gross
domestic product and more than twice the total for the 1995 Kobe
earthquake. Manufacturers including Toyota Motor Co. and
Panasonic Corp. have suspended plants after the quake.  In the wake of the disaster, the BOJ pumped a record amount
of funds into the financial system to calm markets. It also
increased monetary stimulus by doubling to 10 trillion yen its
program to buy assets such as government and corporate bonds.  After the 1995 Kobe earthquake, the central bank unveiled a
500 billion-yen loan program targeted at lenders operating in
the quake-stricken region. It offered one-year loans at the
BOJ’s 1 percent benchmark rate. The facility was extended by one
year and lending totaled 271.5 billion yen.  The fillip provided by private and public investment in the
aftermath of the 1995 earthquake helped the economic expansion
accelerate for two years after three years of near zero growth.
The  World Bank  last week said that it may take five years for
Japan to rebuild though the economy will return to normal “very
soon” once reconstruction work starts.  Growth Forecasts  The disaster has prompted analysts to cut their growth
forecasts. Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. now see an
expansion rate of 0.7 percent for the year starting April 1,
compared with a previous estimate of 1.3 percent.  Capital Economics Ltd. is projecting gross domestic product
will probably drop through June, with zero growth for 2011.  Japanese large manufacturers became more confident about
the outlook before the quake, a BOJ survey showed today. The
quarterly Tankan index of sentiment among big manufacturers rose
to 6 in March from 5 in December, with 72 percent of responses
coming in by March 11, the day of the quake, the BOJ said.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. received requests for
about 700 billion in loans in the two weeks following the
earthquake, said Shinya Matsumoto, a spokesman for the bank.
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. has received requests for about 900
billion yen, Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman for Mizuho said.
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. received loan requests totaling 1
trillion yen, Chika Togawa, a spokeswoman for the bank, said.  Ryuzo Miyao, a BOJ board member, told reporters on March
23 that the bank will “seriously consider any possible policy
measures to support reconstructions,” when asked about the
possibility of introducing a special lending facility similar to
the 1995 program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net  