-- 
Barry Bonds’s Former Personal Shopper Testifies She Saw Trainer Inject Him

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-31T22:38:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/barry-bonds-s-former-personal-shopper-testifies-she-saw-trainer-inject-him.html
Home-run king  Barry Bonds ’s former
personal shopper testified that she saw the baseball player’s
trainer give him an injection in his navel in 2002.  Kathy Hoskins, who has known Bonds since their childhood
growing up in Northern California, said Bonds and the trainer,
 Greg Anderson , were in the former  San Francisco Giants 
outfielder’s bedroom when Bonds said, “Let’s do it right here”
and lifted his shirt up. She said she was in the room packing
Bonds’s bags for a trip.  “So Greg shot him in the belly button” with a syringe,
said Hoskins, who was called as a witness today by federal
prosecutors at Bonds’s federal perjury trial in San Francisco.  Hoskins testified that Bonds said it was “a little
something” and couldn’t be detected. When Anderson expressed
surprise that Bonds said to proceed after they came into the
room where Hoskins was, Bonds said, “She’s my girl,” Hoskins
testified. Hoskins said she didn’t know what was in the syringe.  “I didn’t know it was steroids,” she said under cross-
examination by Cris Arguedas, an attorney for Bonds. “I didn’t
know what it was.”  Bonds, 46, who holds  Major League Baseball ’s career and
single-season home run records, is accused of lying when he told
a federal grand jury in 2003 that he never knowingly took
steroids provided by Anderson and that no one other than his
doctor gave him injections. Bonds, according to his lawyers,
truthfully testified that he received performance-enhancing
substances from Anderson, while not knowing what they were
because they were new at the time.  Soreness Complaints  Hoskins is the sister of Steve Hoskins, who was Bonds’s
former partner in a sports memorabilia business. He told jurors
on March 23 that Bonds took steroids in 2000 and complained to
him about soreness from getting injections of performance-
enhancing substances.  Kathy Hoskins said she stopped working for Bonds in 2003
and knew that Bonds and her brother had a falling out that same
year and both men had spoken to federal agents. She wiped her
eyes repeatedly with tissue as she testified that Bonds had
broken ties with her brother and didn’t want him to see his
father Bobby Bonds or attend the elder Bonds’s funeral.  Interview With FBI  She told Arguedas that she knew her brother suggested that
the agents interview her about something she saw. She disagreed
when Arguedas suggested she would “back up” her brother.  “I had nothing to do with it, he (her brother) threw me
under the bus and that’s why I’m here,” said Hoskins, who wore
a navy blue v-neck sweater, shirt and necktie and waist-length
braids tied in the back.  “I didn’t go running around saying ‘where’s the FBI, I
know something,’” she said, drawing laughter from the courtroom
crowd. Bonds, sitting at the defense table, smiled as he looked
down.  “I feel like I was put in the middle of it,” she said
later, choking up. She knocked over a cup of water before
leaving the witness stand and wept as she walked out of the
courtroom.  Steve Hoskins also told jurors that he had talked to
Bonds’s orthopedic surgeon, Dr. Arthur Ting, at least 50 times
about anabolic steroids and said he told the doctor that Bonds
was using them. Hoskins testified that Ting told him to tell
Bonds to stop.  Injuries  Today, Ting testified that Hoskins didn’t tell him that the
slugger was taking banned muscle-building substances. The
Fremont,  California , doctor, who has treated Bonds since 1998,
said Hoskins spoke to him about anabolic steroids only once,
when he asked for information about the relationship between
steroids and tendon injuries. Hoskins had testified that he told
Ting he was seeking the information about the steroid Deca for
Bonds.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeff Nedrow asked Ting several
times if he could remember talking to Hoskins about steroids
other than the one time.  “I don’t recall any specific conversation with the
specific topics,” said Ting. “I can say with confidence I
didn’t discuss that.”  Nedrow asked whether it was possible he had other
conversations with Hoskins.  “Possible,” said Ting.  The doctor told jurors that Bonds had been prescribed
legal corticosteroids for controlling inflammation over the
years. The doctor said the side effects of those anti-
inflammatory treatments included acne, bloating, decreased
sexual desire and mood swings, the same side effects that can be
caused by anabolic steroids.  Arguedas claimed the prosecutors had withheld information
from Ting favorable to Bonds and asked U.S. District Judge
Illston for a hearing. Nedrow said there was no basis for the
claim. Illston didn’t rule on Arguedas’s request.  Anderson has refused to testify as a witness and was
jailed March 21 for contempt.  The trial resumes April 4.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 