-- 
Secret Recording of Barry Bonds's Doctor Found, U.S. Prosecutor Says

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-04T23:59:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/barry-bonds-s-doctor-testifies-aide-didn-t-tell-him-player-took-steroids.html
The U.S. obtained a secret recording
of home-run king  Barry Bonds ’s doctor from the slugger’s former
business partner, who claims he told the physician about Bonds’s
alleged steroid use, a prosecutor said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Parrella told U.S. District
Judge  Susan Illston  in San Francisco today that the business
partner, Steve Hoskins, found the tape and that a copy of a
digitized version of the cassette recording has been provided to
defense attorneys in Bonds’s perjury trial.  Arthur Ting, a Fremont, California, orthopedic surgeon who
has treated Bonds since 1998, testified March 31 that Hoskins
never told him that his patient was taking banned anabolic
steroids. Hoskins testified that he spoke to Ting at least 50
times about performance-enhancing substances and said the doctor
told him to tell Bonds to stop using them.  “It may require us to recall either Hoskins or Ting or
both in order to nail down this issue so there is an accurate
representation,” Parrella told Illston without the jury present
today, day nine of Bonds’s perjury trial. The government was
working on transcribing the tape, Parrella told Illston late
this morning.  Illston said that based on what she could hear on the tape,
the contents of the recording doesn’t appear to contain
substantive evidence.  “It doesn’t add anything to the case” or is
“inadmissible,” said Illston at a late afternoon hearing about
the recording.  Accused of Lying  Bonds, 46, who holds  Major League Baseball ’s career and
single-season home run records, is accused of lying when he told
a federal grand jury in 2003 that he never knowingly took
steroids provided by his trainer and that no one other than his
doctor gave him injections. Bonds, according to his lawyers,
truthfully testified that he received performance-enhancing
substances from Anderson, while not knowing what they were
because they were new at the time.  The recording surfaced as the government was preparing to
wrap up its case. The jury was excused today because one juror
was sick.  Hoskins testified that he went to Ting in 1999 to get
information about the steroid Winstrol and its side effects at
Bonds’s request. He said he had many subsequent conversations
with Ting about Bonds’s steroid use, and testified that he
recorded Ting in 2003 or 2004 at the physician’s office.  Steroids Shots  Hoskins said he made the tape to get information about a
doctor Ting worked with, then later said he couldn’t remember
why he made the recording. He testified that he wasn’t able to
locate the recording. Hoskins also made a secret recording of
Bonds’s former personal trainer  Greg Anderson  that was played in
court. A voice identified as Anderson was heard allegedly
discussing steroid shots he gave to Bonds.  Ting acknowledged on the stand that around 1999, Hoskins
asked him about anabolic steroids. He said Hoskins asked him for
information about the relationship between steroids and tendon
injuries and denied that Hoskins said the information was for
Bonds. He said he couldn’t recall having subsequent
conversations with Hoskins, although it was “possible.”  Allen Ruby, Bonds’s attorney, told Illston today that his
team wanted to have its experts examine the recording device and
the original tape itself. He predicted that the tape “will
never come into evidence.”  Evaluating the Tape  Illston said it was a “reasonable request” and said the
government could have its agents present if prosecutors were
concerned about the tape’s security. Tomorrow the defense is
having a  San Francisco  audio laboratory evaluate the tape and a
recording device that may have been used by Hoskins to make
tomorrow morning, Ruby said. A transcript of the recording made
by Bonds’s attorneys was given to Illston.  Parrella told Illston that prosecutors may use the
recording to put Hoskins back on the stand to question him about
his earlier testimony about conversations with Ting.  “To the extent that it corroborates” what Hoskins said,
the tape would be used to show that Hoskins had a conversation
with Ting about steroids and recorded it, Parrella said.  If the recording is used as evidence at trial, and it
corroborates Hoskins’s story, prosecutors may seek to use it to
show inconsistencies in Ting’s testimony, said University of San
Francisco law professor Bob Talbot.  “But it’s pretty hard for the jury to just use it for that
purpose,” he said. “You just make inferences, and if the
doctor heard about it, the doctor must have talked to” Bonds
about it.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor for this story:
Michael Hytha in San Francisco at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 