-- 
Baseball Set for Data Deluge as Player Monitoring Goes Hi-Tech

-- B y   I r a   B o u d w a y
-- 
2011-03-31T21:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/baseball-is-set-for-deluge-in-data-as-monitoring-of-players-goes-hi-tech.html
On a Saturday morning in March, some
400 people crowd a conference room at the Boston Convention
Center. Mostly men, and mostly paying customers, they are there
to listen to six other guys talk about baseball statistics.  It’s day two of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Sloan Sports Analytics Conference, an annual gathering dubbed
“Dorkapalooza” by ESPN’s Bill Simmons. The buzz from the panel
is about something called Fieldf/x, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its April 4 issue.  “Do you feel like Fieldf/x will essentially make all other
fielding stats irrelevant?” asked the moderator, the writer Rob Neyer.  “Yes,” said Tom Tippett.  Tippett is the director of baseball information services
for the  Boston Red Sox , which means he’s in charge of gathering
and crunching numbers to help put together a winning team.  “I kind of feel like I have to throw away everything I’ve
done for the last 20 years and start over,” he said.  But in a good way. Fieldf/x will create a digital catalog
of virtually every movement at every Major League Baseball game
in every park. Already in place in San Francisco’s AT&T Park, it
is coming to four more venues this year. If all goes according
to plan, it will be in every major league park by 2012.  Fieldf/x is a motion-capture system created by Chicago-
based Sportvision. It uses four cameras perched high above the
field to track players and the ball and log their movements,
gathering more than 2.5 million records per game. That means you
could find out whether  Ichiro Suzuki  truly gets the best jump on
fly balls hit into the right-field gap, or if  Derek Jeter  really
deserved that Gold Glove last year.  Changes in Pay, Recruitment  The deluge of numbers will send analysts scrambling to
answer just such questions. What they find will change the way
teams choose and pay their players, and the way fans watch and
talk about the game.  Motion capture, or optical tracking, promises to rid sports
of the biases of the human eye and quantify the formerly
unquantifiable art of being in the right place at the right
time.  In the  National Basketball Association , teams have begun
using it to sort out the conditions that make for a high-
percentage shot.  In European soccer, clubs are mapping the endless streams
of passes and moves to determine which lead to goals.  In baseball, it promises to solve the age-old statistical
riddle of defense, a feat that could make and break players and
ball clubs.  Glowing Puck  Curiously, Fieldf/x has roots in one of the most unpopular
additions to sports of all time, the much-reviled glowing puck,
which annoyed hockey fans for two years between 1996 and 1998.  In 1998, three Fox Sports executives who had helped to
create the effect left to form their own company.  Under its original chief executive officer, Bill Squadron
(now the head of Bloomberg LP’s Bloomberg Sports, which markets
sports statistical analysis to professional teams and fantasy
sports players), Sportvision went on to build the technology
that gave fans the yellow line that marks first downs on
football broadcasts and the data boxes that shadow cars during
Nascar races.  In 2001, the company worked with ESPN to create “K-Zone,”
which showed Sunday night baseball viewers the location of
pitches as they crossed home plate. Creating K-Zone required a
batch of data that became useful on its own.  K-Zone Upgrade  After several years of negotiations with the MLB,
Sportvision created an upgrade of K-Zone called Pitchf/x that
uses a pair of cameras set along the baselines to capture every
pitch roughly 40 times on its path between the mound and the
plate. In 2007, MLB installed Pitchf/x throughout the league at
a cost of about $2 million.  The point, at first, was to evaluate home-plate umpires’
calls. The league wanted “a thoughtful, objective way that
would be the same in every ballpark,” said Bob Bowman, CEO of
 Major League Baseball  Advanced Media.  Under a co-licensing agreement, Sportvision went on to sell
Pitchf/x to broadcasters while the major league’s Advanced Media
unit (known as BAM) used it in its online game-tracking service
called Gameday.  BAM also provides the raw data for free to all 30 teams,
who use it to evaluate pitchers and hitters.  “That was a tremendous amount of data,” said Mike
Chernoff, the 29-year-old assistant general manager of the
 Cleveland Indians .  Digesting it, he said, was a major undertaking.  “We continue to find useful pieces,” he said.  The data gave front offices a taste for motion capture.  Sportvision began cooking up broader applications. Hank
Adams, who succeeded Squadron as CEO, recalls a 2009 meeting with
the  Chicago White Sox .  Questions, Questions  “We had shown them data capture on one play, a steal, and
they kept asking us questions,” he said. “‘Do you get the
initial lead? Do you get the secondary lead? Do you get the
windup time, the pitch time, the pop time, the time it takes to
throw down to second base?’” The answer in every case was yes.  “You could see it on their faces,” said Adams, “‘Oh my
God, what are we going to do with all this data?’”  The widest frontier is in fielding. No one knows this
better than John Dewan, the owner of  Baseball Info Solutions . He
has spent decades building the current standard in defensive
metrics.  Complete Picture  Dewan estimates that game analysts are collectively about
90 percent along the way to the creation of a complete picture
of hitters, and close to 85 percent with pitchers.  With fielders, he said, they started with a severe
handicap. For over 100 years, scorekeepers have described a
player’s work in the field based only on what he does after he
gets to the ball. If a shortstop gathers in a grounder and
throws it to first in time to make the out, he is credited with
an assist. If he bobbles it and can’t make the throw in time, he
gets an error.  According to Dewan, this basic accounting captures only
about “5 percent of the information of what a player is all
about.”  Dewan’s life story is largely the story of trying to close
this gap. The 56-year-old Chicago native is one of baseball’s
Moneyball revolutionaries -- the statistical analysts chronicled
in Michael Lewis’s bestselling 2003 book.  Before getting into baseball, Dewan spent 10 years as an
insurance actuary. In 1982, he came across a copy of “The Bill
James Baseball Abstract.”  ‘Mesmerized’  “I was absolutely mesmerized,” Dewan said. “He was doing
with baseball data what I was doing with insurance.”  James, the Moses of Moneyball, is now a senior adviser to
the  Red Sox .  In 1984, frustrated at the lack of information in the
standard box score, James enlisted his Abstract readers in
Project Scoresheet. The idea was to standardize and collect the
work of amateur scorekeepers to create a more complete database
of statistics.  Dewan signed on early. He wrote a program to log the data
and soon became the project’s director. In 1985, he decided to
try to make a living out of it, investing $30,000 to found STATS
Inc. He ran the company from a bedroom of his Chicago home with
his wife, Sue, and co-founder, Dick Cramer.  Initially, Dewan, James, and the rest of the so-called
sabermetricians (after the Society for American Baseball
Research), focused on gathering and analyzing data for a
familiar set of events: balls, strikes, hits, walks, stolen
bases, home runs, and so on.  Overvalued Stats  Moneyball is essentially the story of how the values placed
on these events were upended when they began to look at the data
carefully. It turned out that, when it comes to producing runs,
and therefore wins, batting average and stolen bases had long
been overvalued, while the ability to draw walks had been
overlooked.  Oakland A’s General Manager Billy Beane listened to the
analysts before other GMs took them seriously and used their
insight to build a team of slow-footed, patient hitters who made
the playoffs four years running from 2000 to 2003.  Now, James acolytes occupy most major league front offices,
and have built an online industry around baseball statistics.
The approach’s popularity has also eroded its effectiveness.  “The statistical analysis game has grown on what I would
call stats of outcomes,” said Vince Gennaro, the author of
“Diamond Dollars: The Economics of Winning in Baseball,”
meaning the Moneyball heroes were simply rethinking the
traditional numbers.  “We were looking at what happens at the batter-pitcher
match-up, and then analyzing that to death.”  Zones  Now the game is moving, he said, toward looking at
“attributes and processes,” at not just what happened, but
how.  At STATS, Dewan helped to pioneer this transition. Looking
for a better way to assess defense, he decided to divide the
field into hundreds of zones and then count how often fielders
were able to make outs on balls hit into those zones.  He then measured each fielder against the average: If a
center fielder, for instance, made a catch on a ball that 70
percent of major leaguers would also catch, he was credited with
.3 toward what Dewan dubbed his Ultimate Zone Rating.  In 2000,  News Corp. (NWS)  bought STATS and the Ultimate Zone
Rating system with it. Dewan left and founded Baseball Info
Solutions two years later. There he refined his system,
increasing the number of zones to more than 3,000 and converting
the zone rating into a number of runs saved by a fielder’s play.  20-Run Saving  In 2010, little-known Daric Barton of Beane’s Oakland A’s
led all first basemen by (theoretically at least) saving 20
runs.  At BIS, compiling these numbers is a laborious task. The
company employs about 20 “video scouts” at its offices in
Allentown,  Pennsylvania . They watch video of every game at least
three times and tag every batted ball with a direction (from 135
to 225 degrees), distance (0 to about 400 feet, depending on the
size of the park), pace (hard, medium, or soft), and type
(grounder, fly ball, line drive, or “fliner”).  The results are information that major-league teams pay to
see, though Dewan won’t say how much. The BIS data, however, is
limited. It has nothing to say, for example, about where a
fielder was standing when the ball was hit. And it is liable to
human error, with a margin of 15 to 20 feet on some plays. Dewan
estimates he’s now only 60 percent of the way to fully measuring
a fielder’s ability.  2.5 Million Data Results  This is where Sportvision enters. Fieldf/x essentially
automates and massively expands the work of Dewan’s video
scouts. Each game at AT&T Park last season produced files of
about 2.5 million results, or 2 terabytes’ worth of data. At
that rate, eight baseball games would fill the memory bank of
IBM’s Watson supercomputer.  “It’s almost overwhelming how much data we’re creating,”
said Ryan Zander, the company’s general manager of baseball
products.  Much of it is extraneous: 20 records a second of players
warming up between innings or milling around between pitches.
Zander said Fieldf/x is accurate to within a foot. At AT&T, it
would sometimes grab hold of seagulls and cotton candy vendors
who came into the frame and begin tracking their movements. The
slice of data that teams are most likely to want amounts to
about one million results per game.  Paid For  Via major league’s BAM, front offices are likely to get
just that, and without paying a cent. In 2000, every club agreed
to kick in $1 million a year for the first four years of running
BAM, with the expectation that the project would eventually cost
$120 million.  The idea was to manage a leaguewide website and figure out
how to make money from baseball online. BAM became a moneymaker
ahead of schedule in 2003.  MLB.com  now gets 50 million to 60
million unique visitors per month during the season. Its mobile
app, At Bat 2010, was the top grosser in Apple’s online store
last year. BAM’s annual revenue is now nearly $500 million, and
teams have already been paid dividends totaling three times
their initial investment. The data is gravy.  For the first installation in  San Francisco  last year,
Sportvision, whose labs are in nearby  Mountain View , worked
directly with the Giants, under BAM’s oversight, to get
permission to test the technology.  In return, the Giants received exclusive access to the
data. BAM arranged this year’s installations -- already in place
at Yankee Stadium and in  San Diego , and under way in  Kansas City 
and Tampa.  ‘Every Park’  “Our plan is ultimately to put it in every park,” said
CEO Bowman.  First, he wants the commissioner and clubs to see how it
works. (Bowman plans to install a competing technology, called
PlayItOver, in one park “to keep everybody honest.”) If teams
like what they see, BAM will likely help shoulder the
installation cost -- about “six figures per,” according to
Sport­vision CEO Hank Adams -- and then try to figure out how to
make revenue from the technology.  “We think it’s a project that may deliver value to our
fans through the myriad of devices they use,” said Bowman.  Sportvision, meanwhile, will go to work on broadcast
products, such as overlaying the field with concentric circles
illustrating a player’s range.  Mountain of Data  Clubs will get a mountain of data and race to make use of
it. The coming deluge reminds the Red Sox’s Tippett of Project
Scoresheet in 1984. Like Dewan, he cut his teeth on that new
batch of data.  “I happened to be at the right age at the right time and
got in on that early, and that’s why I have a job with the Red
Sox today,” the 53-year-old said in the hallway, amid the crowd
at the  Sloan  conference.  Fieldf/x, he said, has the potential not only to be a big
step forward in how clubs evaluate players but also in opening
the door to “anybody who wants to jump in and be among the
leaders in figuring out what we can do with this stuff.”  There’s no shortage of people waiting to take him up on the
challenge, as suggested by the 1,500 who showed up at the Sloan
conference. Moneyball made analytics sort of sexy --  Brad Pitt 
will play Beane in the movie version to be released this fall --
and the market for number crunchers is glutted with talent.  The Internet is teeming with bloggers hoping to get noticed
for their work at sites such as  Baseball Prospectus  and the
 Hardball Times . The Indians’ Chernoff rattles off a list of four
names the team has recruited from their ranks and said his
team’s analytics budget continues to grow.  Bloggers’ Insights  Much of the insight gained so far from the Pitchf/x data
came from such bloggers, who figured out how to gather the
information from MLB’s online Gameday service.  As a rule, baseball teams don’t talk about their front-
office spending, but according to sources familiar with their
budgets, they now range from about $100,000 to half a million or
more for analytics.  The teams at the top end of that range treat work done in
public forums as tryouts. At the bottom, they treat it as free
labor. And where they get their stats analyzed will influence
each team’s opinion about whether or not they want the public to
see the Fieldf/x data.  “You hear stories from front offices about how much they
are relying on free work from the Internet,” said Robert
“Voros” McCracken, a onetime baseball analyst who famously
gave away one of the game’s great statistical epiphanies to a
small online group in 1999 (the only reliable measures for a
pitcher are the outcomes that don’t involve fielders: walks,
strikeouts, and home runs).  Free Labor  Teams, according to Voros, are asking, “‘Why do we need to
hire this guy? He’s giving us what we want for free.’”  Voros’s work earned him a job devising systems to evaluate
college players for the Red Sox for three years. The pay was
less than $30,000 per year.  Sportvision’s Adams admits the passive approach to
freelancers, is “probably not the best business model or even
the most consumer-friendly, frankly.”  For now, however, the company is focused on its broadcast
products and its partnership with the league. The fate of the
Fieldf/x data is unclear.  “I think we would make it public,” said Bowman. “We live
in an age where, if you’ve captured it somewhere, somebody’s
going to find it, so you’re better off making it transparent.”  But that decision will ultimately come from the
commissioner and teams.  For Clubs Eyes Only  If Tippett has any say in the matter, clubs will keep the
data to themselves.  “I want this to be adopted by Major League Baseball, made
available to all the clubs, but kept within the industry,” he
said.  Tippett says that broad access to Pitchf/x data produced
useful ideas and that as a fan he values open access, but he
knows who signs his checks.  “We don’t get paid to advance the state of the art in
analysis,” he said. “We get paid to put a winning team on the
field.”  If he could, of course, Tippett would keep the information
exclusive to the Red Sox, but Fieldf/x only becomes truly useful
as a leaguewide data set, so teams will have to share.  For the heavily analytical teams, the competition is not
with other teams, but with bloggers. Those clubs, said Gennaro,
will like their chances in a race restricted to a field of 30.  “A team at the bottom of the food chain,” he said,
“would benefit grossly from [Fieldf/x] being in the
blogosphere.”  Data Windfall  If it gets there, teams will get information potentially
worth millions for free.  Tom Tango is the nom de plume of one of the most respected
minds in sabermetrics, although he writes and posts anonymously.
(“Tommy is pretty much the best out there,” said Voros.)
Tango, who consults for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and  Seattle
Mariners , estimates that getting a jump on the new fielding data
could be worth an extra win or two per season for a major league
team.  “Teams will spend a lot of money to purchase an extra win
or two ($5 to $10 million),” he said in an e-mail.  That’s for players. Spending on analytics has not caught
up. While he is fiercely protective of his identity, Tango is an
advocate for public access to Fieldf/x.  “MLB can hire the 30 best analysts,” he said, “but the
next 3,000 best analysts would be able to do better and faster
work as a community than any single analyst can do on his own.”  Wait and See  Companies such as Baseball Info Solutions and Bloomberg
Sports are in wait-and-see mode.  “I would love to get my hands on it and use it in our
stuff,” said Dewan, “but how that’s going to work in the long
run, I don’t know.”  Bloomberg, which like Bloomberg News is owned by Bloomberg
LP, already gets Pitchf/x data as part of a partnership with BAM
and includes it in the analytics package it sells to 18 major
league teams.  “We would certainly be interested,” Squadron said of
Fieldf/x. “We might be best positioned to make sense of that
volume of data.”  Last summer, Sportvision invited six analysts to see what
they could find in 13 games worth of Fieldf/x data. Even with
that small slice, they were able to begin unwinding the
difference between the results of a play and its quality.  Soon teams will be able to distinguish between plays made
because a fielder was already standing in the right place and
those made because of exceptional quickness to the ball.  New Metrics  There will be new metrics -- such as degree of difficulty
ratings -- and more precise coaching.  “There are going to be pregame meetings on where the
shortstop is going to play exactly for each of the hitters,”
said Gennaro.  One way or another, the exhaustive data will also seep into
the game’s vernacular.  “We see center fielders make catches or shortstops make
diving plays and we go, ‘great range, great jump,’” said
Bowman. “That’s what it looks like to our naked eye.”  Now fans will begin to see what they’ve been missing. Range
will be described in numbers and not just adjectives.  “It’s going to make the game more scientific,” said
Gennaro.  More science, Bowman assures, doesn’t have to mean less
poetry.  “The facts will not end the discussion, they will only
enlarge it,” he said.  Editors: Bryant Urstadt, Dex McLuskey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ira Boudway at   iboudway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt in New York at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  