-- 
BASF’s Wintershall Says Libya Oil Production Future in Doubt

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T10:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/basf-s-wintershall-says-future-of-libya-oil-production-in-doubt.html
BASF SE (BAS) , which generates about 1.3
billion euros ($1.8 billion) in annual operating profit from
Libyan  oil fields , said the future of operations in the North
African state is in doubt as wells remain sealed by unrest.  BASF’s Wintershall, which sealed off its eight oilfields in
the Libyan desert at the end of February, is monitoring
political developments there with great concern, the unit’s
Chief Executive Officer Rainer Seele said at a presentation
today.  “The question of whether, when and how oil production can
recommence in  Libya  is, however, still completely open,”
Kassel, Germany-based Wintershall said in a statement.  Wintershall has operated in Libya since 1958, and the
country represented 14 percent of BASF’s exploration and
production reserves in 2009, according to a presentation. The
company has evacuated its foreign workers from production sites
that are 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) southeast of Tripoli.  While production can technically be resumed within a few
weeks, the speed of a restart depends on damage to
infrastructure, Seele said today. Fighting around the oil port
of Ras Lanuf has probably taken a toll, he said.  Wintershall may reconsider investment in the U.K. after the
country’s decision to increase taxes on oil-production profits,
CEO Seele said today in an interview with newswires. While the
company has not yet made a decision, the tax increase is “very
unfriendly to investment,” he said.  Statoil ASA,  Norway ’s biggest energy producer, two days ago
put on hold a $10 billion plan to develop the Mariner and
Bressay fields in the U.K. and said it will be less likely to
buy British assets after a tax increase.  The oil and gas unit expects a “significant” increase in
sales and earnings this year as  oil prices  will be on average
higher than last year, the company said. Wintershall expects oil
prices to average $90 this year, up from $80 last year, the
company said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  