-- 
Belarus Delays Additional Steps on Ruble, Seeks Russia Loan

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-03-31T16:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/belarus-delays-additional-steps-on-ruble-seeks-russia-loan-1-.html
Belarus’s central bank will refrain
from additional changes to its currency management policy for 20
to 30 days as the country negotiates a bailout loan with Russia,
the state-run Belta news service reported, citing an
unidentified central banker.  The former Soviet republic announced on March 29 that it
would allow local lenders to sell foreign currency to companies
at an  exchange rate  that deviates as much as 10 percent from the
official rate. Without a loan from Russia, that devaluation will
not be enough to curtail its current-account crisis, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch wrote in a report yesterday.  “Belarus could exploit its friendly, if increasingly
fraught, relationship with Russia and ask for loans to bridge
the deficit, if only temporarily,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief
economist for Russia and the former  Soviet Union  at Bank of
America in Moscow, wrote in the report. “We have seen over the
last couple of days enough indications to argue that such an
announcement is in the offing.”  The eastern European nation expects in the “near future”
to complete talks with  Russia  and other former Soviet partners
on a $3 billion bailout loan, according to a statement published
on the finance ministry’s website today. The country faces
increasing need for foreign support after Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded its debt ratings to B2 on March 29, with a
negative outlook, citing “significant near-term external
financing gaps.”  Yields on Belarus’s 2015 dollar bonds fell 20 basis points
to 11.93 percent as of 6:22 p.m. in Minsk, while its 2018 dollar
notes yielded 11 basis points less at 11.70 percent. The
Belarusian ruble was unchanged at 3,046 per dollar, leaving its
overall drop this week at 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  