-- 
Dexia Drew Most From Discount Window in Record Week in 2008

-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-03-31T20:22:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/belgium-s-dexia-drew-most-from-discount-window-during-record-week-in-2008.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the largest lender to
local governments in  Belgium , borrowed more than any other bank
from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s discount window during the week
in October 2008 when use of the program surged to a record.  Dexia borrowed $31.5 billion on Oct. 24 of that year
through its New York branch, according to Fed documents released
today in response to a Freedom of Information Act request. Total
borrowing from all banks using the discount window was $111
billion on Oct. 29, the record weekly total, according to
previously released data. Dexia had an outstanding balance of
$26.5 billion on that day.  Dexia, based in Brussels and Paris, and foreign banks
including Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc and  Bank of Scotland Plc 
dominated the list of borrowers from the U.S. central bank’s
last-resort lending program as markets seized up following
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s failure. The discount window,
 established in 1914 , is the Fed’s primary program for providing
cash to banks to help them avert a liquidity squeeze.  “When the perfect storm hits, you find out who’s prepared
and who wasn’t,” said  Vincent Reinhart , the Federal Reserve’s
director of  monetary affairs  from 2001 to 2007. “Borrowing from
the Fed is evidence of a lack of preparedness.”  Dexia’s outstanding balance at the Fed has been reduced to
zero, Ulrike Pommee, a spokeswoman for Dexia, said in an e-mail.  ‘Backward-Looking’  “This information is backward-looking,” she said. “We
experienced a great deal of tension concerning the liquidity of
the dollar at the time of the crisis. The Fed played its role as
central banker, providing liquidity to banks that needed it.”  The foreign banks took advantage of Fed lending programs
even as their host countries moved to prop them up or
orchestrate takeovers.  Dexia received billions of euros in capital and funding
guarantees from  France , Belgium and Luxembourg during the credit
crunch.  Depfa was taken over in October 2007 by Hypo Real Estate
Holding AG, which in turn was seized by the German government in
2009. Oliver Gruss, a spokesman for Depfa’s parent company,
didn’t immediately return requests for comment.  Bank of  Scotland , which had $11 billion outstanding from
the discount window on Oct. 29, 2008, was a unit of Edinburgh-
based HBOS Plc, which announced its takeover by London-based
Lloyds TSB Group Plc in September 2008.  HBOS Acquisition  The borrowings in 2008 didn’t involve Lloyds, which hadn’t
completed its acquisition of HBOS at the time, said  Sara Evans ,
a spokeswoman for the company, which is now called  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   “This is historic usage and on each occasion the borrowing
was repaid at maturity,” Evans said. “The discount window has
not been accessed by the group since.”  Other discount-window borrowers on Oct. 29, 2008, included
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s second-biggest bank; and
Norinchukin Bank, which finances and provides services to
Japanese agricultural, fishing and forestry cooperatives.  Tokyo-based Norinchukin borrowed $6 billion that day, and
Paris-based Societe Generale borrowed $5 billion.  The Fed kept the discount-window loans secret for more than
two years, after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress in
November 2008 that data on borrowers might taint them as not
creditworthy. The central bank released the documents after
court orders upheld FOIA requests filed by Bloomberg LP, the
parent company of Bloomberg News, and News Corp.’s Fox News
Network LLC.  Emergency Programs  In all, the Fed was ordered to release more than 29,000
pages of documents, covering the discount window and several Fed
emergency-lending programs established during the crisis from
August 2007 to March 2010. Last December, the Fed released
databases on the emergency programs, a requirement of the Dodd-
Frank Act enacted in July 2010. Dodd-Frank didn’t require the
release of information on discount-window borrowings during the
crisis.  According to weekly Fed data that don’t break out loans to
specific institutions, borrowings from the six emergency-lending
programs targeted at banks, securities firms and other financial
companies totaled $818.2 billion on Oct. 29, 2008. Those loans
are in addition to the $110.7 billion outstanding that day at
the discount window.  The emergency programs were created to supplement the
 discount window , which allows banks to get cash in exchange for
collateral pledges when they encounter a liquidity squeeze. As
banks’ bond prices plunged during the credit crisis, driving up
their borrowing costs, they could tap the window for loans at
below-market rates.  Discount Rate  Yields on U.S. bank bonds averaged 9.77 percent on Oct. 29,
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The
rate for borrowing from the Fed at the discount window on that
day was 1.25 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Wachovia Corp., based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
borrowed $29 billion from the discount window on Oct. 6, the
data show. The bank agreed in principle to sell itself to
Citigroup Inc. on Sept. 29, before announcing a definitive
agreement to sell itself to  Wells Fargo & Co . on Oct. 3. The
Wells Fargo deal closed at the end of 2008.  Wells Fargo spokeswoman  Mary Eshet  declined to comment on
Wachovia’s discount-window borrowing.  Wachovia had $15 billion remaining from the Oct. 6 loans as
of Oct. 29, 2008.  Bank ‘Stigma’  Use of the discount window by banks that were least able to
support themselves may undermine efforts in recent years by the
Fed to combat the “stigma” associated with the program. Some
banks had shown reluctance during prior financial crises to use
the window because doing so, “if it became known, might lead
market participants to infer weakness,” Bernanke said in an
April 2009 speech.  On Aug. 17, 2007, the  Federal Reserve  cut the rate on
discount-window loans, and then-New York Fed President  Timothy F. Geithner  encouraged banks to borrow from the window as “a
sign of strength.” Geithner is now Treasury secretary.  Five days later, Citigroup, Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Wachovia said they borrowed $500 million each
from the window “to take a leadership role in demonstrating the
potential value of the Fed’s primary credit facility and to
encourage its use by other financial institutions.”  According to previously released Fed data, discount-window
borrowings surged to $2.001 billion that day, from $4 million a
week earlier. By Sept. 26, 2007, borrowings from the window had
fallen back to zero.  Bear Stearns  In April 2008, after Bear Stearns Cos. collapsed and was
taken over by JPMorgan, borrowings from the window surpassed $10
billion for the first time, and didn’t fall back below that
level until March 2010.  The Fed’s most recent weekly report shows borrowings from
the discount window stood at $7 million as of March 23, 2011.  Some of the records the Fed released were originally
requested under the FOIA, which allows citizens access to
government papers, by the late Bloomberg News reporter Mark Pittman.  A federal district court judge ruled in 2009 that the Fed
had to disclose the records in the Bloomberg case, and a New
York-based appeals court upheld that ruling.  The Clearing House Association LLC, a group of 20 of the
nation’s largest commercial banks, had asked the U.S.  Supreme
Court  to shield the records from public view. The group said the
unprecedented disclosure might dissuade banks from accepting
emergency loans in the future.  Last week, the Supreme Court rejected the appeal, setting
the timetable for today’s data release.  Clearing House members include Citigroup, Bank of America,
Bank of New York Mellon, Comerica Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Fifth
Third Bancorp, HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., KeyBank,
M&T Bank Corp., Royal  Bank of Scotland , UBS AG, U.S. Bancorp and
Wells Fargo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 