-- 
Biden Says $33 Billion in Spending Cuts Weighed in Talks on U.S. Budget

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-31T18:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/biden-says-33-billion-in-cuts-weighed-in-u-s-budget-talks-1-.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  sought
to prepare Republican Tea Party supporters for a compromise on
spending cuts, after Vice President  Joe Biden  announced a
potential breakthrough in efforts to avoid a government
shutdown.  With Tea Party activists rallying today near the Capitol to
support deep spending cuts, Boehner cautioned that an agreement
with Democrats is necessary because Republicans only “control
one half of one-third of the government here in Washington.”  “We can’t impose our will on the Senate,” which is
controlled by the Democrats, said Boehner. “All we can do is to
fight for all of the spending cuts we can get an agreement to.”  The potential breakthrough in talks was announced late
yesterday by Biden as aides from both parties began crafting a
proposal with total spending cuts of about $33 billion in the
2011 budget.  The figure, below the $61 billion approved by the
Republican-controlled House last month, could lead to a final
deal for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30, Biden said.  “We’re talking,” Boehner said today, refusing to provide
details of the discussions. “There is no agreement on numbers
and nothing will be agreed to until everything is agreed to.”  April 8 Deadline  Boehner, of  Ohio , said he “would hope” a deal will be
reached to keep federal agencies operating before the current
spending measure expires April 8. He said it was time to move
the debate beyond a fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.  In the Senate, second-ranking Republican leader  Jon Kyl  of
 Arizona  said the overall level of cuts being pursued could be
acceptable if it allows lawmakers to turn attention to next
fiscal year’s budget and to an increase in the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling.  “I think everybody recognizes that it is now time to get
something done,” Kyl said in an interview. “We can’t continue
what we have been doing. So the pressure to compromise has been
increased on all sides.”  Biden, following a closed-door meeting last night with
Senate Democratic leaders, said no final agreement had been
reached on the level of cuts and that many details remain to be
worked out.  “There is no reason why, with all that is going on in the
world and with the state of the economy, we can’t reach an
agreement and avoid a government shutdown,” the vice president
said.  ‘Positive’ Direction  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today the budget
talks are moving in a “positive” direction. The negotiations
have produced a “general agreement” on a target amount for
budget cuts, he said.  Aides from both parties yesterday resumed talks that
stalled last week when Republicans said proposed Democratic cuts
weren’t deep enough.  Boehner said Republicans will fight to preserve the policy
provisions the House included in its budget bill. The dozens of
so-called riders include a ban on funding this year to implement
the health-care overhaul and federal grants to Planned
Parenthood of America, a federation of reproductive health
centers that provides abortion services.  As fiscally conservative Tea Party activists who propelled
the Republican takeover of the House in last November’s
elections held their rally, Boehner acknowledged the pressure to
fight for deep spending cuts.  “We got a lot of people in  Washington  who want to do a lot
of different things,” he said. “We promised the American
people we would fight to cut spending.”  Reid Priorities  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, vowed
to defend his party’s priorities as talks center on which
programs will face the budget ax.  A deal “will not come on the backs of middle-class
families and the jobs they need,” he said on the Senate floor
today. “It will not come if the other side continues to insist
on Tea-Party unrealistic cuts.”  Senate Democrats and the White House initially pieced
together a proposal that would bring the 2011 cuts to about $30
billion, including $10 billion in reductions already approved in
stopgap spending bills. Democrats said the offer was close to
the level of cuts House Republican leaders had sought earlier
this year before their rank-and-file demanded deeper ones.  Veto Threatened  President  Barack Obama  has threatened to veto the House-
passed spending measure, arguing the $61 billion in cuts would
hurt the nation’s economic recovery.  The last government shutdown occurred in late 1995 and
early 1996 in a budget dispute between Democratic President  Bill Clinton  and the Republican-controlled House and Senate. In its
wake, the Republicans suffered the most political blame.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  