-- 
Blackstone Said to Gain Control of Manhattan Office Tower With Debt Deal

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-04-01T04:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/blackstone-said-to-buy-loan-on-1140-avenue-of-the-americas-in-manhattan.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  agreed to pay
about $100 million for the loan on Manhattan’s 1140 Avenue of
the Americas to gain control of the Midtown office building,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The New York-based company won the bidding for the note on
the 22-story tower, located between 44th and 45th streets near
 Bryant Park , allowing it to take over the property, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the transaction
is private. The debt was held by Germany’s Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg, the person said.  A partnership of Stellar Management and Rockpoint Group
bought the building from  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)  for $97.5 million
in 2006, when commercial real estate prices were close to a
record. The venture has stopped making its mortgage payments,
 according  to Crain’s New York Business.  Stellar and Rockpoint borrowed $116 million through a
mortgage and about $13 million of mezzanine debt to acquire and
renovate the property, which is now more than 50 percent vacant,
according to the person with knowledge of the note sale.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, the world’s biggest
private-equity firm, declined to comment. Representatives of
Stellar Management, Rockpoint and Holliday Fenoglio Fowler LP,
which conducted the debt auction, didn’t respond to calls and e-
mails yesterday seeking comment.  The Real Deal Online  reported  the loan agreement yesterday.  The purchase of the loan on the 231,000-square-foot
(21,500-square-meter) building adds to a spate of recent
investments by Blackstone in anticipation of a recovery in U.S.
commercial real estate. In February, it agreed to pay about $9.4
billion for  Centro Properties Group (CNP) ’s U.S. shopping centers in
its largest purchase since October 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  