-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Seek Budget Agreement Amid Splits on Spending Cuts, Policy

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-01T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/boehner-prepares-to-sell-compromise-budget-cuts-worked-out-by-both-parties.html
Republicans and Democrats worked
yesterday on a $33 billion spending-cut plan, remaining divided
over what to cut and whether to include policy directives that
would put restraints on the Obama administration.  In a sign that an agreement on the 2011 budget could be
close, Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  began making the
case for a compromise so far resisted by Tea Party activists,
while Democrats said they could accept some of the so-called
policy riders they had previously ruled out.  As Tea Partiers rallied outside the Capitol to oppose a
deal, Boehner said Republicans have limited power to insist on
the $61 billion in spending reductions and numerous policy
directives they proposed. Still, he promised they would fight
for the largest possible cuts.  “We control one half of one-third of the government here
in  Washington ,” Boehner, of  Ohio , told reporters. “All we can
do is to fight for all of the spending cuts we can get an
agreement to.”  Both sides cautioned that the prospects for a deal,
prodded along by President Barack Obama’s team, hinged on
hammering out specific spending cuts and resolving whether the
final package will contain some of the policy riders. These
include proposals to curb the Environmental Protection Agency’s
powers.  “We have agreed on a number; we haven’t agreed how to get
to that number,” said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
 Nevada . His fellow Democrats, Reid said, “know that cuts must
be made, but they must be smart cuts.”  Planned Parenthood  Democrats say that while they won’t accept blocking the
EPA from regulating greenhouse gas emissions or provisions to
defund the health-care overhaul enacted last year and Planned
Parenthood, which provides abortions, narrower limitations on
policy could be part of a compromise.  “There are some riders we can probably agree on, but the
EPA measure is not one of them,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of
 New York , the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat. “Neither is
Planned Parenthood or the other extreme riders that have been
so controversial. I believe we can settle on a few measures
that both sides think are OK.”  Cuts of $10 billion already have been enacted for the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30, and the plan negotiators are
haggling over would raise that total to the roughly $33 billion
figure. The two sides have until April 8, when current spending
authority ends, to agree or risk a government shutdown.  ‘Shut It Down’  The talks are continuing as some fiscally conservative
Republicans dig in their heels against a compromise. Outside
the Capitol yesterday, Republican Representative Mike Pence of
 Indiana  led Tea Party protesters in a chant of “Shut it
down!”  Inside, Republican and Democratic leaders voiced hope that
a deal could be reached to avoid closing non-essential
government services for the first time in 15 years.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said the two sides are split over how much of
the cuts will come from the part of the budget that Congress
controls and how much from mandatory programs.  Republicans, who campaigned last fall on pledges to slash
by $100 billion domestic programs that depend on annual
appropriations, are pressing for the largest possible
reductions in those areas. Democrats are pushing to make a
large proportion of the cuts in programs whose spending levels
are mandated outside yearly budgets, such as entitlements and
transportation.  Make or Break  Boehner made clear that the outcome of these and other
unresolved issues will make or break the possible compromise.  “There is no agreement on a set of numbers, and nothing
will be agreed to until everything’s agreed to,” Boehner told
reporters.  The emerging deal was proving a tough sell with many House
Republican freshmen and other fiscal conservatives.  Representative Joe Walsh, a freshman Republican from
 Illinois , said in an interview that he wasn’t interested in
splitting the difference on budget cuts.  “The American people want us to be bolder than that,”
Walsh said. “I didn’t come here to just nickel and dime this
stuff.”  Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican, told
reporters, “I don’t think it’s going to fly unless you got
some real defunding” provisions, such as one targeting Planned
Parenthood.  Debt Ceiling  Other Republicans signaled they were ready to make a deal
on this year’s budget and move on to debates over a fiscal
blueprint for 2012 and raising the U.S. debt ceiling -- seen by
both parties as opportunities to rein in long-range  government
spending .  Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the chamber’s second-ranking
Republican leader, said he could accept the $33 billion
spending-cut package if it helped end the debate over funding
in a fiscal year that is now halfway over.  “I think everybody recognizes that it is now time to get
something done,” Kyl said. He said some policy directives will
have to be eliminated from a final deal, including the one
barring funds to implement the health-care overhaul.  Others may have to be finessed. There will be “a lot of
give and take on the policy riders,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  