-- 
WTO Says U.S. Gave at Least $5.3 Billion Illegal Aid to Boeing

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T14:51:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/boeing-received-at-least-5-3-billion-of-illegal-government-aid-wto-rules.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  received at least $5.3
billion in illegal U.S. subsidies that gave it an unfair
advantage over rival Airbus SAS, World Trade Organization judges
ruled, backing a European Union complaint.  Judges in Geneva today confirmed previously confidential
findings that the U.S. provided aid to Chicago-based Boeing
through federal research grants and state support in developing
aircraft including the 787 Dreamliner. Airbus parent European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. said the aid to Boeing cost it
$45 billion in lost sales and lower prices from 2002 to 2006.  The panel report, which comes nine months after the WTO
concluded Airbus had received billions of euros in low-interest
government loans from European governments, is the latest ruling
in the six-year-old dispute between the world’s two largest
commercial planemakers and may encourage the U.S. and the EU to
negotiate a settlement.  “This report shows that Boeing has received huge
subsidies in the past and continues to receive significant
subsidies,” EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said in a
statement in Brussels. “These subsidies have resulted in
substantial harm to EU interests, causing Airbus to lose sales,
depress its aircraft prices and unfairly lose market share to
Boeing.”  WTO judges ruled on EU arguments that Boeing benefited from
more than $10 billion in unfair assistance from both  NASA  and
the U.S. Defense Department. The EU also claimed illegal aid to
Boeing by states including Washington, Kansas and  Illinois .  Judges found that Boeing got $5.3 billion to $6 billion in
subsidies between 1989 and 2006 and $3 billion to $4 billion in
potential future aid based on Washington state tax measures.  NASA Programs  This includes NASA research and development programs worth
$2.6 billion in subsidies between 1989 and 2006, Department of
Defense programs with aid as high as $1.2 billion in the same
period, three Washington state tax breaks worth up to $4 billion
from 2006-2024 and foreign sales corporation export subsidies
valued at $2.2 billion until 2006.  Compared with the ruling over Airbus aid, today’s panel
report “reveals a market distorted by Airbus’ practices, with
illegal launch aid being the key discriminator,” J. Michael Luttig, Boeing executive vice president and general counsel,
said in a statement. Boeing wants its bigger rival to reimburse
the illegal portion of so-called launch aid until repayments
reach what they would have been had the loans been made at
market rates.  In their June 30 public decision backing the U.S., WTO
judges found that Airbus benefited from the support of European
governments, with subsidies for the A380 topping the list of
violations. Toulouse, France-based Airbus overtook Boeing in the
market for commercial aircraft in 2003.  Negotiated Solution  The EU had sought to prevent the cases from going to the
WTO, calling instead for a negotiated solution that it’s
continued to recommend. The U.S. has expressed a willingness to
negotiate a settlement provided the EU first agrees to scrap
launch aid.  The dual cases have become more important as rivals from
 China ,  Canada  and  Brazil  emerge and the rulings may set
industry-defining guidelines for government support in the $70
billion civil-aviation industry.  The U.S. and  Europe  filed counter-cases at the WTO in 2004
after the administration of former President  George W. Bush 
unilaterally walked out of a 1992 aircraft-aid accord with the
EU. The dispute is the largest ever before the WTO, which can
authorize retaliatory sanctions against countries that fail to
comply with its rulings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  