-- 
Bank of America Kept Tapping Fed Facility After 2007 Show of ‘Leadership’

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-31T19:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/bofa-kept-tapping-fed-facility-after-2007-show-of-leadership-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. bank, tapped the  Federal Reserve ’s discount window two more
times in August 2007 than previously disclosed, after saying it
used the program only to help stabilize the financial system.  The company borrowed $500 million on Aug. 22, a move
previously disclosed as the lender and its regulators sought to
dispel the stigma of using the Fed facility so other firms would
participate. Bank of America then went back to the Fed on Aug.
23 and Aug. 24 for $500 million each day, according to documents
released today after a Freedom of Information Act filing.  “We participated at the request of the Federal Reserve to
help stabilize the global banking system in a period of
unprecedented stress,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company. “At the time we
were participating, we weren’t experiencing liquidity issues.”  Bank of America would later need $45 billion in Troubled
Asset Relief Program funds after the acquisitions of Countrywide
Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co. strained capital. The
documents were part of thousands of pages released today, three
years after Bloomberg LP requested details of the central bank’s
support to firms during the financial crisis.  The regulator had never revealed who used the discount
window since it began lending in 1914. Bloomberg News is posting
the raw documents here for subscribers to the Bloomberg
Professional Service as well as  online  at www.bloomberg.com.  Countrywide Takeover  The bank bought $2 billion in preferred stock in
Countrywide on Aug. 22 to help keep the ailing subprime home
lender afloat, then announced a complete takeover of Countrywide
in January 2008. The August 2007 discount-window loans were
unrelated to Bank of America’s investment in Countrywide,
Dubrowski said. The firm repaid its TARP rescue loans in 2009.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Wachovia Corp. also borrowed $500
million from the Fed that month, Bank of America said in a joint
Aug. 22, 2007 statement.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said separately it
borrowed $500 million. Total borrowing from the discount window,
the Fed’s oldest lending program, soared to $111 billion in the
week ended Oct. 29, 2008.  While Bank of America and the three other firms have
“substantial liquidity and the capacity to borrow money
elsewhere on more favorable terms, the companies believe it is
important at this time to take a leadership role in
demonstrating the potential value” of the discount window,
according to the statement.  Bank of America is the only U.S. lender among the biggest
four that didn’t announce a higher dividend after the Fed
finished a review of the companies’ financial health and capital
plans this month. The Fed rejected the lender’s request for a
“modest boost” to its 1-cent per-share dividend this year,
Bank of America said on March 23.  Bloomberg News has posted the Fed documents for Bloomberg
Professional Service subscribers, as well as  online  at 
www.bloomberg.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net 
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 