-- 
Bombardier Surges Most Since 2008 as Profit Beats Estimates on Jet Demand

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-03-31T23:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/bombardier-profit-rises-as-corporate-demand-for-jets-rebounds.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  jumped the most
since November 2008 in Toronto trading after quarterly profit
beat analysts’ estimates as the company won business-jet orders
and pared inventory.  Net income increased 80 percent to $318 million in the
fourth quarter ended Jan. 31, Montreal-based Bombardier said
today in a statement. Profit of 18 cents a share beat the 11-
cent average estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Demand is rising for bigger models at the world’s third-
biggest planemaker as corporate profits recover. Bombardier won
its largest aircraft order this month when business-jet operator
NetJets Inc. agreed to buy as many as 120 aircraft to prepare
for a rebound in luxury travel. Bombardier generated free  cash
flow  of $605 million for the fiscal year.  “We had expected Bombardier to report positive free cash
flow and the result was even better due to strong orders at both
 Bombardier Aerospace  and Bombardier Transportation,” Fadi Chamoun, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets, said in a research
note. Chamoun rates the shares “outperform.”  Bombardier rose 83 Canadian cents, or 13 percent, to C$7.13
on the Toronto Stock Exchange. It was the biggest advance since
Nov. 21, 2008, and pushed the shares to the highest since Sept.
12 of that year, before the global financial crisis.  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , a Brazilian planemaker that competes against
Bombardier, said last week that fourth-quarter profit surged 26
percent on higher plane deliveries.  Sales at Bombardier’s aerospace unit rose to $2.9 billion
from $2.7 billion. Revenue at the transportation unit, which
makes subway cars and locomotives, fell to $2.5 billion from
$2.7 billion.  Order Backlog  Bombardier’s total order backlog swelled to $50.1 billion
on Jan. 31. The company said Feb. 17 that it would deliver about
the same number of aircraft from February through December this
year as it did in the 12 months of fiscal 2011 -- about 240
planes -- as it begins to report on a calendar-year basis. The
mix of deliveries will shift in favor of  business jets , the
company said.  “Bombardier has had a few recent positive surprises, and
incremental order activity from here could keep it going,” Noah Poponak, a Goldman Sachs analyst, wrote in a March 3 note after
the NetJets order announcement. He has a “neutral” rating on
the stock.  The company expects to have 300 orders for the new CSeries
commercial airliner, up from 90 now, by the time the 110-seat
jet goes into service in 2013, Gary Scott, who runs the
commercial aerospace division, said earlier this month.  The aerospace unit’s order backlog reached $16.6 billion on
Jan. 31, a similar level to a year earlier, Bombardier said
today.  “This is mainly due to an order received for the CSeries
family of aircraft, offset by a lower order backlog for regional
jets, turboprops and business aircraft,” the company said in
the statement.  Bombardier is the third-biggest planemaker behind Airbus
and Boeing Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net 
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net 
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  