-- 
Bondholder Haircut by Ireland May Shut Italy, Spain Funding

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-03-31T12:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/bondholder-haircut-from-ireland-may-shut-italy-spain-funding.html
Ireland making good on its threat
to impose losses on senior bank bondholders would precipitate a
funding crisis for lenders across southern Europe, according to
CreditSights Inc.  “The fallout would be big and it would be bad,” said  John Raymond , a London-based analyst at the independent research
firm. “The senior unsecured market would shut down, at least
for a while. Right now, the bigger and better Spanish and
Italian banks can still access the market. That could end.”  The Irish Central Bank will today publish the results of
stress tests, requiring the banks to raise another 27.5 billion
euros ($39 billion) of capital, according to the median estimate
of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. At the same time, the
nation’s new government, led by  Enda Kenny , is seeking to
extract better terms on its bailout loan and secure medium-term
funding from the  European Central Bank  to avoid a fire sale of
lenders’ assets, threatening to burn bondholders.  Irish banks had about 16.4 billion euros of senior
unsecured, unguaranteed bonds and another 20.9 billion euros of
government-guaranteed notes outstanding as of Feb. 18, according
to the Central Bank of Ireland. While governments have typically
stepped in to prop up distressed lenders before senior creditors
lose money, that has been changing after the cost to taxpayers
of the 2008 financial crisis.  Bonds Decline  Bonds of Anglo Irish Bank Corp., the lender that’s received
more than 29 billion euros of government cash and is being wound
down, declined. The company’s 400 million-pound ($645 million)
floating-rate note due June 2012 was quoted down 3.5 pence in
the pound at 58 pence, according to Jefferies International Ltd.
prices on Bloomberg. Its 1.25 billion euros of floating-rate
bonds maturing in January next year were down 2.5 cents at 60
cents in the euro, according to Jefferies.  Senior bonds of  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland
Plc, the two biggest lenders, were little changed ahead of a
speech by Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  this afternoon.  Eoin Dorgan, a spokesman for Noonan, declined to comment
before the minister speaks.  Pressure on bondholders to share the burden of banks’
losses is growing. In  Denmark , the government inflicted so-
called haircuts on senior creditors and depositors of regional
lender Amagerbanken A/S, which failed after losing money on
investments including real-estate loans. Moody’s Investors
Service cut ratings of five Danish banks, including Danske Bank
A/S, the country’s biggest, pushing up funding costs. Ireland’s
government has similar powers to Denmark’s under the terms of
its banking act.  Subordinated Debt  In the short term, subordinated debt is a more-likely
candidate for burden sharing than senior bonds, said  Tom Jenkins , an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in London.  “Subordinated debt is another matter,” he said. “A
coercive tender for the sub out there would be no surprise at
all and that’s reflected in its price.”  Allied Irish’s 650 million euros of 12.5 percent
subordinated bonds maturing in 2019 declined 0.5 cents and were
at 23.5 cents in the euro, according to Jefferies. Bank of
Ireland’s 747 million euros of subordinated 10 percent notes due
2020 were little changed at 52.5 cents on the euro.  Ireland owns all of the equity of Anglo Irish, Irish
Nationwide Building Society and EBS Building Society, and is
taking a stake of at least 93 percent in Allied Irish. The state
may also be forced to take ownership of Bank of Ireland and
Irish Life & Permanent Plc, the last of the country’s biggest
lenders to escape state control, following the stress tests.  Senior Creditors  The level of government-owned equity is important if senior
creditors are to be forced to take losses because junior
investors have to be wiped out first, according to Roger Doig,
who helps manage the equivalent of about $46 billion in fixed
income as an analyst at Schroders Plc in London.  “As a government, you could only haircut entities you own
the equity of,” Doig said. “You can’t keep equity outstanding
and haircut the seniors -- that would breach the principle of
seniority.”  Anglo Irish  has about 3 billion euros of senior unsecured
debt and a similar amount of government-guaranteed notes,
according to central bank data. The two building societies have
about 1 billion euros of senior unsecured bonds and about 1
billion euros of government-guaranteed notes, the data show.  Throwing Allied Irish into the mix would add 5.9 billion
euros of senior unsecured and 6 billion euros of government-
guaranteed bonds. That would bring the total senior unsecured
debt to about 10 billion euros, plus another 10 billion euros of
government-guaranteed notes.  Guarantee Triggered  The government’s guarantee would be triggered if the senior
bonds were written down, forcing the administration to pay off
those notes, according to  Stephen Lyons , an analyst at Dublin-
based securities firm Davy. Added to that, the senior bonds were
largely issued under  English law , meaning bondholders would have
recourse to the English courts for protection, he said.  Irish threats to haircut senior creditors are a negotiating
ploy, he said.  “What we give up is the threat of burden sharing,” he
said. “By focusing the headlights on the need for burden
sharing, we get the funding line we need for the banks. That
prevents a fire sale which would trigger losses. It’s a threat
we can’t use but can trade -- it focuses negotiations on a bank
funding line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  