-- 
Bookmakers Want Sri Lankan Win in Cricket World Cup Final to Avoid Payout

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-31T18:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/bookmakers-want-sri-lankan-win-in-cricket-world-cup-final-to-avoid-payout.html
An  India  victory in the Cricket
World Cup final tomorrow is sure to bring joy to the country and
sorrow for U.K. bookmakers.  India faces  Sri Lanka  in Mumbai with each team seeking its
second championship in the one-day form of the game. India was
among the favorites when the tournament began Feb. 19 and is
still being backed by bettors to lift the trophy.  “Money on India has been coming in all tournament and the
nearer we get to the weekend, it’s going to carry on,” Alex
Donohue, a spokesman for betting company  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) , said in
an interview. “We’re hoping Sri Lanka can help us.”  India’s semifinal against archrival  Pakistan  two days ago
brought in about 1.2 million pounds ($1.9 million) in bets for
rival bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH) , its highest-ever for a one-day
cricket match. Spokesman Rupert Adams said he’d be “extremely
pleased” to match that total on tomorrow’s game. Ladbrokes had
about 1 million pounds for the semifinal, an amount the company
expects to exceed in the final.  India has odds of 8-13 with both bookmakers, meaning a
winning $13 bet returns $8 plus the original stake. Sri Lanka
was 5-4 with both after the semifinals, and William Hill
extended its odds to 11-8 yesterday.  “Seventy-three percent of the money in the outright book
is for India,” Adams said in an interview. “We’ve pushed out
the price of Sri Lanka a bit to attract people.”  One unidentified gambler from the north of  England  stands
to make 287,000 pounds on an India victory after placing an
82,000-pound bet with Ladbrokes at odds of 7-2 prior to the
tournament.  Tendulkar Quest  Sri Lanka, which defeated  New Zealand  in the semifinals,
captured the title in 1996 and lost to  Australia  four years ago.
India won the final in 1983 and also lost to Australia, in 2003.  Much of the focus will be on India’s Sachin Tendulkar, who
can become the first player to score 100 centuries in
international cricket. The 37-year-old is being backed by
bettors to get the record after falling short against Pakistan
with 85 runs.  “If Tendulkar gets 100, and almost definitely man of the
match, that’s what really stiffs us because the prices are quite
decent,” said Adams, whose company is offering 5-1 that the
“‘Little Master” achieves the scoring feat tomorrow. “What we
are looking for is Sri Lanka to win and for Tendulkar to fail.”  Most of the bets will come while the match is going on,
rather than before, so it’s not yet clear how much an India
victory would cost the bookmakers. Both companies are hoping for
a close game so the money keeps coming in, which may help lessen
the sting of a big payout for an India win.  “We expect the momentum with India to carry on to the
final on Saturday,” Donohue said. “We’re flying the Sri Lanka
flag from the top of the Ladbrokes tower, that’s for sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 