-- 
Brazil February Primary Surplus Narrows Less Than Expected

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-03-31T16:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/brazil-budget-deficit-widens-more-than-expected-in-february-1-.html
Brazil ’s budget surplus before
interest payments narrowed less than expected in February after
the central government, state companies, and state and regional
governments all posted surpluses.  The primary surplus, which includes federal and local
governments as well as state companies, fell to 7.9 billion
reais ($4.9 billion) in February from 17.7 billion reais in
January, the central bank said in a statement distributed today
in Brasilia. The surplus was higher than the 6.9 billion reais
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.  The primary surplus was the highest number for February
since the series began in 2001, Tulio Maciel, acting head of the
central bank’s economic research department, told reporters in
Brasilia.  The  budget deficit  after interest payments widened to 11.2
billion reais from 1.53 billion reais in January, the central
bank said. The figure was higher than the median forecast of 8
billion reais in a Bloomberg survey of three analysts.  The forecast from policy makers that inflation will slow
toward its target in 2012 assumes that the government will hit
its target of a 117.9 billion reais primary surplus this year,
the central bank said in its quarterly inflation report
published yesterday. Consumer prices rose 6.13 percent in the
year through mid-March, close to the 6.5 percent upper limit of
the central bank’s target range.  ‘Benign’ Pace  The government’s primary spending expanded at a more
“benign” pace in February, said Enestor  Dos Santos , senior
Brazil economist for BBVA in  Madrid .  “We expect fiscal expenditures to continue losing some
steam in coming months and the public sector’s primary surplus
to near the 2.9% target by the end of the year,” Dos Santos
said, in a report sent to Bloomberg.  Net debt increased to 39.9 percent of gross domestic
product from a revised 39.8 percent in January. Regional
governments posted a 4.7 billion reais primary surplus, up from
4.5 billion reais in January.  Traders are wagering that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to
12 percent at its April 19-20 policy meeting, interest-rate
futures contracts show.  Budget Cuts  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration pledged to slash
50.7 billion reais from this year’s budget to help the central
bank contain inflation that’s running at its fastest pace since
November 2008. Economists expect consumer prices to rise 4.91
percent in 2012, according to a central bank weekly survey
published March 28.  “We have a lot of credibility issues in Brazil today, not
only with the central bank, but also on the fiscal side,” said
 Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA,
said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo  “People are really
asking why this time it will be different. If you look at the
last two years the fiscal results were very poor,”  Padovani expects the government to hit its budget target
this year, though he said this is not the majority view among
economists. Traders’ skepticism over the government’s ability to
hit its target is adding to pressure on the central bank, he
said.  Inflation Forecast  Inflation will slow to 4.4 percent in 2012, down from 5.5
percent this year, should policy makers raise the benchmark rate
to 12.5 percent from 11.75 percent now and the  exchange rate 
remains stable, the central bank said in its inflation report.
Annual inflation may exceed the target range in July and August,
Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s economic policy director,
told reporters yesterday. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell one basis
point to 12.11 at 12:25 p.m. New York time. The real
strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.6260 to the dollar from 1.6288
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  