-- 
Brazil's Bovespa Advances for Third Day as Banks Rally on Rate Outlook

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-03-31T20:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/brazil-s-bovespa-advances-for-third-day-as-banks-rally-on-rate-outlook.html
The Bovespa stock index rose for a
third day, adding to the biggest monthly advance since December,
as banks rallied on the outlook for a slower pace of interest
rate increases and higher commodities prices lifted producers.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Latin America’s biggest bank by
market value, jumped and an index of Brazilian financial stocks
posted its biggest two-day gain since May. Oil company Petroleo
Brasileiro SA and Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, jumped with crude and metals prices. Voting shares of
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA rose the most in the
first three months of the year on takeover speculation.  The Bovespa added 0.9 percent to 68,586.70 at the close of
 Sao Paulo  trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. Forty-nine stocks
rose on the index, while 18 fell. The measure advanced 1.8
percent this month and dropped 1 percent for the quarter.  “Banks and consumer stocks have been suffering as
investors expected new measures to be taken to limit economic
growth to curb inflation this year,” said Eduardo Roche, who
helps manage 3 billion reais ($1.84 billion) at Banco Modal SA
in Rio de Janeiro. “The outlook may improve now that,
apparently, the central bank threw in the towel.”  Itau Unibanco jumped 3.4 percent to 38.90 reais and is up
6.4 percent for the biggest two-day advance since July. The 12-
member MSCI  Brazil /Financials Index jumped 3.3 percent today and
is up 7.4 percent since March 29 for the biggest two-day gain
since May 27.  Rate Outlook  Yields on shorter-term interest-rate futures contracts fell
for the second day after the central bank yesterday said it will
postpone a plan to bring inflation down to a 4.5 percent target
until 2012. Policy makers said the costs of meeting that goal
through interest rate increases this year would be too high.  The yield on the contracts due in January, the most traded
today, declined 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
12.11 percent.  Commodities climbed today, poised for a third quarterly
advance. Crude increased on concern that conflict in  Libya  and
unrest in the Middle East would curb supplies.  Raw materials 
measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 futures
jumped 2 percent to 725.62, extending its gain to 14.8 percent
this year. Copper for three-month delivery gained as much as 1
percent on the London Metal Exchange.  “Rising commodities is usually a good thing for the
Brazilian equity market, as companies like Petrobras and Vale
gain,” said Roche. Vale and Petrobras account for about 28
percent of the Bovespa’s index weighting.  Vale Jumps  Vale rose 0.7 percent to 47.39 reais. Petrobras climbed 0.5
percent to 28.51 reais.  The Bovespa has retreated 1 percent this year through
yesterday as homebuilders and banks fell on concern faster
inflation will limit growth.  Brazil’s underperformance is unlikely to persist as
earnings growth should withstand rising inflation, strategists
at Bank of America Corp. including Renato Onishi wrote in a note
to clients dated yesterday. They reiterated an “optimistic”
12-month forecast of 88,000 for the Bovespa index, an increase
of 29 percent from yesterday’s close.  Voting shares of Usinas Siderurgicas jumped 31 percent to
28 reais in the quarter, leading gains for the Bovespa index in
that period, on speculation rivals plans to buy a stake.  Gerdau SA is a possible buyer, according to e-mails to
clients from Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. on
Mar. 14. Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA said Jan. 27 that it had
bought 5 percent of each class of Usiminas’s stock and may
further increase its stake to a level that could alter the
competitor’s management or control structure.  Marfrig Alimentos SA, Latin America’s second-largest beef
producer, climbed 4 percent to 14.59 reais today after posting
fourth-quarter net income of 62.4 million reais, from 44.1
million reais a year earlier, according to a regulatory filing.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar,
Brazil’s biggest retailer, advanced 2.7 percent to 67.12 reais.
Its online unit, Nova Pontocom, is prepared to do an initial
public offering “at any moment,” O Estado de S. Paulo
newspaper said, citing German Quiroga, chief executive officer
of the unit. A press officer for Pao de Acucar, who asked not to
be identified due to internal policy, said there was no
timeframe for the offering.  The Bovespa trades at 10.7 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares to a ratio of 14 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 7.5
for  Russia ’s Micex, and 17.8 for  India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  