-- 
Brown Details New Measures Aimed at Curtailing California Pension Abuses

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-04-01T00:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/brown-details-new-measures-aimed-at-curtailing-california-pension-abuses.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
proposed a package of bills aimed at curbing public-employee
pension abuses and said he’s drafting legislation that would let
government workers opt into a hybrid benefits program.  Brown, a Democrat, proposed seven bills that among other
things would prohibit employees from pension “spiking” by
manipulating overtime, unused vacation and special compensation
to create an inflated benchmark for future benefits. Other bills
would ban retroactive benefits and forbid state and local
workers from purchasing additional service credits.  Cutting the costs of public pensions was a key issue that
led to the collapse of  budget  talks between Brown and Republican
lawmakers this week. His proposals would incorporate some,
though not all, of the Republicans’ demands. State Senator Tony Strickland, who is co-chair of the Republican-led  Taxpayers’
Caucus , said Brown’s proposals represent a step in the right
direction. He stopped short of a wholesale endorsement, saying
“the devil is in the details.”  “These pensions will bankrupt the state of  California 
unless we have some reform,” Strickland said in an interview by
phone. “These are very important issues and I commend the
governor for addressing them.”  Brown said he’d push through the pension bills with or
without Republican support. The bills are written with a so-
called urgency clause allowing them to take effect immediately.
Passing a bill with an urgency clause requires a two-thirds
vote, and Democrats are four votes short of that supermajority.  Ballot Measure  During budget negotiations, Republican lawmakers sought a
ballot measure that would dismantle the existing pension system
that guarantees benefit levels regardless of investment returns,
replacing it with a hybrid that includes elements of a
traditional plan and a 401(k) account, where beneficiaries bear
more of the  investment risk .  Brown said today he’ll develop a bill that would give
government workers the option of such a hybrid plan, though he
didn’t provide any details.  Brown also said he’s putting together a plan to deal with
the growing gap between assets and expected obligations of the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the second-largest
public pension in the U.S.  Calstrs said today that its so-called unfunded liability
grew to $56 billion at the end of June. The 38 percent increase
will require the state to boost its contribution by $140 million
to $150 million, according to the pension fund. California paid
$573 million toward teacher retirements last year.  Brown said he intends to set a maximum on the pension that
a retired state worker can receive. He also wants to ban so-
called double-dipping, when a retiree who is collecting a
pension takes another government job.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  