-- 
Buffett Misses Chance to Show Moral Courage: Alice Schroeder

-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 
2011-03-31T16:24:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/buffett-misses-chance-to-show-moral-courage-commentary-by-alice-schroeder.html
What were they thinking? How could
Warren Buffett excuse  David Sokol ’s trading in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) 
stock while Sokol was pitching the company to  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  as an acquisition candidate?  Buffett and Sokol both say that nothing “unlawful” was
going on (Sokol even went so far as to tell CNBC he did nothing
inappropriate). Their explanation is that, because a deal with
Lubrizol hadn’t actually been struck and wasn’t likely when
Sokol bought his shares, it was all right for Sokol to profit
from his knowledge of a possible deal.  On  Wall Street , we call this kind of trading front-running,
and everybody knows that it is wrong. People get fired for doing
it. Sokol said that he is leaving Berkshire to pursue other
business interests, and the timing is linked to Berkshire’s
April 30 annual  shareholder meeting , which is attended by tens
of thousands of people. That’s probably true, in a sense.
Buffett must want this mess cleared up and out of the way before
he has to take questions from shareholders.  Buffett gave out a few facts in his  press release 
yesterday, but the Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission by Lubrizol fills in the damning pieces.
After deciding to pursue Lubrizol as an acquisition candidate
for Berkshire in the fall of 2010, Sokol tried to buy 50,000
shares on Dec. 13, the day he presented Berkshire’s possible
interest to Citigroup Inc. and asked it to set up a meeting with
Lubrizol’s management. He was able to acquire only 2,300 shares,
and sold them a week later.  Sokol’s Purchase  On Jan. 5, the day before Lubrizol’s management held a
special meeting to discuss a possible sale to Berkshire, Sokol
began to buy stock again. The following day, Lubrizol hired
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  as its banker to respond to the potential
interest of Berkshire. By Jan. 7, Sokol had purchased 96,400 out
of a targeted 100,000 Lubrizol shares.  It strains credulity to claim these dates were coincidental
and that Sokol had only a 5 percent belief (as he has stated)
that Berkshire would buy Lubrizol. Sokol covered his bases by
casually mentioning to Buffett that he owned stock when he
pitched the acquisition in December. He gave no details and
apparently kept quiet for almost three months, until after the
Berkshire board had sealed the deal on March 13.  When Berkshire announced it was buying Lubrizol, the stock
soared and Sokol pocketed a $3 million profit. It’s a large sum,
but Sokol is a very rich man already, and it looks like he fell
into the classic trap of the rich and powerful, who so often
blow their reputation over trivia.  Misleading by Omission  With hindsight, Lubrizol’s SEC filing may be misleading by
omission -- inadvertently so. Nowhere is Sokol’s financial
interest mentioned in the catalog of events leading up to the
deal. The relevant section of the  filing  says, in short, that
neither Berkshire nor any of its subsidiaries (other than its
externally managed pension funds) directly or indirectly owned a
material amount of Lubrizol stock within the past three years.  Sokol may not technically fit into the definitions of this
section, but it highlights the importance of disclosing
positions in acquired stock by interested parties who could
profit from the deal and that are material. In this light, you
have to wonder what Lubrizol management thinks today about its
dealings with Sokol.  Not surprisingly, according to the Financial Times, the SEC
is now beginning an investigation. Presumably, it will look into
whether there are similar patterns of trading in advance of
other acquisition pitches by Sokol to Berkshire, whether
consummated or not. One specific transaction that has piqued the
curiosity of onlookers for months is Sokol’s purchases of shares
of  Middleburg Financial Corp. (MBRG)  since 2010. And even if the SEC
concludes that Sokol did nothing illegal, the known facts
suggest that what Sokol did was wrong.  Lottery Tickets  In substance, when Sokol pitched the deal to Buffett, he
was holding stock in Lubrizol that had the equivalent of free
lottery tickets attached. These 96,400 lottery tickets gave
Sokol unfair odds -- odds far better than in the kind of lottery
the general public gets to play.  It would be inexcusable for the chief executive officer of
Berkshire Hathaway to front-run a potential acquisition this
way. Why then, couldn’t the CEO of Berkshire admit it is
inexcusable for one of his own senior managers to do so? Instead
of condemning Sokol, Buffett gave him a pat on the back on the
way out the door. Since when is it enough to merely uphold the
letter of the law, especially at Berkshire? Whatever happened to
Buffett’s famous saying, “Lose money and I will forgive you,
but lose even a shred of reputation and I will be ruthless”?  It’s too bad that Buffett missed an opportunity to show
moral courage, stand up for principle, reinforce to his
employees what he expects from them, and, not least of all, to
live up to his own public reputation.  Editor’s note:  Alice Schroeder  has been subpoenaed by
Berkshire subsidiary NetJets seeking confidential information
related to her news sources for other publications. The matter
is being heard in Connecticut state court.  (Alice Schroeder, author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett 
and the Business of Life” and a former managing director at
Morgan Stanley, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  