-- 
Bugatti Said to Get Backing for $1.4 Million Galibier Supercar

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-31T22:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/bugatti-said-to-get-backing-for-1-4-million-galibier-supercar.html
Bugatti, the maker of the world’s
fastest production car, has won backing from parent  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  to build the 16C Galibier sedan, adding a four-door model to
its lineup, two people familiar with the matter said.  The Galibier, which premiered as a concept vehicle at the
2010 Geneva auto show, has a 1,000-horsepower engine and may
cost about 1 million euros ($1.4 million), said the people, who
declined to be named as the plans are still private.  “Four-door vehicles open up a whole new market for exotic-
car makers,” said Kevin Tynan, an automotive analyst for
Bloomberg Industries. “It makes good sense for Bugatti to get
in there. Those cars are loyal to design language and brand
heritage.”  Ultra-luxury nameplates are expanding their lineups to
larger vehicles as the recovery from the financial crisis fuels
demand. Ferrari SpA introduced the four-seat FF, the first
Ferrari with four-wheel drive, in March. The first year’s
production of the 260,000-euro model is already sold out.  Lamborghini SpA, another Volkswagen unit, is considering
adding a third model to its portfolio of two-seater vehicles and
plans to make a decision by the end of the year, Chief Executive
Officer Stephan Winkelmann said at the Geneva show last month.
The CEO has called a four-door car “a very feasible approach.”  Wolfgang Duerheimer , the former development chief at
Porsche AG who took over as head of Bugatti and Bentley in
February, has been pushing VW managers to approve production of
the Galibier since taking charge, the two people said.  16-Cylinder Engine  Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen agreed to build the
model, which relies on a 16-cylinder engine that can run on
biofuel as well as gasoline, they said. Production will require
facilities in Molsheim, France, to be refitted, which may push
back deliveries until 2013 or 2014, the people said.  Volkswagen purchased the Bugatti brand in 1998 along with
Lamborghini and Bentley Motors Ltd. to create a stable of high-
end carmakers. Under VW’s reign, the super-luxury brand, which
traces its roots back to Italian-born car designer Ettore
Bugatti, started production of the two-door Veyron 16.4 in 2005,
limiting output to no more than 300 vehicles.  Bugatti, which makes about 50 cars a year, has introduced
two derivatives of the Veyron since 2008, the Grand Sport and
Super Sport models. The Super Sport is the world’s fastest
production car, with a top speed of 268 miles per hour.  The name Galibier stems from one of  France ’s most difficult
Alpine passes featured in the Tour de France bicycle race and
also served as name for an earlier four-door variant called Type
57.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  