-- 
Build Americas at Lower Subsidy May Aid Revival, Buckley Says

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-03-31T21:06:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/build-americas-at-lower-subsidy-may-aid-revival-buckley-says.html
Reducing the subsidy on Build
America Bonds would allow the federal government to revive the
securities without a loss of revenue, said John Buckley, who
helped design the program.  “A lower subsidy has the effect of increasing the overall
efficiency of the market,” Buckley told the Bond Buyer’s
National Municipal Bond  Summit  in  Miami Beach ,  Florida , today.  About $187 billion of Build Americas were sold by state and
local borrowers to finance infrastructure projects in the two-
year program that ended Dec. 31. The federal government
reimbursed 35 percent of the interest cost as part of President
Barack Obama’s economic stimulus program.  The bonds’ payments to investors are taxable, allowing the
U.S. to recoup some of its costs. Republicans, saying the
subsidy was too generous, opposed extending the program as a way
to reduce the government’s outlays.  The House Ways and Means Committee  introduced a bill  on
March 10 to revive Build Americas. It calls for a 32 percent
subsidy this year and 31 percent in 2012.  Buckley, who was the chief Democratic tax counsel for the
committee when it passed Build Americas in 2009, urged investors
today to press local officials to lobby Congress to reinstate
the program.  “Your best lobbyists are not in  Washington  D.C.; they’re
your state and local officials,” said Buckley, who teaches at
the  Georgetown University Law Center  in Washington.  Congress will likely look “very carefully” at a modified
Build America program when it considers reauthorizing a federal
transportation bill later this year, Rosemary Becchi, who
advocates for companies on tax issues at  Patton Boggs LLP  in
Washington, said at the conference today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 