-- 
Bulgaria Delays Oil Pipeline Decision for Environment Study

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-31T10:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/bulgaria-delays-oil-pipeline-decision-for-environment-study.html
Bulgaria  delayed for the second
time a decision on whether to build an oil pipeline bypassing
 Turkey ’s Bosporus Strait. It extended the deadline for an
environmental impact report by two months.  The government ordered a study into the proposed pipeline
from the Bulgarian Black Sea port of Burgas to the Greek port of
Alexandroupolis, on the Aegean, because of concern that an  oil
spill  would harm the country’s Black Sea resorts.  The Environment Ministry rejected the first report in
November, requesting Trans Balkan Pipeline B.V., the Bulgarian
unit of the pipeline joint venture, to submit an improved
version by end of January.  Only part of the study was expanded with information
requested by the ministry, hence the additional two-month
extension, Environment Minister Nona Karadzhova told the Cabinet
yesterday, according to the government’s  website.   Russia, Bulgaria and  Greece  agreed in 2007 to build the
285-kilometer (177-mile) pipeline. The 1 billion-euro ($1.4
billion) link, with a capacity of 35 million metric tons of oil
a year, would bypass the Bosporus and Dardanelles straits,
saving shipping costs.  A referendum held in the Burgas region in 2008 opposed the
pipeline on the ground that there would be a high risk of an oil
spill from tankers filling it.  The proposed pipeline route violates a European Union
wildlife conservation directive known as Natura 2000, because it
passes through protected areas. This alone would allow Bulgaria
to withdraw from the project without paying penalties, according
to Bulgarian Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov .  The project competes with another, agreed by Russia, Italy
and Turkey in 2009, to carry oil from the Turkish  Black Sea  port
of Samsun to Ceyhan, on the Mediterranean.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  