-- 
California Budget Stalemate Imperiling Brown's Agenda After Landslide Win

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/california-budget-setback-imperils-brown-agenda-after-landslide.html
Jerry Brown , who reinvented himself
from  California ’s “Governor Moonbeam” of the 1970s into an
elder pragmatist as the U.S.’s senior state leader, faces one of
the toughest tests of his career after Republican lawmakers
blocked his deficit-cutting budget plan.  Brown, elected to a third term with  54 percent  of the vote,
won’t be able to move forward on the rest of his agenda for
governing the most populous state until he bridges the $15.4
billion spending gap, said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political
analyst at the University of  Southern California .  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat, conceded March 29 that the
cornerstone of his plan to balance the budget, asking voters to
extend $9.3 billion in higher taxes and fees in a June ballot,
was hopelessly blocked by Republican legislators.  “I don’t think he’s going to move on any other part of his
agenda until after the budget is resolved,” Jeffe said in a
phone interview from Los Angeles. “If you go back on his
campaign, the major focus was on solving the  budget deficit .
There weren’t really any other detailed items.”  As a candidate last year, Brown cited his  experience  as
governor from 1975 to 1983, as mayor of Oakland and as attorney
general as evidence of his ability to govern.  “I have a deep knowledge about how government functions
and how politicians operate,” he wrote in a  budget document  on
his campaign website. “I have seen it as a governor, as a
mayor, and as attorney general. I know how to get budgets done -
- balanced and on time.”  First Stint  During his first stint as governor, Brown was tagged with
the “ Moonbeam ” sobriquet for promoting a state-sponsored space
program. He ran for the Democratic nomination for president
three times, never winning.  Last year, Brown defeated Republican  Meg Whitman , a
billionaire and former chief executive officer of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , by
13 percentage points. California was one of only five states to
replace Republican leaders with Democrats in 2010.  To put the tax issue to a referendum in June, Brown needed
approval of two-thirds of the Legislature. That meant he had to
persuade at least four Republican lawmakers to go along with
Democrats, who hold a simple majority. The constitutional
deadline for passage of a budget is June 15.  If approved in the special election, Brown would have been
allowed to incorporate the $9.3 billion into his proposed $84.6
billion budget for the year beginning July 1, without additional
cuts to education and public safety.  Next Move  Brown hasn’t signaled his next move. He could still seek a
June election by reworking his proposal to require only a
majority vote to pass the Legislature. Such a move would face a
court challenge from Republicans, who say the tactic would be
illegal. He could also pursue a citizen initiative to put the
issue on the November ballot.  Without the  tax revenue , Brown has said he would balance
the budget through larger cuts to education, health care and
other state services.  “I’m going to find a way to get our budget balanced,”
Brown said in a video address posted March 29 on YouTube.  A  statewide poll  of likely voters released March 23 showed
Brown’s popularity declining along with support for a June
ballot measure.  Brown’s approval rating dropped to 41 percent from 47
percent in January, according to the survey by the Public Policy
Institute of California. In contrast, the Legislature’s approval
was 16 percent, down 2 percentage points.  June Ballot  Support for the idea of a June ballot measure on taxes fell
to 46 percent from 54 percent, according to the survey, which
had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.  The poll numbers suggest that Californians may be willing
to give the new governor a break, said Jaime A. Regalado,
director of the  Pat Brown Institute of Public Affairs  at
 California State University  at  Los Angeles .  “It’s a setback, but it’s not crippling,” Regalado said
by phone yesterday from the institute named for Brown’s father,
a governor himself. “Any new governor is going to have a drop
in popularity, especially during an economic crisis and a  budget
crisis . Honeymoons are shorter than ever.”  During his earlier term as governor, Brown opposed the
landmark Proposition 13, which capped property taxes and reduced
revenue to cities and counties. After the measure passed in
1978, Brown slashed state spending and increased contributions
to local governments.  Proposition 13  Those moves won support from the late Howard Jarvis, the
author of  Proposition 13 , who backed Brown’s re-election in
November 1978.  The  Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association  opposed Brown’s
attempts to put the tax extensions on the ballot this year.  Kris Vosburgh, executive director of the Los Angeles-based
advocacy group, said Brown can yet recover from his inability to
put the tax measure before voters in June.  “It would be easy to cast Jerry as obsolete,” Vosburgh
said. “He has managed to reinvent himself about every five
years over the last 35. He’s a smart guy, a clever guy, but in
many ways he’s been unwilling or unable to unshackle himself
from the government employee unions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  