-- 
Canada Jan. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-03-31T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/canada-jan-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Jan. GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product continued to expand in
January, rising 0.5%, the same pace as in December. Growth
was driven by manufacturing and, to a lesser extent, by
transportation and wholesale trade. The finance and
insurance sector, construction and real estate also
increased. Mining and oil and gas extraction as well as
retail trade decreased.  Manufacturing increases  Manufacturing grew 2.8% in January following a 0.8%
gain in December. Although growth was broadly based in
both durable and non-durable goods, manufacturers of
fabricated metal products and of motor vehicles and
associated parts recorded the largest increases.  The increase in motor vehicles and parts production in
January was partly a recovery from temporary factors:
shutdowns for retooling in November 2010 and unfavourable
weather that hampered production in December. Other
industries that contributed to January's rise in
manufacturing were food, beverage and tobacco, and
machinery. Output at refineries declined.  Transportation and warehousing sector up  The transportation and warehousing sector advanced
1.2%. Higher iron ore output in January helped to boost
rail transportation (+5.0%). Truck transportation (+1.1%)
benefited from increased activity in manufacturing and
wholesale trade. There was also a marked increase in
pipeline transportation of natural gas, mirroring the
growth in exports of that commodity.  Wholesale trade grows  Wholesale trade (+0.7%) increased for a fourth
consecutive month. Wholesalers of motor vehicles and parts
and of building materials recorded significant increases.
In contrast, wholesaling of petroleum products declined.  Retail trade edged down 0.1% in January. Gains in
general merchandise stores (which includes department
stores) and in food and beverage stores were more than
offset by lower activity at gasoline stations, new  car
dealerships  and furniture stores.  Upward movement in finance and insurance  The finance and insurance sector grew 0.6%, as a result
of higher volume of trading on the  stock exchanges  and
increased financial intermediation (personal and business
loans, mortgages and mutual fund sales).  Construction rebounds  Construction activity rose 0.4% with increases in all
components (residential and non residential buildings as
well as engineering and repair work). Activity in the home
resale market continued to advance, resulting in a 2.6%
increase in the output of real estate agents and brokers.  Mining and oil and gas extraction declines  Mining and oil and gas extraction retreated 0.5% in
January. The decline was partly attributable to
difficulties affecting synthetic oil production. In
contrast, natural gas extraction continued to grow.
Support activities for mining, oil and gas extraction also
declined, mainly as a result of reduced drilling activity.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry
data at basic prices are chained volume estimates with
2002 as their reference year. This means that the data for
each industry and aggregate are obtained from a chained
volume index multiplied by the industry's value added in
2002. For the 1997 to 2007 period, the monthly data are
benchmarked to annually chained Fisher volume indexes of
GDP obtained from the constant-price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2008, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index
to the prior period. The fixed weights are the industry
output and input prices of 2007. This makes the monthly
GDP by industry data more comparable with the expenditure-
based GDP data, chained quarterly.  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2010. For more information
about monthly GDP by industry, see the National Economic
Accounts module on our website (www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-
cen/index-eng.htm).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  