-- 
Cavaco Silva Calls June 5 Elections in Portugal to End Political Impasse

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-03-31T19:58:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/cavaco-silva-calls-june-5-elections-in-portugal-to-end-political-impasse.html
Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva called early parliamentary elections for June 5 as he
seeks to end a political impasse that has raised borrowing costs
and prospects for a bailout.  “As the financing difficulties of our economy are
increasing, I understood that a quick resolution of the current
political impasse was necessary,” Cavaco Silva said in a
television address to the nation in Lisbon today.  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned on March 23 after
opposition parties rejected his deficit-cutting plan that aimed
to prevent Portugal from following Greece and Ireland in seeking
a European Union rescue. Cavaco Silva made the announcement
after meeting with the Council of State, an advisory body
including past presidents that must be consulted to set the date
of the vote.  Portugal is already raising taxes and implementing the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades as it tries to
narrow its budget gap, curb debt and bring down record financing
costs. Under Portuguese law the election couldn’t be held before
the last week of May, and so will fall between two bond
redemptions Portugal faces on April 15 and June 15. They total 9
billion euros ($13 billion) and may determine whether  Portugal 
can avoid seeking a rescue.  The president’s consultations today began hours after
Portugal reported a budget deficit of 8.6 percent of gross
domestic product for 2010, higher than the 7.3 percent gap the
government had previously forecast. Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics office, has required accounting changes in some
countries and costs related to a 2008 bank failure were added to
last year’s accounts, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos
Santos said. Without the charges the shortfall would have been
6.8 percent and the government was still committed to trimming
the gap to 4.6 percent this year, he said.  Bond Yield  Portugal’s two-year government bond yield today climbed 75
basis points to 8.78 percent, topping the rate on the nation’s
10-year debt for the first time since 2006. The difference in
yield that investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds
instead of German bunds reached a euro-era record of 508 basis
points. The 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-era record of 8.43
percent, and the five-year bond yield also jumped to a record
9.63 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 