-- 
Centum Investment of Kenya Expects Profit Ahead of Target; Mulls Expansion

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-31T09:08:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/centum-investment-of-kenya-expects-profit-ahead-of-target-mulls-expansion.html
Centum Investment Co.,  Kenya ’s
largest publicly traded investment company, said it will post
better-than-expected full-year earnings and is considering
expanding further in East Africa as it seeks to triple assets.  “We are ahead of our targets,” Chief Executive Officer
James Mworia said in an interview in Nairobi, the capital, on
March 29. “We will continue to deliver market-beating returns”
in the remaining three years of its 2009-2014 strategic plan.  Last year, the company posted a 10-fold increase in full-
year profit to 888 million shillings ($10.7 million) after
doubling the amount of funds invested to 1.3 billion shillings.
Since then, its shares have risen 11 percent, outperforming an
8.9 percent decline in the  Nairobi Stock Exchange ’s benchmark
NSE-20 index. Latest results will be announced in June.  Centum’s mix of investments has enabled the company to beat
the NSE-20 over the past five years, according to a company
statement. The stock climbed an average of 47 percent between
2006 and 2010, compared with a 5 percent increase in the main
market gauge.  “Our focus, from an investment perspective, is on the more
illiquid classes, the assets that an investor will not be able
to have access to through the stock market,” Mworia said.  Centum’s five-year has the objective of increasing assets
to 30 billion shillings by 2014, compared with 11.8 billion
shillings at the end of September, he said. The company has
invested 55 percent of its portfolio in private equity assets,
while publicly traded companies account for 30 percent and real
estate the remainder, he said.  ‘Well-Managed’  Private equity comprises investments of between $2 million
to $20 million in companies in the financial services, beverages
and education industries. Publicly traded equity investments
focus on “well-managed, under-valued” companies that trade on
 stock exchanges  in East and West Africa, he said. The company
declined to say which stocks it’s invested in.  In the real estate industry, the company has acquired 100
acres (40 hectares) of land in Kenya and another 300 acres in
neighboring  Uganda , Mworia said. Centum plans to zone the land
for residential and commercial use.  Centum is also in the “prospecting stage” of seeking
investment opportunities across its three investment segments in
 Rwanda , where “there might be a case for cross listing” on the
nation’s stock exchange when any of the deals it is pursuing
come to fruition, Mworia said without providing further details.  In  Southern Sudan , the company is considering making real
estate investments through  UAP Insurance , a Kenyan insurer that
has begun operations in the semi-autonomous region that voted
for independence in a Jan. 9 referendum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 