-- 
Cephalon Accused by Fund of Failing to Weigh Valeant Buyout Bid

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-04-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/cephalon-should-weigh-valeant-bid-pennsylvania-pension-fund-says-in-suit.html
Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  officials were accused
in a lawsuit by a Pennsylvania pension fund of “failing to
act” in the best interests of investors regarding a
$5.7 billion buyout bid by rival  Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX)   Cephalon, a maker of sleep and pain drugs, said yesterday
that it will consider the bid next week. In its complaint, the
pension fund claimed the company has been shortchanging
shareholders by not considering the $73-a-share hostile offer.  The company’s directors are “failing to act in the
interest of Cephalon stockholders” by turning away repeated
offers by the Canadian drugmaker, lawyers for the Dauphin County
pension plan said in a Delaware Chancery Court suit filed
yesterday in Wilmington. “The company and its board of
directors have repeatedly refused duly to consider acquisition
proposals from Valeant.”  Cephalon, based in Frazier,  Pennsylvania , surged more than
28 percent on March 30 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading after
Mississauga, Ontario-based Valeant made its cash offer public.
The acquisition would be the largest hostile takeover in the
industry since Sanofi-Aventis SA bid for Genzyme Corp. last
year. Cephalon rose 64 cents to $76.08 in trading yesterday. The
shares have climbed more than 23 percent this year.  “Our board of directors will meet early next week to
consider Valeant’s proposal,” Natalie de Vane, a Cephalon
spokeswoman, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Biovail Merger  Cassandra Bujarski, a spokeswoman for Valeant, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the suit or the
statement by Cephalon.  Valeant, which merged in 2010 with Biovail Corp., said on
Feb. 1 that it would buy Zug, Switzerland-based PharmaSwiss SA
for $480 million to expand in  Europe . In January, Valeant Chief
Executive Officer J. Michael Pearson said the company would seek
acquisitions to broaden its markets globally.  After Cephalon executives turned back several private
approaches, Valeant officials said they would seek to replace
Cephalon’s board with their own nominees, the drugmaker said in
a statement.  The fund wants a Delaware judge to force Cephalon’s board
to consider Valeant’s offer and bar use of the company’s so-
called poison-pill defense to frustrate the buyout bid,
according to the lawsuit. That defense makes acquisitions more
expensive.  In February, Radnor, Pennsylvania-based  Airgas Inc. (ARG)  used a
similar defense to fend off a hostile offer from  Air Products &
Chemicals Inc. (APD)   The case is County of Dauphin Retirement Plan v. Winger,
CA NO. 6332,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 