-- 
China May Face ‘Quiet’ Pressure on Yuan as G-20 Chiefs Gather in Nanjing

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T02:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/china-may-face-quiet-pressure-on-yuan-as-g-20-chiefs-gather-in-nanjing.html
China  may face pressure from
nations including the U.S., India and Brazil to allow a stronger
yuan during today’s Group of 20 seminar, former U.S. Trade
Representative Susan Schwab said.  “My guess is that the conversations will take place, but
they will take place quietly,” Schwab, a strategic adviser at
law firm Mayer Brown LLP, told Bloomberg Television from
 Washington . “Most of the G-20” has concerns about the yuan’s
value, she said.  G-20 finance chiefs are meeting in Nanjing, China, for a
seminar initiated by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on
reshaping the global monetary system. Ahead of the meeting, Xu
Hongcai, a Chinese state economist, revived developing nations’
complaints that U.S. monetary policy and the dollar’s dominance
have fueled inflation and volatility in exchange rates and
capital flows.  Nobel Prize-winning economist  Robert Mundell , who’s
attending the seminar, told Bloomberg Television today that the
yuan will “eventually” become a reserve currency.  The yuan traded at 6.5565 per dollar as of 9:55 a.m. in
Shanghai, close to a 17-year high.  The volatility of the world’s major currencies rose to the
highest level since at least 1992 in October 2008 after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.  Currency Intervention  Price swings also increased in May last year because of
 Europe ’s debt turmoil and this month because of Japan’s
earthquake. The Group of Seven nations intervened to weaken the
yen after the March 11 disaster.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , Chinese Vice
Premier Wang Qishan and European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet are among those due to take part in the one-day
seminar.  Sarkozy told Chinese President  Hu Jintao  that he wants to
avoid a confrontation on the yuan’s value, a French official
said after the two leaders met in Beijing. The U.S. regards the
currency as “substantially undervalued.”  Sarkozy and Hu also discussed including the yuan in the
International Monetary Fund’s basket of special drawing rights,
the official said.  Asset Bubbles  Officials including French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  will discuss topics including “shortcomings in the
international monetary system” and dealing with volatile
capital flows, according to the schedule for the conference at
Nanjing, a city on the  Yangtze River , about 170 miles (270
kilometers) from  Shanghai .  Nations including Brazil, China and South Korea have argued
that U.S. monetary easing has added to the threat of inflows of
capital fueling inflation and asset bubbles.  China has an extra stake in the U.S. maintaining the value
of the dollar as the biggest foreign holder of Treasuries,
owning more than $1.1 trillion of the securities. China’s build-
up of a world-record $2.85 trillion of foreign-exchange holdings,
driven by trade surpluses and limits on gains in the yuan,
highlights imbalances blamed for contributing to the global
financial crisis.  German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said this
week that the event isn’t intended to deliver short-term fixes
and is part of preparing for a G-20 meeting in Cannes in
November that should yield more substantive results.  --James Hertling, Michael Forsythe, Susan Li. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Lily Nonomiya.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  