-- 
Chinese Stocks Deliver Best Asia Returns as Baring Predicts Bigger Advance

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T07:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/chinese-stocks-produce-best-rally-in-asia-as-baring-predicts-further-gain.html
Chinese stocks will extend gains
that made the Shanghai Composite Index the best performer among
major Asian markets in the first quarter as inflation concerns
ease, RCM Asia Pacific Ltd. and Baring Asset Management said.  The benchmark gauge climbed 4.3 percent in the first three
months of this year, outpacing indexes in  Brazil  and  India ,
after sinking 14 percent in 2010. Even after the advance, the
Shanghai measure trades for 13.7 times estimated profit, within
10 percent of the lowest level since January 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The index rose 1.3 percent to
2,967.41 at the 3 p.m. close today, the most in four weeks.  Interest-rate increases may slow after the central bank
raised borrowing costs three times since October to cool
inflation, according to Khiem Do, the head of Asian multi-asset
strategy at Baring Asset’s Asia unit in  Hong Kong , who said he’s
buying banks and property shares. Technology and consumer
companies are attractive, said  Mark Konyn , chief executive
officer at RCM, a unit of Allianz Global Investors.  “We are adding  China  names to regional portfolios and have
been doing so over the past month believing that the market had
started to form a base,” Konyn, who helps manage more than $15
billion at RCM in Hong Kong, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Inflation is likely to “level off” about mid-year
and RCM has “positioned portfolios accordingly,” he said.  Record Profit  China’s stocks rebounded this year on signs the economy is
weathering policy tightening measures as manufacturing expands
and corporate earnings grow. Profits for listed companies may
rise as much as 25 percent on average in 2011, compared with 32
percent growth last year, Citic Securities Co. said in a
February report. Companies from Anhui Conch Cement Co., the
biggest cement producer, to  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s largest lender by market value, reported
better-than-estimated annual earnings as the Chinese economy,
the world’s second biggest, grew 10.3 percent in 2010.  Manufacturing growth accelerated for the first time in four
months in March, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement today. A separate measure of
manufacturing released by HSBC Holdings Plc also gained.  “The turnaround has largely been due to positive earnings
results and valuations are at reasonable levels,” Pauline Dan,
Hong Kong-based chief investment officer at Samsung Asset
Management, which oversees about $72 billion, said in e-mailed
comments. “We are currently bullish on the China market because
we think that monetary tightening will take a breather.”  Bank Lending  The central bank boosted  reserve requirements  for lenders
nine times since the start of last year and pushed the benchmark
one-year lending rate to 6.06 percent to counter inflation.
Consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in January and February,
exceeding the government’s full-year target of 4 percent, after
hitting a 28-month high of 5.1 percent in November. All 20
economists in a Bloomberg News survey this month forecast
another rate increase by the end of the second quarter.  “The market can still do well with rate hikes,” Baring’s
Do, whose company oversees about $13 billion, said in a phone
interview. “It is the quantity of money such as bank lending
rather than rates that is important. We had been neutral on
China and now we are slightly overweight.”  Domestic banks offered 1.58 trillion yuan ($241 billion) of
new loans in the first two months of this year, 25 percent less
than the same period a year earlier, according to the central
bank. The  Shanghai  Composite’s 14 percent slump in 2010 was the
most among benchmark indexes among the world’s 10 biggest
markets, on concern lending growth will spur asset bubbles as
property prices posted record gains.  Stocks Caution  Citic, China’s biggest listed brokerage, said it’s
“cautious” about stocks in the second quarter because  oil
prices  are likely to stay high and growth may slow in  Europe 
amid budget deficits, according to a March 28 report. Oil prices
rose 17 percent in the quarter, boosted by unrest in  Libya ,
which has the largest proven reserves in  Africa .  Union Life Asset Management Co.’s Larry Wan said he isn’t
adding to his China stock holdings as the tightening measures
may slow economic growth more than estimated.  “I am cautious about the stock market in the second
quarter,” Wan, Beijing-based head of investment at Union Life,
which manages the equivalent of $2.2 billion, said in a phone
interview. “It looks like the market’s a bit overly optimistic
and hasn’t fully priced in a slowdown in economic growth. The
optimistic view may change after the release of first-quarter
earnings results.”  Profit for major Chinese listed companies is expected to
grow up to 27 percent in the first three months, Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co. said in a March 28 report.  Outflows Slow  China-related stock funds had outflows of $80.6 million for
the week ended March 23, compared with record redemptions of
$455.4 million in February, according to Citigroup Inc., citing
research firm  EPFR Global . China’s exchange-traded funds took in
$601 million in March, the heaviest inflows since December 2009,
TrimTabs Investment Research said in a report this week.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank
AG all turned bullish on Chinese equities last month. Odds the
government will ease tightening have increased after  Japan 
suffered its largest earthquake on record on March 11, Morgan
Stanley said in a report March 15. A one-percentage-point growth
slowdown in Japan’s economy may cut China’s exports by 0.2
percentage point, Shenyin & Wanguo said in a March 14 report.  BRIC Valuations  Only  Russia  outperformed China in the first quarter among
the BRIC nations. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rallied 7.4 percent as the
world’s largest energy exporter benefited from surging oil
prices. Brazil’s Bovespa Index fell 1 percent, while India’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index dropped 5.2 percent.  The Russia and Brazil gauges trade below 11 times estimated
profit, cheaper than the Shanghai Composite. Speculation the
government will delay rate increases and corporate earnings will
expand have spurred buying that pushed up valuations in the
Chinese index since it reached a two-year low in January.  “Stocks will do well in the second half of the year as
inflation may ease in June or July,” said Shen Yang, a
Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Lombarda China Fund Management
Co., a venture with  Italy ’s fourth-biggest bank. “Current
valuations are low.”  China’s consumer stocks led gains in the first quarter on
speculation they will benefit from government efforts to make
consumption the main driver for economic growth over the five
years ending 2015.  Consumer Stocks       Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., a unit of China’s biggest
light-truck exporter, rallied 23 percent in the first three
months while  Gree Electric Appliances Inc. (000651) , the country’s
largest maker of home air-conditioners, climbed 25 percent.  Anhui Jianghuai’s more than threefold jump in 2010 profit
beat analysts’ estimates, according to Bloomberg data. Gree’s
earnings growth forecast was increased from this year through
2013 by an average of 8 percent at Sinolink Securities Co. after
profit rose 47 percent in 2010.  “Tightening is reasonably advanced, valuations are
becoming more attractive and the economy and earnings are
growing reasonably well,” said Baring Asset’s Do, whose Global
Opportunities Umbrella Fund has beaten 98 percent of rivals over
the past five years according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “I
have become a bit more bullish on China.”  --Zhang Shidong and Allen Wan in Shanghai. With assistance from
Irene Shen. Editors: Darren Boey, Stephen Kirkland  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan at +86-21-6104-3041 or
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  