-- 
Cigna Pushes Asia Growth With Entrance Into Singapore Health-Care Market

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-03-31T20:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/cigna-pushes-asia-growth-with-entry-into-singapore-health-market.html
Cigna Inc., the world’s largest
provider of employer-purchased medical insurance for
expatriates, moved today into the  Singapore  health-plan market,
expanding its global coverage to 28 countries.  The Philadelphia-based insurer was granted a license to
operate in Singapore to sell insurance and will market health
and dental plans to the estimated 7,000 multinational employers
with operations there, said Andrew Kielty, president of Cigna
International’s expatriate benefits unit. The Ministry of
Manpower in Singapore reported that as many as 110,000
expatriates work in the island nation.  Singapore was the missing piece for Cigna in “a powerful
triangle of decision-making” in  Asia  that includes  Hong Kong 
and  Shanghai , Kielty said in a telephone interview. Cigna’s
international business accounted for about 19 percent of
adjusted earnings in 2010, the company said in an e-mail.  “This places us in a unique position among insurers, and
the job of expansion in Asia is far from done,” Kielty said.
“We have a list of other places worthy of exploration.”  Cigna has led U.S.-based insurers in developing
international markets, with only  Aetna Inc. (AET)  expanding to China
in recent years, said  Dave Shove , a New York-based analyst at
Bank of Montreal.  Cigna and Aetna have concluded “the U.S. health-benefits
market is pretty mature and doesn’t present the opportunities it
used to,” Shove said. “Cigna has a big head start
internationally, there’s no doubt.”  Shares Rise  Cigna rose 76 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $44.28 at 4:01 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Cigna has gained
21 percent in the past 12 months.  Cigna yesterday announced a global health plan for high
net-worth individuals living outside their native countries, who
travel frequently or who want to improve their access to high-
quality medical treatment. Cigna plans to market the new product
in Singapore along with 150 countries, Kielty said.  “We are pursuing a broader market of wealthy individuals
who want to seek out the best possible health care,” Kielty
said. “The market for selling individual plans to expatriates
is in excess of $1 billion. When you add in the broader high
net-worth market, it’s hard to say how high that goes.”  Cigna is marketing the plan through the Internet initially.
The basic plan, called Cigna Global Health Options, is expected
to cost about $4,500 a year, said Gloria Barone Rosanio, a
company spokeswoman.  Cigna is seeking a partner to move into  India , David Cordani, the insurer’s chief executive officer, said March 11 at
a presentation to investors in New York.  ‘Progress’ in India  “We are making good progress in India, but finding a long-
term joint venture partner is a very delicate process and we
can’t predict at this point when that will happen,” Kielty
said.  Cordani has projected that Cigna’s international operations
may grow to a third of the company’s business in the next three
to five years. Ana Gupte, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York, said she expects the company to reach that goal
by 2015.  “I’m very positive on Cigna’s international growth
story,” Gupte said in an e-mail.  Cigna established operations in  China  as early as 2003
through a joint venture with China Merchants Group. The company
doesn’t release a breakout of revenue from Asia. Cigna has 6
million customers in the Asia-Pacific region, Kielty said. The
insurer’s biggest market in the region is  South Korea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  