-- 
Colombia Willing to Strengthen Labor Rules in U.S. Trade Pact, Santos Says

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-03-31T20:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/colombia-willing-to-strengthen-labor-rules-in-u-s-trade-pact-santos-says.html
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  said the government is willing to take steps to expand
labor protections, an action the Obama administration has
requested before sending a free-trade agreement to Congress.  “We have no problem signing or committing ourselves to
defending the workers’ rights, because we believe in that,”
Santos said today in an interview at the presidential palace in
Bogota. “They have submitted a list of things they would like
to see happen in  Colombia , and when I saw that list, that list
is exactly what we want also.”  Santos, 59, said he hoped to reach an agreement with the
U.S. to strengthen Colombia’s labor rules “very soon” and that
“things are moving” to get the trade accord approved this
year.  The U.S. is seeking limits on the use of cooperatives that
let Colombian companies get around union organizing requirements
and stepped-up prosecution of those who kill labor organizers,
people familiar with the discussions said last week. The two
nations are close to an agreement, according to five people who
last week said they were briefed on private talks by U.S. or
Colombian officials. The initial agreement was signed in 2006,
when  George W. Bush  was president.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration wants Colombia to
beef up worker rights and crack down on violence against labor
leaders, Carol Guthrie, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, said in a statement March 18.  Shipments Boosted  The agreement would boost American shipments to Colombia by
$1.1 billion a year from $12 billion in 2010, according to the
U.S. Commerce Department. For Colombia, which gets about $500
million a year in U.S. anti-narcotics aid, the deal would lock
in unilateral trade privileges that are subject to renewal by
Congress, providing greater certainty to investors.  The U.S. and Colombia, which together traded about $27.7
billion last year, agreed to modifications of the labor and
environment provisions of the original agreement after demands
from Democratic lawmakers in 2007. Bush in early 2008 tried to
force the Democratic Congress to vote on the deal. They used a
procedural maneuver to avoid a vote.  The trade deal is more in the interests of the U.S. than
Colombia as trading partners including  Brazil ,  Canada  and a
“very aggressive”  China  displace U.S. exports in  South
America ’s fourth-biggest economy, Santos said.  “You see Chinese delegations every week sitting where you
are, offering attractive investments,” said Santos, whose
office is dominated by a portrait of Simon Bolivar, the 19th
century South American independence hero. “I don’t know if they
will be our first trading partner but what I hope, and I say
this from my heart, is for the U.S. to maintain its
importance.”  While Colombia’s $16.9 billion in exports to the U.S. in
2010 still dwarfed its $2 billion to China, the gap is
narrowing. Sales to China more than doubled last year while
those to the U.S. rose 31 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 Hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  