-- 
Commodities Heading for a Third Quarterly Advance on Recovery, Oil's Surge

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-03-31T05:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/commodities-set-for-third-quarterly-advance-on-global-recovery.html
Commodities headed for a third
quarterly advance as the global economy extended its recovery,
and as crude oil climbed on concern that conflict in  Libya  and
unrest in the Middle East would curb supplies.  Raw materials measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index of 24 futures increased 0.2 percent to 712.61 at 1:42 p.m.
in Singapore, extending its gain to 13 percent this year. Oil
jumped 15 percent, cotton increased 35 percent, silver gained 22
percent and lean hogs rose 28 percent in the past three months.  Fighting in Libya, the toppling of leaders in Tunisia and
Egypt and protests in countries from Bahrain to Syria drove
crude oil past $100 a barrel this year. Floods in  Australia 
and dry weather in China threatened crops, while Japan’s worst
earthquake on record spurred speculation of increased commodity
demand for rebuilding and food. That offset concern over a
potential growth slowdown in  China , the biggest commodity user,
as the government seeks to tame inflation.  “We had a significant change in the overall environment,
with some unexpected introduction of external risk,” said
Yingxi Yu, Barclays Capital’s commodities analyst in Singapore.  Oil climbed 0.3 percent to $104.56 a barrel today, heading
for its third quarterly increase on concern supplies will be
reduced by an escalating conflict in Libya. Troops loyal to
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi forced rebels to retreat as the
U.S. and U.K. said they would consider arming opposition forces.  Military Action  Commodities will “attract inflows” on strong emerging
market growth and inflation risks and as investors seek to hedge
against “tail events” such as military action in the Middle
East and Africa and the nuclear accident in  Japan , Michael Lewis,
head of commodities research at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a
quarterly report yesterday.  Gold for immediate delivery jumped to a record $1,447.82 an
ounce on March 24 and silver surged to a 31-year high of $38.165
an ounce as investors sought precious metals to protect their
wealth from geopolitical risk and rising energy costs. Gold
traded at $1,427.65 and silver at $37.6850 today.  “The big picture is that the global economy is continuing
to recover,”  Pu Yonghao , Hong Kong-based chief investment
strategist at UBS Wealth Management, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “Emerging markets continue to remain
strong although inflation is a problem.”  The LME index of six industrial metals is up 0.9 percent
this year, led by tin. The metal increased to a record $32,799
a metric ton on Feb. 15 and copper touched an all-time high of
$10,190 a ton on expectations supply will trail demand.  Slowdown Risk  Crude  oil prices  at more than $100 a barrel, the potential
for further monetary tightening in China and the debt crisis in
Europe may weigh on the global recovery, analysts said.  “We’re already starting to see some demand destruction,”
said  Francisco Blanch , Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s head of
commodities research.  China’s central bank boosted banks’ reserve-requirement
ratios eight times and raised  interest rates  three times since
the start of 2010 to cool the economy and tame inflation. The
People’s Bank of China may raise interest rates again in early
April, according to Citigroup Inc.  “If China over-tightens and this leads to a faster than
expected slowdown, there is some downside risk but it shouldn’t
be overstated,” said Barclays’s Yu.  Europe ’s “economy is not
on a strong footing and the sovereign debt issue is not over.”  The debt crisis which began in  Greece  persists as  Portugal 
had its credit rating cut this week, after the country’s 
parliament rejected a deficit-cutting plan, sparking the 
resignation of Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  on March 23.  In Ireland, top finance officials will today seek to show 
investors, taxpayers and the rest of the euro region that the
banking crisis in the country might be nearing an end.  Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  will publish the
results of a third round of stress tests on the country’s banks
at 4:30 p.m. in Dublin. Shortly afterwards, Finance Minister
Michael Noonan will set out how more capital will be raised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  