-- 
Grains, Soybeans Surge as U.S. Crop Outlook Signals Increasing Food Costs

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T20:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/corn-soybeans-surge-as-supplies-ebb-heightening-food-inflation-concerns.html
Corn rose the most allowed by the
 Chicago  Board of Trade as concerns mounted that food costs will
climb after the latest U.S. government forecasts on supplies and
acreage. Soybeans and wheat also jumped.  U.S. corn stockpiles at the beginning of March dropped to
6.52 billion bushels, the lowest for the date since 2007, the
Department of Agriculture said today. Last month, the prices of
corn, soybeans, wheat and rice climbed to the highest since
2008, when surging food costs spurred riots from  Haiti  to  Egypt .
Today, cattle rose to a record for a second straight day, and
cotton surged.  “What’s unique about 2011, unlike 2008, is that corn and
soybeans are equally tight, cotton is tight, and wheat isn’t
comfortable either,” said  Hussein Allidina , the head of
commodity research at Morgan Stanley in New York. “The takeaway
is that prices are not high enough to ration demand.”  Global food costs climbed to a record last month, a United
Nations index showed. High food prices and corruption have
spurred unrest in northern  Africa  and the Middle East this year,
ousting leaders in Tunisia and Egypt. The U.S. is the leading
exporter of corn, soybeans and wheat.  U.S. farm acreage currently set aside for conservation may
have to be pulled into production if corn inventories become too
tight to meet food needs,  Frank Lucas , the House Agriculture
Committee chairman, said today an interview in  Washington . The
Conservation Reserve Program will pay growers to idle 31.2
million acres of land this year,  USDA  data show.  Corn futures for May delivery rose by the exchange limit of
30 cents, or 4.5 percent, to close at $6.9325 bushel at 1:15
p.m. in Chicago. The grain has doubled in the past 12 months as
global production trailed gains in demand for livestock feed and
biofuels.  Soybeans, Wheat  Soybean futures for May delivery jumped 38.25 cents, or 2.8
percent, to $14.1025 a bushel. The USDA said inventories fell to
the lowest since 2003. The price has gained 50 percent in the
past year on record demand for U.S. supplies from  China .  Wheat futures for May delivery rose 36 cents, or 5 percent,
to $7.6325 a bushel. The price has climbed 64 percent in the
past year as drought spurred  Russia  to ban exports, while floods
eroded crops in  Canada  and  Australia .  Exports of agricultural products from the U.S. jumped 18
percent to a record $115.81 billion in 2010, the government said
earlier this month. China became the leading market for U.S.
farm goods for the first time as shipments increased 34 percent
to $17.5 billion.  China, the biggest buyer of soybeans, became a net importer
of corn last year for the first time since 1996.  Potash, Farm Equipment  The USDA on Feb. 14 forecast that farm income will increase
20 percent this year to a record $94.7 billion. Today, the
shares of fertilizer makers  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF)  and
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. rose.  Deere & Co. (DE) , Agco Corp. and CNH Global NV advanced as
increased acreage and rising crop prices may boost demand for
farm equipment such as tractors and combines, said Kelly Wiesbrock, a portfolio manager for Harvest Capital Strategies
LLC in  San Francisco .  “I can’t see this year being anything but a record year
for farm income,” said James Farrell, the chief executive
officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based Farmers National Co., which
manages more than 2.4 million acres on 5,000 farms in 24 states.
“This is a demand-driven market. I don’t see anything that will
result in a huge downturn in grain prices this year.”  U.S. corn acreage this year will be the second-largest
since 1944, the government said today. Soybean acres were
forecast to drop, while wheat will climb. The USDA issued its
first 2011 projections following a survey of 85,000 farmers in
early March.  ‘Perfect’ Weather Needed  The increase in corn won’t be enough to rebuild inventories
before this year’s harvest, said  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst
at Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in Minneapolis.  “We will need perfect weather this year just to maintain
current tight reserves next year,” Schultz said.  Cotton acreage this year will increase 15 percent, less
than analysts forecast. The price has more than doubled in the
past year, reaching a record $2.197 a pound on March 7. Today,
the fiber on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  jumped by the limit of
7 cents before closing at $2.0023, up 6.56 cents, or 3.4
percent.  ‘Complete Surprise’  “The U.S. numbers are a complete surprise,” said  Andy Ryan , a senior risk-management consultant at FCStone Fibers &
Textiles in Nashville,  Tennessee . “This is very bullish for the
cotton prices.”  Cattle futures surged to a record for the second straight
day as demand for U.S. beef rose in  Japan  amid concern that
radiation from a crippled nuclear plant will curb food supplies.
The price reached $1.21 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange.  Corn, the main ingredient in livestock feed, is the biggest
U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in 2010, followed by soybeans
at $38.9 billion, government figures show. Wheat is the fourth-
largest, behind hay, at $13 billion.  “The healthiest thing that can happen now is for prices to
rise and slow demand,” said Sal Gilbertie, the president of
Teucrium Trading LLC, which in June launched an exchange-traded
product linked to corn futures. “We will deplete reserves
before the end of the summer,” because meat and ethanol makers
already have purchased supplies, he said.  In the first quarter, corn gained 10 percent, soybeans rose
0.5 percent and wheat declined 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Washington at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 Jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  