-- 
Danish GDP Contracted 0.4% Last Quarter, Final Data Show

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-31T07:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/danish-gdp-contracted-0-4-last-quarter-final-data-show-1-.html
Denmark’s economy contracted in the
fourth quarter, interrupting 15 months of expansion after
exports public spending and inventories fell.  Gross domestic product shrank 0.4 percent from the third
quarter, in line with a Feb. 28 preliminary estimate, Statistics
Denmark said today on its website. The economy grew 3 percent in
the previous quarter, 0.3 point more than previously estimated,
the office said. Total output expanded 2.1 percent in 2010,
according to the final estimate.  “We see the fourth-quarter GDP decline as a temporary blip
on the way to a continued recovery,” said Troels Theill Eriksen, a senior analyst at  Nordea Markets , in a note to
clients.  Net unemployment fell to 4 percent in February from 4.1
percent the previous month, the office said in a separate
release today. Gross joblessness, which includes people in
vocational training courses, fell to 6 percent, the office said.  “The labor market has turned around,” said Steen Bocian,
chief economist at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, in a note.
“Even though the turnaround is only slight, we’re starting to
dare to believe it’s really happening.”  Denmark will post the widest  budget deficit  in the Nordic
region this year at 4.3 percent of GDP on debt of 47.5 percent,
the European Commission estimates. At the same time, the economy
will expand 1.9 percent in 2011, the slowest pace in the
Nordics, according to the commission.  Denmark pegs the krone to the euro in a 2.25 percent band.
The government backed away from a pledge to hold a euro
referendum by the end of its term in November as the financial
crisis left Greece and Ireland in need of bailouts and
undermined confidence in the single currency. Prime Minister
Lars Loekke Rasmussen, who signed  Europe ’s Competitiveness Pact
this month, hasn’t set a new date for a euro plebiscite.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  