-- 
Delphi Agrees to Buy Back Investment From General Motors for $3.8 Billion

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-04-01T00:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/delphi-agrees-to-buy-back-investment-from-general-motors-for-3-8-billion.html
Delphi Automotive LLP agreed to buy
back an equity stake from former parent  General Motors Co. (GM)  for
$3.8 billion to simplify its  capital structure .  Delphi also is acquiring the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp.’s ownership stake for $594 million, the Troy, Michigan-
based auto parts maker said today in a statement. Delphi will
use cash and a portion of a  credit line  to fund the purchases,
according to the statement.  Delphi, once the largest U.S. auto-parts maker, in October
2009 exited an almost four-year restructuring that resulted in
four classes of shares. Lenders including private equity firms
Elliott Management Corp. and Silver Point Capital LP bought most
of the original Delphi and still hold a controlling interest.  “Delphi would want to get rid of any outside stakeholders
if they want to go public again, and GM would rather have the
cash than the Delphi interest sitting on their balance sheet,”
David Whiston, an equity analyst with Morningstar Inc. in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  GM will book a gain of about $1.6 billion in the first
quarter related to the sale, according to a statement on its
website. Proceeds from Detroit-based GM’s sale will be used for
general corporate purposes and haven’t been earmarked for a
specific use, Jim Cain, a spokesman, said in a telephone
interview.  Delphi is using available cash and $2.5 billion of a $3
billion credit line provided by JPMorgan Chase & Co. for the
transaction. Delphi reported profit of $631 million last year on
revenue of $13.8 billion. The company held cash and cash
equivalents of $3.22 billion as of Dec. 31.  Delphi Gains ‘Flexibility’  “These transactions represent an important step in
positioning Delphi to continue to increase  shareholder value ,”
Delphi Chief Executive Officer Rodney O’Neal said in the
statement. “We continue to have significant financial
flexibility and remain committed to pursuing opportunities that
drive value creation.”  While the sale removes GM from Delphi’s capital structure,
there will be no change in their commercial relationship, Cain
said. GM represented 21 percent of Delphi’s sales last year,
down from 54 percent in 2004.  GM earlier this month sold $1.02 billion of perpetual
preferred stock in former finance arm Ally Financial Inc. that
will result in a book gain of about $300 million in the first
quarter, GM said today.  GM Sales  GM probably will use “at least a good chunk of the cash”
from the two sales to help fund its U.S. pension, which was
underfunded by about $11.5 billion as of Dec. 31, Morningstar’s
Whiston said.  Lenders including New York-based Elliott and Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Silver Point won an auction for Delphi in July
2009 by bidding the value of debt they were owed by the parts
supplier. The loans totaled $3.3 billion, according to court
documents.  Delphi’s Chapter 11 filing in October 2005 was the biggest
U.S. auto-related bankruptcy at that time.  The PBGC in 2009 agreed to take over  retirement plans 
covering 70,000 Delphi workers and retirees. The federal insurer
has taken responsibility for $6.1 billion of Delphi’s pension
plan that was underfunded by about $7 billion, the organization
said today in an e-mailed statement. The PBGC said the loss is
the second-largest in the agency’s 36-year history.  “PBGC doesn’t know how this action will affect benefits,”
the organization said. “PBGC will inform Delphi retirees of
their final benefit amount as soon as the complex calculation
process is complete.”  GM, PBGC Values  GM’s class of shares in Delphi was valued at $2.08 billion
as of Dec. 31, according to Delphi’s year-end financial
 statement  on its website. The Class C membership interest, which
was held by the PBGC, was valued by Delphi at $646 million at
that time, according to the statement.  Delphi’s purchase price of GM’s stake was 83 percent higher
than Delphi’s valuation of the membership interest at the end of
last year. Delphi bought the PBGC’s stake for 8 percent less
than the interest was valued at on Dec. 31.  The PBGC’s stake in Delphi was managed by JPMorgan, which
negotiated the sale, J. Jioni Palmer, a spokeswoman for the
Washington-based agency, said in an e-mailed statement.  “JPMorgan operates under PBGC oversight and works to
obtain the best possible value in the market for PBGC assets,
including those that like the Delphi interest are hard to value
and harder to sell,” Palmer said in the e-mail.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment.  The PBGC is a federal corporation created by Congress in
1974 to protect pension programs of bankrupt companies. The
agency, which guarantees the retirement plans of 44 million
Americans, reported a deficit of  $23 billion  as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  