-- 
Deutsche Post Weighs Small Purchases After U.S. ‘Disaster’

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-03-31T18:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/deutsche-post-weighs-small-purchases-after-u-s-disaster-.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  is considering
making small acquisitions after it failed with a U.S. expansion
strategy based on larger purchases to bulk up its delivery
business, Chief Executive Officer Frank Appel said.  “If there is a good case we will make, in the future, as
we have done, some small acquisitions,” Appel, 49, said today
in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. A decade
of purchases means that the world’s biggest carrier of air and
sea freight by volume doesn’t need major deals, he said.  Deutsche Post began focusing on U.S. domestic shipping with
its 2002 purchase of DHL Worldwide Express, and it bought
Airborne Inc. assets in 2003. In 2008, the company abandoned the
effort to compete with  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx
Corp. (FDX)  in the U.S., and Appel said at the time that 7.5 billion
euros ($10.6 billion) would have been spent on strategy. Those
are the kinds of deals Deutsche Post will avoid in the future,
he said.  “Our Airborne disaster in the U.S. was a perfect example -
- it was based on synergies,” said Appel, who was promoted to
CEO of the Bonn-based company in 2008. “That doesn’t work out.
You have to make an acquisition on market needs.”  Deutsche Post has acquired 57 companies since the beginning
of 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s
busiest years for deals were 2000 and 2004, when it bought 10
and 11 businesses. It added one company a year in both 2009 and
2010 and hasn’t acquired anything yet this year.  ‘We Don’t Overpay’  Deutsche Post’s global strength means it doesn’t have a
great need to buy other companies and so won’t pay a too-high
premium if it does make purchases, Appel said.  “We have nice cash flows, so we can spend some money on
buying companies but only if it makes commercial sense for the
market,” he said. “We don’t overpay.”  Deutsche Post fell 10 cents to 12.72 euros today on the
Xetra Stock Exchange in  Frankfurt . The stock declined 5.8
percent in 2010, while UPS rose 27 percent and FedEx climbed 11
percent in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Deutsche Post was profitable in each quarter of 2010, and
its revenue for the year climbed 11 percent to 51.5 billion
euros. The company saw the biggest gains in  Asia , where sales
increased about 35 percent in 2010, according to Appel. Revenue
from the company’s Express segment in Asia Pacific gained 31
percent last year, according to the company’s annual report.  Buying Expertise  The company sees ways it can improve its delivery service
for specific industries in some countries through acquisitions,
Appel said.  “There are always activities in certain countries where we
have not the expertise,” he said. “Instead of building them,
with experts, it’s sometimes smarter to buy a company.”  Appel declined to specify the industries or locations where
Deutsche Post’s service needs to be improved.  The company also seeks to gain share and brand recognition
in fragmented markets, Appel said.  “Some markets are very fragmented and we are very small
and if you double your scale you are a different player in the
market,” Appel said. “Why should we not do that if we can get
a good price?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  