-- 
EU Weighs Deutsche Boerse Curbs as Rivals Bid to Snatch NYSE

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-04-01T12:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/deutsche-boerse-may-face-eu-curbs-aside-from-nyse-merger-probe.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  may face demands
from European Union nations to open up its derivatives-clearing
business to competitors, as rivals  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  entered the race to buy NYSE
Euronext.  Exchange operators would be pressured to give
clearinghouses run by other companies the data they need to
handle trades, under the latest version of  draft  rules being
discussed by EU governments. This would allow rivals to compete
with  Deutsche Boerse ’s Eurex Clearing joint  venture , which
processes all of the exchange’s derivatives trades.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext said Feb. 15 they will
combine in an all-stock takeover valued on the day at $9.53
billion. The proposed deal, combining NYSE Euronext’s Liffe and
Eurex, the trading venue jointly owned by Deutsche Boerse and
the Swiss Stock Exchange, would put more than 90 percent of the
region’s exchange-traded derivatives market in the hands of one
organization.  If adopted, the measures “would have an impact on the
value” of Deutsche Boerse’s plan to merge with  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
since the two “have flagship brands for derivatives trading and
clearing,” Niki Beattie, head of  Market Structure Partners ,
which advises brokers and exchanges, said in a phone interview.
“Changes to the current status quo means others may be able to
compete on their turf.”  Rival Bid  Nasdaq and IntercontinentalExchange today offered to buy
NYSE Euronext for $42.50 in cash and stock for each NYSE
Euronext share, or about $11.3 billion. The bid is a 19 percent
premium to Deutsche Boerse’s February offer, based on the German
exchange operator’s closing share price as of yesterday, Nasdaq
and IntercontinentalExchange said.  The proposed EU rules would “unnecessarily intervene in
the well-functioning market structure for listed derivatives,”
Stefan Mai, head of market policy and European public affairs at
Deutsche Boerse, said in a telephone interview.  “Given the experiences of the financial crisis, this is
simply the wrong way to increase market safety and integrity,”
said Mai.  The data-access plan is one of the possible alterations to
proposals made by the European Commission last year to toughen
regulation of derivatives traded away from exchanges. Hungary,
which holds the EU’s six-month presidency, drew up the draft
text, published on the EU  website .  Trade-Feed Data  Under the possible rules, which are subject to further
changes during talks between  finance ministry  officials,
exchanges would have to give “full reasons” if they refuse to
grant requests from rival clearinghouses for access to so-called
trade-feed data.  “It will be a challenge to find legitimate reasons to
refuse access,” Damian Carolan, a lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP,
said in a telephone interview. “If you refuse, the regulators
will be all over you.”  EU Antitrust Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , who has the
power to block mergers or seek changes to deals that may harm
competition, said last week he will take the possible rules into
account during his review of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse’s
takeover plan. The proposed transaction is likely to require an
in-depth probe, he said.  “During the analysis of this merger, we will have to be
very well coordinated” with EU governments and lawmakers on the
new derivatives legislation, Almunia told lawmakers at the
European Parliament.  Default Risk  Clearinghouses -- such as Eurex Clearing and  London ’s
LCH.Clearnet Ltd. -- operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  Almunia said he prefers a “more open business model” than
Deutsche Boerse’s “vertical silo,” which routes all
derivatives clearing through Eurex’s clearing arm.  Exchanges have criticized the possible data-access rules as
a distraction from global efforts to bolster regulation of
derivatives that are traded away from exchanges. So called over-
the-counter trading has been  blamed  by the Group of 20 countries
for contributing to the financial crisis.  The plans would also “endanger the competitiveness of
European financial markets,” Deutsche Boerse’s Mai said, as
similar measures aren’t being considered in other regions, and
could create “a potential race to the bottom” in how well
clearinghouses manage risk.  Marton Hajdu, a spokesman for  Hungary ’s  EU presidency ,
declined to comment on the discussions among governments.
Lawmakers at the European Parliament would also need to approve
the final text before it could become law.  Bertrand Benoit, a spokesman for the German finance
ministry, declined to immediately comment on the discussions.  Heiner Seidel, a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse, declined to
comment on how the rules might affect the company’s merger
plans. James Barr, a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, declined to
immediately comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 