-- 
Downfall of Tepco May Hurt Nuclear Sales at Toshiba, Hitachi

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-03-31T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/downfall-of-tepco-may-hurt-nuclear-sales-at-toshiba-hitachi.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and Hitachi Corp. may
struggle to find buyers for their nuclear reactors after the
worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl damaged  Japan ’s reputation
for safety, analysts and investors said.  While operator  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. is responsible for
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant accident, the reactor makers will
find it harder to win contracts since they typically bid with
the utility, said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital
Management Inc. in Tokyo, whose $8.6 billion under management
includes shares of Toshiba and Hitachi.  “Any plans to export all-Japan nuclear reactor projects
will be delayed,” said Takeo Miyamoto, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. “Improving the safety of the type of reactors
involved in the Fukushima accident will take time and Tepco’s
crisis management methods are being questioned.”  The record earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on
March 11 led to blasts and radiation leaks at the plant and
caused shares of Hitachi and Toshiba, which built the reactors,
to plunge the most in two years. The disaster will likely be a
boon for Paris-based  Areva SA (CEI)  and Dongfang Electric Corp. of
Chengdu, China, racing to build sturdier facilities, said Martin Prozesky, a London-based analyst at Sanford Bernstein.  Toshiba, which helped construct four of the six reactors at
Fukushima Dai-Ichi, has dropped 17 percent in Tokyo trading
since the earthquake. Hitachi, which built reactor No. 4 on the
site, has lost 12 percent, and Tokyo Electric, known as Tepco,
has plunged 78 percent.  Four Decades  The Fukushima plant, built four decades ago when Japan’s
first wave of nuclear construction began, had its power and
back-up generators knocked out by the tsunami that followed the
magnitude-9 earthquake. A lack of power to cool the reactor led
to explosions and radiation leaks and forced the evacuation of
more than 177,000 residents within 20 kilometers of the site.  “The myth of Japan’s nuclear safety is dying,” said
Yuichi Ishida, an analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “Until now, Japanese reactor makers had a track record
free of serious accidents.”  Before the Fukushima crisis, Japan’s most serious accident
was a Level-4 radiation leak at Tokaimura in Ibaraki prefecture
in 1999. The  International Atomic Energy Agency  describes Level
4 as an “accident with local consequences” involving “a minor
release of radioactive material.”  The Fukushima disaster is rated 5, severity assigned to the
Three Mile Island accident near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , in
1979. The world’s worst nuclear accident on record was the level
7 disaster at Chernobyl, Ukraine, in 1986.  Toshiba plans to win orders for 39 units by 2015, the
company, Japan’s largest supplier of reactors, said in December.
Hitachi said in June it plans to get at least 38 new power plant
contracts by 2030 and a third of global market share.  ‘A Lot Longer’  “Both companies will take a lot longer to reach those
targets,” said Yoshiharu Izumi, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  in Tokyo.  Toshiba’s expectation for its nuclear business was
underscored by its $4.16 billion acquisition of Westinghouse
Electric Co. in October 2006. At the time, the company earned
about 200 billion yen a year from its nuclear construction,
maintenance and fuel business. Toshiba projected in May that the
amount would surge to  1 trillion yen  by 2015.  Annual sales at Toshiba’s nuclear business, mostly from
plant maintenance, total about 650 billion yen, or 10 percent of
its overall revenue, Izumi estimates.  Hitachi’s Business  Nuclear-related operations made up 2.3 percent of Hitachi’s
revenue in the year ended March 2010. More than half of nuclear
sales come from maintenance services, Izumi said. Hitachi said
in June that it expects nuclear sales to surge 81 percent to 380
billion yen by the year ending March 2021, helped by  overseas
operations with partner  General Electric Co. (GE)   Hitachi said it has no ongoing or pending overseas nuclear
projects. It only produces the so-called  Boiling Water Reactors 
used at Fukushima.  Pressurized Water Reactors  dominate new
construction, with 55 of the 65  power plants  under construction
globally using the technology, according to the IAEA.  “We are currently putting all of our energies into
cooperating with Tepco on containing the situation,” said
Yuichi Izumisawa, a Hitachi spokesman in Tokyo, declining to
comment on the outlook. Hiroki Yamazaki, a Toshiba spokesman,
also declined to comment.  Shares of GE, which helped build the reactors at Fukushima,
are little changed since the earthquake. The industry is
shifting away from the company’s reactor technology, Nomura
Holdings Inc. said in a March 25 report.  Increasing Demand  Global demand for nuclear power will climb given concerns
about rising fossil-fuel prices,  energy security  and greenhouse
gas emissions, according to the  U.S. Department of Energy . Coal
is the largest source of electric power production, making up
about 40 percent of global supply. Nuclear power accounted for
14 percent in 2007.  Companies in Japan have been counting on demand in emerging
markets, which lack experience in managing nuclear power
generation and need the expertise of utilities, Fukoku Capital’s
Sakurai said. “Without a reputation for operational competency,
Japanese manufacturers won’t be able to sell.”  Japan’s government has encouraged the export of nuclear
technology as a low-polluting form of large-scale power
generation. Former Trade Minister Masayuki Naoshima led a
delegation that included the heads of Toshiba and Hitachi to
 Vietnam  in August last year and secured a contract in October.  Vietnam’s Partner  Vietnam will “tightly cooperate” with Japan and partners
on the construction of nuclear power plants, the country’s
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said in an e-mail on March 14.  Turkey  will continue talks with a Japanese group led by
Toshiba on building its second nuclear plant, Energy Ministry
Undersecretary Metin Kilci said the following day.  China  has the biggest nuclear expansion plan, with 27
reactors being built, according to the IAEA. Toshiba has been
building four reactors in the country since April 2009.  China will start work on a nuclear plant this month using
new technology that may be less susceptible to meltdown than
Fukushima Dai-Ichi, according to Huaneng Nuclear Power
Development Co., a unit of China Huaneng Group Corp., the
nation’s largest power group.  New Generation  The fourth-generation helium gas-cooled reactor was
designed and constructed by Beijing-based  Tsinghua University ,
according to a research paper by Shouyin Hu on the IAEA website.
China successfully tested an experimental reactor using the
technology, China National Nuclear Corp., the nation’s biggest
atomic plant builder, said in July.  “At the moment, China is still learning and gaining
experience in nuclear reactor construction and operation,”
Mizuho’s Ishida said. “But they have announced that they will
be using their own technology, so in the future, it’s quite
possible China will be bidding for projects and become a
competitor to Japan in emerging markets.”  Areva’s new EPR reactors being built in  France ,  Finland ,
and China have four independent safety sub-systems that can
reduce core accidents by a factor of 10 compared with previous
reactors, according to the company.  “All manufacturers will be challenged,”  Sanford
Bernstein ’s Prozesky said. Still, “the climate change debate
will not go away and nuclear power remains a legitimate part of
the future energy mix,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  