-- 
LME Business to Benefit From China's ‘Massive’ Expansion, CEO Abbott Says

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-03-31T16:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/lme-business-to-benefit-from-china-s-massive-expansion-ceo-abbott-says.html
London  Metal Exchange business will
be “good” this year with  China , the world’s largest buyer of
industrial metals, still in expansion, Chief Executive Officer
Martin Abbott said.  Average daily trading in LME futures and options climbed 15
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, Abbott said in
an interview in London today. Trading last year rose 7.4 percent
to a record 120.3 million lots worth $11.6 trillion.  “The reality is that China is not even close yet to being
in the middle of a massive infrastructure and investment
build,” Abbott said. “With that as a backdrop, I’ve every
reason to believe that business will be good.”  The LME index of six metals jumped 24 percent last year and
almost doubled in 2009 as the global economy recovered from its
steepest slump since World War II. Aluminum is up 6.9 percent
this year, tin rose 18 percent and copper dropped 1.3 percent.  The LME opened its first overseas office last year in
 Singapore  to capture business in  Asia , which accounted for 6.2
percent of total turnover on the Select electronic system during
Asian hours in 2010, Abbott said.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange, which also offers trading in
copper, aluminum and other industrial metals, is not considered
a “short-term threat,” he said. “They obviously have grown
very fast from a low base but we’ve also been growing,” he
said.  Singapore Exchange   The exchange may expand trading of metals with Singapore
Exchange Ltd. after starting copper, zinc and aluminum last
month, Abbott said. The contracts represent five metric tons of
metal, compared with the benchmark 25-ton contracts in London.  Steel, lead and nickel are possibilities, he said. “I
don’t see why we wouldn’t do it within this calendar year,”
Abbott said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  