-- 
Tea Party Activists Rally to Pressure Republicans on U.S. Budget Talks

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-31T16:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/tea-party-rally-to-pressure-house-republicans-on-budget-talks.html
Tea Party activists gather in
Washington today with a clear message for the Republican
majority they swept into power last fall: Hang tough, or else.  They’re rallying on the National Mall, heightening the
pressure on the freshmen they helped elect and other fiscally
conservative Republicans to stand firm for $61 billion in
budget cuts passed by the House last month.  The push by activists who delivered the House speaker’s
chair to  John Boehner  looms as the first major test of his
clout and credibility.  Tea Party supporters are descending on the Capitol as
congressional negotiators make progress on a budget deal that
falls short of the cuts in the House bill. Vice President  Joe Biden  said last night that aides to Democratic and Republican
lawmakers were working toward cuts that would total about $33
billion for the 2011 fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.  Such an agreement would stave off a government shutdown on
April 8, when current funding authority expires. It would also
alarm Tea Party activists, who were promised more sweeping cuts
during the 2010 campaign in which 87 new Republicans were
elected to the House, ending Democratic control of the chamber.  “We made a promise,” said Representative Blake Farenthold, a freshman from  Texas . “It’s going to be difficult
to come off of that.”  Backlash Concern  Aides involved in the budget talks said any announcement
of a firm agreement was unlikely to come until after the rally,
an indication of the possible backlash feared by Republican
lawmakers.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has sought since assuming the
speakership to tamp down unrest within his ranks from those
pushing for spending cuts and other measures more sweeping than
the Democratic-controlled Senate and the White House would
accept. The House’s $61 billion spending-cut bill stemmed from
objections from Tea Party-backed lawmakers over a smaller
figure that Boehner’s leadership team had proposed.  Now, though, a failure by Republican leaders to compromise
with Democrats could lead to a government shutdown, with
uncertain political repercussions for both parties.  At the same time, too heavy a dependence on fiscally
conservative Blue Dog Democrats to pass the legislation could
cost the Republicans the support of activists who will be
critical in the 2012 elections.  ‘Under Pressure’  “He’s under pressure,” Representative Rodney Alexander,
a Louisiana Republican, said of Boehner. “But I think he’s
going to do what he thinks is necessary to get the votes so we
can start to deal with next year’s budget.”  Democrats have sought to spotlight the divisions within
the Republican House caucus. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat, yesterday said House Republican leaders
“can’t let the Tea Party call the shots” if they “want to
move the country forward.”  Boehner praised Tea Party backers in remarks to reporters
today.  “I’m glad they’re here and I’m glad that they are engaged
in the process,” he said in a Capitol Hill press conference.  Evidence of the dilemma facing Boehner surfaced in a March
15 House vote on the stopgap measure funding the government
through April 8. Opponents to the bill included 54 Republicans,
meaning Boehner had to rely on support from Democrats to pass
it.  ‘A Joke’  As word spread last night of the prospect for a $33
billion spending-cut deal, reaction from Tea Party activists
signaled the challenge Boehner would face selling it.  Judson Phillips, founder of Tea Party Nation, urged
supporters to contact and visit lawmakers’ offices to oppose
any such agreement. “33 billion isn’t a cut, it is a joke,”
he wrote in a blogpost on the group’s website. “America is
heading down the road to insolvency” and Republicans are
“doing nothing to stop it,” Phillips wrote.  Phillips also encouraged Tea Party backers to  challenge
Boehner for his seat during the next election. “There is no
other way to put this,” he wrote. “The Tea Party movement
should find a candidate to run against John Boehner in 2012 and
should set as a goal, to defeat in a primary, the sitting
speaker of the  House of Representatives .”  Earlier in the day, Representative Martha Roby, a freshman
Republican from  Alabama , said “we will not settle for a split-
the-baby strategy. The American people want real cuts.”  Policy Disputes  Boehner said today that Republican negotiators would
continue to fight for the House-passed bill.  “There’s no agreement on the numbers and nothing will be
agreed to until everything is agreed to,” he told reporters.  A series of policy provisions the House included in its
budget bill remain a major hurdle to any accord. The dozens of
so-called riders include blocking spending to implement the
health-care overhaul and ending federal funding for Planned
Parenthood, a federation of reproductive health centers that
provides abortions among its services.  The Republican House leaders have said they won’t agree to
an overall budget-cut figure until these issues are settled.  Tea Party activists see the negotiations as unprincipled
capitulation by Republicans.  “We expected change,” said Mark Meckler, a co-founder of
the Tea Party Patriots, which organized today’s rally. “What
we are seeing here is these guys are essentially at best
chewing around the edges of a serious problem.”  Scheduled Speakers  The “continuing revolution rally” will include speeches
by Representatives Steve King of  Iowa ,  Michele Bachmann  of
 Minnesota , Jim Jordan of  Ohio , and other lawmakers.  Newt Gingrich , a presumptive Republican presidential
candidate, also is expected to meet with House Republican
freshmen.  Tea Party groups have threatened to target any Republicans
they view as not conservative enough on spending issues.  “You’ve got Tea Party-supported politicians sticking
their thumb in the eye of the Tea Party, and there will be a
price to pay for that,” said Brian Darling, director of
government relations for the  Heritage Foundation , which
advocates limited government.  Still, some Tea Party-backed freshmen, particularly those
from politically competitive districts, expressed some
willingness to negotiate with Democrats.  Farenthold, who won his largely Hispanic district by less
than 1 percentage point, said he understood the “frustration
and impatience” among Tea Party activists, “but I also see
the other side of it. Part of negotiation is not saying no,
it’s coming up with an alternative plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  