-- 
Power Cuts in Japan Drive Lead Demand for Batteries, Emergency Generators

-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-03-31T11:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/lead-demand-from-japan-to-jump-on-quake-recovery-barclays-says.html
Demand for lead in  Japan , the
third-biggest economy, is set to climb as the country seeks
batteries and generators to help it recover from the destruction
caused by its strongest earthquake on record and tsunami.  “I would expect domestic Japanese production to increase”
and imports to grow as battery manufacturers struggle to keep up
with demand, said Barclays Capital’s analyst  Gayle Berry .  As much as 25 trillion yen ($307 billion) of damage
resulted from the magnitude-9.0 quake and tsunami, said the
government. The disaster crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant, causing radiation leaks, and shut factories,
disrupted power and contaminated food and water. Japan consumed
2.4 percent of the world’s lead last year, using 224,000 metric
tons, said the  International Lead and Zinc Study Group .  Neil Hawkes, an analyst at London-based researcher CRU
International Ltd., and Citigroup Inc. join Berry in expecting
the recovery to increase lead use. The restart of domestic car
production may also bolster demand. The metal advanced 9 percent
on the  London  Metal Exchange since the temblor on March 11,
beating the other five major metals on the bourse.  Demand for lead in the U.S. jumped 6 percent in 2005, the
year  Hurricane Katrina  struck  Louisiana , compared with “flat to
falling” trends in previous years, Berry said in an e-mailed
reply to questions from Bloomberg News.  Emergency Services   After Katrina struck “there was an almost immediate pick-
up in demand for batteries in everything from back-up generators
to uninterruptible power supply” used to provide electricity to
sub-stations, hospitals and emergency services, Berry said. That
is clearly going to be a priority, she said.  A unit of uninterruptible power supply, known as UPS,
contains an average 15 kilograms to 30 kilograms of lead, said
 Barclays Capital . Lead is likely to see the biggest increase in
demand among all the base metals after the disaster, Citigroup
said in a report this month.  Demand for lead was expanding this year even before the
disaster, said Neil Hawkes in a phone interview on March 29.  “Everyone is talking about reconstruction efforts,”
Hawkes said. “Obviously that will be good for steel and copper.
For lead, the interesting aspect is that they are going to
rebuild the mobile-phone networks. All of these have lead-acid
batteries attached to them.”  Power Generators  Global Battery Co. ,  South Korea ’s biggest lead-acid battery
producer, has seen exports of replacements and emergency power
generators jump 20 percent to Japan since the earthquake and
tsunami, spokesman Nak Joon Yoon said today.  “It’s not easy to predict the demand outlook for lead at
this stage as we don’t know when domestic automakers may be able
to resume full operations,” said Kimiyasu Marusaki, general
manager of the zinc and lead division at  Toho Zinc Co. , Japan’s
top producer. Most demand comes from the  auto industry , he said.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest carmaker, resumed
hybrid-car output on March 24, spokeswoman  Shiori Hashimoto  said.
Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest automaker, will resume
production at all car factories in Japan from April 11, it said.  Toyota may delay the production of at least 500,000
vehicles in Japan because of a shortage of parts and electricity,
said  Koji Endo , an auto analyst at Advanced Research Japan.  “There are expectations that demand for lead-acid
batteries will rise following the earthquake, but I haven’t
heard market participants saying orders already jumped,” said
Yan Wanxin, a project manager at Liaoning-based state-owned
trading company Shenyang Chengtong Metals Co. “Maybe people
need to wait a couple of weeks to see orders really coming in.”  Widening Premium  The premium of lead for immediate delivery over benchmark
three-month futures in London widened to as much as $44 a ton on
March 29, more than three times the level on March 11 and the
highest since Feb. 7, signaling a shortage of near-term supply.  “Certainly some investors who are forward-thinking, they
can see the bullish potential for lead,” Hawkes said. “That’s
what we are seeing. Any dip in the price is well bought into.”  Stockpiles of lead monitored by the London Metal Exchange
have declined 5.5 percent since peaking at 297,500 tons on Feb.
15, the highest since March 1995. Three-month lead was little
changed at $2,653.5 a ton at 7:53 p.m. Tokyo time today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Seoul at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  