-- 
Health-Care Networks Allowed to Form Under White House Cooperation Rules

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-03-31T16:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/health-care-networks-allowed-to-form-under-white-house-cooperation-rules.html
Hospitals and groups of doctors
will be able to form networks with the aim of cutting health-
care costs by pooling services under  regulations  the
Obama administration released.  The  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services issued
rules today for so-called accountable care organizations, a
centerpiece of the health-care law that raised antitrust
concerns. The program may save the government as much as $960
million in the next three years after any performance incentives
are paid to providers.  The effort envisions doctors, hospitals and other providers
such as  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  collaborating to better
coordinate care for Medicare patients, reducing costs through
improved efficiency. Any savings would be shared between
providers and the government. U.S. regulators will review
alliances to make sure they comply with antitrust law.  “We see this as a way to really accelerate the best kind
of care delivery that’s going on in pockets around the
country,” Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
said at a conference in Washington sponsored by Bloomberg
Government. “We don’t have a payment system that allows us to
align those payments and incentivize accountable care, and
that’s what accountable care organizations allow us to do.”  Republicans in Congress are trying to repeal, or defund
portions of, the law. Twenty-six states also are challenging the
constitutionality of the statute’s mandate that all Americans
purchase health insurance.  Health Systems  The program is an effort to make independent hospitals and
doctors’ offices perform more like integrated health systems
such as the Mayo Clinic in  Minnesota  or the  Cleveland Clinic 
that are considered more efficient, said  Donald Berwick ,
Medicare’s administrator. At the same time, the program “will
not limit patient choice” of providers, he said in a conference
call.  The government will waive several antifraud statutes for
groups that qualify for the program, including laws that forbid
doctors from referring patients only to hospitals and other
providers with which they have financial stakes.  Government antitrust regulators issued their own guidance
for the new organizations today, outlining ways to avoid charges
of price-fixing.  Any group of physicians who have less than 30 percent
market share in their local area and are approved as ACOs by
Medicare will be presumed legal, the  Department of Justice  and
Federal Trade Commission said in a joint statement. Any group
with 50 percent of market share or more will need preapproval
from antitrust regulators for an ACO.  ‘Vicious Dilemma’  Groups of physicians with market share of 30 percent to 50
percent fall into a grey area in which they may be prosecuted
for certain behaviors including sharing “competitively sensitive
pricing” data or “preventing or discouraging” insurers and
employers from directing their customers to other providers.  Provider groups can seek fast-track approval for their
proposed arrangements from antitrust regulators before forming
an ACO, the government said.  Judging the merits of applicants to the shared savings
program may be a “vicious dilemma” for Medicare officials,
said Jeff Gruen, director of health-care services for the
consulting firm PRTM in  Washington . The agency will need “early
wins” to sustain momentum for the program, he said.  “If the program is too restrictive early on, the interest
in ACOs could lose steam,” he said in an e-mail. “They want to
open the tap and have more participants early.”  Changing Culture  The effort “really requires a change in culture that may
not have taken place,” said Thomas Graf, who heads Geisinger
Health System’s primary-care physicians. “You may see ACO’s up
and running but struggling at least at first.”  Geisinger, in Danville,  Pennsylvania , has been part of a
five-year U.S. demonstration project testing the accountable
care organization concept. Other participants include Dartmouth-
Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon,  New Hampshire ; University
of  Michigan  Medical Center in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, and Park
Nicollet Health Services in  Minneapolis .  Insurers are concerned that the new program “will
restructure the relationships among providers, hospitals and
physicians, in a manner that will allow them to exercise market
power” and demand higher payment, said Mark Botti, an antitrust
lawyer at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld in Washington.  The government may address the issue by “providing some
general principles as to the types of things ACOs might safely
do” and create a “fast-review mechanism” at antitrust
agencies, said Botti, who has represented plans, hospitals and
physicians and spoken on antitrust issues at conferences hosted
by the America’s Health Insurance Plans trade group.  “The government may also give us some signal as to the
aggressiveness of its enforcement policy,” he said.  Federal Trade Commission Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said on a
conference call that “if ACOs meet guidelines for clinical
integration, they are not going to be subject to the most strict
kind of antitrust review.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
abettelheim@bloomberg. 