-- 
Quake-Surviving Pandas to Debut as Tokyo's Ueno Zoo Opens to Public Again

-- B y   K a z u y o   S a w a   a n d   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i
-- 
2011-04-01T04:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/earthquake-surviving-pandas-to-debut-as-tokyo-s-ueno-zoo-reopens-to-public.html
A thousand people waited for the
gates to open at Tokyo’s Ueno Zoo this morning, drawn by the
debut of  giant pandas  Shin Shin and Ri Ri, survivors of the
deadliest earthquakes for decades in both  China  and  Japan .  “I’ve never seen such a crowd, the man at the front of the
line was here since yesterday morning,” said Kazuo Sato, a
security guard at the gate since April 2010. “Pandas really
represent Ueno Zoo.”  Shin Shin, the female, and Ri Ri arrived in Tokyo on Feb.
21, just 18 days before a magnitude-9.0 quake and tsunami
devastated northeastern Japan, leaving almost 28,000 dead or
missing and a nuclear power plant crippled and leaking radiation.  Both had been housed at the China Giant Panda Protection
and Research Center in Sichuan when a magnitude-7.8 quake struck
about 180 kilometers (110 miles) away on May 12, 2008, killing
almost 70,000 and leaving millions homeless.  “These are two very rare pandas, to have experienced both
of the earthquakes,” said Tetsurou Nogami, a  Tokyo  metropolitan
government official responsible for the zoo. “They were nervous
right after the earthquake, but lately they’ve become very
energetic and have good appetites.”  Tokyo will donate $950,000 a year to panda research in
China in return for the two pandas. Elsewhere in Japan, one
giant panda resides at the  Kobe Oji Zoo  and eight live in the
 Wakayama Adventure World .  Zoo Reopens  Ueno Zoo  reopened today after two weeks of closure as
aftershocks from the March 11 temblor continued to ripple
through the country, and to conserve electricity amid rolling
blackouts in the capital region. Nogami expects a flood of
visitors as school spring breaks have started.  Ueno was one of the first zoos outside  China  to house giant
pandas in 1972, when a pair arrived in Tokyo as a gift to mark
the restoration of diplomatic ties between the two nations.
Their arrival sparked an increase of almost 50 percent in
visitors to the zoo in the following year.  Four-year-old Sakura Sato made her first charity donation
today while viewing the pandas, contributing to help victims of
the March 11 disaster.  “She begged to come and see the pandas,” Mika, her mother
said. “They’re very cute and it’s great to see them back at
Ueno again.”  Noting that Shin Shin appears to be in heat, Nogami said
the birth of a baby panda at Ueno would be bright news for the
nation.  “We’re reopening to bring some smiles to Japan,” Nogami
said. “I hope the pandas can have a positive effect on
people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net .
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at   cwteo@bloomberg.net . 