-- 
Theater Owners ‘Disappointed’ by Report of Studio VOD Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-31T21:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/theater-owners-disappointed-at-reports-of-studios-vod-plans.html
U.S. theater owners expressed
“disappointment” at a report that four major Hollywood studios
plan to show movies on a new video-on-demand service two months
after the films start appearing in cinemas.  Executives of cinema chains meeting in  Las Vegas  this week
weren’t consulted about the plan, the Washington-based  National
Association of Theater Owners  said today in an e-mail.  Cinemas, coping with a 20 percent drop in attendance this
year, have repeatedly voiced concern about proposals to shorten
the usual 120 days between a film’s theatrical release and the
home-video debut. An earlier release may cut further into
revenue and increase piracy, the association said today.  “These plans fundamentally alter the economic relationship
between exhibitors, filmmakers and producers, and the studios
taking part in this misguided venture,” said NATO, which
represents chains including  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  and AMC
Entertainment Inc. “We would expect cinema owners to respond to
such a fundamental change and to reevaluate all aspects of their
relationships with these four studios.”  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal 
and News Corp. agreed to start the Home Premiere service,
offering two- or three-day movie rentals through  DirecTV (DTV)  for $30
starting in late April, the publication Variety reported today.  The two-month time frame is longer than the four to six
weeks suggested by DirecTV Chief Executive Officer  Michael White 
on a Feb. 23 conference call. CEOs at Regal and AMC, the two
largest cinema operators, said later that their chains wouldn’t
show films scheduled for home viewing in his time frame.  90 Days OK  “They risk accelerating the already intense need to
maximize revenues on every screen opening weekend and driving
out films that need time to develop,” NATO said today.  Shortening the theatrical release period to 90 days would
be acceptable, Gerry Lopez, CEO of  Kansas City , Missouri-based
AMC said in a March 23 interview with Bloomberg Television.  Jim Kennedy, a spokesman for Sony, said the company had no
comment on the theater owners’ statement. James Finn, a
spokesman for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, Cindy Gardner of NBC Universal
and James Noonan of Warner Bros. also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  