-- 
ECB Suspends Minimum Credit-Rating Threshold for Irish Debt

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-03-31T19:53:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ecb-suspends-credit-rating-threshold-for-irish-debt-on-capital-infusions.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
will accept all debt instruments backed by the Irish government
as collateral against ECB loans as the country attempts to shore
up its banking industry.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said Ireland’s commitment to
recapitalize its banks and comply with a consolidation program
prescribed by the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
must be assessed “positively.” The suspension of the minimum
credit-rating threshold is based on “this positive assessment
of the program,” a capital increase for Ireland’s four banks
and the decision to “deleverage and downsize the banking
sector,” the ECB said.  Irish regulators today instructed four banks to raise 24
billion euros ($34 billion) in additional capital following
stress tests on their businesses, and the government said it
plans to merge two of the lenders. Allied Irish Banks Plc, the
biggest lender during a decade-long economic boom, requires 13.3
billion euros, the central bank in Dublin said.  “This will substantially strengthen the banks and give
them a sound capital basis,” the ECB said. “Against this
background, the Eurosystem will continue to provide liquidity to
banks in Ireland.”  ECB Funding  Ireland’s banks were reliant on the ECB for 88.7 billion
euros of funding at the end of last month, the Irish central
bank said today. They may have borrowed as much as an additional
70.1 billion euros in exceptional liquidity from the Irish
central bank, according to figures on March 11.  It is not the first time the ECB has loosened its
collateral rules to help a euro-area member state in distress.
In May last year, the ECB announced it would accept all Greek
government debt as collateral when lending to banks, suspending
minimum credit-rating thresholds to support a 110 billion-euro
bailout of the debt-strapped nation. Ireland was the second of
the now 17 euro-area members to receive a bailout last year.  The ECB “deems debt instruments issued or guaranteed by
the Irish government to fulfill the credit standards required
for collateral in Eurosystem credit operations,” the bank said.
“The relevant risk control measures will be reviewed on a
continuous basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  