-- 
ECB’s Quaden Says in Europe ‘A Crisis Is Needed to Progress’

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-03-31T10:02:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ecb-s-quaden-says-in-europe-a-crisis-is-needed-to-progress-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member and Belgian central bank Governor  Guy Quaden , who
retires today, comments on inflation, monetary policy and the
euro.  He made the remarks in an interview in Brussels yesterday.  On past and future challenges for the ECB:  “Building up and preserving the credibility of a new
currency and a new institution was the biggest challenge for us
in the Governing Council of the ECB. The introduction of a new
currency itself was a huge technological challenge, a type of
landing. The biggest economic problem after the technological
challenge was to build the credibility of the new currency on
the basis not of the average credibility of the different
currencies which have merged into the euro, but on the basis of
the national currency with the highest credibility. And I think
we were able to do that.”  “We were able to build that credibility and also to
preserve the credibility of the euro in the most difficult
times. Sure, there was a financial crisis and there is a crisis
of the debt in particular in some countries of the euro zone,
but the euro itself is and remains a currency with a high
credibility. And that was due to the fact that we had and still
have a clear strategy --  price stability  in the medium term.
It’s our constant strategy. But we were also capable in recent
difficult instances of flexibility and even some audacity. Under
the leadership of Trichet we have reacted quickly and
appropriately.”  “The euro is a respected currency in the world. The
exchange rate of the euro is not a target, it’s not a
measurement of the credibility of the euro, but it is still an
indication. But there are problems. Recent events have
demonstrated the shortcomings in the economic governance of the
euro zone and the main challenge for the months and years to
come is to improve effectively the economic governance of
monetary union.”  On leaders’ response to the fiscal crisis:  “The recent decisions are encouraging. I refer precisely
to the strengthening of the pact for stability and growth, to
the new pact for the euro about competitiveness of our
countries; I refer also to the European Stability Mechanism. All
these decisions, rules and procedures go in a good direction.
The problem now is they have to be implemented and respected and
if needed sanctioned. We had with these dramatic events a ‘prise
de conscience.’ It is often the way followed by  Europe  -- a
crisis is needed to progress.”  “The response to the recent problems is much more
collective discipline and fully respected. Personally I would
say it’s a step to more political union in Europe.”  “I have a certain frustration for the past and I have hope
for the future. The pact for stability and growth was not
respected and the infractions were severe in some countries like
 Greece . Discipline should not only concern fiscal policy and the
internal accounts but also external accounts, that means the
competitiveness of every country. To restore competitiveness and
sow the potential for long-term economic growth, some countries
are now in a difficult adjustment process, which is painful in
the short term but which will be good for the long term.”  On  interest rates :  “We are not pre-committed. I will not take part in the
meeting next week but I wouldn’t be surprised or unhappy if
indeed the Governing Council were to decide on a cautious
increase of its interest rates.  “According to the metaphors, the images journalists like,
I’m not a hawk, I think because I never use words like martial-
arts rhetoric. Am I a dove? I’m not sure of that. I’m a
pragmatist.”  “Two years ago, when we were confronted with the most
severe recession since the 1930s and inflation which was
negative or very low, I was strongly in favor of a very
accommodative monetary policy. We ought not to repeat the
mistakes of the 1930s.  “But we are two years later. The context is not the same.
I don’t say that economic growth is fantastic and that inflation
is tragic, but both growth and inflation have become again
significantly positive and in this new context it seems
difficult to me to say that this very, very low level of
official interest rates of 1 percent is still appropriate. I
think that a cautious increase of the official interest rates
from that very low level cannot hamper the economic recovery.”  On non-standard policy measures:  “There are still a lot of fragilities in the banking
sector, financial markets are not fully stabilized yet, that’s
clear. But don’t forget, we don’t have only standard monetary
policy but also non-standard monetary-policy measures. We said
frequently that we can manage these two policies separately,
independently. We do what we said. We have decided to maintain
at least for another quarter the non-standard monetary-policy
measures and it’s not impossible at the same time to move on the
field of standard monetary policy, that means the interest
rates.”  “We decided to maintain non-standard policy measures for
another quarter. It doesn’t mean that they will be abolished in
three months, it doesn’t mean that we will continue with the
same measures later this year. My colleagues will have to assess
the situation, in particular on the basis of the new stress
tests.”  On the banking system:  “Some banks, not all banks, are still in a difficult
situation and in the case of Ireland it’s not a secret. It’s
quasi the whole Irish banking sector which is in great
difficulties. The problem is indeed to sort out the stronger
from the weaker banks in the European Union and in the  euro zone 
in particular. It will be the purpose of the next stress-testing
exercise. At that time, if we see that stress tests reveal
particular weaknesses and fragilities in some banks, the
shareholders and the authorities have to come at the same time
with remedies, with solutions.”  On commodity-price increases:  “We are used to a certain extent to fluctuations in the
prices of oil and food. It will still be the case but there is
probably a structural trend for rising commodity prices. The
importation into our countries, industrialized countries, of
goods from emerging markets, with lower wages and costs, was one
of the factors explaining the great moderation of inflation at
the beginning of this century. Now, living standards are
fortunately improving in emerging countries and their
consumption, especially of commodities, is increasing.  “Consumption in these countries will possibly now
contribute to an increase of inflationary pressures in the
world. Potentially it could be a real problem for the years to
come, for monetary policy and central banks.”  “It is not excluded that at some stage central banks, and
the ECB in particular, will have to amend somewhat their
targets, but it would be absolutely premature to do that now.
The trend has to be confirmed. The priorities are to reduce and
contain the demand for energy, in particular in advanced
countries, with energy-saving policies, and to increase the
supply of food and food production.”  On divergences in the euro region:  “In a monetary union, you have regional differences and
there is one single monetary policy. Regional differences have
to be addressed with other tools of economic policies,
structural policies in particular, and income policies as well.
There are monetary tools and monetary policy is a single one but
there are other tools for the problem of regional and national
differences. It’s mainly the responsibility of political
authorities and social partners in the individual countries.”  “We are not blind or indifferent. It’s not our main
responsibility. It’s the responsibility of national political
authorities and of national social partners, unions and
enterprises. But we are not blind or indifferent at the level of
the ECB. The so-called non-standard measures are related to
difficulties in the banking sector and in financial markets,
which are more severe in some countries than in others.”  On communication:  “The ECB is a particularly transparent central bank. We
are the only large central bank, until now, where the president
explains one hour after the decision why the decision has been
taken. We are never pre-committed, we can act at any time, but
we are predictable as much as possible.”  “The president of the ECB has regular hearings in the
European Parliament and all the national governors, me included,
have regular hearings in our national parliaments. And we
frequently have interviews with the press in order to explain
and justify our policy. It’s the price we pay for our
independence -- to explain and to convince. I do that with
pleasure.”  “It’s very important to communicate openly but it’s very
difficult to communicate adequately. The problem is that we have
to speak with very different audiences which are not used to the
same vocabulary, from specialists to ordinary people to
politicians in the parliaments.”  On his career:  “I was not the manager of a relatively small national
currency as was the case with my predecessors, but the co-
manager, with 22 colleagues, of one of the two biggest
currencies of the world. It was a pleasure but it was also
challenge.”  “I’m the chairman of a committee that studies the
budgetary consequences of the aging process. My goal is to live
a long time and in very good health. It’s an excellent goal but
if it’s a success it will be costly for the budget and the
social security system. So in the next years, I have to continue
to contribute to the financing of the social security by
working, but not at 100 percent or the 120 percent like it was
the case in the latest years with the financial and sovereign
debt crises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  