-- 
ECB’s Credibility in Germany May Suffer on Rates, Wellink Says

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-03-31T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ecb-s-credibility-in-germany-may-suffer-on-rates-wellink-says.html
The Dutch central bank, led by  Nout Wellink , said the  European Central Bank ’s credibility in Germany
may suffer if it doesn’t raise rates enough to slow accelerating
inflation in  Europe ’s largest economy.  “The strong economic pickup in Germany makes clear that a
recovering economy comes with higher inflation and therefore
needs a higher benchmark interest rate,” the Amsterdam-based
central bank wrote in its  annual report  today. “The ECB can’t
(fully) fulfill that need if inflation elsewhere in the  euro
zone  is substantially below 2 percent and in some countries even
negative.”  “The longer such a situation continues, the harder it will
be for the ECB to maintain its credibility among the public in
the largest member state, with its deep-rooted aversion to
inflation,” Wellink said in the report.  Rising energy and food costs are fanning inflation in
 Germany , increasing pressure on the ECB to raise rates. German
inflation remained at 2.2 percent in March, the highest since
October 2008, and inflation across the region unexpectedly
accelerated to 2.6 percent.  “The factual inflation is high for European standards,”
Wellink told reporters in Amsterdam today. “In other parts of
the world inflation is even higher, namely in Asian countries,
which affects the price of goods imported to Europe.”  Officials have signaled the impact of the Japanese
earthquake and tsunami won’t deter them from lifting borrowing
costs for the first time in almost three years next month.  “On a more abstract level, the interest rate is extremely
low,” said Wellink, whose term ends on July 1. “Also on an
abstract level, which has nothing to do with the current
circumstances, an increase from a level of 1 percent doesn’t
change the world, it only indicates monetary authorities are
alert.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 