-- 
Ecuador Pension Fund to Trim Government Bond Purchases as Oil Cuts Deficit

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-03-31T20:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ecuador-pension-fund-to-trim-government-bond-purchases-ceo-says.html
Ecuador ’s public pension fund, the
nation’s biggest institutional investor, will limit purchases of
government debt to about 30 percent of the $1 billion set aside
this year as rising  oil prices  trim the country’s budget gap.  The  Banco del Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social ,
known as BIESS, prefers to invest directly in public works
instead of buying the bonds, Chief Executive Officer Efrain Vieira said March 28 in an interview from his office in Quito.
The fund will buy about $200 million of locally-traded
securities this year, 10 percent more than last year, he said.  Ecuador’s government has relied on the nation’s public
pension fund, loans from  China  and credit from multilateral
lenders including the  Inter-American Development Bank  to finance
public spending after a 2008 default on $3.2 billion of foreign
debt limited access to international capital markets. A surge in
the price of oil, the nation’s biggest export, has eased the
government’s “urgency” for cash, allowing the pension fund to
look for investments elsewhere, Vieira said.  “The Finance Ministry doesn’t have such urgency for
financing and so there is less pressure to buy bonds or treasury
notes,” said Vieira, a 46-year-old electrical engineer.
“Instead of buying bonds, we would prefer to participate in
strategic projects in the public sector.”  While the bank “doesn’t have an obligation” to buy
government debt, the decision to invest in bonds “depends on
the  Finance Ministry ,” Vieira said in an e-mail. President
 Rafael Correa  appoints two of the bank’s four-member board of
directors and Vieira isn’t a member of the board.  Debt Yields  The bank prefers financing public works instead of buying
 government bonds  because it’s more profitable, Vieira said.  The yield on Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in
2015, the only foreign debt the nation kept servicing after the
default, was little changed at 9.98 percent as of 4:20 p.m. New
York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The bond’s price
was 97.75 cents on the dollar.  Conflicts in the Middle East have led to higher oil prices
this year and windfall profits for Ecuador, OPEC’s smallest
member, easing concerns over the nation’s estimated $3.7 billion
 budget deficit , said Walter Spurrier, director of Guayaquil-
based economic research company  Grupo Spurrier .  “The concerns over public finances that existed until a
month ago have been thrown out for the moment,” Spurrier said
March 28 in a note to clients.  Ecuador’s Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  didn’t respond
to messages seeking comment.  New Investments  The bank will loan about $150 million this year to help
companies expand factories and improve productivity, and invest
$195 million in private infrastructure projects, Vieira said.  The pension fund manages $6.9 billion. That amount may grow
to $8.2 billion by year end, including new contributions from
workers and profits, he said.  The fund owns a $10 million stake in supermarket chain
Corp. La Favorita CA, Ecuador’s biggest publicly traded company
by revenue, he said. The BIESS, which must invest at least 70
percent of its portfolio in fixed-income securities, is limited
by the lack of share offerings as it seeks to increase its
holdings in locally traded companies, Vieira said.  In 2010, a total of $150,000 in new shares were issued on
the nation’s two securities exchanges, according to the nation’s
market regulator.  The BIESS, the country’s largest mortgage lender, will
probably lower its average mortgage rate by about half a
percentage point to 7.4 percent in January 2012 from 7.9 percent
now, Vieira said. The bank’s goal is to eventually reduce its
home loan rate to 5 percent, he said, without giving a time
frame.  The bank plans to lend $845 million this year for homes and
grant $550 million in consumer loans, Vieira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in  Quito  News at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  