-- 
Medvedev to Oust Putin Deputies at Rosneft, State Lenders

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-03-31T16:53:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/medvedev-may-order-removal-of-rosneft-vtb-chairmen-this-week.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
plans to submit orders this week to remove government officials
as chairmen of state companies in industries they regulate, said
 Arkady Dvorkovich , his chief economic aide.  The personnel changes, which apply to competitive sectors
of the economy, may be made at the next set of board meetings,
Dvorkovich told reporters today in Moscow.  “The chairman decides almost everything” on state
companies’ boards, Dvorkovich said. Replacing government
officials with independent directors may “improve governance
and eliminate preferential treatment for state companies in
competitive industries.”  Medvedev, who said on March 21 that foreign direct
investment was at an “unacceptably low level,” has sought to
lure capital by promoting Moscow as a financial center and
creating a private equity fund to allow the government to share
risks with foreign investors and help “modernize” the economy.  The proposal to remove officials as directors on corporate
boards in the industries they regulate was announced by the
president yesterday in Magnitogorsk. It’s one of 10 points
Medvedev plans to implement this year to improve  Russia ’s
investment climate.  Kudrin, Sechin  The changes would apply to Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin,
who chairs VTB Bank’s supervisory board, and Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Sechin , chairman at OAO Rosneft, Dvorkovich said.  Dvorkovich also said Transportation Minister  Igor Levitin 
should be replaced at OAO Aeroflot and Sheremetyevo airport,
while First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov should leave the
post at Russian Agricultural Bank, known as Rosselkhozbank.  “In many cases these companies’ boards of directors are
led by the deputy prime minister or minister who is responsible
for regulating the industry,” Dvorkovich said. Independent
directors may include “former government officials with good
reputations,” as well as business leaders and academics.  The program is not part of Medvedev’s pre-election
campaign, Dvorkovich said. The next nationwide parliamentary
vote is due in December, followed by presidential elections
early next year.  Medvedev wants to run again in 2012, Dvorkovich said last
year. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who handed over the
presidency to Medvedev, his protege, in 2008 because of a
constitutional ban on three consecutive presidential terms, also
hasn’t ruled out running for the top position again.  ‘Thrilled’  “We are thrilled with anticipation” about the program,
which has “hard and tight deadlines,” Alexey Zabotkin and
Aleksandra Evtifyeva, analysts at VTB Capital in Moscow, wrote
today in an e-mailed research note. “Success would mean a major
boost to Russia’s investment case.”  The board of OAO Russian Railways, which is chaired by
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zhukov, is working
“effectively” because his duties in the government don’t
overlap with the state railway’s business, Dvorkovich said.  Russia’s central bank, the majority shareholder of OAO
Sberbank, is independent of the government and won’t fall under
the new rule, Dvorkovich said. Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev presides over Sberbank’s supervisory board, which
includes Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  and Dvorkovich.  Conflict of Interest  Nabiullina, who is also one of six government
representatives on the board of OAO Gazprom, the nation’s gas
exporter, said the move, once clarified, will help avoid
conflicts of interest on issues such as implementing the mineral
extraction tax on natural gas.  “It’s too early to speak about any concrete companies and
names,” she told reporters in Moscow today.  The state has also reduced the number of items that require
the so-called directives, or recommendations, to its board
representatives, Nabiullina said.  “We will look at these issues again,” she said. “In my
opinion, the directives should remain.”  A five-year extension of Gazprom Chief Executive Office
 Alexei Miller ’s contract required a directive from Putin for the
March 22 board meeting.  Medvedev is concerned that the government’s plan to sell
state assets over the next three years is becoming less clear,
Dvorkovich said.  “The program should be flexible, but not so flexible that
we’ll be rethinking whether to privatize” stakes included in
the plan, Dvorkovich said.  Medvedev plans to discuss the “first results” of his 10-
point program at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum
in June, Dvorkovich said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in  New York  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 