-- 
Medvedev’s Plan to Oust Putin Allies Tests Limits of Power

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-04-01T13:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/medvedev-tests-limits-of-power-with-plan-to-oust-putin-allies.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
may be risking a power struggle with  Vladimir Putin  after an
aide announced plans to oust Putin allies from some of the
biggest state-owned companies a year before elections.  Medvedev this week will prepare orders to dismiss several
government officials from state enterprises, including Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  as chairman of OAO Rosneft, the
largest Russian  oil company ,  Arkady Dvorkovich , his chief
economic aide, said yesterday. Sechin has worked with Prime
Minister Putin in several capacities since the two were
colleagues at the St. Petersburg mayor’s office in the first
half of the 1990s.  Putin, 58, a former KGB colonel, kept power as prime
minister after selecting Medvedev, 45, in 2008 to succeed him as
president because of a constitutional ban on three consecutive
terms. With 12 months left before the next presidential vote,
it’s still uncertain which of the two men will run and
Medvedev’s move may cause the biggest rift between them yet.  “This risks triggering a war between the elites,” said
Alexei Mukhin, director of the Moscow-based Center for Political
Information, a research group. “It will mean a real conflict
with Putin.”  Aside from Sechin, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin should
also give up his post as chairman of the supervisory board of
VTB Bank, Russia’s second-largest bank, Dvorkovich said.  St. Petersburg  Connection  Transportation Minister  Igor Levitin  should be replaced at
the biggest Russian airline OAO Aeroflot and Moscow’s
Sheremetyevo airport, while First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov should leave his job at Russian Agricultural Bank, known
as Rosselkhozbank, he said. Kudrin and Zubkov are also
associates of Putin from his hometown, St. Petersburg.  Medvedev won’t issue any dismissal orders this week, a
presidential official, who declined to be identified in line
with Kremlin policy, said today. The president needs more time
to decide which members of the government to remove from state
companies and who should replace them, which is a difficult
task, the official said by phone.  There’s “no conflict” between Medvedev and Putin, who
agree on the need to “improve the efficiency of governance,”
according to Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman.  On the Agenda  “The subject of replacing officials with independent
directors has long been on the agenda,” he said by phone
yesterday. “It is another matter, in the context of carrying
out the instructions of the head of state, how we’ll monitor the
implementation of state directives in those companies where the
government is the majority shareholder.”  Medvedev first advocated the idea during his presidential
election campaign in February 2008. The president’s move now to
confront Putin allies who remain dominant in the government
shows that he has decided to assert himself, said Dmitry Oreshkin, an independent political analyst in Moscow.  “This is a major development which marks the first
independent move by Medvedev touching the interests of
influential members of Putin’s team,” he said.  Medvedev and Putin showed public discord last week over the
U.N.-sanctioned military intervention in  Libya . The president,
who has spearheaded Russia’s efforts to improve ties with the
U.S. and  Europe , rebuked the prime minister for likening the
allied campaign to a “crusade.”  Investment Appeal  A lawyer also from St. Petersburg, Medvedev has tried to
widen Russia’s investment appeal beyond energy to help
accelerate economic growth to 10 percent from last year’s 4
percent rate and match the pace of its BRIC rivals.  The president on March 30 announced that independent
directors may replace ministers and other officials in
industries they regulate by mid-year as part of a plan to
improve the investment climate. A proposal to cut a social tax
for businesses, also part of Medvedev’s 10-point program, may
cost the budget as much as 800 billion rubles ($28 billion) of
revenue, Putin said yesterday.  “There are no textbook solutions and we will have to labor
quite a bit to find” any, Peskov said. “We don’t yet know from
which sources” to make up for the lost revenue.  Foreign direct investment is at an “unacceptably low
level,” the president said on March 21. He has sought to lure
capital by promoting Moscow as a financial center and creating a
private equity fund to allow the government to share risks with
foreign investors and help “modernize” the economy.  Better Managed  “Minority investors should see Medvedev’s move as a
positive if there is a sweeping change at Rosneft and if these
state companies become better managed and more transparent as a
result,” said Dmitri Kryukov, founder of Moscow-based hedge
fund Verno Capital, which manages about $140 million.  Sechin and the other officials will fight to keep their
state company jobs, which give them financial opportunities
beyond those provided by government salaries, said Mukhin of the
Center for Political Information.  Some of the ministers might prefer to leave the government
and follow the example of  German Gref , OAO Sberbank’s chief
executive officer and Putin’s former economy minister, Charles Robertson, Renaissance Capital’s chief global economist in
 London , said by e-mail.  Searching for clashes within  Russia ’s elite is like
“looking for a nonexistent black cat in a dark room,” said
Peskov.  ‘Favorite Pastime’  This “has become a favorite pastime for analysts,” he
said. “Replacing officials with independent directors and
lowering the social tax are coordinated positions.”  Medvedev wants to win a second term in 2012, Dvorkovich
said last year. Putin also hasn’t ruled out running for the top
position again.  If the decision to remove Putin’s allies from state
companies is implemented, it would show that Medvedev intends to
carry out his free-market policies and is an independent
politician, said Masha Lipman, an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow
Center.  “This can be interpreted as an attempt to show his
authority,” she said. “This would be a very important step
weakening people who are very strong players, who are powerful
by virtue of being close to Putin.”  Medvedev, who in his first year in office pushed through a
constitutional change extending the presidential term to six
years from four, and his team would be able to challenge the
political and economic interests of Putin’s associates, said
Oreshkin.  “He could show a completely different side,” he said.
“The closer the elections come, the more aggressively he is
acting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 