-- 
Telesat Holdings Is Said to Weigh Takeover Offers From EchoStar, Carlyle

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-04-01T00:13:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/telesat-holdings-is-said-to-weigh-takeover-offers-from-echostar-carlyle.html
Telesat Holdings Inc., the Canadian
satellite company, is weighing takeover offers from  EchoStar
Corp. (SATS)  and  Carlyle Group , and may decide on a possible sale in
the coming days, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Telesat also may consider a special dividend as an
alternative to a sale if the bids don’t meet expectations, said
one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  dropped out of a bidding
group that includes KKR & Co., the people said.  Telesat, co-owned by  Loral Space & Communications Inc. (LORL)  and
Canada’s Public Sector Pension Investment Board, is seeking at
least $6 billion, one person said this month. Other companies
besides Carlyle, the Washington-based private-equity firm, and
EchoStar may have also submitted bids.  A purchase of Ottawa-based Telesat would build on other
satellite acquisitions by EchoStar Chairman Charlie Ergen this
year. EchoStar agreed to buy  Hughes Communications Inc. (HUGH)  for $2
billion including debt in February. Earlier that month,  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH) , where Ergen is also chairman, agreed to buy DBSD
North America Inc. for about $1 billion.  ‘Ergen Style’  “We don’t know the price yet, but in typical Ergen style,
I imagine he’ll get a good price for it,” said Amy Yong, an
analyst with Macquarie Capital in  New York , who has an
“outperform” rating on Englewood, Colorado-based EchoStar.  A spokeswoman for New York-based Loral and a Telesat
spokesman declined to comment.  Loral fell 30 cents to $77.55 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 1.4 percent
in 2011. EchoStar rose 35 cents to $37.84 to push this year’s
advance to 52 percent.  Telesat, the world’s fourth-largest satellite company, owns
12 operational satellites and has 3 under construction,
according to the company. Its largest customer is  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,
Canada’s biggest provider of mobile phone, Internet and
satellite TV services.  The company said Nov. 4 that it was reviewing its strategic
options, including a possible initial public offering. It
reported 2010 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of C$625 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  