-- 
Men at Work Lose Bid to Reverse ‘Kookaburra’ Plagiarism Ruling on Appeal

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-03-31T03:23:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/men-at-work-lose-bid-to-reverse-kookaburra-plagiarism-ruling-on-appeal.html
Men at Work, the Australian band
that won a Grammy award in 1983, lost a bid to reverse a court
ruling that said a flute riff in their song  “Down Under” 
breached the copyright of the 1934 children’s song  “Kookaburra
Sits in The Old Gum Tree.”   A three-member panel of the Federal Court of  Australia  in
Sydney today upheld a lower court decision under which Larrikin
Music Publishing Pty, owner of the “Kookaburra” copyright, was
awarded 5 percent of revenue the band earned from the song.  Colin Hay,  who co-founded Men at Work with Ron Strykert,
and EMI Music Publishing Australia Pty, the song publisher,
“are disappointed with the result,”  Mark Bamford , a Sydney-
based partner at TressCox Lawyers who represented both, said in
an e-mailed statement. “If the application of copyright law
leads to a result like this, it’s time to rethink its modern
application.”  “Down Under” topped the charts in the U.S. and U.K.,
according to  Billboard , and was the theme song for the
victorious  Australia II  yacht team in the America’s Cup in 1983,
the year the band won the Grammy for Best New Artist.  Published first in 1979, “Down Under” gained popularity
following a 1981 recording that added the flute riff, which the
judge found had been lifted from “Kookaburra.” Both
“Kookaburra” and “Down Under” are “iconic” Australian
songs, Federal Court Judge Peter Jacobson, said in the July 6
 ruling  determining the damages.  ‘Australian Flavor’  The “aim in adding the flute riff was to inject some
‘Australian flavor’ in the 1981 recording,” Jacobson wrote.
Greg Ham, the flautist on Men at Work, “deliberately reproduced
the relevant part of Kookaburra for the purpose,” according to
the ruling.  Hay had disputed the judge’s earlier finding of
infringement in a February 2010 open  letter  to the public.  “I believe what has won today is opportunistic greed,”
Hay wrote. “This ruling will have lasting repercussions, and I
suspect not for the better.”  Hay said he didn’t appropriate anything when he wrote the
song in 1978.  The appeal court also upheld Jacobson’s decision that
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s biggest airline, didn’t
infringe the copyright when it used “Down Under” in an
advertising campaign.  The appeal judges overturned Jacobson’s decision that other
recordings of “Down Under,” including the theme song for the
animated film “Finding Nemo,” also didn’t infringe the
copyright. The appeal court ordered Jacobson to reconsider the
claim.  EMI is owned by Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., a
private equity firm.  The case is Larrikin Music Publishing Pty v. EMI Songs
Australia Pty. NSD145. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  or 