-- 
Enbridge Shuts Section of Stingray Pipeline in Louisiana

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-03-31T20:34:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/enbridge-shuts-section-of-stingray-pipeline-in-louisiana-2-.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  shut a section of its
12-inch Stingray offshore pipeline after a barge hit the
pipeline and declared force majeure “until the issue is
resolved,” the company said on its  website .  Stingray Pipeline said it was informed by Triton Gathering
LLC of a natural gas pipeline incident on Triton’s 12-inch
lateral downstream of West Cameron 62 in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The lateral is being isolated and West Cameron 62
production has been shut in. Nominations will be cut to zero
effective with the ID1 cycle today, with no nominations until
the issue is resolved, Stingray said.  Terri Larson, a spokeswoman for Enbridge, said the leak is
in a piece of the Triton gathering pipeline system, which feeds
into the Stingray system. The force majeure declaration affects
only the section of the Triton system hit by the barge.  “The rest of the gathering system and Stingray are both
still operating,” Larson said in an interview. Larson said it’s
unclear how long it will take to repair the broken line.  El Paso Corp. (EP)  shut its West Cameron 62 platform, which
produces 10 million cubic feet a day of gas, after the pipeline
accident.  “We did have a situation last night that there was a line
strike involving a pipeline that serves our West Cameron 62
platform,” Richard Wheatley, a spokesman at the company’s
Houston headquarters, said today. “I can confirm that we have
West Cameron 62 shut in for now.”  Coast Guard Statement  A dredging barge reported hitting a pipeline during a
dredging operation in the Calcasieu ship channel near Cameron,
 Louisiana , yesterday at 8:30 p.m. local time, the U.S. Coast
Guard said in a statement today.  The Coast Guard established a two-mile safety zone around
the area, the agency said. The Captain of the Port closed the
Calcasieu ship channel to all traffic at 9:42 p.m. yesterday,
according to the statement.  A helicopter crew dispatched to the area did not find any
visible signs of condensate oil pollution in the water, the
Coast Guard said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Leela Landress in
Houston at   llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Stubbe at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net  