-- 
Enea Slumps on Report EDF Withdraws From Talks to Buy It

-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-31T15:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/enea-slumps-on-report-edf-withdraws-from-negotations-to-buy-polish-utility.html
Enea SA (ENA) , Poland’s third-largest
power utility, slumped the most in two months after Electricite
de France SA pulled out of talks with the Polish government to
buy the company.  The stock fell as much as 3.4 percent to 21.2 zloty in
Warsaw trading, the steepest intraday decline since Jan. 24.  EDF,  Europe ’s largest power producer, withdrew from talks
to buy Enea SA, said a person familiar with the situation, who
asked not to be named because the matter isn’t public.  The person confirmed an earlier report by Reuters that EDF
had withdrawn from the negotiations. Maciej Wewior, the
ministry’s spokesman, said the Treasury will publish an official
statement in the “very near future.”  The deal wasn’t helped by easier rules for allocation of
European Union’s free carbon dioxide emission rights after 2012,
announced earlier this week. Meanwhile, the pressure on the
government to complete the transaction waned with other asset
sales planned.  Poland ’s Treasury Ministry, which wants to raise 55 billion
zloty ($19.5 billion) from asset sales in a four-year plan to
help the finance budget deficit, earlier set today as a deadline
to make a decision whether to sell a majority stake to EDF. A
bid for 100 percent stake in Enea would have triggered a 9.62
billion-zloty transaction at today’s price in Warsaw.  The sale hinged on the French company’s commitment to build
a new 1,000 megawatt coal-fired generator at Enea’s Kozienice
plant, central Poland, at a time when other power producers are
trying to scale down carbon dioxide emissions.  Start Paying  Starting in 2013, all operators of power plants in the
European Union will have to start paying for the CO2 they emit.
Electricity producers in Poland and nine other new member states
will get a part of the allowances for free until 2020 but
details of the allocation won’t be clear until next year.  EDF, whose coal-fired units make up 10 percent of its
installed capacity worldwide, repeatedly said earlier this year
that the structure of the Polish electricity generation will
have to change given the necessity to cut carbon-dioxide
emissions. At the moment over 90 percent of Polish electricity
production is based on coal.  In an e-mail sent in response to question from Bloomberg
earlier today it said that “CO2 quotas are one of the elements
taken into account when making the  investment decision .”  The Polish Treasury Ministry, which has been trying to sell
Enea for almost two years, picked EDF for exclusive talks in
December last year after failing to agree on a deal with
Poland’s Kulczyk Investments SA.  RWE AG of  Germany  and  Sweden ’s Vattenfall AB, which earlier
sought to gain control over Enea, have already decided to
withdraw from coal projects in Poland. RWE scrapped its plan to
build a 800-megawatt plant in the south of the country, while
Vattenfall plans by the end of June find a buyer for its Polish
assets.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  