-- 
Vodafone to Buy Additional Essar India Stake for $5 Billion

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-03-31T15:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/essar-exercises-option-to-sell-5-billion-stake-in-vodafone-essar-venture.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  will buy an
additional 33 percent stake in its Indian joint venture for $5
billion after partner Essar Group exercised an option to sell
the holding in India’s third-largest mobile-phone operator.  The deal will raise Vodafone’s stake to 75 percent. Essar
will exit the company after it implemented a  put option  over 22
percent of the venture, Vodafone said in a statement today.
Vodafone exercised its  call option  to buy an 11 percent stake.  The deal is a boost for Vodafone Chief Executive Officer
Vittorio Colao as Essar failed to gain a higher valuation for
part of its stake in Vodafone Essar. Essar, founded by
billionaires Shashi and Ravi Ruia, had an option to sell its
entire 33 percent stake for $5 billion to Vodafone or to sell a
smaller stake at an independently appraised fair market value.  “The advantage for Vodafone is that they don’t have to
consider the other shareholder now,” Guy Peddy, an analyst at
Macquarie Securities in  London , said via phone. “It was
expected and was in Vodafone’s numbers.”  Vodafone had already set aside the $5 billion cash payment
within its net debt of 30 billion pounds ($48 billion). Vodafone
shares dropped 1.9 percent to 176.5 pence in London trading.  The deal will increase Vodafone’s direct equity stake in
the venture to 75 percent, spokesman  Ben Padovan  said via phone.
The British company will comply with local rules, he said. India
doesn’t allow foreign companies to own more than 74 percent in a
local mobile-phone operator.  Disposal  “They’ll have to sell that 1 percent to some Indian
entity, or they’ll have to consider an initial public
offering,” said Naveen Kulkarni, an analyst with MF Global in
Mumbai.  Final settlement of the deal is predicted to be no later
than November this year, Vodafone said.  Essar spokesman Rabin Ghosh declined to comment.  Vodafone is increasing its stake in the venture in one of
its fastest growing markets.  India  was one of the “jewels” in
the three months through December, Colao said in February.  While Vodafone is expanding in India, it is seeking to exit
from French mobile-phone operator SFR. Vodafone holds 44 percent
of SFR, while Vivendi, which owns the rest, has said it wants
full control of the unit.  Review  Colao, who last year sold Vodafone’s $6.5 billion stake in
China Mobile Ltd. in his biggest divestment since he took charge
in 2008, is reviewing all the company’s minority interests amid
pressure from shareholders to squeeze more out of the
investments.  Last year, bankers valued Vodafone Essar at between $13
billion and $18 billion when Essar considered an initial public
offering for the Indian venture, one person familiar with the
matter said earlier this year. That would have valued Essar’s
stake at $4.3 billion to $6 billion.  Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , bought a 67 percent
stake in Hutchison Essar for $10.7 billion in 2007. Vodafone’s
outlook for India soured a year after its entry, when six new
national licenses were awarded.  Vodafone in May took a $3.3 billion charge for the Indian
unit, citing “intense price competition.” Vodafone competes
against more than a dozen operators in the world’s second-
largest market for mobile-phone customers.  Since then, prospects have improved. Vodafone’s service
revenue from India increased by 17 percent in the fiscal third
quarter. The Indian wireless market is forecast by Stamford,
Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. to exceed 993 million users by
the end of 2014.  Standard Chartered Plc advised Essar Group on the
transaction, and Vodafone used Goldman Sachs Group Inc. UBS AG
was hired as a third investment bank to help reach a valuation
of the Indian joint venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  