-- 
European Ports, Shippers Brace for Delayed Quake Impact: Freight Markets

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-01T09:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/european-ports-brace-for-delayed-quake-impact-freight-markets.html
European ports including Rotterdam
and Hamburg say the Japanese earthquake will begin to affect
volumes later this month as dockside stockpiles are depleted and
ships that left Tokyo soon after the disaster arrive in harbor.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S , the world’s largest container
line, has a transit time of 31 days between Yokohama and
Rotterdam,  Europe ’s No. 1 port, so that vessels which left Japan
the day after the March 11 quake would dock on April 11. Wilh.
Wilhelmsen ASA’s car transporters take six weeks to complete the
journey via  Australia , indicating an arrival date of April 22.  “We haven’t reduced capacity or the number of port calls,
but volumes have dropped moderately and we’re receiving fewer
bookings,” Jens Eskelund, Copenhagen-based Maersk’s spokesman
for North  Asia , said yesterday in a phone interview. “There’ll
be a delay before that moves through the export system.”  Cargo volumes may hold up even after ships start to arrive
in Europe as Japanese companies tap inventories to meet export
demand, then will decline when reduced production depletes
stocks. That may lead to lighter loads, quieter ports and
manufacturers running short of auto-parts and electronics, the
biggest classes of container goods carried from  Japan .  Pacific Ocean crossings are shorter than routes from Asia
to Europe, with the trip from Tokyo to  Los Angeles  taking 12
days, according to the website of Marseille, France-based CMA
CGM SA, the world’s third-largest container shipper.  Factory Disruption  Japan handles about 4 percent of the world’s containers and
prior to the earthquake and tsunami almost 20 percent of the
global fleet by box capacity was timetabled to call there,
according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  The disaster has disrupted factories and transport
infrastructure in the north of Japan, reducing production and
making it tougher to get goods to port, while damage to nuclear
facilities has led to widespread power shortages. Fujitsu Ltd.
has shuttered one of its semiconductor plants until April 3.  Japan’s manufacturing deteriorated at the fastest pace in at
least nine years in March, a report from Japan Materials
Management Association and Markit Economics showed yesterday,
underscoring forecasts for the economy to shrink in the
aftermath of the earthquake.  “This could have an impact on trade volumes,” Clarkson said
in an e-mail to Bloomberg on March 25. “Japan is a key exporter
on the main shipping lanes and some portion of the economy’s
ability to output export goods has no doubt been affected.”  Hamburg Concern  While Rotterdam has experienced no drop in volumes as yet,
a decline is “not unlikely,” spokesman Minco van Heezen said.
The Dutch complex imports 1.9 million metric tons of Japanese
cargo a year -- compared with 12.9 million tons from  China  --
including 1.6 million tons of container goods such as
electronics, parts and chemicals, and imports 100,000 cars.  At the port of Hamburg,  Germany ’s largest, “a decline is
possible and could happen in coming months,” spokesman Bengt
van Beuningen said, adding that forecasts aren’t yet available.
All vessels arriving from Japan in Felixstowe, the biggest U.K.
port, were also loaded before the events of March 11 and it’s
too early to gauge the outcome, spokesman Paul Davey said.  Ports including Rotterdam, Felixstowe and Bremerhaven,
Germany’s second-largest container dock, said any fall-off they
do suffer is likely to have a limited impact on total volumes,
with Bremerhaven expecting a “little decline” in Japanese cargo,
according to spokesman Jan Janssen.  Beverages, Plastics  Hapag-Lloyd AG, the world’s fourth-biggest container line,
said its ships need  34 days  to travel from Japan to Hamburg,
where it is based. The earthquake’s impact on cargoes of wood
products, machinery, raw materials, foodstuffs, beverages,
chemicals and plastics from the Asian country “remains to been
seen,” according to Eva Gjersvik, a company spokeswoman.  Car shipments to Europe will probably one direct casualty
of the disruption caused by the quake, said Benedicte Gude, a
spokeswoman for Lysaker, Norway-based Wilh. Wilhelmsen, which
describes Japan as among its “most important” flows.  “In the short term we expect export volumes out of Japan
to be negatively affected,” Gude said by telephone. “In the
medium and long term, it’s still uncertain.”  Lost Production  Wilhelmsen ships cars for companies including Toyota Motor
Corp., which says it may have lost production of about 140,000
vehicles from March 14 to March 26. Honda Motor Co. estimates
output will be cut by 46,600 autos between March 14 and April 3,
and Daihatsu Motor Co. closed two factories at a cost of an
estimated 35,000 units through March 29.  “Current production is using inventories and we are able to
produce cars at the Tsutsumi plant in Aichi and at our factory
in Kyushu until April 8,” Toyota spokeswoman  Shiori Hashimoto 
said. “We don’t have information beyond that at this point.”  The quake is also likely to hurt sales and earnings at
European auto-parts companies in the second quarter, according
to Rainer Neidnig, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service who
predicted in a March 30 note that it will take “some time” for
supply chains to be realigned to cope with shortages.  Grammer AG (GMM) , a car-seat maker based in Amberg, Germany, said
in a statement this week that a lack of parts following the
disaster may prompt carmakers to slow production and lead to the
cancellation of contracts with suppliers.  Hapag Return  All of the world’s top six container shippers are once
again accepting bookings for the  Tokyo  area after Hapag-Lloyd
said yesterday it would start calling there again in about 10
days. Hapag has diverted ships further south because of concern
about threats to equipment and crew from the crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, 220 miles north of the Japanese capital.  Vessels are continuing to avoid a 30-kilometer (19 mile)
no-go area around the Fukushima site as instructed by the
Japanese government, and many have adopted larger, self-imposed
exclusion zones to avoid off-shore debris from the tsunami.  Maersk spokesman Michael Storgaard in Copenhagen said the
company is hopeful that any slump in volumes will be followed by
a strong rebound led by items needed in the rebuilding effort.  “Japan’s exports are clearly impacted, but there is also a
reconstruction period which will entail increased imports,” he
said. “The overall shipping balance between these two trends
can’t be assessed exactly at this point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  