-- 
European Stocks Slide as Inflation Accelerates; Banks Lead Drop, H&M Falls

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-31T16:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/european-stock-futures-advance-u-s-futures-fluctuate-bp-shell-may-move.html
European stocks fell as inflation
unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest pace in more than two
years in March and investors speculated that the region will
struggle to contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  Banks extended losses in the final minutes of trading as
Irish regulators instructed the country’s four largest lenders
to raise 24 billion euros ($34 billion) in capital following a
series of stress tests.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  slumped 3.2 percent
after saying first-quarter profit fell.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 slid 1 percent to 275.9 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London , halting a six-day winning streak. The
gauge has advanced 5.2 percent since its lowest level this year
on March 16 as investors speculated that  Japan  will prevent a
meltdown at its damaged nuclear power plant and as the U.S.,
U.K. and  France  mounted airstrikes against troops loyal to
 Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi. The index rose less than 0.1 percent
this quarter.  “Inflation accelerating makes it more likely that the
 European Central Bank  will tighten monetary policies,
deteriorating the environment for European equities,” said
 Tammo Greetfeld , senior equity strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “The euro-zone debt crisis will not end any time
soon.”  Inflation in the 17-nation euro area quickened to 2.6
percent in March from 2.4 percent in February, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today in an initial
estimate. That’s the fastest pace since October 2008 and exceeds
the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a fourth month. Economists had
forecast inflation to remain at 2.4 percent, the median of 32
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Credit Downgrades  Moody’s Investors Service said it can’t rule out further
credit downgrades for euro-area nations because the EU’s March
25 agreement on a permanent bailout fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, failed to go far enough.  Portugal  reported a budget deficit of 8.6 percent of gross
domestic product last year, missing a government target of about
7 percent and increasing the likelihood that the country will
ask for an EU bailout. Portugal’s two-year government bond yield
today climbed as much as 8.3 percent, topping the rate on the
nation’s 10-year debt for the first time since 2006.  Irish Banks  Stocks extended their losses in the last few minutes of
trading as the Irish authorities set out how much capital its
banks need to raise. Allied Irish Banks Plc, the biggest lender
during the decade-long economic boom, requires 13.3 billion
euros, the central bank in Dublin said today after publishing
stress tests for four banks. Bank of Ireland Plc must get 5.2
billion euros, while Irish Life & Permanent Plc and EBS Building
Society make up the remainder, the central bank said.  Ireland’s authorities want to show investors, its taxpayers
and the rest of the euro area that the nation has plugged the
holes in the banking system, whose collapse has cost 46.3
billion euros in capital.  U.K. consumer confidence stayed close to the lowest level
since March 2009 this month as Britons remained reluctant to
make major purchases, a report by GfK NOP Ltd. showed. The index
of sentiment held at minus 28 from February and was down from
minus 15 a year earlier, the London-based research group said.  National benchmark indexes fell in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index fell 0.9 percent. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index retreated 0.7 percent and  Germany ’s DAX
Index slipped 0.2 percent.  A gauge of European banking shares dropped the most on the
Stoxx 600.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, lost 2.3
percent to 641 pence, while  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s largest
lender, slid 2.4 percent to 8.19 euros.  H&M Slides  H&M sank 3.2 percent to 209.60 kronor as Europe’s second-
largest clothing retailer said first-quarter net income fell to
2.62 billion kronor ($415 million) from 3.74 billion kronor a
year earlier. Analysts on average had predicted profit of 2.77
billion kronor, a survey of estimates compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  plunged 8.2 percent to 12.6 pence, the
largest drop in the Stoxx 600, after  Fitch Ratings  revised the
retailer’s outlook to negative from positive. Dixons’ shares
were downgraded to “neutral” at Macquarie Research. The owner
of Currys and PC World stores tumbled 18 percent yesterday after
saying that full-year earnings will miss most analysts’
estimates.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG)  slumped 5.9 percent to 998 pence. Net
income fell to $19.8 million in 2010 from $143.2 million in
2009, London-based Petropavlovsk said today in a statement. That
missed the $50.9 million average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  STMicro, Telecinco  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  slipped 1.9 percent to 8.79 euros as
Europe’s biggest chipmaker was downgraded to “underweight”
from “buy” at Banco Santander SA.  Gestevision Telecinco SA (TL5)  dropped 4.9 percent to 8.08 euros,
the biggest decline this year, as shares of the broadcaster were
cut to “underperform” from “outperform” at CA Cheuvreux.  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE)  surged 3.2 percent to 577.5 pence after the
maker of Lyle’s Golden Syrup said higher food-ingredient volume
and improved profitability at its industrial starches unit mean
it will meet analysts’ estimates in the year that ends today.
The sugar maker said its operating performance was “similar to
market expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  