-- 
European Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerates to Fastest Since October 2008

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-31T11:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/european-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-to-fastest-since-october-2008.html
European inflation unexpectedly
accelerated to the fastest in more than two years in March as
European Central Bank policy makers prepared to raise interest
rates to fight increasing price pressures.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.6
percent from 2.4 percent in February, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today in an initial
estimate. That’s the fastest since October 2008 and exceeds the
ECB’s 2 percent limit for a fourth month. Economists forecast
inflation to hold at 2.4 percent, the median of 32 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey showed.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  earlier this month called
for “strong vigilance” on price increases, signaling that the
bank may raise its benchmark interest rate in April from a
record low of 1 percent. The German economy,  Europe ’s largest,
has driven the region’s expansion as companies boosted hiring
and output, helping offset the impact of surging energy costs
and tougher austerity measures in countries such as  Spain .  “April is a done deal for the ECB and today’s release adds
to that view,” said  Nick Kounis , chief European economist at
ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “Beyond April, there will be a
gradual pace of rate hikes. Headline inflation is going to be
comfortably above 2 percent for the whole of this year.”  The euro gained against the dollar after the report,
trading at $1.4205 at 1:07 p.m. in  Frankfurt , up 0.6 percent on
the day.  Libyan Conflict  Crude oil prices have surged 15 percent this year as output
from  Libya  slumped. An armed conflict between Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops and rebel forces has forced companies
including Total SA and ConocoPhillips to suspend operations and
evacuate staff. Crude was trading at $105.30 a barrel today.  Deutsche Bank AG yesterday raised its crude forecast for
this year by 16 percent to $117.50 a barrel, citing declining
spare capacity in  Saudi Arabia  and unrest in the Middle East.  “Since there are no signs of a quick end to the Libya
conflict and we see a continuous economic recovery in the euro
region, we don’t expect any retreat in  oil prices  over the
coming months,” said Thilo Heidrich, an economist at Deutsche
Postbank in Bonn,  Germany . “That’s why inflation should average
significantly above the ECB’s target at 2.5 percent this year.
Risks of a stronger breach prevail at the moment.”  Commodity Shortages  Coffee, sugar and cocoa prices will rise as much as 10-fold
by 2014 because of shortages,  Aaron Smith , managing director of
Superfund USA Inc. with $1.26 billion assets under management,
said in an interview in  London . Smith correctly predicted record
copper prices in November.  That puts additional pressure on companies to pass on
higher costs to protect earnings as labor unions seek higher
wages. Germany’s Ver.di services union has demanded 6.5 percent
more pay for workers in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, the
country’s most populous.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  Chief
Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on March 15 that
higher raw-material costs will weigh on earnings this year.  The euro-region economy is already showing some signs of
cooling. European economic confidence worsened in March, with
both manufacturers and consumers forecasting rising prices over
the coming 12 months. Services and manufacturing growth weakened
this month and German investor confidence dropped.  ‘Cautious’ Increase  At their April 7 meeting, ECB council members will have to
weigh threats to economic growth with the risks of surging costs
leading to more entrenched inflation. The Frankfurt-based
central bank earlier this month forecast euro-region inflation
to average about 2.3 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012.  ECB council member  Guy Quaden  said in an interview in
Brussels yesterday that a “cautious increase of the official
interest rates from that very low level cannot hamper the
economic recovery.” Quaden’s term as head of Belgium’s central
bank ends today.  “There’s a considerable risk that inflation expectations
will get out of control,”  Andrew Bosomworth , a money manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview with
Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” on
March 29. “When you look at the strength of the core countries
in the euro area, a 1 percent repo rate is way too low.”  The statistics office will release a breakdown of March
consumer prices including core rates excluding volatile costs
next month. Euro-region core inflation slowed to 1 percent in
February from 1.1 percent in the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  