-- 
Ex-Galleon Manager Smith Questioned by Rajaratnam Attorney Over ATI Trades

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ex-galleon-manager-smith-spars-with-rajaratnam-defense-attorney-on-trades.html
A lawyer for Galleon Group LLC co-
founder  Raj Rajaratnam  sparred with  Adam Smith , a former
portfolio manager for the hedge-fund, over why the firm bought
stock in ATI Technologies before a 2006 takeover.  During cross-examination yesterday in the insider-trading
trial in  Manhattan  federal court, the defense attorney, Terence Lynam, sought to show jurors that Galleon and Rajaratnam bought
shares in ATI and other companies for lawful reasons and not
because Smith, 39, had come into inside information, as he
testified this week as a prosecution witness. Lynam said, for
instance, that Rajaratnam didn’t buy stock at the same time
Smith did.  “He’s not buying when you’re buying?” Lynam asked Smith
about purchases of  Intersil Corp. (ISIL)  Smith had testified that he
got leaks from an Intersil insider and passed them to his boss.  Lynam also asked questions suggesting his client didn’t
grasp that Smith was referring to a source of inside information
during a phone call between the two that the government secretly
taped.  “You have no idea that when you got on the phone and
mentioned Kamal, that he knew who that was?” Lynam asked Smith.
Jurors previously heard a recording of Smith telling Rajaratnam
that “Kamal” -- who he said was Kamal Ahmed, a Morgan Stanley
investment banker -- said  Vishay Intertechnology Inc. (VSH)  may be
selling itself.  Ahmed, who has not been charged, denies wrongdoing.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips by
corporate insiders. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing, saying he
based trades on research and published sources.  Fundamentals  Lynam asked Smith, who is testifying for the government
after pleading guilty, about research reports he wrote
justifying the purchase and sale of stocks based on companies’
fundamentals.  He asked Smith whether he had been “consistently
positive” on ATI stock in early 2006, just months before the
chipmaker was acquired by  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
Prosecutors say Smith and Rajaratnam had inside information
about the deal.  “Mr. Smith, don’t these documents give you ample reason to
buy ATYT stock?” Lynam asked, using the company’s stock ticker.  Smith said he had been bullish on ATI. That “also doesn’t
mean that I didn’t have inside information,” he said.  Private Placement  Lynam asked Smith about a Sept. 24, 2008, conversation in
which Rajaratnam is heard telling his personal trader that he
had received a call “at 3:58” a day earlier alerting him that
“something good may happen to Goldman,” a reference to  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Prosecutors say Rajaratnam bought shares after
being tipped that  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  would invest
$5 billion in the bank.  Lynam focused on a different part of the conversation,
where Rajaratnam discussed whether Galleon would acquire new
shares that Goldman Sachs was issuing in a private placement.
The lawyer said that there was nothing illegal about such a
purchase.  On re-direct examination, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Michaelson had Smith review for jurors the millions of dollars
worth of stock that Rajaratnam bought in companies after he
allegedly got tipped.  After Smith sent an e-mail that said “game on” -- he
testified that it was a reference to an acquisition of
Integrated Circuit Systems Inc. by  Integrated Device Technology
Inc. (IDTI)  in 2005 -- Rajaratnam had a fund that he controlled
purchase 150,000 shares of Integrated Circuit, Smith testified,
reviewing Galleon trading records.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 