-- 
Ex-Taylor Bean CEO Allen Named as Defendant in U.S. Mortgage Fraud Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-31T22:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ex-taylor-bean-ceo-allen-named-as-defendant-in-u-s-mortgage-fraud-case.html
The former chief executive officer
of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., Paul R. Allen, was
named as a criminal defendant in federal court in  Virginia  four
days before the company’s ex-chairman is scheduled for trial on
accusations of fraud.  No charges were specified on the court’s electronic docket
against Allen, a former senior executive at  Freddie Mac , the
government-supported mortgage lender. Another former Taylor Bean
official identified Allen in court today as a co-conspirator in
a fraud scheme that deceived financial firms by covering up cash
shortfalls at the company.  Prosecutors have charged six people in the conspiracy,
which allegedly was masterminded by the company’s former
chairman,  Lee Farkas . Five people, including two officials from
 Colonial Bank , have pleaded guilty and agreed to testify against
Farkas, whose trial on 16 counts of bank, wire and securities
fraud is scheduled to begin April 4.  Sean Ragland, 37, a former senior financial analyst at
 Taylor Bean , said in court today in Alexandria, Virginia, that
Allen, who lives in Oakton, Virginia, was aware that a Taylor
Bean entity created to fund mortgage loans was running up a
significant deficit. Ragland pleaded guilty to single charge of
conspiracy to commit bank and wire fraud.  Cover Up  Ragland said he was directed to cover up the deficit, which
was more than $700 million in June 2008, by preparing documents
that contained “inaccurately and intentionally inflated
figures,” according to court papers.  “Who was the co-conspirator who directed you to do that?”
U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema asked Ragland.  “Paul Allen, the CEO,” Ragland said.  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala,  Florida , was once the largest
non-depository mortgage lender in the U.S., according to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The fraud contributed to the failure of Colonial Bank,
based in Montgomery, Alabama, according to prosecutors.  Allen did not immediately return a telephone message
seeking comment.  The cases are U.S. v. Allen, 11-cr-00165; U.S. v. Ragland,
11-cr-00162, and U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 