-- 
Orders Placed With U.S. Factories Declined 0.1% in February

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-31T14:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/factory-orders-in-u-s-unexpectedly-dropped-0-1-after-january-s-3-3-gain.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
unexpectedly fell in February for the first time in four months,
reflecting weaker demand for capital goods and military aircraft.  Bookings for manufacturers’ goods decreased 0.1 after a
revised 3.3 percent gain in January that was larger than
previously reported, the Commerce Department said today in
Washington. Orders excluding transportation equipment rose,
boosted by demand for non-durable goods.  Companies may be tempering spending on new equipment until
further signs emerge that the recovery is broadening out and will
generate faster job growth. Even so, rising exports to China and
other emerging economies will keep benefiting manufacturers such
as  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , helping the economy expand.  “It signals a little bit of slowing but not weakness” in
manufacturing, said  Michael Brown , an economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “We’re still
looking for a modest pace of growth in manufacturing output.”  The median forecast of 58 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 0.5 percent increase in orders after a
previously reported 3.1 percent rise in January. Estimates ranged
from a 1 percent decline to a 2 percent gain.  Business activity in the U.S. expanded at a faster pace than
forecast in March, another report showed. The Institute for
Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its business barometer fell
to 70.6 in March from 71.2 a month earlier that was the highest
since July 1988. The index exceeded the 69.9 median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Jobless Claims  Fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment benefits 
last week, a Labor Department report showed earlier. Jobless
claims dropped by 6,000 to 388,000 in the week ended March 26.  Stocks fell after the reports, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index declining 0.2 percent to 1,325.84 at 10:06 a.m. in  New
York . Treasuries rose, pushing down the yield on the benchmark
10-year note to 3.42 percent from 3.44 percent late yesterday.  Factory orders excluding transportation equipment increased
0.1 percent after a 0.7 percent January gain, the Commerce
Department’s report showed.  Orders for durable goods, which make up almost half of total
factory demand, decreased a revised 0.6 percent in February,
after an initially reported 0.9 percent decline, today’s figures
from the Commerce Department showed.  The value of airplane bookings jumped 27 percent, while
bookings for military aircraft and parts slumped 17 percent.  Business Equipment  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, fell 0.7
percent after a 5.9 percent decline in January.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, increased 0.5 percent after a 2.5 percent
decrease in January.  Bookings for non-durable goods, including petroleum and
chemicals, rose 0.3 percent in February, which may reflect higher
food costs, today’s report showed.  Demand for machinery fell 2 percent after dropping 13
percent. Demand for automobiles and parts rose 2 percent after
rising 1.9 percent.  Auto Sales  Auto sales have climbed in the last six months. Demand at
General Motors Co., Toyota Motor Corp. and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in
February exceeded analysts’ estimates as industrywide sales rose
to a 13.38 million annual rate, the most in 18 months.  “We’re off to a fast start this year,” Donald Johnson,
vice president for GM’s North America sales, said on a
teleconference on March 1. “We believe that our company is well-
positioned to grow within this growing U.S. market.”  The manufacturing industries that account for 11 percent of
the economy are likely to remain at the forefront of the recovery
as businesses replenish inventories and replace outdated
equipment and software.  The focus on equipment and software purchases is benefiting
Micron Technology, the largest U.S. maker of computer-memory
chips, whose second-quarter sales and profit beat analysts’
estimates.  “The demand signals from the majority of our customers are
improving,” Steve Appleton, the Boise, Idaho-based company’s
chief executive officer, said on a March 23 conference call.
“We’re in pretty good shape.”  Business Spending  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession in mid-2009 may benefit from President Barack Obama’s
December compromise with congressional Republicans on taxes.
Companies will be able to depreciate 100 percent of investments
in capital equipment this year.  Demand from fast-growing countries like  China  and  Brazil  is
spurring U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. U.S.
exports in January rose to the highest level on record.  One potential hurdle is the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
in  Japan , which caused electrical outages and led to a nuclear
crisis. U.S. companies are still trying to gauge the effects of
the tragedy on international supply chains.  Toyota Motor Corp. expects assembly “interruptions”  that
may affect North America plants as the company grapples with the
aftereffects of Japan’s strongest earthquake on record.  “We do expect some impact” on output, Javier Moreno, a
Toyota spokesman in New York, said in an interview this week.
While the company hasn’t made specific plans to reduce shifts at
any plants in the U.S.,  Canada  or  Mexico , it has alerted workers
that production cuts may be needed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  