-- 
Fed Let Brokers Turn Junk to Cash at Height of Financial Crisis

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-04-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fed-accepted-more-defaulted-debt-than-treasuries-as-rescue-loan-collateral.html
At the height of the financial
crisis, the  Federal Reserve  allowed the world’s largest banks to
turn more than $118 billion in  junk bonds , defaulted debt,
securities of unknown ratings and stocks into cash.  Collateral of those asset types made up 72 percent of the
total $164.3 billion in market-rate securities pledged to the
Fed on Sept. 29, 2008, two weeks after the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., according to documents released
yesterday. The collateral backed $155.7 billion in loans on the
largest day of borrowing from the Primary Dealer Credit
Facility, which was created in March 2008 to provide loans to
brokers as Bear Stearns Cos. collapsed.  “The fact that the Fed was willing to accept that
collateral was indicative that collateral was very hard to come
by at the time,” said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the
 University of Houston . It also highlights “the seriousness with
which the Fed viewed the situation,” he said.  Fed spokesman  David Skidmore  declined to comment yesterday.
No public money was lost in the Fed’s emergency lending
programs, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testified to the Senate
Banking Committee in July, 2010. The loans didn’t represent
permanent cash given to the dealers and had to be repaid the
next day.  The Fed loans on Sept. 29, 2008, represented a 5.49 percent
“collateral cushion,” the amount by which the pledged assets
exceeded the loan value, according to the Fed data. Equities
comprised $71.7 billion, or 43.6 percent of the total. High-
yield debt, including the defaulted issues, accounted for $18.4
billion, or 11.2 percent. Collateral of unknown rating was $28
billion, or 17 percent.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Index Fell  The  S&P 500 index (SPX)  fell 8.8 percent on that day.  “To put things in perspective, the market haircut on most
debt securities during the period of the crisis starting in
September 2008 was above 40 percent,” Pirrong said.  The U.S. central bank allowed borrowers to use $929 million
in market-valued debt that had gone into default, rated D, as
collateral on that day, 2008, more than the $905.5 million in
Treasuries that were pledged, according to the Fed documents.
The documents released yesterday included the most detailed view
of collateral to date for the facility, which operated from
March 16, 2008 to Feb. 1, 2010.  Small Cushion  The cushion “was far too small for the risk of the
underlying collateral,” Pirrong said. “Collateral that’s junk
or defaulted debt and equities at a time when market volatility
was huge is pretty eye opening.”  The amount the Fed discounted based on the specific asset
classes like the defaulted debt or equity collateral can’t be
determined by the data released yesterday.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was the largest borrower on Sept. 29, 2008,
totaling $61.3 billion, the data show. The New York-based firm
pledged $66.5 billion in collateral, including $21.5 billion in
equities, $19.4 billion in unknown rated securities and $6.7
billion in junk or defaulted debt.  Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  Merrill Lynch was next, with a $36.3 billion loan. Its
$39.1 billion in collateral included $23.3 billion in equities,
$6.3 billion in unknown rated securities and $3 billion in junk
or defaulted bonds.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
which bought Merrill Lynch in 2009, declined to comment.  Recourse Loans  The loans extended to primary dealers under the PDCF by the
 New York  Fed were recourse loans, meaning the potential
liability of borrowers who defaulted was greater than the value
of the collateral pledged, according to the Fed.  In September 2008, as Lehman Brothers was on the brink of
filing for bankruptcy, the PDCF was expanded to accept all types
of collateral pledged in tri-party repo deals. In such
transactions, a third party functions as the agent between
borrower and lender, holding the collateral, which the borrower
repurchases at a later date.  Acceptable collateral for the Fed’s dealer facility
expanded from only investment-grade debt securities to include
high-yield, high-risk securities and equities.  “Our broad-based programs achieved their intended purposes
with no loss to taxpayers,” Bernanke told lawmakers last year.
“All of the loans extended through the multi-borrower
facilities that have come due have been repaid in full, with
interest.”  Thousands of Pages  The Fed released thousands of pages of secret loan
documents under court order, almost three years after Bloomberg
LP first requested details of the central bank’s unprecedented
support to banks during the financial crisis.  The records -- 894 files in PDF form with 29,346 pages --
reveal for the first time the names of financial institutions
that borrowed directly from the central bank through the so-
called discount window. The Fed provided the documents after the
U.S. Supreme Court this month rejected a banking industry
group’s attempt to shield them from public view.  Bloomberg News is posting the raw documents here for
subscribers to the Bloomberg Professional Service as well as
 online  at www.bloomberg.com. Accessing them will take several
minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 