-- 
Fed’s Lacker Backs Review of $600 Billion Bond Purchases

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T21:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fed-s-lacker-backs-review-of-600-billion-bond-purchases-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said the central bank should review
whether to reduce its planned purchase of $600 billion in U.S.
 Treasury securities  because of improving U.S. economic data.  “I haven’t made up my own mind yet,” Lacker said today to
reporters at the Richmond Fed’s 2011 Credit Markets Symposium in
 Charlotte , North Carolina. “I think it is worth reexamining.
The flow of data since December has kind of made it even more
worth reexamining.”  Central bank officials differ on the question of whether to
reduce the bond purchases amid stronger economic data. St. Louis
Fed President James Bullard yesterday repeated he favored
trimming the Fed’s plan by $100 billion, though the outcome is
“up in the air right now,” he said.  The Fed’s policy committee said March 15 that the U.S.
economic recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while the labor
market is “improving gradually.” Policy makers reiterated
plans to buy $600 billion in Treasury securities through June to
bolster growth and reduce unemployment.  “Every $100 billion counts,” Lacker told reporters.
“Even if we are getting close to the end, it is still worth
reconsidering.”  Still, Lacker said he would rather stick with the June
conclusion date than slow the purchases and extend them into the
third quarter, a “tapering” approach the Fed followed in a
program purchasing mortgage-based securities.  ‘Tinkering’ With Timing  “I don’t think tinkering with the timing is nearly as
important as the amount,” he said.  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , who dissented last
year against the bond purchase program, and Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  have also favored a review of the so-
called quantitative easing plan. Plosser laid out a strategy
last week to sell holdings in conjunction with raising interest
rates.  Three other Fed presidents have voiced support this week
for completing the purchases. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said reports showing a more sustainable recovery don’t
justify reducing support, while Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said high unemployment still required Fed aid and
Atlanta Fed’s  Dennis Lockhart  repeated he expects the purchases
to be completed.  Lacker said he hasn’t decided on when the Fed should remove
its commitment to keep  interest rates  near zero for “an
extended period,” while adding that would probably be among the
first steps made in an exit from record monetary stimulus.  ‘Early Moves’  “I haven’t decided right now for the next meeting,” he
said. “That would be one of the obvious early moves one would
make were one going to shift policy in a direction away from
monetary easing.”  The  U.S. economy  seems stronger than in November, when the
so-called quantitative easing was announced, and inflation is
higher, Lacker said.  The economy is forecast to expand at a 3.4 percent rate
this quarter and 3.3 percent rate in the second quarter,
according to the median of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News this month.  “My concern about inflation has risen in the past couple
of months,” Lacker said. While some economists predict slack in
the economy will keep inflation from accelerating, that wasn’t
the case in 2004, he said.  ‘Price Surge’  “The energy price surge didn’t turn out to be so
transitory after all,” he said. “The experience we had in ‘04
suggests the risks in overshooting and having a bigger
ratcheting up in inflation than we want is very real.”  Lacker said he disagreed with the view that higher energy
prices, by posing a threat to economic growth, may call for an
easing in monetary policy.  “In fact, in some cases, an energy price surge warrants
tighter monetary policy than would otherwise be the case,” he
said. “I think that is a possibility we have to be very careful
about and mindful of.”  Lacker said recent reports show “good broad momentum” in
the economy, which he said would not be disrupted by the natural
disaster in  Japan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Charlotte,  North Carolina  at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  