-- 
Fed’s Pianalto Says Energy Cost May Call for Inflation Goal

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-31T18:41:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fed-s-pianalto-says-energy-prices-may-call-for-inflation-target.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said an explicit inflation target from
the central bank may be warranted to ease concerns that
inflation will become a problem.  “With the potential for inflation expectations to be more
volatile in the face of energy and commodity price shocks, I
think it could be an opportune time for the FOMC to be more
specific and publicly announce an explicit numerical inflation
objective,” Pianalto said today in the text of a speech in
Pittsburgh. The FOMC is the policy-making Federal Open Market
Committee.  “Establishing an explicit inflation objective would
clearly communicate our policy intentions and affirm our resolve
to achieve price stability,” she said. “It would also help the
public to better evaluate the effectiveness of our actions as
events unfold,” Pianalto told the Pittsburgh Chapter of the
Association for Corporate Growth.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other Fed officials have
advocated adopting an explicit inflation target for the central
bank to better communicate their goals to the public. Some
officials such as former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  were
skeptical of an inflation target. Unlike many central banks that
focus primarily on inflation, the Fed has a dual mandate to
consider both unemployment and inflation.  Pianalto said she supported a 2 percent target for the
inflation rate and did not think an employment target would be
workable.  Adverse Scenario  Pianalto said the Cleveland Fed ran a simulation of what
would happen in an adverse scenario where the spike in commodity
prices were sustained. The scenario, which she described as
“very unlikely,” saw oil rising to above $140 per barrel by
next year and to $170 a barrel in 2013, pushing the retail price
of gasoline above $5 a gallon.  Pianalto said that in this scenario the “overall inflation
rate would temporarily rise by about a percentage point, and
then gradually decline back to the underlying inflation trend,”
and that the “sustained surge in energy and commodity prices
would be expected to spill over to broader consumer prices, but
the effects would be small and fairly gradual.”  Both Aspects  “I remain committed to fulfilling both aspects of our dual
mandate for  price stability  and maximum employment,” she said.
“It would be unwise for the Federal Reserve to establish a
corresponding numerical objective for unemployment. The long-run
sustainable rate of unemployment can move around for a variety
of reasons, such as the demographic makeup of the population and
changes in how labor markets function.”  Pianalto said that the rise in  oil prices  is unlikely to
spread to other prices. “The natural question in these times is
whether these higher prices will be enough of a driving force to
cause a lasting increase in the rate of inflation. At this
point, I don’t think they will,” she said.  Pianalto said she expects the “underlying trend in broad
consumer prices, which is currently quite low, to rise only
gradually toward 2 percent by 2013.”  Oil rose the most in two weeks today and was poised for its
third quarterly gain in  New York  amid concern that the Libyan
conflict will prolong production cuts.  Crude for May delivery surged $2.02, or 1.9 percent, to
$106.29 a barrel at 9:31 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures have increased 16 percent from January through
March, the strongest first quarter gain since 2005.  Algeria ,  Bahrain   The conflict in  Africa ’s third-largest producer is the
bloodiest in a wave of uprisings that has toppled the leaders of
Tunisia and  Egypt  and spread to Algeria, Bahrain,  Iran ,  Oman ,
Syria and Yemen.  Pianalto said she expects the recovery to continue. “I
still expect the economy to continue to expand at a moderate
rate, a bit above the average growth rate of 3 percent per
year,” she said.  Pianalto, 56, became president of the Cleveland Fed in
2003. She is not a voting member of the FOMC this year and has
never dissented from a FOMC decision. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Pianalto voting every other
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Pittsburgh at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  