-- 
Fed Nominee Diamond Gets Brushback in Bid for Central Bank Seat

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T14:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fed-nominee-diamond-gets-brushback-in-bid-for-central-bank-seat.html
Peter A. Diamond, a professor at
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  since 1966 and a
diehard  Boston Red Sox  fan, last year shared the  Nobel Prize  in
economics and was invited to throw out the first pitch at a home
game in Fenway Park.  He’s getting a chillier reception in Congress, which has
refused since August to confirm him as a Federal Reserve Board
governor. President  Barack Obama  has nominated him three times,
but Diamond, 70, has become a pawn in a game of political tit-
for-tat, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 4 issue.  Diamond’s nomination cleared the Senate Banking Committee
in July, only to be rejected for a floor vote by Republicans,
who invoked an obscure Senate procedural rule. Obama renominated
him, and Diamond again won the banking panel’s recommendation
after the midterm elections and winning the Nobel. The clock ran
out when lawmakers, preoccupied with tax-cut legislation,
adjourned in December without voting on him.  Now on his third try, Diamond’s prospects aren’t much
better. His chief antagonist, Senator  Richard Shelby , an Alabama
Republican, says the nominee lacks monetary policy expertise.
“I don’t think he’s qualified for that job,” Shelby says.
Winning Senate approval hinges on whether Shelby backs down
(unlikely) or the White House chooses to reprise last year’s
grueling battle over a second term for Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke , whom Shelby also opposed.  ‘Game of Chicken’  “It’s a game of chicken, and I’m not sure anybody’s going
to swerve,” says Mark A. Calabria, a former Shelby aide now at
the  Cato Institute . Diamond, who declined to comment for this
story, said during a March 8 hearing that his work helps inform
monetary theory and gauge risks to the financial system.  Shelby disagrees with Diamond’s support of stimulus
spending to combat recessions, yet the senator allowed a vote
last year on  Janet Yellen , who expresses similar views, to be
Fed vice-chairman. Five years ago, Shelby backed Kevin M. Warsh
for a Fed board post, even though he had limited monetary policy
experience.  Then 35, Warsh had been a former White House economic aide
and a merger specialist at Morgan Stanley. Shelby has backed
other scholars named as Fed governors, including Frederic S. Mishkin, who hailed from  Columbia University , and Randall Kroszner from the  University of Chicago .  Shelby and other Republicans may actually find something to
like in Diamond’s research.  Graduate Student  Diamond, who taught Bernanke at MIT when the Fed Chairman
was a graduate student in the 1970s, focuses on how labor
markets function--a timely subject with unemployment near
9 percent. His work on taxes helped trigger the flat-tax
movement by suggesting that government should refrain from
taxing production.  In the recent past, several Fed nominees have become mired
in politics. In 2000, Republicans blocked President  Bill Clinton ’s nomination of Carol J. Parry, a former executive vice-
president at Chase Manhattan.  In 2008, Democrats barred Kroszner, serving a partial term
as Fed governor, after President  George W. Bush  nominated him to
a 14-year stint. Now the GOP is blocking a Democratic
president’s choice.      “There may be some payback going on
right now,” says William Poole, the former St. Louis Fed
president. “It’s getting worse and worse over time.” A Shelby
spokesman, Jonathan Graffeo, denies that the senator is using
Diamond to get back at Democrats.  Same Region  Diamond is further hampered by a legal provision that says
two Fed governors from the same region can’t sit on the board at
the same time. The rule has been lightly applied for decades by
both parties.  The White House says Diamond would represent the Chicago
Fed district, even though his nomination papers say he is “of
 Massachusetts ,” prompting Shelby to say the professor should be
barred from serving, as Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo already
represents the Boston district.  The Diamond nomination technically complies with the rule
because he once taught seminars at Chicago-area universities,
says the White House, which is sticking with its man. For
Diamond, it may be easier to score a prime seat at Fenway than
one in the Fed boardroom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  