-- 
Fed Documents Look Through Bernanke’s Eyes How He Navigated Finance Crisis

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T21:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fed-court-ordered-release-looks-through-bernanke-s-eyes-at-emergency-loans.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s court-ordered
release today of secret loan documents provides a new window
into how Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  navigated the depths of the
financial crisis.  Among the 29,000-plus pages of documents are about 1,000
pages of e-mails showing weekly reports from November 2008 to
July 2009 that were sent to Bernanke and other senior Fed
officials. The reports included written summaries of lending
highlights and colorful graphs showing how much individual banks
were borrowing and against what collateral.  While the crisis loans were published in December as part
of the disclosure ordered by Congress of $3.3 trillion in
emergency loans, today’s release shows how staffers presented
the data to Bernanke and his colleagues each week, giving them a
much deeper picture than the aggregate figures the public could
see on the  Fed’s website  each Thursday.  “As Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley increased
their PDCF borrowing, they have increased their use of relaxed
eligibility standards granted to them to pledge over $7 billion
in foreign denominated securities,” according to a Nov. 28,
2008, report sent to Bernanke by his assistant, Rita Proctor.
“These securities account for just above 11% of their total
collateral.” PDCF stands for Primary Dealer Credit Facility, a
Fed emergency-lending program created in 2008 for securities
firms.  That compares with the weekly balance-sheet report posted
the same day to the Fed’s website, showing average daily credit
to primary dealers rose by $2.25 billion to $52.4 billion,
without detailing individual borrowers or collateral.  Appeal Rejected  The reports are contained in information released pursuant
to a Freedom of Information Act request from News Corp.’s Fox
News Network LLC. The  Supreme Court  this month rejected an
appeal by banks to keep some lending information secret, letting
stand lower-court rulings against the Fed and in favor of Fox
News and Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  The release is the first time the Fed has identified
borrowers from the discount window. The Dodd-Frank Act requires
the Fed to disclose such loans made after July 21, 2010, with a
two-year delay.  Proctor, Bernanke’s assistant, was one of about 35 people
to receive, for example, a Nov. 7, 2008, “Primary Dealer Tri-
Party Collateral Report,” including then-New York Fed President
 Timothy F. Geithner  and  Donald Kohn , then the Fed’s vice
chairman. Reports were labeled restricted and confidential.  Another weekly report, “Chart Pack of Market Monitoring
Metrics for Fed Facilities,” gives graphical representations of
how much individual companies, including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , were borrowing from Fed
facilities, charted against investor bets on a debt default.
Many pages were blacked out in the documents released to the
public today.  Bloomberg News is posting the raw documents here for
subscribers to the Bloomberg Professional Service as well as
 online  at www.bloomberg.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  