-- 
Bernanke Responds to Pressure for Transparency as Fed Discloses Borrowers

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-03-31T14:42:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fed-to-name-banks-borrowing-from-discount-window-during-crisis.html
For most of its 98-year history,
the  Federal Reserve  has operated with all the transparency and
enthusiasm for change of the Vatican. Now the ultra-secretive
Fed is starting to change its ways, if somewhat grudgingly. Some
of the new openness, such as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan for
quarterly press briefings, is the central bank’s idea. Much of
it comes under duress.  Today, the Fed disclosed which banks borrowed from its
discount window during the darkest moments of the 2008-09
financial crisis. This unprecedented view of the emergency loans
the Fed extended to hundreds of banks is the result of a March
21 Supreme Court decision that left intact lower court rulings
ordering disclosure in lawsuits filed by Bloomberg LP, parent of
Bloomberg News, and News Corp.’s Fox News Network. Still, the
Fed won’t disclose the collateral it accepted, which would
reveal the risks it took. Future discount window borrowings will
be made public, though only after a two-year delay, thanks to
the new Dodd-Frank financial reform law.  Given the prominent role the world’s biggest banks played
in causing financial losses worldwide, largely because of what
investors didn’t know or didn’t understand, some say the loans
should be made public at once, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its April 4 issue. Only then, the reasoning goes, would
investors and counterparties of a Fed borrower be able to manage
their own risks. “The free-market system only works if it’s
fully informed,” says Lynn E. Turner, who battled the Fed over
disclosure issues while serving as the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s chief accountant from 1998 to 2001. “There’s a lot
of similarity between the Fed and an SUV with blacked-out
windows.”  Core Function  The Fed says such calls threaten its core function:
preserving market confidence by acting as a lender of last
resort. Publicizing the names of discount-window borrowers could
spark bank runs or discourage sick banks from seeking help until
they are fatally compromised. “The full monty may not be a good
thing,” says Frederic Mishkin, a former Fed governor.  For the Fed, keeping information from investors is nothing
new. Congress last year had to pry loose the details of
$3.3 trillion worth of crisis-fighting programs that relied on
the central bank’s vault. In the late 1990s, the Fed
successfully resisted the SEC’s attempt to require banks to stop
using hidden funds, or “cookie jar reserves,” to smooth
quarterly earnings, says Turner.  Oldest Channel  The discount window is the Fed’s oldest lending channel and
traditionally its most secretive. Banks have been free to use it
without publicly revealing the fact since the Fed’s 1913 birth.
Loan demand varies, depending on market conditions and seasonal
factors.  In January 2007, before the financial crisis erupted, banks
owed the Fed just $1.3 billion for discount-window loans. By
October 2008 borrowings peaked at $111 billion. One bank,
Chicago-based Park National, owed the Fed $345 million before
regulators shut it down in October 2009, according to data
gleaned from a Freedom of Information Act request. The most
recent data, for March 23, show banks owing just $13 million.  Some former Fed insiders say the public should routinely be
clued in when private institutions tap the public purse, in the
same way the SEC requires companies to inform investors of major
financial events. “This should be material information.
Investors should have the right to know,” says Roberto Perli, a
former Fed board economist who is managing director of
International Strategy & Investment in Washington.  Banks Reluctant  Banks traditionally have been reluctant to use the window,
fearing that savvy investors could tell by following clues in
Fed loan data and market activity. In 2003 the Fed said banks
would no longer have to show an inability to raise private funds
to tap the discount window, hoping to end the stigma. But when
the initial wave of distress swept the financial industry in
2007, banks still shied away. “We had no luck in encouraging
banks to use the window,” says  Donald Kohn , a Fed vice chairman
at the time.  During the worst of the financial crisis, banks paid extra
to borrow to avoid the discount window’s taint by participating
in a new Fed program, the Term Auction Facility. That allowed
them to bypass the window and still get emergency money by
bidding for it in group auctions. At its March 2009 peak, TAF
provided banks with $493 billion in short-term credit--more than
four times the highest volume of discount window lending, which
occurred five months earlier.  Press Briefings  Today’s Fed is undeniably more open. Until 1994 the central
bank didn’t even publicly disclose when it changed the benchmark
lending rate, leaving the market to figure that out for itself.
Former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  cultivated an image as an
oracle who delighted in obscuring rather than explaining. Today,
interest rate changes are announced in public statements after
the policy making  Federal Open Market Committee  meets.
Presidents of regional Fed banks give dueling public speeches on
monetary policy. Bernanke has even taken “60 Minutes” on a
tour of his Dillon,  South Carolina , hometown. The chairman’s
plans for quarterly press briefings beginning April 27 mark a
further evolution in the Fed’s public outreach.  With its profile higher than ever, demands for greater
accountability will only continue. William Greider, author of
the 1989 Fed history “Secrets of the Temple,” says the bank is
losing the battle to maintain its mystique. “What has happened
in the last three years is the mask has been torn away from the
central bank,” he says. “And they can’t put it back on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lynch in  Washington  at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 Ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paula Dwyer at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  