-- 
Tarullo Says Few Non-Bank Firms Likely to Be Designated Systemically Risky

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T17:59:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fed-s-tarullo-says-few-non-bank-firms-may-get-risk-.html
Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo said a limited number of non-bank financial companies
should be deemed as systemically important and subject to more
intense Fed oversight under regulation approved last year.  “The tool of designating firms is a limited one,” Tarullo
said at the Richmond Fed’s 2011 Credit Markets Symposium in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “The structure established by
Congress itself suggests that the standard for designation
should be quite high.”  The Dodd-Frank Act passed in 2010 gave the Fed and other
regulators powers to take over and wind down failing
institutions, mandated the central bank to look for evidence of
emerging risks that threaten financial stability and required
annual stress tests of the largest U.S. banks.  As part of the law, the Fed will regulate companies deemed
systemically important by a new council of regulators. The
council will decide which firms have the potential to disrupt
the financial system in the event of their failure.  “The initial list of firms designated” under Dodd-Frank
“should not be a lengthy one,” Tarullo said. “In part this is
because some of the most obvious pre-crisis candidates -- the
large, formerly free-standing investment banks -- have either
become bank holding companies, been absorbed by bank holding
companies, or gone out of existence,” he said.  Systemically important non-bank financial institutions will
be identified publicly, Tarullo said in response to audience
questions.  Obligated to Disclose  “Markets and the public were going to know” their names
because public companies would feel obligated to disclose the
designation in shareholder filings, he said. There was “a
practical limitation” in trying to keep names secret.  The Fed governor said  capital requirements  should be set
high enough so that banks can survive while sustaining losses
during a recession, with the focus on common equity.  Even with greater regulation, it’s impossible to prevent
future crises, Tarullo said.  “It would be unrealistic, even dangerous, to believe that
asset bubbles, excessive leverage, poor  risk assessment , and the
crises such phenomena produce can all be prevented,” he said.
“The goal of the regulatory regime should be to reduce the
likely incidence of such crises and, perhaps more importantly,
to limit their severity when they do occur.”  Some lenders, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , were allowed this month to boost
dividends after the Fed reviewed their ability to withstand
another economic slump.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , based in
Charlotte, North Carolina and the biggest U.S. lender by assets,
said the Fed rejected its request for a dividend increase. The
central bank hasn’t released results on individual firms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  