-- 
Fed Crisis Legacy Made It the People's Bank: Matthew Winkler

-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-03-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fed-crisis-legacy-made-it-the-people-s-bank-commentary-by-matthew-winkler.html
Americans can take comfort knowing
that Congress and the courts affirmed what may prove the most
reassuring legacy of the worst financial disaster of our time:
The  Federal Reserve  is the people’s bank and obligated to share
what it knows and does with the citizenry it serves.  When the  Supreme Court  last month decided to leave intact a
lower court’s order, it validated the notions that transparency
is an essential requirement of democracy and that the Fed is no
less accountable than any other institution in our government.  The release yesterday of about 29,000 pages of data has
already yielded insights. For example, a European bank, not an
American one, was the biggest borrower from the discount window
during the height of the 2008 panic.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
visited the discount window more often than it has disclosed.
And the  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and Arab Banking Corp., a Bahrain-
based bank controlled by the Libyan Central Bank, both tapped
the window.  Congress, which last year carved an exemption for the
Fed’s discount window into its  Dodd-Frank  financial regulatory
law, will now get a look at specific loans that went out through
the window in 2008. This presents a second chance for lawmakers
to require the central bank to disclose the collateral it
accepted for those discount window loans during the financial
crisis and for its lending through other programs.  U.S. Senator  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont Independent who
wrote most of the Fed transparency provisions in Dodd-Frank, has
said the central bank should have already revealed more. While
an audit by the Government Accountability Office that’s due in
July may lead to additional disclosures, Congress should insist
on them. More than two years after the fact, the public ought to
know what sort of risks its  central bank  took when borrowers
came to the lender of last resort.  Right to Know  At stake is the individual’s right to know how the public
as involuntary investors provided loans to banks and in what
amounts. How we reached this point can be attributed in no small
way to a reporter’s quest to share with his readers how the Fed,
for the first time since its inception in 1913, created $2
trillion of assets and debts to bail out banks.  After his repeated attempts to obtain this data were
rebuffed, the late Mark Pittman, who reported on credit markets,
sued the Fed through Bloomberg News’s parent company under the
Freedom of Information Act.  The Fed initially said that U.S. citizens don’t have the
right to know these things and resisted all requests for an
accounting under FOIA. When its lawyers went to court to prevent
disclosure, federal Judge Loretta A. Preska of the Southern
District of  New York  ruled that the central bank is obligated to
release records of its lending on behalf of the taxpayer. The
Fed took the case to the U.S. court of appeals in New York,
which upheld Preska’s ruling.  Final Appeal  The central bank declined to pursue its claim to the
highest court, leaving it to the Clearing House Association,
which represents the country’s biggest commercial banks, to make
the final appeal.  U.S. law, as the courts have defined it, says that central
bank independence doesn’t mean independent from the people.
Independence means independent from the executive branch, not
from Congress, which alone has the constitutional power to coin
money. Congress delegates that power to the Federal Reserve. At
some point long before financial markets collapsed in 2008, the
Fed forgot that it is the central bank for the people of the
 United States  and not a private academy where decisions of great
importance may be withheld from public scrutiny.  Transparency Pledge  The Obama administration, which paradoxically championed
 transparency in government  when it came into office and then for
two years supported the Fed in its resistance to be transparent,
ultimately decided to let the lower court orders stand. Still,
this reversal wasn’t a sign that the administration was
embracing the president’s directive to “adopt a presumption in
favor of disclosure, in order to renew their commitment to the
principles embodied in FOIA.” Instead, the solicitor general
merely acknowledged that, in many ways, Congress had already
settled the question.  The showdown over transparency culminated in July with the
passage of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring the Fed to disclose its
lending on a two-year lag from now on. That change, which
institutionalized transparency, represents a turning point in
the way the U.S. central bank does business, and begins a new
era of accountability for the lender and its borrowers alike.  Public Accounting  For all its virtues, Dodd-Frank didn’t require a public
accounting of discount window lending during the financial
crisis. Now, the courts have filled in that gap. The public will
get a view into how the Fed used public money to shore up banks
that were struggling as a result of conditions the banks
themselves helped create. Shareholders in banks where
executives’ poor decisions were, in part, papered over by the
Fed’s lending will be able to see just how important the
discount window and the unusual steps taken to boost its lending
beginning in August 2007 were to keeping their banks afloat.  While the notion that no U.S. institution is above
accountability has been affirmed, we cannot wait patiently for
government institutions to lift the veils of secrecy. We have to
open them ourselves as part of the democratic process. The
courts already acknowledged that the world doesn’t end when
information is released so we have to question the motivations
behind the Fed’s policy of secrecy and by extension the
rationale of all government departments to resist disclosure.  After all that has been said and done, we still don’t know
whether the Fed was accepting unsuitable  collateral  to keep
insolvent banks afloat. And we still don’t know why the Fed and
the Obama administration so strenuously protected the identities
of the discount window borrowers. All of us stakeholders,
especially the historians among us, might like to know who
borrowed from the discount window from 1914 to 2008 as well.  ( Matthew Winkler  is the editor-in-chief of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  