-- 
Fed Releases Discount-Window Loan Records During Crisis Under Court Order

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-03-31T17:25:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/federal-reserve-releases-discount-window-loan-records-under-court-order.html
The  Federal Reserve  released
thousands of pages of secret loan documents under court order,
almost three years after Bloomberg LP first requested details of
the central bank’s unprecedented support to banks during the
financial crisis.  The records reveal for the first time the names of
financial institutions that borrowed directly from the central
bank through the so-called discount window. The Fed
provided the documents after the U.S. Supreme Court this month
rejected a banking industry group’s attempt to shield them from
public view.  “This is an enormous breakthrough in the public
interest,” said Walker Todd, a former Cleveland Fed attorney
who has written research on the Fed lending facility. “They
have long wanted to keep the discount window confidential. They
have always felt strongly about this. They don’t want to tell
the public who they are lending to.”  The central bank has never revealed identities of borrowers
since the discount window began lending in 1914. The Dodd-Frank
law exempted the facility last year when it required the Fed to
release details of emergency programs that extended $3.3
trillion to financial institutions to stem the credit crisis.
While Congress mandated disclosure of discount-window loans made
after July 21, 2010 with a two-year delay, the records released
today represent the only public source of details on discount-
window lending during the crisis.  Protecting Its Reputation  “It is in the interest of a central bank to put a premium
on protecting its reputation, and, in the modern world, that
means it should do everything to be as transparent as
possible,” said  Marvin Goodfriend , an economist at  Carnegie
Mellon University  in Pittsburgh who has been researching central
bank disclosure since the 1980s.  “I see no reason why a central bank should not be willing
to release with a lag most of what it is doing,” said
Goodfriend, who is a former policy adviser at the Richmond Fed.  Bloomberg News reporters received two CD-ROMs, each
containing an identical set of 894 PDF files, from Fed attorney
Yvonne Mizusawa at about 9:45 a.m. in the lobby of the Martin
Building in Washington.   The documents show the central bank providing credit to
borrowers large and small. A page described as “Primary Credit
Originations, February 5, 2008” lists the New York branch of
Deutsche Bank AG with a loan of $455 million from the New York
Fed. On the same day, Macon Bank is listed with a $1,000 loan
from the Richmond Fed.  First Tool  The discount window was the first tool Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reached for when panic over subprime mortgage defaults
caused banks to tighten lending in money markets in 2007. The
Fed cut the discount rate it charged banks for direct loans to
5.75 percent on Aug. 17, 2007, and it continued to reduce the
rate to 0.5 percent by the end of 2008. The rate stands at 0.75
percent today.  Lending through the discount window soared to a peak of
$111 billion on Oct. 29, 2008, as credit markets nearly froze in
the wake of the bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. While the loans provided banks with backstop cash,
the public has never known which banks borrowed or why. Fed
officials say all the loans made through the program during the
crisis have been repaid with interest.  The Fed was forced to make the disclosures after the U.S.
Supreme Court rejected an appeal by the Clearing House
Association LLC, a group of the nation’s largest commercial
banks.  Lower Court  The justices left intact lower court orders that said the
Fed must reveal documents requested by Bloomberg related to
borrowers in April and May 2008, along with loan amounts. The
late Bloomberg News reporter Mark Pittman asked for the records
under the Freedom of Information Act, which allows citizens
access to government papers. News Corp.’s Fox News Network LLC
filed FOIA requests for similar information on loans made from
August 2007 to March 2010.  Former Fed officials, lawyers representing the central
bank, and even some Fed watchers have expressed concern that
revealing the names of discount-window borrowers could keep
banks away from the facility in the future.  “I am concerned that in the next crisis it will be more
difficult for the Federal Reserve to play the traditional role
of lender of last resort,” said  Donald Kohn , former Fed vice
chairman and senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington. “Having these names made public, or the threat of
having them made public, could well impair the efficacy of a key
central bank function in a crisis -- to provide liquidity to
avoid fire sales of assets -- because banks will be reluctant to
borrow.”  Won’t Use Window  “I think it will make it harder for people to use the
discount window in the future,”  Jamie Dimon , chairman and chief
executive of New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, told reporters yesterday after a
speech in Washington. “We never intend to use the discount
window.”  With little more than a phone call to one of 12 Federal
Reserve banks, a bank anywhere in the country can ask for cash
from the discount window. Banks typically have already given the
Fed a list of unencumbered collateral that they use to pledge
against the loans. The Fed gives the banks less than 100 cents
on each dollar of collateral to protect itself from credit risk.  Discount-window lending was not the largest source of the
Fed’s backstop aid during the crisis. Bernanke also devised
programs to loan to U.S. government bond dealers, and to support
the short-term debt financing of U.S. corporations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at  