-- 
DeMarco Says Republican GSE Proposals Don’t Go Far Enough

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-31T20:24:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fhfa-s-demarco-says-republican-gse-proposals-don-t-go-far-enough.html
Republican proposals for shrinking
government-owned  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  don’t go far enough
to lure private capital back to the U.S. mortgage-finance
market, the companies’ chief regulator told lawmakers.  “While incremental steps are important and can really help
move us, fundamentally the market is going to need to know the
whole picture,” Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the
Federal Housing Finance Agency, said today at a House Financial
Services subcommittee hearing in Washington.  House Republicans on March 29 introduced eight bills aimed
at reducing the market dominance of Washington-based Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac of McLean, Virginia, while policy makers work on
a broader overhaul of housing finance. The two companies now own
or guarantee more than half of all U.S. mortgages.  The Republicans, who took control of the House in November
elections, are pushing to end federal involvement with the
government-sponsored enterprises, which have been sustained by
more than $150 billion in Treasury Department aid since they
were seized in September 2008.  Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas, the House’s fourth-
ranking Republican, introduced legislation on March 17 that
would phase out the two companies over the next five years.
Republican Senators John McCain of Arizona and  Orrin Hatch  of
Utah introduced a companion measure today.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who
leads the Financial Services Committee, told reporters today
that he plans to move Hensarling’s bill out of committee before
turning to the package of incremental bills.  At today’s hearing, DeMarco criticized some of those small-
step measures. Legislation to put executives at the companies on
a government pay scale, for example, could trigger an exodus of
talent and thus “carries great risk” for taxpayers, he said.  A bill to force the GSEs to hold a 5 percent stake in the
mortgage-backed securities they issue would “have no meaning”
because they already guarantee 100 percent of those bonds,
DeMarco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 