-- 
Fiat Said to Seek $2.3 Billion From VEB to Build Russian Plant

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-31T11:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fiat-to-invest-in-russia-seeks-vtb-partnership-kommersant-says.html
Fiat SpA (F)  plans to invest as much as
1.6 billion euros ($2.3 billion) to build its own plant in
 Russia , two people familiar with the matter said.  The Italian carmaker applied to VEB, Russia’s state
development bank, to finance the project, said the people, who
asked not to be identified while talks are in progress.  “We are strongly committed to Russia,”  Sergio Marchionne 
said yesterday at the company’s annual shareholders’ meeting in
Turin. “We are evaluating a partnership with Russian
companies.” He declined to name possible partners.  Fiat and Moscow-based OAO Sollers dropped plans for a 50-50
venture in February.  Fiat is considering construction of a Russian plant, able
to produce as many as 300,000 cars a year, Fiat said in a
statement distributed by the Italian stock exchange on Feb. 25.
The company plans to focus on medium-size and larger cars, SUVs
and light commercial vehicles, under the Fiat and Jeep brands,
the company said after submitting a letter about the plan to
Russia’s Economy Ministry.  VEB and Fiat press officials, who asked not to be named
because of company policy, declined to comment.  Fiat hasn’t chosen a location for the plant, the people
said. The Lipetsk region, south of Moscow, and Tatarstan are
among the variants, the people said.  Kommersant reported today that the project may cost as much
as 2 billion euros.  Fiat’s abandoned plan with Sollers was valued at about 2.4
billion euros. “We’ll go it alone with our Russian project,”
Marchionne said on March 2. Sollers agreed on a venture with
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  