-- 
Drop in U.S. Jobless Claims, Rising Consumer Confidence Point to Recovery

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-31T20:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/first-time-jobless-claims-in-u-s-declined-by-6-000-last-week-to-388-000.html
Fewer Americans filed claims for
jobless benefits last week and consumer confidence stabilized, a
sign the world’s largest economy is weathering the jump in
commodity prices heading into the second quarter.  The number of applications for unemployment insurance
payments fell by 6,000 to 388,000 in the week ended March 26, a
one-month low, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort Index  rose to minus
46.9 last week from a seven-month low of minus 48.9.  Business activity expanded in March at close to the fastest
pace in two decades, a report from members of a Chicago
purchasing managers group also showed, indicating strengthening
sales in the U.S. and overseas are helping manufacturers like
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  A report tomorrow is projected to show
the February pickup in payrolls was sustained this month.  “We have an economy that is growing solidly,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York .
“Continued strength in manufacturing is the bottom line here.
All numbers are pointing to improvement in the labor market.”  The Labor Department also issued its annual revisions to
the seasonal-adjustment factors, which caused a “mild upward
shift” in the number of jobless claims, an agency spokesman
said as the figures were released to reporters.  Applications were projected to fall to 380,000 from 382,000
initially reported for the prior week, according to the median
forecast of 42 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates
ranged from 370,000 to 390,000. The Labor Department revisions
pushed the previous week’s figure up to 394,000.  Trending Down  “The key point here is that the trend is still clearly
downwards,”  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at High
Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York, said in a note to
clients. “The labor market recovery is gathering momentum.”  Stocks fell, trimming the biggest first-quarter rally for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 13 years, amid a jump in  oil
prices  and concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening. The  S&P
500  dropped 0.2 percent to 1,325.83 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York. It advanced 5.4 percent during the first quarter, the most
for the period since 1998.  Treasury securities  declined, sending
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.47 percent from
3.44 percent late yesterday.  A slowdown in firings and growing payrolls may spur further
gains in  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy.  Companies added 210,000 workers to payrolls in March after
a 222,000 gain last month, while the  unemployment rate  held at
8.9 percent, economists project a Labor Department report
tomorrow will show. The two-month gain in private employment
would be the biggest since 2006.  Hiring to Accelerate  “The labor market is slowly but surely improving,” said
 Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “We’ll see hiring begin to accelerate
over the next few months.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index increased last week
for the first time in more than a month as Americans said their
finances were in better shape. A strengthening job market may
help consumers overcome strains from the highest gasoline prices
in more than two years and rising grocery bills.  “It’s a mixed bag out there,” said George Mokrzan, senior
economist at Huntington National Bank in Columbus,  Ohio , “The
income rises and job growth are the major drivers at this point,
so in general the consumer can withstand some higher prices.”  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer fell to 70.6 this month from February’s
71.2 reading that was the highest since July 1988. The index
exceeded the 69.9 median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Employment, Backlogs  The group’s employment measure climbed to the highest level
since 1983, and its index of order backlogs increased to a 37-
year high.  United Technologies, the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet-
engines and Otis elevators, is among companies benefiting from
growth in the so-called BRIC countries that include  Brazil ,
Russia,  India  and  China . The Hartford, Connecticut-based company
this month boosted the low end of its 2011 earnings forecast
amid improving markets across its divisions.  “We see a lot of momentum and growth in emerging markets
that have outpaced really developed markets,” Louis Chenevert,
chairman and chief executive officer, said on a conference call
with investors on March 23. “I’m confident that the momentum
will continue.”  Manufacturing Nationally  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the overall
outlook. The ISM’s national factory index may be little-changed
at 61 this month after February’s 61.4 reading that was the
highest since May 2004, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s figures
are due tomorrow.  Another report today showed orders placed with factories
unexpectedly fell in February for the first time in four months,
reflecting weaker demand for capital goods and military
aircraft.  Bookings for manufacturers’ goods decreased 0.1 after a
revised 3.3 percent gain in January that was larger than
previously reported, according to figures from the Commerce
Department. Excluding transportation equipment, demand rose,
boosted by a pickup in non-durable goods.  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing, and overall
conditions in the labor market appear to be improving
gradually,” Federal Reserve officials said in a statement after
their meeting on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  