-- 
Food Commodities Rise Seen Swamping Consumers With Inflation

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-31T11:47:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/food-commodities-price-surge-seen-swamping-consumers-with-more-inflation.html
Coffee, sugar and cocoa prices will
rise five- to 10-fold by 2014 because of shortages that will
mean consumers getting “swamped” by food-price inflation, 
according to Superfund Financial.  A lack of farmland and rising costs means growers will fail
to keep up with demand, said  Aaron Smith , managing director of
Superfund Financial ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. and Superfund USA Inc.
Commodities account for about 40 percent of Superfund’s $1.25
billion assets under management. Smith correctly predicted
record copper prices in November and a month later rightly
anticipated that silver would outperform gold.  A United Nations index of world food prices jumped to a
record last month, contributing to riots across northern  Africa 
and the Middle East that already toppled leaders in Egypt and
Tunisia. Global  food security  is threatened by “excessive price
volatility and speculation,” farm ministers from 48 countries
said in a joint statement after meeting in Berlin in January.  “There’s a tremendous shortage of food, there’s a
tremendous shortage of arable land,” Smith said in interview in
 London . “Any kind of food products are going to increase.”  Coffee jumped more than fivefold in the two years through
July 1994 and more than tripled from February 2002 to March
2005. Sugar prices rose fourfold from June 2002 to February 2006
and more than tripled from June 2007 to February last year.
Cocoa advanced 242 percent from December 2000 to January 2003.  Price Gains  Arabica coffee traded on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York 
almost doubled in the past year and traded at $2.663 a pound
at 7:33 a.m. local time. Raw-sugar futures advanced 51 percent
to 27.03 cents a pound, while cocoa is little changed at $2,960
a metric ton.  Coffee prices jumped after wet weather damaged crops in
 Colombia  and on forecasts for a smaller harvest in  Brazil , the
world’s largest exporter. Sugar gained after floods in Pakistan
and  Australia  and cocoa advanced as fighting after elections in
November disrupted exports from  Ivory Coast , the largest grower.  Superfund, founded in Vienna in 1995, specializes in so-
called managed futures, using its own trading system to buy and
sell commodities and currency futures, stocks and bonds. It has
a 24-hour trading operation in Chicago, Smith said.  The U.S. consumer price index rose 0.5 percent in February,
the most since June 2009. Asian countries from  China  to
 Indonesia  raised  interest rates  this year to curb inflation.
European inflation quickened to 2.6 percent in March, the
fastest since October 2008 and above the  European Central
Bank ’s 2 percent limit.  Bull Market   The commodity bull market may last for 15 to 20 years,
Smith said in July 2008. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodities, which that month dropped as much as 66 percent
through February 2009, is still 20 percent below its 2008 peak.  Wheat traded in  Chicago  is down 8.7 percent this year and
sugar has dropped 16 percent. Global sugar production may exceed
demand for the first time in four years if “normal weather
conditions” return to the biggest growing nations, broker and
researcher Jonathan Kingsman said last month.  Access to water, higher labor costs and rising incomes are
also issues for food commodities, Smith said.  “There’s about 7 billion people in the world,” he said.
“When you have that many people, it only takes tens of millions
of people to move up a market that’s so small like sugar.”  Rising Population  World food production will have to increase by 70 percent
by 2050 to meet increasing demand from an expanding global
population, projected to rise to 9.1 billion by 2050 from 6.9
billion now, Hiroyuki Konuma, the UN Food and Agriculture
Organization’s regional representative in  Asia , said in an
interview in Bangkok on March 9.  Food costs are at “dangerous levels” after pushing 44
million people into poverty since June, World Bank President
Robert Zoellick said last month. That adds to the more than 900
million people around the world who go hungry each day, he said.  It’s “an incredibly difficult humanitarian story because
the poorest countries will be hit the hardest,” Smith said.
“The average person is going to be swamped by food inflation.
The new arms race is food and energy.”  An indirect way of betting on food prices is to buy gold,
because it tends to do well when inflation accelerates, he said.
Gold has gained the past 10 years and reached a record $1,447.82
an ounce last week, while silver is up 22 percent this year at
$37.775 an ounce. Gold will climb to $2,000 and silver to $60 in
three years, he said.  “I think that gold, and to a lesser extent silver, will
dramatically underperform soft commodities, but will at least
have a high correlation to them,” Smith said. “When we see
short-term rates in the U.S. at double digits then you can start
to speculate that gold might be getting close to the end of its
run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 