-- 
France Halts Shale Drilling as McDonald's Scourge Bove Turns on `Fracking'

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-31T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/france-halts-shale-as-mcdonald-s-scourge-turns-on-fracking-.html
Natural gas may be poised for a
post-Fukushima boom, but even it faces hurdles. In the U.S. and
 Europe , concerns have been growing about the environmental
impact of drilling for gas trapped in shale formations.  And in France, Jose Bove -- the French environmental
activist, farmer, McDonald’s Corp. antagonist, and onetime
Presidential candidate -- has brought the nascent search for
shale gas and oil to a halt.  As  Total SA (FP)  and other energy companies readied rigs outside
Paris and started to plan for drilling in southern France, local
environmental groups began raising concerns about damage to
water tables from the hunt for hydrocarbons locked in shale
rock, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 4 issue.  On Jan. 22, Bove started a petition that now has about
100,000 signatures; within weeks the government ordered a
moratorium. On Mar. 11, Prime Minister Francois Fillon extended
the ban until June, when parliamentary and ministry reports on
the environmental and economic effects are due.  “Opposition is building because people are shocked by the
way the state pushed through drilling permits without any
debate,” said Bove, a Green party deputy in the European
Parliament. “It shows disdain for the population and elected
representatives.”  On Mar. 23, French Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko- Morizet briefed Parliament on plans to modify rules and allow
public consultation when awarding permits for oil and gas
exploration.  Hydraulic Fracturing  Total and Dallas-based Schuepbach Energy were awarded
permits a year ago to explore for shale gas, which is produced
in the U.S. using hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking,” to shoot
water, sand, and chemicals into the ground and extract oil or
natural gas. Opponents of fracking fear harmful chemicals could
seep into groundwater.  Toreador Resources Corp. (TOR)  and  Canada ’s  Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET) 
also received permits to drill in the Paris Basin outside the
capital. The geology of the saucer-shaped rock formation, which
extends more than 140,000 square kilometers, is similar to the
Bakken Shale formation in  North America , where oil production
has surged with the increased use of hydraulic fracturing, the
companies say.  In a Radio Monte Carlo interview on Mar. 16, French
Industry Minister Eric Besson said that while chemicals used in
fracturing “have caused considerable damage in the U.S. and
Canada… some industry representatives say that there may be
clean technology that would permit production of shale gas
without causing what we have seen in the U.S.”  Political Storm  Riding out the political storm will be easier for
diversified global producer and refiner Total than for Toreador,
which moved its headquarters from  Dallas  to Paris in 2009 and
partnered with New York-based Hess Corp. Toreador had planned to
start drilling a series of wells this month. It won’t proceed
until the government studies are done.  Vermilion will also hold off on hydraulic fracturing in
three existing Paris Basin wells. It’s already carried out
fracturing at two wells.  France produces about 1 percent of its crude oil needs from
wells near Paris and Bordeaux. The areas stirred excitement in
the 1980s when finds by Total and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  spurred a
rush that slowed after dry wells and a drop in  oil prices .  New Techniques  While the Paris Basin may hold 100 billion barrels, it’s
unclear how much is recoverable using new techniques. Toreador
Chief Executive Officer Craig McKenzie puts the number at about
300 million barrels.  “If the geological potential is there, it would be a shame
for  France  to pass up this source of energy,” said Jean-Louis Schilansky, head of the Union Française des Industries
Pétrolières, an association of  oil companies  operating in
France.  Bove doesn’t agree and is taking his battle to the European
Parliament and said even exploration shouldn’t be allowed,  “The best solution would be for de Margerie to cancel his
permit,” Bove said, referring to Total Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie.  De Margerie’s response: “We are going to wait until things
calm down. I’m not in a hurry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 