-- 
France’s Finances Are ‘No Better’ Than Spain’s, O'Neill Says

-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g   a n d   S t e p h e n   E n g l e
-- 
2011-03-31T14:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/france-s-finances-are-no-better-than-spain-s.html
Government finances in AAA-rated
France, the euro region’s second-biggest economy, are no better
than in  Spain , which is fighting speculation that it may succumb
to the debt crisis, said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management.  “Their debt position is no better than Spain and possibly
worse,” O’Neill said today in a Bloomberg Television interview
in Nanjing,  China , where he was attending a meeting on global
monetary issues sponsored by the Group of 20 nations.  His comments underscored the urgency for French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  to curb a gross debt load that the  International
Monetary Fund  predicts will climb to 86.4 percent of gross
domestic product this year. Spain’s debt will be 68.4 percent,
according to IMF projections published in January.  Sarkozy, who faces an election in April 2012, has sought to
balance investor pressure for deficit reduction with the need to
foster growth and counter joblessness that’s stuck near a seven-
year high. Restraint on health-care and pension payouts slowed
spending growth in 2010 even as Sarkozy initiated his “grand
loan” investment plan to spur competitiveness. He vowed again
today to slash the deficit to the European Union limit of 3
percent of GDP by 2013.  France ’s budget shortfall last year amounted to 136.5
billion euros ($194 billion), or 7 percent of GDP, national
statistics office Insee said in a statement today from Paris.
That compares with the 7.5 percent the government expected in
February and the 8.5 percent originally planned. The deficit was
7.5 percent in 2009.  Spain’s Deficit  Spain, which had a deficit of 9.2 percent last year, is
rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, in part because of
concern the government may have to inject capital into some of
the country’s banks. The lenders may need as much as 50 billion
euros, Moody’s estimates.  Spain is trying to avoid contagion from neighboring
 Portugal ’s debt woes. The cost of insuring Spanish government
debt from default rose to the highest in two weeks today as Caja
de Ahorros del Mediterraneo was forced to seek a state bailout
after three savings banks rejected its merger plan.  France’s gross debt rose to 1.59 trillion euros or 81.7
percent of GDP in 2010, from 78.3 percent in 2009. Net debt rose
to 75.9 percent from 71.3 percent, Insee said today.  “France is not only meeting its deficit commitments, it’s
going beyond them,” Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said
today on Radio Classique. “It proves all of our reforms are
beginning to bear fruit. We outperformed in 2010. I hope we’ll
be able to continue to do better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Hertling in Nanjing, China at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Nanjing, China at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  