-- 
Fukushima Turning Point May Lift Secrecy of Nuclear Safety Group

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-04-01T07:45:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/fukushima-turning-point-may-put-an-end-to-secrecy-of-nuclear-safety-group.html
Japan ’s Fukushima meltdown may force
nuclear powers to change secrecy rules that have cloaked
companies and regulators from scrutiny about the measures they
take to ensure atomic reactors don’t threaten public safety.  The Convention on Nuclear Safety, drafted after the 1986
Chernobyl meltdown in  Ukraine , must be updated to reflect
changes to the industry and availability of open-source
information about atomic emergencies, said nuclear law
specialists including two lawyers who helped write the accord.  “After such a long passage of time since Chernobyl and the
changes in technology, it may well be appropriate to revisit the
basic structure of how information is shared under the
convention,” Carlton Stoiber wrote from  Washington  in an e-
mailed answer to questions. He helped the U.S. State Department
draft the treaty, which was adopted in 1994.  The 72 countries that have signed the treaty convene next
week for their triennial meeting in Vienna. The 10-day closed-
door event, during which Ukraine and Japan are scheduled to
provide safety assessments, is hosted by the  International
Atomic Energy Agency .  Measurement networks showing how radiation plumes move
globally, along with commercial satellite imagery and Internet
communication, mean the public has more information than ever
before about the consequences of nuclear breakdowns. Policy
makers will have to adapt, said Odette Jankowitsch-Prevor, an
international nuclear-law specialist in Vienna who helped write
the treaty as a senior legal officer with the IAEA.  ‘Light Years’  There are “light years” of difference between the way
people understood Chernobyl in 1986 and Fukushima today,
Jankowitsch-Prevor said. The “internationalization” of nuclear
companies such as  Areva SA (CEI) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse
Electric Co. unit and Rosatom Corp. also underscores the need
for the treaty to be updated, she said.  Nuclear industry representatives will join next week’s
meeting as part of their national delegations, according to a
preliminary list of people registered for the conference. Groups
of countries will meet over four days and then present written
confidential reports during three more days of private sessions.  “I now see the country groups as perhaps necessary during
past phases of the process but something of an impediment to a
thorough and objective review, given the current
circumstances,” Stoiber said. “This is not merely a matter of
opening the review process to the public, media, NGOs and
others. It involves how the review is conducted and by whom.”  Secrecy  When the  treaty  was being drafted, some IAEA members wanted
the agency to conduct safety checks of atomic reactors in a way
similar to how the United Nations watchdog accounts for nuclear
materials worldwide, Jankowitsch-Prevor said. The proposals were
scuttled because some nations would never agree, she said.  “You have a great deal of secrecy in the nuclear
industry,” she said. “There are issues of industrial
protection and patents that countries will not automatically
share with everybody else.”  Both lawyers said the IAEA must improve its international
response to nuclear-safety issues. Member states attending the
conference also expect the agency to enhance its role.  “China’s government attaches great importance to nuclear
safety and supports the IAEA in promoting international
cooperation on nuclear safety,” Foreign Ministry spokesman
Jiang Yu said yesterday in a briefing.  China  is “in close
communication with IAEA” about the agency’s plans for a “high
level” safety meeting in June, Jiang said.  Falsified Documents  “The dimensions of the Japanese accident are so large that
no single entity has exclusive domain,” said David Lochbaum, a
nuclear engineer for the Union of Concerned Scientists who is a
former safety instructor for the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission .
“Parallel reviews” by different groups would help spot safety
weaknesses, he said.  Greater public scrutiny may have uncovered decades of
falsified safety reports in Japan before the Fukushima accident
was triggered by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Reactors
at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant continue to emit radiation,
contaminating the surrounding water, food and soil and sending
plumes of radionuclides around the Earth’s atmosphere.  “After Chernobyl, it is the first case where we can show
that we are not yet prepared to face a disaster of that
dimension,” said Carvalho Soares from  Portugal ’s Nuclear
Physics Center, who will be attending the Vienna meeting.  Japan will come under strong pressure at next week’s
conference to provide a detailed account of what happened at
Fukushima, said Trevor Findlay, Director of the Canadian Centre
for Treaty Compliance.  “Japan has repeatedly been criticized for the alleged non-
independence of its nuclear regulator, so there will be strong
pressure on it to reform its national safety governance,
including this aspect,” Findlay wrote in an e-mail from the
Waterloo, Ontario-based institute. Treaty signatories should use
the meeting to “strengthen the peer review process,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  