-- 
G-20 Holds Out Prospect of Bigger Role for Yuan to Coax Gains

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T03:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/g-20-holds-out-prospect-of-bigger-role-for-yuan-to-coax-gains.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs meeting
in China held out the prospect of an enlarged global role for
the yuan to encourage the government to free up a currency
described by the U.S. as “substantially undervalued.”  France’s President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  said work should start on including the
yuan in the currency basket used for the International
Monetary Fund’s Special Drawing Rights. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the idea is “worth
discussing.”  Sarkozy initiated yesterday’s one-day seminar in Nanjing,
a discussion of how to alter the international monetary
system to limit global economic imbalances and the risk of
another financial crisis. U.S Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said that “flexible exchange rate systems” and
free capital flows are requirements for the economy of any
currency joining the dollar, euro, pound and yen in the IMF’s
basket, conditions China is yet to meet.  The SDR discussion is aimed at pushing the yuan to
become more flexible, “but China doesn’t want that,” said
 Geoffrey Yu , a London-based currency strategist at UBS AG.
“With power comes responsibility and it’s responsibility
China doesn’t really want. It wants a gradual appreciation in
its currency according to its own needs and not to bow to U.S.
or global pressure.”  Biggest Exporter  While the yuan touched 6.5456 per dollar in  Shanghai 
today, the highest in 17 years, American lawmakers argue the
currency remains weak enough to give China, the world’s
biggest exporter, an unfair advantage in global trade.
Geithner said this month that the currency is substantially
undervalued.  Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  urged an
“immediate expansion” of the role of SDRs, an artificial
currency, to counter the dollar’s dominance and aid global
economic stability, in an article published in the Financial
Times today.  Chinese officials said that the yuan’s value wouldn’t be
a topic at yesterday’s seminar and Geithner didn’t refer to
the currency directly in his prepared remarks. He did say
that the mismatch between flexible currencies and the
“tightly managed” exchange rates of some emerging economies
is the most important problem to solve in the international
monetary system.  China ’s ‘Own Pace’  “China will continue to proceed with currency reform at
its own pace” and regardless of Sarkozy and Geithner’s
comments, said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., who formerly worked for the IMF
and ECB.  The SDR basket is reviewed every five years by the IMF’s
executive board, and the most recent changes took effect in
January. The next review will be in 2015, according to the
Washington-based fund’s website.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
said the “overwhelming” view at yesterday’s event seemed to
be that the yuan should be included earlier than IMF
procedures may currently allow. His view is that the currency
doesn’t need to be fully convertible and should be brought in
“now.”  “By 2015 China will be so big in the world, it will be
embarrassing for the international monetary system if it’s
not in it,” he added.  Trichet’s Concerns  While Lagarde said work on broadening the SDR basket
should start now and involve the yuan, Trichet said a
currency would probably need to be fully convertible and
free-floating to join. The yuan doesn’t meet those conditions.  Created in 1969, SDRs are used by IMF members to settle
accounts with each other and can be converted into hard
currencies.  Two years since governments boosted the amount of them
by about ten times to the equivalent of about $310 billion to
help fight the credit crisis they are back in the spotlight
as Sarkozy presses the G-20 to examine ways to reduce the
world’s reliance on the dollar.  Diluting Dollar  In theory, widening the basket to include currencies such
as the Chinese yuan or increasing the number of SDRs in
circulation could help dilute the dollar’s power in
international reserve management. Counting against such a
proposal is that the U.S. may object to undermining its
 exchange rate  and that the drawing rights now account for
just 5 percent of reserves and have a negligible role in
financial markets.  China may also balk at making the yuan more flexible now
in return for getting it accepted in the basket, which in the
longer run may prove a sign of the nation’s growing power in
the world economy and provide an alternative for it to hold
in its reserves. The IMF is studying how it forms the basket
having kept it unchanged last year and ruled China’s yuan
doesn’t satisfy the entry criteria because it’s not “freely
usable.”  Two years ago, Chinese central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the IMF should expand the use of SDRs and move
toward a “super-sovereign  reserve currency ” and urged
governments to issue more assets denominated in it. Lagarde
said today that there was “no suggestion whatsoever” at the
seminar that SDRs should replace the dollar.  Global Imbalances  French officials say their goal isn’t to use their G-20
presidency to dethrone the dollar. They want to open a debate
to reflect changes since the 1944 Bretton Woods conference
established the U.S. currency’s role. Sarkozy and Lagarde
have said the dollar’s prominence contributed to the
financial crisis by encouraging global imbalances.  The IMF in November cut the U.S. dollar’s weighting to
41.9 percent compared with 44 percent after a 2005 review
while the yen’s fell to 9.4 percent from 11 percent. The
euro’s share rose to 37.4 percent from 34 percent.  Yesterday’s meeting at the Purple Palace resort was
attended by economists including Nobel laureate  Robert Mundell . It’s intended to lay the groundwork for an agreement
at the G-20 summit in Cannes,  France , in November that would
lead to a more “stable and resilient” monetary order,
Sarkozy said.  People “looking for a rapid ascension of the yuan as an
international currency and the SDR as a reserve currency
shouldn’t hold their breath,” said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia
economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “The pace of
change is likely to be incremental and piecemeal to say the
least.”  --James Hertling, Michael Forsythe,  Kevin Hamlin , Bonnie Cao, Stephen Engle and Christine Hah in Nanjing, Zheng Lifei in
Beijing and  Simon Kennedy  in  London . Editors: Paul Panckhurst,
Sunil Jagtiani  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  