-- 
Gabelli, Bocuse, Boulud, Keller, Duff Goldman: Scene Last Night

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-31T15:27:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/gabelli-bocuse-boulud-keller-duff-goldman-marriott-scene-last-night.html
Thomas Keller  wore an  Isaia  suit,
and Duff Goldman wore Seven jeans and an ostrich-leather jacket
to the  Culinary Institute of America Leadership Awards Gala  last
night.  The event at the Marriot Marquis in  Manhattan  brought out
an eclectic crowd to raise money for scholarships. Guests
included financier  Mario Gabelli , New York City Education
Chancellor Cathie Black, interior designer Adam Tihany, and the
chairman and co-chief executive of  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) ,
Steve Ells.  Modeling his outfit on stage, Goldman, the Food Network’s
 “Ace of Cakes”  star, confessed he didn’t learn high style from
his one-time boss at the French Laundry, where he worked after
graduating from the Culinary Institute of America in  Napa
Valley .  Goldman also apologized to Keller for abruptly quitting
that job.  “I was making a sweet mission fig puree, beautiful in
color, almost lavender,” Goldman said. “I used rice-wine
vinegar instead of simple syrup and I got chewed out, and that
night I bailed. I’m sorry.”  Goldman made the dessert for the evening: cardamom and
pistachio carrot cake, in the shape of the award statue that all
the honorees received.  The real statues went to Paul Bocuse, named Chef of the
Century, and  Daniel Boulud  as Chef of the Year. Tim Ryan, the
president of the Culinary Institute, said many trends today can
be traced to Bocuse. To illustrate, he produced a photograph of
Bocuse showing the rooster tattoo on his arm.  ‘Energizer Rabbit’  Le Bernardin Inc. executive chef Eric Ripert, in his toast
to Boulud, said one of his nicknames is “the Energizer
Rabbit.” Ripert continued: “When we’ve been partying with our
friend, he is so often saying, ‘Oh c’mon, it’s only 5 a.m.”  Richard Marriott, the chairman of  Host Hotels & Resorts
Inc. (HST)  and president of the Richard E. & Nancy P. Marriott
Foundation, was the only non-chef receiving an award. Still he
proudly noted his food-service experience.  “I spent my teen years working in hot shops,” Marriott
said, referring to the restaurants that grew out of his father’s
curbside food stand.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 