-- 
GE Chief Immelt Says He’s ‘Happy to Defend’ Company on Taxes

-- B y   S h o   C h a n d r a   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-31T20:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ge-chief-immelt-says-he-s-happy-to-defend-company-on-taxes.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said he’s happy to defend the
company as it faces scrutiny of its  tax rate  and policies.  “GE has taken criticism lately over our tax rate over the
past two years,” Immelt said in a speech today at the Economic
Club of Washington. “Like any American, we do like to keep our
tax rate low. But we do it in a compliant way, and there are no
exceptions.”  Immelt, who is also chairman of GE, commented on the issue
for the second time in 24 hours following a March 24 report in
the New York Times that GE had a tax bill of zero in 2010, an
assertion the company called misleading on its  GE Reports 
website.  GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , is the world’s largest
maker of jet engines, turbines for power plants, medical imaging
equipment and locomotives. Its GE Capital division includes
credit cards, lending to midsize companies and airplane leasing.  The tax rate for GE will rise this year and beyond after
$32 billion of losses absorbed by the company’s financial-
services business pushed down rates in 2008 and 2009, Immelt
said yesterday at a speech at  Rice University  in Houston. He
repeated today that GE will pay more taxes in the future.  ‘Higher in 2011’  “Our tax rate will be much higher in 2011 as GE Capital
recovers,” he said.  The complexity of the current U.S. federal tax system needs
to change because it is hampering competitiveness and the
ability to promote  job creation , he said.  The system “is old, complex and uncompetitive,” Immelt
said. “Like most of our business colleagues, GE favors closing
tax loopholes, a lower corporate rate and a territorial
system.”  Honeywell International Inc. Chief Executive  David Cote 
said while higher taxes are necessary to cut the  U.S. budget
deficit , he also favors a zero percent corporate tax rate. He
knows that’s out of the question for the American public, he
said in a Bloomberg television interview scheduled to air this
weekend.  Cote said he would like to see the lowest rate possible on
companies, with loopholes stricken from the tax code.  “I would say you need to eliminate all deductions, because
all deductions, whether you do them for individuals or you do
them for companies, are market distortions,” Cote said in the
TV interview.  Immelt said today that people “have a right to write”
news stories on tax issues.  “I don’t fault this type of reporting,” he said. “It is
what it is.”  “We are happy to defend ourselves. You can’t do a job like
this unless you have a thick skin,” Immelt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sho Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  