-- 
Geithner Says Currency Policy Poses Global System’s Main Problem

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-31T02:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/geithner-says-currency-policy-poses-global-system-s-main-problem.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said “weaknesses and inconsistencies” in approaches
to currency policies,  capital controls  and incentives for
cooperative policy action are the biggest challenges facing the
global monetary system.  “This asymmetry in exchange-rate policies creates a lot of
tension,” he said in prepared remarks as Group of 20 officials
gathered for talks in Nanjing,  China , today. “It magnifies
upward pressure on those emerging market exchange rates that are
allowed to move and where capital accounts are much more open.
It intensifies inflation risk in those emerging economies with
undervalued exchange rates.”  He also said it’s “not a complicated problem to solve.”  G-20 finance chiefs are meeting in Nanjing for a seminar
initiated by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on reshaping the
global monetary system. Ahead of the meeting, Xu Hongcai, a
Chinese state economist, revived developing nations’ complaints
that U.S. monetary policy and the dollar’s dominance have fueled
inflation and volatility in exchange rates and capital flows.  Geithner said in his prepared remarks that currencies of
large economies heavily used in international trade and
financial transactions should be part of the International
Monetary Fund’s Special Drawing Rights “and that to achieve
this objective, the concerned countries should have flexible
exchange-rate systems, independent central banks, and permit the
free movement of capital flows.”  Geithner, Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan and European
Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet are among those due
to take part in the one-day seminar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  