-- 
German Unemployment Declines for 21st Month as Crises Fail to Deter Hiring

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-31T08:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/german-joblessness-falls-to-lowest-since-1992-as-crises-don-t-deter-hiring.html
German unemployment fell twice as
much as economists forecast in March as instability in the
Middle East and the crisis in  Japan  failed to deter companies
from hiring.  The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
55,000 to 3.01 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. That’s the lowest level since June 1992. Economists
predicted a drop of 25,000, according to the median of 31
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The rate declined to 7.1
percent from 7.3 percent of the workforce.  “Right now nothing is upsetting the healthy mix of export
growth and domestic demand that is driving down unemployment in
Germany -- that includes the catastrophe in Japan and political
turmoil in North Africa,” said Mario Gruppe, an economist at
NordLB in Hanover, Germany.  The euro rose 0.4 percent, trading at 1.4184 at 10:25 a.m.
Frankfurt time, the third day of gains. The single currency has
advanced 6 percent this year against the  U.S. dollar .  German business confidence unexpectedly held near a record
this month as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and conflict
in Libya failed to ruffle sentiment in  Europe ’s biggest economy.
Unemployment has declined for 21 straight months now, shrugging
off a surge in the price of commodities like energy and metals
that are needed for manufacturing.  VW, Bosch  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  plans to create 50,000 new jobs, 6,000 of
them in Germany, after two-month global sales soared 18 percent,
Europe’s biggest carmaker said on March 10. Robert Bosch GmbH,
the world’s biggest auto-parts maker, will add 9,000 graduate
jobs this year, 1,200 in Germany, the company  said  March 1.  According to the  latest  comparable data from the Paris-
based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
Germany’s jobless rate was 6.5 percent in January, compared with
an average of 9.9 percent for the 17 euro nations.  France ,
Germany’s biggest European Union trading partner, had 9.6
percent unemployment, the U.S. 9 percent and Spain 20.4 percent.  Lower unemployment in Germany may be boosting private
consumption, helping retailers. Globetrotter GmbH, a Hamburg-
based maker of outdoor clothing, said on March 27 that it plans
to add 450 jobs to its 1,650 staff as it expands to build
holiday homes. OHG Netto Supermarkt GmbH, a foodstore chain,
added 200 jobs at a new logistics center in Erfurt this month.  ECB Rates  Still, with rising import prices stoking inflation, policy
makers at the  European Central Bank  indicated the Frankfurt-
based bank will probably raise  interest rates  next month.  German inflation held at a two-year high in March after
energy prices surged, the Federal Statistics Office said two
days ago. As household purchasing power weakens,  consumer
confidence  will decline for the first time in 10 months in
April, market researchers GfK AG said. Retail sales unexpectedly
dipped in February as higher energy prices curbed  consumer
spending , the Statistics Office said today.  “Import-price inflation is helping to erode the capacity
of the economy to absorb new jobs,” Stefan Muetze, an economist
at Helaba in  Frankfurt , said in an interview. “The uncertain
impact of Japan’s problems and conflict in North Africa add to a
more volatile picture.”  German carmakers may consider government-aided shortened
working hours due to a lack of parts from Japan,  Handelsblatt 
newspaper reported on March 24, without being more specific.
General Motors Co.’s Opel unit canceled shifts last week at
German and Spanish plants before finding an alternative source
for electronic components in the U.S.  Election Defeats  The decline in unemployment has yet to deliver a political
dividend for  Chancellor Angela Merkel . Voters in Baden-
Wuerttemberg, the state with the lowest unemployment, ditched
her Christian Democrats in March 27 elections after 58 years of
unbroken rule. Merkel’s CDU was last month handed its worst
election defeat since World War II in Hamburg,  Germany ’s richest
state.  The jobless figures “again illustrate the German economy’s
main dilemma: while the labor market remains the show case of
the recovery, private consumption is still sluggish,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels,
citing an increase in the number of low-wage jobs and higher
energy prices. “Let’s hope the consumption recovery does not
stop at the gas station.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Nuremberg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  