-- 
Goldman Increases Bet Against Treasuries by Raising Five-Year Yield Target

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-31T13:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/goldman-increases-bet-against-treasuries-by-raising-five-year-yield-target.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lifted its
target for five-year Treasury yields on trade recommendation
that seeks to profit from a drop in the price of the security,
saying the outlook for growth and inflation is becoming less
friendly for bonds.  The bank, one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the
 Federal Reserve , lifted its target to 2.5 percent from 2.3
percent. The five-year note yielded 1.94 percent when Goldman
recommended shorting the security on March 18, which is a bet
prices will fall. The notes yield 2.19 percent today.  Higher global food and energy prices will keep inflation
elevated at least until the summer and  core inflation , which
strips out those components, is beginning to form a bottom in
developed economies, Goldman strategists wrote in a note today.
Inflation erodes the fixed payments of bonds.  “Survey-based measures of longer-dated inflation have
increased in various countries, most notably in the U.S.,”
Francesco Garzarelli, chief interest-rate strategist at Goldman
Sachs in  London , said in the note. “In reaction to these
shifts, central banks will verbally emphasize their inflation-
fighting commitment or, like in euroland, start tightening
policy.”  The firm’s bond valuation model as well as other economic
analysis “suggest fading a bigger increase in yields than the
one we envisage, as underlying inflation pressures may
ultimately remain relatively contained,” Garzarelli said.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent in February,
the most since June 2009, figures from the Labor Department said
March 17. Economists projected a 0.4 percent gain, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Excluding food
and fuel costs, the core gauge rose 0.2 percent for a second
month, also more than estimated.  Goldman predicts 10-year Treasury yields will range from 3.5
percent to 3.75 percent in the second quarter and end the year at
3.75 percent. The notes yield 3.41 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  