-- 
Goldman Borrowed From Fed Discount Window at Least Five Times, Data Show

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r ,   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   B o b   I v r y
-- 
2011-03-31T19:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/goldman-borrowed-from-fed-s-discount-window-at-least-five-times-data-show.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  tapped the
 Federal Reserve ’s discount window at least five times since
September 2008, according to central bank data that contradict
an executive’s testimony last year.  Goldman Sachs Bank USA, a unit of the company, took
overnight loans from the Federal Reserve on Sept. 23, Oct. 1,
and Oct. 23 in 2008 as well as on Sept. 9, 2009, and Jan. 11,
2010, according to the data released today. The largest loan was
$50 million on Sept. 23 and the smallest was $1 million on the
most recent two occasions.  Goldman Sachs President and Chief Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission June 30 that
“we used it one night at the request of the Fed to make sure
our systems were linked with their systems, and it was for a de
minimis amount of money.” Peter J. Wallison, a member of the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, then asked, “you never had
to use it after that?”  “No, and as I said, we used it on the Fed’s request,”
Cohn replied.  The amounts are dwarfed by Goldman Sachs’s overall balance
sheet, which was $911 billion at the end of 2010, and by other
banks’ borrowing throughout the financial crisis. Dexia SA, the
lender based in Brussels and Paris, drew $31.5 billion on one
day as total weekly borrowing reached a record in October 2008.  ‘Testing Was Routine’  “During the crisis, we tested our systems, including
accessing the discount window; the amounts involved were de
minimis, and the testing was routine,”  Michael DuVally , a
spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “The fact that we tested the system to insure
our procedures worked smoothly was made known to senior
executives. Routine tests thereafter were considered part of the
normal course of business.”  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were the largest and
second-largest U.S. securities firms until Sept. 21, 2008, when
they both won the Federal Reserve’s approval to convert to bank
holding companies. The conversion took place about a week after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which was then the fourth-biggest
securities firm, filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Congress assigned the FCIC to determine the causes of the
financial crisis. The panel released a report in January, along
with a 545-page book.  Bloomberg News is posting the raw documents here for 
subscribers to the Bloomberg Professional Service as well as 
 online  at www.bloomberg.com.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Ivry in New York at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 