-- 
Greek Stake Sales Will Help Boost Athens Exchange, Chairman Says

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 
2011-03-31T05:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/greek-stake-sales-will-help-boost-athens-exchange-chairman-says.html
Greece ’s stock exchange expects to
benefit from a 50 billion-euro ($70 billion) pipeline of state-
asset sales and is preparing to take a leading regional role as
the industry’s largest companies merge.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has pledged to sell
government assets to pay down a debt burden that has swelled to
the biggest in  Europe  as a proportion of gross domestic product.
Greece’s credit rating was cut two steps by  Standard & Poor’s  to
BB- on March 29, three levels below investment grade.  “The number one issue now is to be an effective organized
market so we can contribute to the state-asset sales and mergers
about which we hear so much,” Athens Exchange Chairman Socrates Lazaridis said in an interview in Athens on March 28. That
“will help lead to a recovery in the  Greek economy .”  Lazaridis dismissed concerns that the government is moving
too slowly on asset sales, which could lift volumes on the
bourse much as fundraising by banks did last year as the debt
crisis depleted deposits and capital.  “When you rush in, you trip,” he said.  Greece’s ASE Index has risen 10 percent in 2011, the most
of the 18 western European markets. Thessaloniki Port Authority
SA and  Piraeus Port Authority (PPA)  SA, the nation’s largest state-
controlled ports, led gains. The fates of those stakes are
currently being examined, along with that of the government’s
other holdings in both listed and closely held companies.  Default Speculation  The ASE is climbing back from a 36 percent slump last year
that was caused by speculation the country would be forced to
default.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , which makes up 12 percent
of the index’s weighting, tumbled 61 percent in 2010.  More than $20 billion of exchange acquisitions have been
announced in the past five months as venues in  North America ,
Europe and Asia try to cut costs and offset declining profits
from equity trading with options, futures and derivatives. The
deals include Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  agreeing in
February to buy New York-based  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  for about $9.5
billion, creating the world’s largest exchange operator.  Lazaridis, who’s also chief executive officer of Hellenic
Exchanges SA, operator of the Athens stock and derivatives
exchanges, said the recent merger activity pointed to the need
to provide a more extensive regional service for clients.  The eastern Mediterranean “could be a point at which there
is one of these geographical hubs,” he said. Hellenic
Exchanges, known as Helex, introduced its XNET service to
simplify cross-border trading earlier this month.  Stronger Position  Lazaridis said he’s open to teaming with rivals and that
he’s aiming for the Greek exchange to be in a stronger position
in 2 1/2 years, after which time he predicts the field will be
clearer for smaller bourses like his own.  “Whatever brings value to shareholders and stakeholders
makes sense in a changing environment such as the one markets
find themselves in now,” he said. “That response doesn’t mean
that there is something being discussed.”  Non-resident investors held 51 percent of the market value
of all stocks listed on the  Athens  Stock Exchange in February,
up from 49 in the same month a year earlier. The most frequent
questions from investors regard a firm tax regime, state asset-
sale plans and Greeks’ ability to adapt to the austerity
measures taken to cut the  budget deficit , Lazaridis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen@bloomberg.net  