-- 
Gross Echoes Buffett Saying Treasuries Have ‘Little Value’ on Debt, Dollar

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T06:07:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/gross-echoes-buffett-saying-treasuries-have-little-value-on-debt-dollar.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
Treasuries “have little value” because of the growing U.S.
debt burden.  The U.S. has unrecorded debt of $75 trillion, or close to
500 percent of gross domestic product, counting what it owes on
its bonds plus obligations for Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid, Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook. The
U.S. will experience inflation, currency devaluation and low-to-
negative  interest rates  after accounting for consumer-price
gains if it doesn’t reform its entitlement programs, he said.  Pimco “has been selling Treasuries because they have
little value within the context of a $75 trillion total debt
burden,” Gross wrote in the report published on  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s  website . Congress “must make ‘debt’
a four-letter word.”  The comment echoes  Warren Buffett , the billionaire investor
who recommended avoiding long-term fixed-income bets in U.S.
dollars because the currency’s purchasing power will drop.
Treasuries have handed investors a 0.1 percent loss this
quarter, adding to a 2.7 percent decline in the final three
months of 2010, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  President Barack Obama’s government has increased the U.S.
publicly traded debt to a record $9.05 trillion, leading Gross
to compare the nation to Greece, which had its credit ratings
cut two steps by  Standard & Poor’s  on March 29.  “We are out-Greeking the Greeks,” he wrote.  Inflation Risk  Gross said in an interview March 11 that he eliminated
government-related debt from his Total Return Fund because
investors aren’t being adequately compensated for the risk of
quickening inflation.  Buffett has shortened the maturities of Omaha, Nebraska-
based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .’s bond holdings as the  Federal
Reserve  eased monetary policy to stimulate the economy,
according to regulatory filings.  “I would recommend against buying long-term fixed-dollar
investments,” Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer of
Berkshire, said March 25 in New Delhi. “If you ask me if the
 U.S. dollar  is going to hold its purchasing power fully at the
level of 2011, 5 years, 10 years or 20 years from now, I would
tell you it will not.”  Consumer Prices  Treasuries were little changed today, with benchmark 10-
year notes yielding 3.44 percent as of 6:52 a.m. in  London ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.625 percent
note maturing in February 2021 traded at 101 1/2.  The Fed said in November it would pump $600 billion into
the  U.S. economy  by purchasing Treasuries to sustain the
economic expansion.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has widened to
2.46 percentage points from 1.82 percentage points six months
ago. The 10-year average is 2.0 percentage points.  Treasury 10-year notes pay 1.34 percent after subtracting
consumer-price increases, the so-called real yield. That’s down
from last year’s high of 2.39 percent in December.  Pimco’s record $236.9 billion Total Return Fund gained 7
percent in the past year, beating 82 percent of its competitors,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is a unit
of insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  in Munich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 