-- 
Grupo Aeromexico Seeks to Raise $227 Million After Biggest Rival Goes Bust

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 
2011-03-31T21:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/grupo-aeromexico-seeks-to-raise-229-million-after-biggest-rival-goes-bust.html
Grupo Aeromexico SA, the country’s
biggest airline, may raise as much as 2.7 billion pesos ($227
million) in an initial public offering as the company adds
routes and buys jets after its largest rival went bankrupt.  Aeromexico will sell shares worth as much as 2.4 billion
pesos in  Mexico , and underwriters may buy an extra 358 million
pesos in stock as part of an overallotment option, according to
a prospectus e-mailed yesterday. The offering is set to be
priced from 30 pesos to 34 pesos a share on April 13.  The airline, based in Mexico City, will invest more than 16
billion pesos to buy 20 airplanes, update technology and expand
routes, Chief Executive Andres Conesa said yesterday. Cia.
Mexicana de Aviacion, which had been the country’s largest
airline, filed for bankruptcy and halted operations last year,
leaving room for other carriers to pick up its customers.  “In theory, there are routes that aren’t being attended to
after Mexicana left,” said Martin Gonzalez, an analyst with
Invex Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City.  The jet purchases planned by Aeromexico include 10 Embraer
SA 190s and 10 Boeing Co. 737s, Conesa said.  The underwriters on the sale, the second IPO in Mexico this
year, are Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit, Corp. Actinver SAB and
Deutsche Bank AG. Aeromexico said it will carry out a separate
private offer at the same time as the public sale.  ‘Help Investors’  “There’s a good short-term outlook for the market, and
that could help investors,” said Gerardo Copca, an analyst with
Metanalisis SA. Aeromexico and investors in the IPO should
benefit from a “stable” Mexican stock market that may be
poised to rally, Copca said in a telephone interview.  Mexico’s benchmark IPC index of 37 stocks climbed 0.6
percent to 37,440.51 at 4 p.m. New York time. The gauge advanced
1.1 percent this month, trimming a first-quarter decline to 2.9
percent.  Aeromexico posted consolidated net income of 2.3 billion
pesos last year, the prospectus showed.  Mexicana said March 9 that it is evaluating proposals from
investors to restart operations.  Besides a namesake carrier, Aeromexico also operates
Aeromexico Connect and AM Travel units. It’s Mexico’s biggest
airline operator by number of airplanes and passengers. The
company had 36.2 percent of the country’s domestic market last
year, the prospectus showed. The company also flies to the U.S.,
 Canada ,  Europe ,  Asia  and other Latin American countries.  Fibra Uno de Administracion SA raised 2.6 billion pesos
this month in Mexico’s first sale of real estate securities
known as Fibras, which are similar to U.S. Real Estate
Investment Trusts, or REITs.  Luis Tellez , chief executive officer of exchange operator
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB, said March 29 that there would be
two IPOs in Mexico by summer. Mexico had five initial offerings
last year after a 22-month drought, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  