-- 
Libya Says Defector Koussa Had Been Granted ‘Sick Leave’

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 
2011-03-31T16:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/libya-says-defector-koussa-had-been-granted-sick-leave-.html
The Libyan government said Foreign
Minister Moussa Koussa, who abandoned the regime and traveled to
the U.K. yesterday, had been granted “sick leave” and asked to
travel to neighboring  Tunisia .  Spokesman Moussa Ibrahim described Koussa as “tired” and
“exhausted,” deflecting questions from reporters after the
U.K. government said that the longtime aide of  Muammar Qaddafi 
was cooperating with British authorities.  “I don’t think his sick leave included  London ,” Ibrahim
told journalists today in the Libyan capital, Tripoli, in a
briefing broadcast by U.K. news networks. “What I know is that
he asked to go to Tunisia, which is very normal in Libya.”  Koussa’s defection reveals that support for the Qaddafi
regime is crumbling from within, U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague  told reporters earlier in London. Koussa, who landed in
southern England’s Farnborough Airport late yesterday, is in a
“secure place” and speaking with U.K. authorities, Hague said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  described the defection as a
“serious blow” to Qaddafi’s authority.  “It tells a compelling story of the desperation and the
fear right at the heart of the crumbling and rotten Qaddafi
regime,” Cameron told reporters in London today after a meeting
with Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  Lockerbie Bombing  Koussa hasn’t made a public appearance or statement since
arriving in Britain. He served as head of intelligence and
helped negotiate Libya’s rapprochement with the U.S. and its
allies in the past decade, including the payment of compensation
to families of the 270 people killed in the 1988 bombing of Pan
Am Flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie, the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Scottish prosecutors want to interview Koussa in connection
with the bombing,  Scotland ’s Crown Office said in an e-mailed
statement today. Cameron said Koussa had not been granted
immunity from prosecution in return for being allowed to come to
Britain.  Ibrahim said today that the Libyan government gave
permission for Koussa to leave the country for health reasons
and suggested that the minister could no longer handle the
pressure of the crisis.  “He did not notify us prior to his resignation; he chose
to do it this way, we hope that he will recover -- and if he
decides to come back, he is most welcome,” Ibrahim said,
becoming impatient at repeated questions on Koussa’s
circumstances.  Qaddafi’s regime has been shaken by a rebel insurgency in
the country’s east and targeted by coalition air strikes that
have destroyed its  air force .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 Pdonahue1@bloomberg.net , and
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  