-- 
Libyan Foreign Minister's Resignation May Boost Opposition, Spur Qaddafi

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/libyan-foreign-minister-s-resignation-may-boost-opposition-spur-qaddafi.html
The resignation of Libyan Foreign
Minister Moussa Koussa may help weaken Muammar Qaddafi’s hold on
power, even as it may spur the dictator to more radical action
by removing one of the few moderating voices left in his inner
circle, according to analysts of the region.  Koussa, a former intelligence chief who was among Qaddafi’s
closest advisers outside his family, may be able to tell the
allies who else among Qaddafi loyalists could be encouraged to
leave the regime. He also may deliver information about Libyan
terrorist activities, such as the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight
103 over Lockerbie,  Scotland .  Koussa’s departure is “going to hurt Qaddafi at home,”
said Robert Danin, senior fellow for Mideast and Africa studies
at the Council on Foreign Relations, speaking by telephone from
 Jerusalem . “It’s also going to have the effect, I fear, of
further radicalizing Qaddafi, because Moussa Koussa had played
such a central role in Libya’s re-engagement with the world, and
was trusted by Qaddafi.”  Koussa arrived yesterday at the U.K.’s Farnborough Airport,
a former military installation near  London , on a flight from
 Tunisia , Britain’s Foreign Office said in a  statement . Koussa
earlier had crossed into Tunisia from Libya on a private visit,
the state-run Tunis Afrique Presse news agency reported, citing
its own correspondent.  Koussa isn’t subject to the travel ban imposed by the
 United Nations Security Council  on Qaddafi and other top Libyan
officials.  ‘Big Loss’  “This is a very big loss for Qaddafi,” said  Elliott Abrams , senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in
Washington. “It’s the closest person to him who has defected,
and he certainly knows where all the bodies are buried since he
buried many of them.”  Koussa arrived in Britain “under his own free will,” the
Foreign Office said. He is “one of the most senior figures in
Qaddafi’s government and his role was to represent the regime
internationally -- something that he is no longer willing to
do,” the statement said.  “This is big,” said Michele Dunne, a senior associate at
the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in  Washington . As
head of Qaddafi’s intelligence services, Koussa was the only
person trusted by the Libyan leader with such sensitive projects
as negotiations with the U.S. on giving up his program to build
nuclear weapons and chemical arms, said Dunne.  Diplomats Abandon Qaddafi  Dozens of Libyan diplomats have abandoned Qaddafi’s regime
since an uprising against his rule began last month.  “If you were to draw a list of the half dozen people who
worked with Qaddafi over the years, there are Qaddafi’s sons and
there is Moussa Koussa,” Abrams said. “We have to hope that he
left because he thinks they are doomed.”  Even as he lost a close aide, Qaddafi gained a supporter.
Miguel D’Escoto Brockmann, a former foreign minister of
 Nicaragua ’s socialist Sandinista government and one-time
president of the United Nations General Assembly, was named
yesterday as the Qaddafi regime’s ambassador to the UN.  D’Escoto Brockmann was named to the post because Ali
Abdussalam Treki, also a former General Assembly president,
couldn’t get a visa to enter the U.S., Libya said in a letter
sent by Koussa to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon on March 29.  ‘Newfound Momentum’  Koussa’s resignation may give a “sense of newfound
momentum” to the Libyans battling Qaddafi’s forces, Danin said.  The rebels, after advancing toward Qaddafi’s hometown of
Sirte, withdrew in the face of artillery and rocket attacks as
pro-Qaddafi forces retook control of the oil port of Ras Lanuf.
The  BBC  and  New York  Times, citing reporters near the Libyan
front line, said yesterday rebels were streaming away from Brega
and heading northeast, back toward Ajdabiya.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  have said they wouldn’t rule out sending arms to
opposition forces. The U.S. is looking “very closely” at
whether to give more assistance to opposition groups in  Libya ,
though no decision has been made, White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said yesterday at a briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  