-- 
Microsoft Filing Complaint With EU Against Google on Search

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-03-31T07:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/microsoft-says-it-s-filing-complaint-against-google-s-market-share-with-eu.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  filed a formal
complaint with European antitrust regulators about  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
dominance of the Internet search market in the region.  Google bars competitors from accessing its YouTube video
site for search results and has kept phones running Microsoft’s
operating system from working properly with YouTube, Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft said in a blog posting by General
Counsel  Brad Smith .  A Microsoft unit and two other rivals last year lodged a
complaint with the European Union, which is investigating
whether Google has violated the region’s antitrust laws. Google
is under growing pressure from global regulators that are
probing whether the company uses its dominance of Web search to
thwart competition.  “Our filing today focuses on a pattern of actions that
Google has taken to entrench its dominance in the markets for
online search and search advertising to the detriment of
European consumers,” Smith wrote in the blog posting.  While Microsoft and partner Yahoo! Inc. have about a
quarter of the U.S. search market and Google the rest, Google
has almost 95 percent of the market in  Europe , Smith said,
citing data from regulators.  Google “is not surprised” that Microsoft has complained
because its advertising unit, Ciao from Bing, filed a complaint
last year, said Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels.  ‘Happy to Explain’  “We continue to discuss the case with the European
Commission and we’re happy to explain to anyone how our business
works,” he said in an e-mailed statement today.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the European Commission in
Brussels, declined to comment.  Google shares fell 0.7 percent to 411 euros and Microsoft
fell 0.03 percent to 18.15 euros at 9:18 a.m. in Frankfurt
trading.  Besides cordoning off YouTube, Google is also seeking to
block access to content owned by book publishers and restricting
its own advertisers from accessing the data they put in Google
servers as part of ad campaigns, Microsoft said.  “Unfortunately, Google has engaged in a broadening pattern
of walling off access to content and data that competitors need
to provide search results to consumers and to attract
advertisers,” Smith said in the blog. Microsoft is the world’s
largest software maker.  Search Boxes  Google also has signed contracts that block top European
websites from distributing rival search boxes, Microsoft said.
For example, Microsoft can’t distribute some e-mail and document
services through certain European telecommunications companies
that have contracts with Google because these services make use
of Bing search boxes, Smith said.  The EU said in November that it’s investigating whether
Google’s AdSense contracts prevent publishers from striking
deals to place ads from other services on their sites. It’s also
looking at claims Google limits advertisers’ ability to move
data such as key search terms from AdWords to another service.  Google said in a statement in November that it “worked
hard to do the right thing by our users and our industry” by
marking ads clearly and enabling users and advertisers to move
data to other services.  “There’s always going to be room for improvement and so
we’ll be working with the commission to address any concerns,”
 Mountain View , California-based Google said in the November
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  