-- 
Lehman, Madoff Lawyer Fees May Deplete Investor Fund, SEC's Watchdog Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-31T21:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/high-lehman-madoff-lawyer-fees-may-deplete-sipc-sec-watchdog-report-says.html
High fees paid to the trustees of
bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage and of
 Bernard Madoff ’s collapsed firm might deplete the $2.5 billion
fund of the Securities Investor Protection Corp., according to a
report by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Inspector
General.  The report assesses how well the SEC is doing in overseeing
SIPC, which liquidates bankrupt brokerages to pay creditors.
There is “significant criticism and concern” over the
brokerage trustees’ fees in the Lehman and Madoff bankruptcies,
according to the report. The SEC must make “systematic”
inspections to ensure cost-effective liquidations, it said.  Lehman brokerage trustee James Giddens and his law firm
were paid about $108 million in the 24 months from Lehman’s
September 2008 bankruptcy through September 2010, the report
said, citing court documents. Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  and
his law firm were paid about $102 million in the 21 months from
December 2008, when Madoff was arrested, through September 2010,
it said.  As the liquidations are far from over, “fees paid to date
for both the Lehman and Madoff liquidations are a mere fraction
of the amounts that will eventually be sought,” the report
said.  Last Inspection  The last time the SEC inspected SIPC thoroughly was in
2003, with a follow-up in 2005, it said.  “In the SEC’s inspection of SIPC, the SEC identified
several deficiencies in SIPC’s operations regarding its controls
over fees, an improperly denied claim, internal policies and
guidance, education initiative and funding options,” it said.  Yet the SEC failed to set up a review schedule and scope
for inspections, the Inspector General said. As a result, 14
liquidations from 2003 until today haven’t been scrutinized by
the SEC, according to the audit report.  SIPC’s board “constantly monitors the SIPC fund to assure
that the corporation has sufficient assets to fulfill all of
SIPC’s statutory missions,” Stephen Harbeck, SIPC’s president,
said in an e-mail. Adding to resources, “SIPC’s members are
currently paying assessments of one quarter of one percent of
their net operating revenues to SIPC,” he said.  Neither Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, nor Jake
Sargent, a Giddens spokesman, responded immediately to e-mails
requesting comment.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said the SEC’s views are
contained in its Inspector General’s report. The SEC has no
plans to arrange a SIPC inspection until the Lehman and Madoff
cases are finished, it said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York 
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 