-- 
Time Warner Cable Drops Networks Including Fox From IPad App Amid Dispute

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T21:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/time-warner-cable-drops-networks-including-fox-from-ipad-app-amid-dispute.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is dropping
channels from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Networks,  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  and
 Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  from its iPad application after
the cable networks complained that such use isn’t authorized.  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable-TV
carrier, will focus on other channels for now and “pursue all
of our legal rights against the programmers who don’t share our
vision,” according to a statement from the company today.  Fox sent a cease-and-desist letter to Time Warner Cable
yesterday, demanding the New York-based company stop streaming
its programming on Apple Inc.’s iPad. Networks have criticized
Time Warner Cable for using their programming in a format not
specifically authorized in contracts, some of which were signed
before the invention of tablet computers.  “We know our customers are going to continue to enjoy the
application with the programming that is available, and we’re
going to work really hard to make sure that eventually that
includes everything,” Alex Dudley, a spokesman for Time Warner
Cable, said in a telephone interview.  Time Warner Cable, the first cable provider to release an
iPad app that streams live TV, has argued that there should be
no contractual difference between an iPad and a television,
because its app can only be used inside the home. Fox News is
the only Fox station that will remain on the app, Dudley said.  ‘Lack of Communication’  A total of 12 networks will be pulled from the application.
Viacom’s BET, CMT,  Comedy Central , MTV, Nickelodeon, Spike TV
and VH1 will be removed, as well as Fox’s FX and National
Geographic and Discovery’s Animal Planet, TLC and  Discovery
Channel .  “This is disappointing for Time Warner Cable because
several key, long-term programming partners have voiced a
fundamental disagreement over the use of apps to distribute
programming,” said Paul Sweeney, senior media analyst at
Bloomberg Industries. “The app very well may be an option going
forward. I think what happened here was a lack of
communication.”  More than 300,000 people have downloaded the app since its
March 15 debut, according to a dedicated  website  Time Warner
Cable started this week.  Time Warner Cable will provide replacement channels
“perhaps as early as tomorrow,” according to an updated
statement on the website. No update to the app will be needed to
view the new stations. There are currently 20 stations remaining
on the application, including AMC, Bravo,  CNN  and USA.  Fox Networks declined to comment, said  Scott Grogin , a
spokesman in  Los Angeles . Discovery declined to comment,
Michelle Russo, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. A spokeswoman
for Viacom didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  Time Warner Cable fell 9 cents to $71.34 on the New York
Stock Exchange and has increased 8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  