-- 
IMF Draft Guidelines Endorse Capital Controls as Last Resort for Inflows

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-03-31T11:59:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/imf-draft-guidelines-endorse-capital-controls-as-last-resort-for-inflows.html
Nations should be able to use
capital controls as a last resort to manage inflows of money
that threaten their financial stability, according to draft
guidelines discussed last week by the board of the  International
Monetary Fund .  Such controls should be applied only after countries
strengthen their banking systems and adopt economic measures
such as building up reserves, tightening fiscal policies and
lowering central bank interest rates, according to the draft
guidelines, obtained by Bloomberg News.  “In the past, capital controls were not in our toolkit,”
IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said separately in
a statement posted on the fund’s website. “Today, we see them
more as part of the toolkit, although only in specific
circumstances and not, of course, as a substitute for good
macroeconomic policies.”  Countries from Brazil to South Africa are striving to
manage inflows of overseas capital that put upward pressure on
their currencies, making exports less competitive, and threaten
to create asset bubbles. Dealing with such capital flows will be
discussed by Group of 20 finance ministers meeting today in
Nanjing,  China .  ‘Stability Risks’  “While inflows are typically beneficial for receiving
countries, inflow surges can carry macroeconomic and financial
stability risks,” IMF staff wrote in the report. “Choosing
appropriate responses can be challenging given the uncertainties
associated with the causes and effects of the inflows and with
possible policy reactions.”  IMF spokesman William Murray declined to comment on the
contents of the report. “We will be publishing the complete set
of documents related to the March 21 executive board discussion
on these important issues,” he said.  The Washington-based fund, founded in the aftermath of
World War II to help ensure the stability of the global monetary
system, is considering guidelines on  capital controls  for the
first time.  “The paper tries to strike a careful balance between being
sensitive to the policy needs of emerging markets and pointing
out the very difficult cost-benefit tradeoff of imposing capital
controls,” said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution in  Washington  and head of the fund’s Financial
Studies Division from 2005 to 2006.  ‘Lukewarm Endorsement’  “The lukewarm endorsement of a surgical approach to
capital controls, while warning of the many risks, is the
compromise position that may leave countries on both sides of
the capital-controls debate unhappy, but is probably the best
the IMF can do to balance the disparate views of its major
shareholders,” said Prasad, who has seen drafts of the report.  The fund has traditionally insisted on maintaining
unrestricted flows of money across borders as it led bailouts
during crises in Latin America and  Asia  in the 1990s.  “This is a new approach,” said Bessma Momani, a professor
in the department of political science at the University of
Waterloo in  Canada . In the 1990s through the middle of last
decade, “you could not say the words ‘capital controls’ ” at
the IMF because “it was considered very taboo.”  She said the shift has been “in response to pressure from
rising powers within the fund,” such as  Brazil  and  India , which
have gained voting clout as their share of the world economy has
grown.  The report reviews how nations cope with inflows of capital
drawn by relatively higher interest rates and the faster pace of
economic growth in emerging markets. It focuses on seven of
them, including Brazil,  South Korea  and  Turkey , and warns that
some nations may be tempted to use capital controls “to avoid
appreciation of undervalued currencies.”  ‘Growth Prospects’  “Improved fundamentals and growth prospects” in emerging
economies and “loose monetary policies in” richer counterparts
“are among the main pull and push factors behind the recent
acceleration of capital flows from advanced to emerging
economies,” according to the report.  The IMF started to shift its opposition to capital controls
with a research paper in February 2010, which said they could be
a “legitimate” tool in some cases.  The guidelines suggest that measures should only be used if
a currency isn’t undervalued, reserves are above precautionary
levels, and the economy is overheating, making lower  interest
rates  impossible.  The report also says “prudential” steps that strengthen
the ability of economies to absorb overseas capital, such as
measures to develop local bond markets, can be used at “any
time.” Such steps also include  reserve requirements  for local-
currency deposits adopted by Turkey and Brazil.  Capital-management measures that do not discriminate based
on residency can come as a “second line of defense,” according
to the report, which cites South Korea’s levy on banks’ non-
deposit foreign liabilities as an example.  Measures “that discriminate based on residency could be
considered when other options have already been deployed or are
infeasible,” staff wrote. That would include Brazil’s tax on
equity and bond flows, according to the report.  Taxes Increased  Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff on March 29 increased
taxes on corporate loans and debt sales abroad by banks in a bid
to stem gains in the real.  Brazil imposed a tax of 6 percent on international bond
sales and loans with an average minimum maturity of up to 360
days, according to a decree published today in the Official
Gazette. Companies had paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90
days and zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.  Brazil received net inflows of $10.5 billion in foreign
currency flows from trade and financial investments this month
through March 25, compared with $7.4 billion for all of
February, according to the central bank.  Net private capital flows to  developing countries  expanded
44 percent in 2010 to about $753 billion, according to the  World
Bank . The nine countries that attracted the bulk of capital
flows were Brazil, China, India,  Indonesia ,  Malaysia ,  Mexico ,
 South Africa ,  Thailand  and Turkey, the bank said in January.  Brazil’s real has jumped 42 percent against the dollar
since the beginning of 2009. The Indonesian rupiah has gained 25
percent, while the South Korean won is up 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  