-- 
Immelt Says GE’s 2011 Tax Rate to Be ‘Much Higher’ as Losses End

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-31T03:10:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/immelt-says-ge-tax-rate-declined-on-losses-and-calls-for-reform.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s tax rate
will rise this year and beyond after $32 billion of losses
absorbed by the company’s financial-services business pushed
down rates in 2008 and 2009, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said.  “We got socked with losses during that time,” Immelt said
yesterday in a speech at  Rice University  in Houston. “Our tax
rate is going to be much higher in 2011 and the future.”  The New York Times reported March 24 that GE had a tax bill
of zero in 2010, an assertion that the Fairfield, Connecticut-
based company said on its website is misleading, in part because
of its characterization of tax rebates, benefits and so-called
tax loss-carryforwards. The complexity of the U.S. tax system
needs to change, Immelt said.  “Rarely does business speak with one voice, but they do on
taxes,” Immelt said. “Our system is old, it’s outdated, it’s
complicated -- and all of us are for closing the loopholes.
Absolutely, a lower corporate  tax rate , and a territorial
system, just like our global competitors have.”  The public debate on U.S. corporate tax policy following
the Times story has ranged from satiric bits on TV’s “The Daily
Show With  Jon Stewart ” to extensive responses on GE’s website,
 GE Reports .  The company is the world’s largest maker of  jet engines ,
turbines for  power plants , medical-imaging equipment and
locomotives. Its  GE Capital  division includes credit cards,
lending to midsize companies and airplane leasing.  Nuclear Power’s Future  Immelt also said he didn’t yet know whether the nuclear
power industry’s growth will slow further after what he called
“the devastation in Japan,” saying “we should study the
industry to make it safer.”  GE spent $4.18 million last year on outside tax lobbyists,
more than any other company.  The lobbying, along with tax-planning strategies, help GE
keep its effective tax rate low. According to company filings,
GE’s consolidated tax rate from 2005 through 2009 was 11.6
percent, compared with the 35 percent top statutory tax rate for
U.S.-based corporations and the 30.5 percent average for
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  U.S. tax policy has created “a bad system,” Immelt said.
“We will advocate our case in that system. We are an investor-
owned company in that regard, we do it legally and we do it
completely transparently within the law.”  GE posted net income of $11.64 billion in 2010, $11.03
billion in 2009 and $17.4 billion in 2008.  $2.67 Billion in Cash  Taxes paid, referred to by accountants as “cash taxes,”
is the amount actually paid in a given period or tax year, shown
in a company’s cash flow statement filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The company paid $2.67
billion in cash for taxes around the world in 2010, including a
“substantial” amount to the U.S. government, according to its
 SEC filing  and GE Reports.  The so-called effective tax rate reflects taxes that were
incurred in a certain period, such as a fiscal or calendar year,
though not necessarily paid in that period. GE’s effective tax
rate in 2010 was 7.4 percent, in part because of losses at GE
Capital stemming from the financial crisis.  GE Capital’s losses pushed the parent company’s tax rate
below what it called historic levels in the “teens to more than
20 percent” before the financial crisis took hold, GE said this
week.  When GE files its U.S. tax return for 2010 by September,
the company expects there to be a tax liability. That may be
offset by credits and benefits.  Presidential Advisers  Immelt, named in January to lead President  Barack Obama ’s
outside group of advisers on job creation and competitiveness,
has lobbied for more manufacturing in the U.S. The council will
focus on strengthening small businesses first, Immelt said.  Other priorities will include leadership in technology,
research and development, bolstering U.S. exports and developing
a plan to produce thousands more engineers each year. The group
will concentrate its efforts in 90-day increments, he said.  Asked about the future of nuclear power following the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , Immelt said the industry had
been moving slowly.  “I actually think people have been fairly non-hysterical
about the crisis,” Immelt said. “People should learn about the
crisis as it goes on, it will be studied by the NRC and all the
other regulators. We should study the industry to make it
safer.”  Before the crisis in Japan, the pace of construction of new
nuclear power plants was slow, in part because of the $6 billion
to $8 billion cost to build a facility and low natural-gas
prices.  Part of the Mix  The only “real nuclear build in essence was in  China ,”
Immelt said. “The question is what happens next. We should be
thoughtful, but at the same time I think we should be wanting to
keep nuclear as part of the mix as part of the long term.”  GE’s revenue from its nuclear venture with Hitachi Ltd.
provided about $1 billion of its $150 billion in total sales.  GE is continuing to put the “full force” of its employees
and engineering teams into supporting Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
which runs the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, said GE Vice
Chairman John Krenicki. The facility’s reactors are based on a
four-decade-old design from GE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  