-- 
Indian Cricket World Cup Frenzy Pushes Tickets for Mumbai Final to $10,000

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-01T09:30:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/indian-cricket-world-cup-frenzy-pushes-tickets-for-mumbai-final-to-10-000.html
India ’s Cricket World Cup final
against Sri Lanka tomorrow in Mumbai has created a thriving
black market with tickets selling for as much as $10,000 each.  One fan, Aditya Ayer, said he’s sold 10 seats through a
website for 65,000 rupees ($1,460) each, including one to a
supporter from  Canada . The day before, tickets were being sold
for 45,000 rupees, a price that climbed to 100,000 rupees, he
said. The face value of the tickets in the  Sachin Tendulkar 
Stand is 15,000 rupees.  “I’ve taken about 150 calls in just a few hours,” 34-
year-old Ayer said in an interview. “Every hour, the prices are
going crazy. The whole world is going bonkers.”  Cricket is India’s most popular sport, and thousands rushed
into the streets to celebrate the national team’s March 30
semifinal win over archrival  Pakistan  with impromptu firework
displays and motorbike processions. Tomorrow’s match at Mumbai’s
Wankhede Stadium is the 32-year-old event’s first all-Asian
final and both teams are going for a second title. India is the
8-13 favorite to win, according to U.K. bookmakers William Hill
Plc and Ladbrokes Plc.  Cheapest Seat  The cheapest seat for the match at the 33,442-seat stadium
was listed at 1,100 rupees, in a country where the average
monthly income is about 3,000 rupees. The country also has the
world’s fourth-highest number of dollar billionaires, according
to Forbes magazine. India’s richest man Mukesh Ambani bought
three of the stadium’s 57 air-conditioned boxes, which seat 15,
at a cost of about $22,000 per seat, local media reported.  Organizers defended the decision to play the game in a
stadium with the second-lowest capacity of the eight Indian
grounds used for the 14-team competition, which is co-hosted
with Sri Lanka and  Bangladesh . The  International Cricket
Council ’s chief executive officer said it would provide a
“fairytale” backdrop to record-setting batsman Tendulkar’s
attempt to score his 100th career century for India.  “Can you imagine a more fairytale ending with Sachin
Tendulkar getting a hundred in the final and India winning at
the Wankhede, which is his home ground?,” Haroon Lorgat told
reporters. “And no matter what the number, we do not have
sufficient tickets.”  Life Savings  Ayer, who works for a  marketing company , said the tickets
he sold were extras purchased by relatives who will keep the
proceeds. He said he’s spending most of his life savings, about
$10,000, to get a seat close to the pavilion where the two teams
will sit.  “I have to pay that, there’s no option for me,” he said.
“It’s going to be Sachin’s last-ever World Cup match and for
someone who’s watched him for 20 years it’s a historic moment.”  About 20,000 tickets have been distributed to clubs linked
to the Mumbai Cricket Association. Many of these are being sold
on the secondary market, Ayer said. Vinod Deshpande, secretary
of the MCA, didn’t respond to calls seeking comment. ICC
spokesman Colin Gibson said ticketing was a matter for the local
organizers.  Only 4,000 tickets were made available in a general sale.
Indian Captain M.S. Dhoni said he sympathized with the thousands
of fans locked out of the stadium.  “The Indian team reaching the final, you can’t get bigger
than this,” he said at his pre-match press conference.
“Everyone wants to be watching this game but of course every
stadium has a limit to the number of people who can fit in.”  Other matches in the tournament’s knockout phase also
failed to satisfy demand.  Mark-Up  At  Sri Lanka ’s sold-out quarterfinal victory over  England 
in  Colombo  last week, 50 S.L.-rupee (45 U.S. cents) seats were
being offered for 2,000 rupees outside the ground.  That mark-up was nothing compared with the prices paid for
India’s meeting with Pakistan, played at the Punjab Cricket
Association Stadium in Mohali, the smallest tournament venue in
India. The match brought both countries to a standstill and was
front-page news in local media from the day the teams were drawn
together.  One ticket-seller, who declined to give her name, said she
sold four tickets for 50,000 rupees each, 10 times the face
value. She declined to be identified because her sale breached
rules on re-selling tickets. An Internet advertisement offered
four 1,000 Indian-rupee tickets for “minimum 25,000 per
ticket.”  Security has been increased for the final, with a fortified
ring of armed police surrounding the stadium. The facility is
about a mile from where Pakistani militants killed 166 people in
a 2008 attack.  No-Fly Zone  Troops behind sandbags have blocked the entrance to the
road leading to the two teams’ hotel -- one of the sites
targeted in the attacks -- and the country’s Rapid Action Force
has patrolled outside the ground in armored vehicles. Air space
over the stadium has been declared a no-fly zone.  “All the tickets have been sold,” said R.R. Patil, the
home minister for Maharashtra state, where Mumbai is located.
“I appeal to people not to crowd outside the stadium
unnecessarily, and to cooperate with the police.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  