-- 
Pratt & Whitney Wins 300 Engine Order for IndiGo Jets

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-31T18:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/indigo-selects-pratt-engine-for-biggest-order-in-history-1-.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt &
Whitney unit said its geared turbofan engine was selected by
 India ’s IndiGo Airlines for 150 Airbus SAS A320neo models, which
was the largest order from a carrier.  The discount airline’s order for the twin-engine plane
represents at least 300 PurePower engines and brings Pratt &
Whitney’s total orders for the product to more than 1,200,
including firm and options, East Hartford, Connecticut-based
Pratt & Whitney said in a statement. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed. Pratt & Whitney has yet to release a list price for
the PurePower engine models.  The new engine has an estimated performance improvement of
16 percent, and the company estimates it can achieve another 10
percent boost by 2025, Pratt & Whitney President David Hess said
earlier this month. The geared turbofan competes on the A320neo
with the Leap-X from  CFM International , a venture of  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and Safran SA of  France .  “The engine is such a great value proposition, if you look
at all the fuel burn benefits and everything else that it
offers, there’s enough value there for the operator, the airline
to be happy, and for us to be happy,” Hess said in an interview
today.  Hess reiterated the company’s earlier guidance that
development costs to prepare for production may curb 2011 profit
at the unit by $50 million. Pratt & Whitney is also likely to
benefit from military production increases because its engines
are on Boeing Co.’s winning bid for aerial refueling tankers.  Three-Decade Record  Planned production increases are the biggest in three
decades in the Connecticut plants, for large engines, Hess said.
 Pratt & Whitney  will build and test Lockheed Martin Corp’s F35
Joint Strike Fighter and tanker engines in its Middletown plants
and the company is still working out its Geared Turbofan
production plans, he said.  “Last time we did 1,000 engines it was 1983,” Hess said.
“We may be up to that level again by as early as 2016. So we’re
looking at a very steep ramp-up ahead of us in the mid-part of
the decade for both military and commercial.”  Its F135 engine is the primary powerplant for Lockheed
Martin’s joint strike fighter. Pratt & Whitney is siding with
the Pentagon in opposing GE’s alternate engine program.  The U.S. Defense Department last week told GE and Rolls-
Royce Group Plc, its venture partner on the alternate engine, to
halt work until there is more explicit direction from Congress.
The order doesn’t terminate the engine program   Ashton Carter ,
defense undersecretary for acquisition, said in an interview
last week.  ‘A Little Behind’  None of the military funding legislation pending in
Congress for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30 includes money
for the alternate engine. The House voted last month to strip
$450 million for the second engine from the fiscal 2011 Pentagon
spending bill, which Congress hasn’t yet passed.  The program has delivered 18 engines and is “a little
behind where we’d like to be, but nothing that’s going to impact
airplane deliveries or impact the program this year," Hess said.  ‘‘Certainly we’re delighted with the vote in the House and
where things seem to be going in Congress right now with respect
to funding the extra engine,” he said. “But I don’t think
they’re going to just take their toys and go home. The best way
for us to ensure that we beat them is to be sure we execute
flawlessly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in New York at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 