-- 
India’s Rupee Completes This Year’s Best Month on Fund Inflows

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-03-31T12:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/india-s-rupee-heads-for-second-monthly-advance-on-fund-inflows.html
India ’s rupee completed this year’s
best month as overseas investors boosted holdings of the
nation’s stocks to take advantage of the economic growth outlook.  The currency rose for a second month as funds based abroad
bought $1.3 billion more local shares than they sold, according
to exchange data. India’s $1.3 trillion economy will expand as
much as 9.25 percent in the financial year starting April 1, the
most since 2008, the government forecast last month.  “The rupee’s positive bias is supported by stock inflows,
which should continue as economic prospects stay healthy,” said
 Roy Paul , deputy general manager at Federal Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.
“Favorable capital flows are helping offset risks raised by the
increase in  oil prices .”  The Indian currency climbed 1.5 percent this month and 0.4
percent today to 44.5875 per dollar at the 5 p.m. close in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee rose
for a third day and has appreciated 0.3 percent this year.  The rupee rose on speculation demand for foreign currencies
will decline as India’s current-account deficit narrows.  The central bank reported today the shortfall in the
current account, a measure of trade and investment flows, fell
42 percent to $9.7 billion last quarter from the previous three
months. Exports rose an average 31 percent in the 12 months
through January from a year earlier, compared with a decline of
12 percent in the previous period, government data show.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.27 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.53
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  