-- 
Ingenico Is Said to Hold Talks to Buy Hypercom’s U.S. Assets

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-01T21:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ingenico-is-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-hypercom-s-u-s-assets.html
Ingenico (ING) , a French maker of payment
terminals, is in discussions to buy the U.S. assets of  Hypercom
Corp. (HYC) , giving it a bigger foothold in North America, three
people with knowledge of the negotiations said.  The people, who asked not to be identified because the deal
isn’t public, declined to discuss how much Ingenico might pay.
ViVOtech Inc., a rival maker of payment technology, said
yesterday that it’s also interested in the assets.  Ingenico would use the Hypercom operations to expand in the
U.S., where companies like  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are about to start
testing mobile-payment services. Such technology would let
shoppers pay for things at checkout using phones rather than
cash or physical credit cards. In 2014, mobile-payment systems
will handle $245 billion in global transactions, up from $32
billion in 2010, according to research firm  Gartner Inc.   The U.S. assets are for sale because they overlap with
those of  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) , which announced plans to acquire
Hypercom for $485 million in November. VeriFone aims to shore up
its operations in France, Spain, Italy, Germany and other
European markets where Hypercom is more established. The
companies expect that deal to close in the second half of 2011.  Pete Schuddekopf, a spokesman for Hypercom, declined to
comment, as did Leah Roscoe, vice president of global marketing
for VeriFone, and Ingenico spokesman Remi Calvet.  Hypercom fell 6 cents to $11.97 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, while San Jose, California-based
VeriFone dropped 40 cents to $54.55. In Paris trading, Ingenico
climbed 3 cents to 31.63 euros.  Earlier Attempt  Ingenico -- located in Neuilly-sur-Seine, outside Paris --
attempted to buy Hypercom in 2008, only to see the deal fall
through. Hypercom, based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , had sales of
$126 million in the Americas region last year, 27 percent of its
total revenue.  ViVOtech, a startup based in  Santa Clara , California, said
yesterday in a statement that it has approached VeriFone about
buying the assets. ViVOtech specializes in a technology called
near-field communications, which lets people make payments by
tapping a phone against a cash-register system.  “We think they have good technology, good people,”
ViVOtech Chief Executive Officer Mick Mullagh said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 