-- 
Tingyi Delays Plan to Increase Prices for Container Noodles

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T11:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/tingyi-delays-plan-to-increase-prices-for-container-noodles-1-.html
Tingyi (Caymen Islands) Holding
Corp.,  China ’s biggest maker of packaged food, said it will
delay raising prices for some of its instant noodles as a
newspaper reported it discussed the plan with the government.  The company said today it will delay increasing instant-
noodle prices starting April 1 as previously announced due to
stabilizing raw material costs and because the decision is “in
alignment with the policy of the State for maintaining the
stability of commodity prices.” The 21st Century Business
Herald reported today that Tingyi held off on raising prices
after discussing the issue with China’s top economic planner.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  targeted inflation, which has exceeded
government targets for eight consecutive months, as China’s top
economic priority this year amid concerns that rising food and
home prices may cause social unrest. State broadcaster China
National Radio reported March 29 that the National Development
and Reform Commission would investigate plans by Tingyi and
Unilever NV to raise prices.  Tingyi’s shares fell 3.4 percent in  Hong Kong  trading to
HK$19.02, the biggest decline since November. The city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.3 percent.  The company will “closely monitor” raw material prices
and changes in the market environment and will re-assess raising
prices for its cup noodles at “an appropriate” time, Tingyi
said today in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange today.
Plans to raise the retail prices for Tingyi’s cup noodles by
about 14 percent were announced March 21.  Frank Lin, chief financial officer for Tingyi, declined
further comment when reached by telephone today. Calls to
Unilever’s office in  Shanghai  seeking comment weren’t
immediately answered.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net 
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  