-- 
IRS Commissioner Says Shutdown Scenarios Under Discussion

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-03-31T15:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/irs-commissioner-criticizes-tax-code-complexity-proposed-cuts.html
Internal Revenue Service
Commissioner Douglas Shulman said the Obama administration has
not decided whether the IRS would process tax returns and issue
refunds if Congress cannot agree to a plan to avert a halt of
government spending authority on April 8.  Under previous plans developed for potential government
shutdowns near the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year, the IRS
would deposit checks though it would not process tax returns or
issue refunds.  “We’ve never had a government shutdown in the middle of
the filing season before,” Shulman said in testimony before a
House Ways and Means subcommittee today in Washington. “The
closer we get to April 15, the more consideration and factors
are at play.”  Shulman did not provide further details about discussions
he is having with the Office of Management and Budget as to how
the IRS would operate during a government shutdown. Individual
tax returns this year are due April 18, rather than April 15,
because of a weekend and Emancipation Day in the  District of
Columbia .  Congressional lawmakers are negotiating over spending plans
that would cover the remainder of the fiscal year in an attempt
to allow federal agencies to continue operating.  Tax Complexity  Also in his testimony today, Shulman said that the
complexity of the U.S. tax code hurts the public and makes the
tax system tougher to administer.  “The tax code is incredibly complex, and unfortunately
it’s been going in the wrong direction over the last decade,”
he said. “Anything you can do to simplify the code would help
our agency.”  Representative Charles Boustany, who heads the Ways and
Means oversight panel, told Shulman that he wanted to work with
the IRS in overhauling the  tax code  to make the system simpler.  “As we go through that process, clearly with a mind on how
to simplify things for the taxpayer, we also need to keep in
mind the burden it places on your agency as well,” said
Boustany, a Louisiana Republican.  The IRS has processed 73.3 million individual income tax
returns through mid-March, up 3.4 percent from last year,
according to a Government Accountability Office report released
today. The percentage of returns that are electronically filed
is 89 percent, up from 85.7 percent last year.  Electronic Filing  Electronic filing is important, Shulman told the panel,
because it costs the IRS just 17 cents to process an electronic
return compared with $3.66 to process a paper return.  Shulman reiterated his opposition to House Republicans’
spending proposals for the remainder of fiscal 2011.  He said a proposed cut of about $600 million to the IRS
budget would have “potentially devastating effects to the
nation’s tax system” and cost the government $4 billion in
forgone revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  