-- 
Italian Group Wins Raw-Wool Patent to Clean Oil Spilled at Sea

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-31T17:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/italian-group-wins-raw-wool-patent-for-system-to-clean-oil-spilled-at-sea.html
An Italian group was granted a
patent for developing technology that collects oil spilled in
the sea based on the water repellent qualities of raw wool.  The patent was developed by Luciano Donatelli, Mauro
Rossetti and Mario Ploner utilizing the water-repelling
properties of coarse wool, which can absorb 10 times its weight
in oil, through  Gruppo Creativi Associati , according to a
presentation today in Milan.  “We are able, in a fairly simple way, to recuperate a good
950 tons of oil, equal to 6,350 barrels, with 10 tons of greasy
wool because the same wool can be used at least 10 times over,”
Rossetti said. “The oil can then be processed straight away in
any refinery.”  The entrepreneurs began working on the project after 4.1
million barrels of crude spilled into the  Gulf of Mexico  last
year when  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Deepwater Horizon rig exploded while drilling
a well, causing the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. BP
has reserved more than $40 billion to cover expenses for the
cleanup, restoration and government fines related to the spill.  Rossetti heads the  textile association of Biella , a city at
the foothill of the Alps in northwestern  Italy  and a center for
wool and textile processing dating back to the 13th century. The
province is also where the men’s luxury clothing group
 Ermenegildo Zegna  was founded in 1910.  Rossetti, Donatelli and Ploner say raw wool, wool shorn
from a sheep and not processed, is often considered a waste by
sheep farmers and poses disposal problems.  Oil Cleanups  Wool absorbent pads have been used in the cleanup of oil
around the globe. Following the Gulf spill,  Monterey Mills , the
largest manufacturer of knit pile fabric in the U.S.  submitted a
proposal  for clean-ups with wool to the federal government.  The Italian businessmen say their development, rather than
just offering wool pads, creates a patented system that follows
the whole process of cleanup from placing the wool to collecting
it, squeezing, reusing and then storing oil and dirty wool that
alone can weigh as much as 28,000 kilos after use.  Spills ranging from 300,000 to 1 million tons of oil could
be cleaned with 10,000 tons of raw wool, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net 
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 