-- 
Ivory Coast’s Bonds Rise to Year High as Rebels Move on Abidjan

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-31T14:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ivory-coast-s-eurobonds-have-best-week-since-issue-as-rebels-capture-port.html
Ivory Coast ’s $2.3 billion of
defaulted Eurobonds are surging the most since they were sold a
year ago as rebel fighters moved on Abidjan, the commercial
capital, as the head of incumbent leader’s army sought refuge.  The bonds due in 2032 bonds advanced 7.8 percent to 46.031
cents on the dollar at 3:28 p.m. in  London , the highest since
December. The yield fell 6 basis points to 7.445 percent. The
notes have rallied 19 percent this week, the best 5-day gain
since they were issued in April 2010.  Forces loyal to  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally
recognized winner of disputed Nov. 28 presidential elections,
seized at least eight towns in the past week, including the
second-biggest port in the world’s largest cocoa producer, and
Yamoussoukro, the political capital. Incumbent ruler  Laurent Gbagbo ’s troops have offered little resistance, falling back to
Abidjan where gunfire and explosions were heard today.  “Gbagbo’s days are numbered and we shall know either way
in a few days or weeks once the situation is resolved,”  Stuart Culverhouse , the London-based chief economist at Exotix Ltd.,
said in a phone interview today. “The speed of the military
advance has probably taken a lot of people by surprise over the
last few days” and investors will “look favorably” on a
government led by Ouattara to make the missed coupon payments.  The West African nation’s Eurobonds have lost 27 percent of
their value since they were issued in April last year as the
country reneged on a $29 million interest payment due by the end
of January after the nation’s disputed elections.  Seeking Refuge  Gbagbo’s army chief, General Phillipe Mangou, sought refuge
with  South Africa  late yesterday, along with his wife and five
children, South Africa’s Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement. The loyalty of the armed forces had enabled Gbagbo to
defy international opinion and hold onto power for the past four
months.  Ivory Coast has been split between a government-controlled
south and a rebel-held north since 2002. The election was meant
to end that division. Instead, the rebels are moving south.  The  United Nations  has imposed sanctions on incumbent
leader Laurent Gbagbo and urged him to give up power. The UN
Security Council voted 15-0 yesterday to freeze the foreign
assets and bar travel by Gbagbo, his wife, Simone, and top aides
Desire Tagro, Alcide Djedje and Pascal Affi N’Guessan.  “Further upside potential, to the 55 cents level, is on
the agenda in the coming days and would reflect the collapse of
the Gbagbo regime,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging-market
strategist at Standard Bank Plc, wrote in a note to clients
today. “A more medium-term rally would also depend on the next
administration becoming current on servicing the Eurobond.”  An end to the political deadlock may mean that the bonds
rise as high as 60 cents, Thomas Delabre, who helps manage 600
million euros ($846 million) in emerging markets including Ivory
Coast debt at Amundi in London, said by phone yesterday.  “With these prices you’re going to have significant upside
with any good news,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  