-- 
J&J Loses Bid to Overturn $482 Million Patent Verdict

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D e n n i s   R o b e r t s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T22:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/j-j-loses-bid-to-overturn-482-million-patent-verdict.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
largest maker of health-care products, lost a bid to overturn a
$482 million jury verdict for infringing a  New Jersey  doctor’s
patent on devices to prop open heart arteries.  Interest of $111.4 million was also added in today’s ruling
by U.S. District Judge T. John Ward in Marshall, Texas, bringing
the total that J&J must pay Bruce Saffran to $593.4 million.
Sandy Pound, a spokeswoman for J&J’s Cordis unit, said the
company will appeal.  Saffran, a Princeton, New Jersey, radiologist, claimed his
invention for treating damaged heart tissue is used in stents,
mesh tubes inserted into arteries following angioplasty. J&J,
based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, had challenged the January
verdict, arguing that the patent was invalid and not infringed,
and that there wasn’t sufficient evidence to support the damage
award.  In a decision posted on the court’s website, Ward rejected
those arguments. He did agree that there was no intentional
infringement of the patent.  There haven’t been settlement talks with J&J, said
Saffran’s lawyer, Paul Taskier of Dickstein Shapiro in
 Washington .  “We’re always willing to entertain an offer, but so far we
haven’t heard a word,” Taskier said in a telephone interview.
“We’re happy to proceed through the appeals process or to
entertain an offer to settle.”  The $482 million award is the sixth-biggest patent verdict
in U.S. history, just ahead of Saffran’s 2008 win against  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)  over the same invention, according to Bloomberg
data. Saffran in that case won $431.9 million, which increased
to $501 million with interest. The case was later settled for
about $50 million while it was on appeal.  The case is Saffran v. Johnson & Johnson, 07cv451, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of  Texas  (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Dennis Robertson in Marshall, Texast .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  