-- 
James Blake Channels Feist, Joni; Kurt Vile Lets His Hair Down

-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/james-blake-channels-feist-joni-kurt-vile-lets-his-hair-down.html
All of 22, Britain’s  James Blake 
masterminded three sonically diverse EPs just in the past year
and recently released a self-titled  debut album . The crowd at
 Music Hall of Williamsburg  on March 14 was well beyond eager.  “Hello, I feel really welcome ... First time here, first
stop,” Blake said from his outpost at the keyboards while his
two mates took their spots behind samplers and guitar, drum
machines and percussion.  The scattered track “Unlock” opened, with a gentle,
soulful vocal and keys building up. The crowd showed signs of
impending rapture.  “The Wilhelm Scream” demonstrated that peculiar Blake
brew of powerful minimalism: a drum tapped, an occasional
sample, aching vocals.  The trio showed real craft in transforming electronic
elements from a studio album to a live show. For
“Klavierwerke,” Blake showcased his dub-step influences.
Cymbals and snapping echoed vocals came with enough bass to
rattle the walls.  For “I Never Learnt to Share,” Blake remained seated
behind keys, hair slopping across baby face, while he sung over
his own looped vocals. The double track “Lindisfarne I” and
“Lindisfarne II” followed. It was a slow burner that layered
his voice over sliding guitar and a tepid beat. It
was reminiscent of a tweaked Bon Iver song, yet very much his
own.  The evening’s highlight belonged to Blake’s rendition of
Feist’s “Limit to Your Love.” The flawless recreation
reflected his appreciation of R&B combined with electronic
elements.  The encore saw Blake alone at the piano for  Joni Mitchell ’s
“A Case of You,” showcasing his classical training and his
clear talent for shining. He’ll return in May for gigs at the
 Bowery Ballroom  and  Le Poisson Rouge .  Vile, Violators  Opening on March 24 for Dinosaur Jr.’s frontman, J. Mascis,
Philadelphia’s Kurt Vile & the Violators faced a jammed  Mercury
Lounge . The quartet’s 45-minute set pumped out lo-fi
throwback psychedelic indie music that was nostalgic and modern
all at once.  From the initial dark jam, the players eventually made
their way into “Hunchback,” a gritty tune that had Vile bent
over his guitar behind a curtain of long flowing hair. He
delivered the vocals with a nonchalant conviction before closing
it out with feedback and fuzz.  “Jesus Fever,” off the band’s latest and very well-
balanced album, “Smoke Ring for My Halo,” came with a twang, a
trading of swift guitar solos and a jauntier pace.  Young Tom Petty  For “Ghost Town,” Vile shifted to acoustic guitar and
shone like a young Tom Petty. A true slow burner, the spacey
number built to a screeching culmination before ending with Vile
playing the opening chords.  The set wrapped up with a Dylanesque “Heart Attack,” for
which Vile slurred his delivery over finger-picked guitar. The
band will be back on June 11 at the  Bowery Ballroom .  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in April. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 