-- 
Japanese Stocks Traded in U.S. Fall as Oil Surges; Australian Shares Gain

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-31T23:42:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/japanese-stocks-traded-in-u-s-fall-as-oil-surges-australian-shares-gain.html
Japanese stocks traded in the U.S.
fell after  oil prices  surged, raising concern that higher energy
costs will hamper the nation’s economic recovery. Australian
stocks rose.  American depositary receipts of Canon Inc., the world’s
biggest camera maker, dropped 1.9 percent in  New York , and those
of Panasonic Corp., an electronics maker, retreated 1.1 percent.
Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s No. 2 oil and gas producer,
climbed 1.5 percent in Sydney today. The Japanese government
will acquire a stake in Tokyo Electric Power Co. to influence
management and ensure a steady electricity supply, the Mainichi
newspaper reported, citing an unidentified government official.  “There are more listed companies in Japan that feel the
negative effects of higher oil prices since they cannot pass on
costs, than companies that benefit,” said  Takero Inaizumi , head
of equity research in Tokyo at Mizuho Investors Securities Co.
Speculation that Tokyo Electric may be partly nationalized
“could adversely affect shares of banks and financial stocks.”  The Bank of New York Mellon Japan ADR Index fell 1 percent
yesterday. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.4 percent
today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little changed in
Wellington.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index fell 0.2 percent yesterday as a Federal
Reserve official said  interest rates  may need to rise and
concern about Europe’s debt crisis grew.  Crude Oil Rises  Crude oil for May delivery rose 2.4 percent to $106.72 a
barrel, the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008, on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , amid concern that the Libyan conflict
will prolong production cuts.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  declined 12 percent in the Japanese fiscal
year that finished yesterday, and dropped 4.6 percent last
quarter. Among the 33 industry groups in the Topix,  utility
companies  including Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of
the nuclear plant crippled by the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, tumbled the most last year, followed by brokerages,
while oil refiners climbed the most.  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd., the maker of Subaru cars, may
be active today after the company said it will suspend output of
passenger cars in Japan through April 5.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 5.4 percent by the  S&P
500  and almost no change by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Shares
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.7 times for the S&P 500
and 11.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 