-- 
Tokyo Electric Reviewing Water Tests Showing Iodine at 10,000 Times Limit

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   F u k a s h i   M a r u t a
-- 
2011-03-31T20:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/japan-reviewing-water-tests-showing-iodine-at-10-000-times-limit.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co. said test
results may be incorrect that detected radioactive iodine about
10,000 times the safety limit in underground water at its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Tokyo Electric found the radioactive water near the No. 1
reactor turbine building while performing tests recommended by
 Japan ’s Nuclear Safety Commission, according to a statement
yesterday. The company later said those results and others may
be wrong and it will re-examine the data.  Workers have been spraying water on the reactors to keep
radioactive fuel rods cool since a March 11 earthquake and
tsunami damaged the plant, causing the worst nuclear accident
since Chernobyl in 1986.  Tokyo Electric reported radiation in water outside one of
the Fukushima reactors this week that exceeded 1 sievert an
hour, a level that would trigger sickness and potential death
for exposed workers, according to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. Workers have averted a total meltdown at the
plant by injecting seawater into damaged reactors after its
cooling systems lost power.  Radiation “far below” levels that pose a risk to humans
was found in milk from California and  Washington , the first
signs Japan’s nuclear accident is affecting U.S. food, according
to Obama administration and state officials.  The U.S. is stepping up monitoring of radiation in milk,
rain and drinking water, the Environmental Protection Agency and
 Food and Drug Administration  said in a statement yesterday.  Plutonium in Soil  The Japanese utility has found plutonium in soil samples
near the site that it says shouldn’t be enough to affect human
health. Contamination of seawater found near the plant increased
this week, with radioactive iodine rising to 4,385 times the
regulated safety limit from 2,572 times, said Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman for Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency.  There was 180 becquerel per cubic centimeter of radioactive
iodine-131 found in the ocean 330 meters (1,082 feet) south of
the plant. Drinking one liter of fresh water with that level
would be equivalent to getting double the annual dose of
radiation a person typically receives.  Japan’s damaged nuclear plant may be in danger of emitting
sudden bursts of heat and radiation, undermining efforts to cool
the reactors and contain fallout. Limited, uncontrolled chain
reactions are among the phenomena that might occur at the plant,
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo
yesterday.  Seawater Contamination  Edano was responding to statements by the  International
Atomic Energy Agency , which has “emphasized that the nuclear
reactors won’t explode,” he said. Japan’s nuclear agency said
there’s no possibility of uncontrolled chain reactions.  Moody’s Japan K.K. cut its rating on Tokyo Electric and
warned it may reduce it further, saying the problems at
Fukushima “appear far from being resolved” and the company is
likely to remain unprofitable for a long time. Senior secured
and long-term issuer ratings were downgraded to Baa1 from A1,
Moody’s said in a statement.  The  number of dead and missing  from the earthquake and
tsunami had reached 27,973 as of 9 p.m. yesterday, Japan’s
 National Police Agency  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Fukashi Maruta in New York at 
 fmaruta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  