-- 
Japan’s Government Bonds Fall, Head for 2-Week Loss, Before U.S. Jobs Data

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-01T06:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/japan-s-bonds-may-rise-as-yields-draw-buyers-in-fiscal-year-starting-today.html
Japan ’s bonds fell, completing a
second weekly loss, before a report today forecast to show the
U.S. added jobs for a sixth month, reinforcing signs of
resilience in the global economic recovery.  The benchmark 10-year yield rose to a three-week high on
prospects the yen’s decline to a six-week low against the dollar
will boost the earnings outlook for Japan’s exporters. Bonds
also declined on bets investors will cut holdings to lock-in a
higher coupon at an auction of 10-year securities next week.  “Yields are not high enough to entice buyers at the
beginning of the new fiscal year, as people wait for today’s U.S.
jobs data and next week’s 10-year sale,” said  Shinji Nomura ,
chief debt strategist in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“As optimism spreads in the U.S., the employment data will be
important.”  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 rose two
basis points to 1.275 percent as of 3:01 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price fell 0.178 yen to 100.220 yen. The yield was the
highest since March 11, when a magnitude-9 earthquake struck the
nation. It has added 5.5 basis points this week.  Ten-year yields gained 14.5 basis points in the quarter
that ended yesterday. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery fell 0.36 to 139.19
at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The yen touched 83.74 per dollar
today, the lowest since Feb. 17.  U.S. Jobs  Employers in the U.S. added 190,000 workers and the
 unemployment rate  held at 8.9 percent in March, according to
median estimates of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
the Labor Department reports the data today.  Japan’s Ministry of Finance will sell 2.2 trillion yen
($26.3 billion) of 10-year bonds on April 5. The prior 10-year
offering on March 1 drew bids worth 2.91 times the amount on
offer, compared with a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.69 at
the February auction.  Primary dealers, which are required to bid at government
debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds before an auction in
case prices decline before they can pass on the new securities
to investors.  A quarterly index of sentiment among large manufacturers
rose to 6 points in March from 5 points in December, the  Bank of
Japan ’s Tankan survey showed today. The central bank noted that
72 percent of responses from companies came by March 11, the day
the nation’s largest-ever earthquake struck, triggering a deadly
tsunami and radiation leaks at a nuclear plant.  No BOJ Underwriting  The government won’t allow the Bank of Japan to underwrite
 government bonds , Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru
Yosano  said today. Such a step would hurt the bank’s credibility
globally and might affect bond yields, Yosano told reporters at
a news conference in Tokyo today.  Yield moves and monetary policies in the U.S. and Japan
“may diverge as the U.S. economic recovery continues and Japan
deals with the earthquake and nuclear problem,”  Tetsuya Miura ,
chief market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest banking group, wrote in a research
note today.  The BOJ is considering offering temporary loans to banks to
aid companies with cash-flow shortages in the wake of the
earthquake, three people familiar with the matter said.  The premium offered by two-year government bonds in the U.S.
over Japan widened to about 63 basis points today, the most
since June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 