-- 
Japan Cheap for Herro After Biggest Topix Swings in Two Years

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-31T18:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/japan-cheap-for-herro-after-biggest-topix-swings-in-two-years.html
The biggest price swings in Japanese
equities in two years have left valuations in the Topix index
close to the lowest levels since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Historical volatility for the Topix jumped to 48.36 last
month, the highest level since December 2008, according to 30-
day data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark measure of 1,667
Japanese companies trades at 14.7 times reported profit, down
8.7 percent from February.  David Herro of Harris Associates LP, Morningstar Inc.’s
international stock fund manager of the decade, is betting
shares are cheap enough to overcome slower growth after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. cut its estimate for Japan’s gross domestic
product expansion almost in half. Concern the nation’s biggest
earthquake on record would cripple the world’s third-largest
economy pushed the index down the most in 10 months in March,
wiping out about $446 billion in share value.  “As more and more of this uncertainty surrounding the
disaster clears up, it’ll be a good place for people to
invest,” said Herro, chief investment officer of international
equities at Harris Associates, which oversees about $62 billion
in  Chicago . “The real potential is for people to take a second
look at these valuations.”  The price-earnings ratio for the Topix has slipped below
the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index, which tracks stocks in 24 developed
markets, for the first time since November, when the Japanese
equity measure began a 21 percent rally through February. Profit
for companies in the Topix may rise 10 percent in the next 12
months, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bigger Swings  Historical volatility, which measures the size of daily
swings in stocks, currencies and commodities, rose from a four-
year low of 9.58 in January in the Topix. It averaged 17.88
during 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average Volatility Index jumped 68
percent last month to 32.90, including the biggest one-day gain
on record on March 14. The gauge, based on prices for Japanese
option, implies a 9.4 percent swing in the  Nikkei 225  in the
next 30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan last
month has killed 11,532 people and left 16,441 missing, based on
data from the  National Police Agency  in Tokyo. Damaged reactors
at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant leaked radiation into seawater
and farmland in northern Japan and sent shares of operator Tokyo
Electric Power Co. down 78 percent since March 10, the day
before the quake.  Rebuilding Costs  Japan’s government estimated last month that rebuilding
costs may reach 25 trillion yen ($302 billion), almost four
times the cost of Hurricane Katrina’s damage in the U.S. Mining
and construction companies have posted the biggest gains in the
Topix since the earthquake, climbing 14 percent and 6.8 percent
through March 31 for the biggest gains among 33 industries.  While the Topix has rebounded 13 percent since reaching a
two-year low on March 15, its 3.3 percent loss in 2011 is the
biggest among benchmarks for 24 developed countries, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jason White, a Baltimore-based
portfolio specialist with T. Rowe Price Group Inc.’s
international equity team, which invests in Japanese stocks as
part of managing $70 billion, said he remains “underweight”
 Japan  shares on concern the economy may weaken.  “We haven’t been wholesale buyers across the board,” said
White. “We obviously don’t know what the long-term effect on
the economy will be.”  Slower Growth  Economists at Goldman Sachs cut their estimate for Japan’s
economic growth for the year beginning today to 0.7 percent,
from a previous forecast of 1.3 percent, and said gross domestic
product will fall between April and June, according to a March
29 report. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker,
may delay the production of at least 500,000 vehicles in Japan
because of a shortage of parts and electricity, according to
Advanced Research Japan.  Valuations for Japanese stocks already reflect the prospect
for weaker economic growth, said Thornburg Investment Management
Inc.’s William Fries. The Topix last month came within 9 percent
of erasing all the gains since global markets bottomed from the
financial crisis in March 2009.  “We added to some of our favorite names,” said Fries, who
oversees $28 billion in  Santa Fe  as manager of the Thornburg
International Value Fund, which beat 93 percent of peers since
2006. “The macro-environment will be negative for the near-
term, but for the companies that we hold, we think that’s
reflected in the stock prices.”  Currency Intervention  Japan sold 692.5 billion yen from Feb. 25 to March 29, the
Ministry of Finance said yesterday in Tokyo, showing the
nation’s efforts to bring the currency down from a postwar high.
The yen climbed to a record 76.25 per dollar on March 17,
prompting the Group of Seven nations to jointly intervene in
foreign-exchange markets the next day for the first time in more
than a decade.  The yen traded at 82.74 per dollar at 2:50 a.m.  Tokyo  time
today, compared with 82.98 on March 10, a day before the
earthquake. The Japanese government said there’s no evidence
insurance companies were repatriating assets from abroad due to
the risk of radiation leaks from a quake-crippled nuclear plant.  International investors purchased about 890 billion yen in
shares of Japan companies during the week ended March 18, the
most since records began in 2005, according to data compiled by
the Ministry of Finance. They withdrew 13.3 billion yen in stock
last week.  “Unless there’s a renewed deterioration in the Fukushima
power plant or something more fundamental causing further damage
to the Japanese economy, then shares in Japan are a reasonably
good value,” said  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., manages $98 billion in Sydney. “The
likely scenario will be that the Japanese market continues to
recover, but not in a straight line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  