-- 
Japan's Rebuilding May Boost Dry-Bulk Shippers, Easing Global Overcapacity

-- B y   L i z a   L i n   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-31T00:50:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/japan-reconstruction-may-boost-dry-bulk-shipping-cargos-ease-overcapacity.html
Reconstruction in  Japan  following a
tsunami and earthquake that destroyed or damaged more than
150,000  buildings  may boost volumes for dry-bulk shipping lines
struggling with global overcapacity.  “The rebuilding process will need big volumes of
material,” Wei Jiafu, chairman of China Cosco (Holdings) Co.,
China’s biggest dry-bulk operator, said yesterday in Hong Kong
at an earnings press conference. In the short term, the industry
faces “severe challenges” because of the increasing size of
the global fleet, he said.  Japan may increase imports of Australian  iron ore  and of
logs and lumber from  New Zealand  and  Malaysia  after the March 11
tsunami devastated buildings in the Tohoku region. Following the
Kobe quake in 1995, the Baltic Dry Index, the benchmark for
commodity-shipping rates, surged 20 percent in three months
after initially falling 6 percent in three weeks.  “In the medium to long term, it is an opportunity,” Li Shaode, head of  China  Shipping (Group) Co., said yesterday at
separate event. “Japan will definitely need to rebuild itself,
and in doing so, it will need a lot of basic materials.”  Shipping Operations  Shipping operations in Japan have so far been little
affected since the quake, apart from the region directly hit by
the tsunami, both Li and Wei said. The world’s five biggest oil-
tanker companies have all said they will still travel to Tokyo
Bay, home to Japan’s biggest ports, and about 220 miles south of
a tsunami-damaged nuclear power plant that has caused concerns
about radiation leaks.  Of the world’s 15 biggest container lines, only Hapag-Lloyd
AG has halted services to Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan’s busiest
container-box ports. The others, including China Cosco and China
Shipping, are maintaining operations.  Congestion in Tokyo, which delayed container shipments in
the days after the earthquake, has now eased, said Huang Xiaowen, managing director of China Shipping unit, China
Shipping Container Lines Co.  Vessels have been ordered by the government to avoid a 30-
mile exclusion zone around the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant because of radiation concerns. This area doesn’t
contain any major container ports and doesn’t impede key routes,
Wei said.  “It has got no impact on us,” he said. “We continue on
the rest of routes there in Japan, such as to Yokohama.”  Coal Shipments  Dry-bulk volumes may also benefit from rising demand for
coal shipments in Japan as the nuclear-power plant shutdown
causes power shortages and concerns about building new atomic
plants, said Kang Seong Jin, an analyst at Tong Yang Securities
Inc. in  Seoul .  “This will help offset some of the overcapacity the
industry is facing, but it won’t be enough to resolve it,” he
said. “The pace of new deliveries has to slow before the bulk-
shipping industry can recover.”  China Cosco expects a 14 percent increase in global bulk
capacity this year, compared with a 6 percent increase in
volumes, according to its annual earnings statement. The Baltic
Dry Index has dropped 48 percent in the past year.  Overseas ports have stepped up checks on containers
arriving from Japan because of concerns about radiation plumes
drifting out to sea from the crippled nuclear facility.  A container ship last week was rejected from Xiamen, China,
after “abnormal” radiation readings. That vessel has now
returned to Japan, where it will undergo further inspections,
operator Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. said yesterday.  China is requiring screening of all containers from Japan,
Fu Yuning, chairman of China Merchants Holdings (International)
Co., said yesterday at an earnings press briefing in  Hong Kong .
The company’s port operations across China handled about 1
million cargo-boxes from Japan last year out of a total volume
of more than 50 million, he said.  “The percentage is small, so the impact on our efficiency
is expected to be very small,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liza Lin in Hong Kong at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  