-- 
Ex-Primary Global Consultant Jiau Loses Bid to Dismiss Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-10T22:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/jiau-to-remain-jailed-after-dropping-bail-bid-in-insider-trading-case.html
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant
with expert networking firm Primary Global Research LLC, lost a
bid to have her insider-trading case dismissed.  Jiau’s lawyer, Joanna Hendon, argued that prosecutors erred
when they instructed the federal grand jury that indicted Jiau
on charges she passed inside information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to two hedge fund managers. U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff rejected Jiau’s argument today in
Manhattan.  “I agree with the government this is quite extended
speculation, really piling inference upon inference,” Rakoff
said in a ruling from the bench. “There are deep prudential
grounds indicating that speculation should not be the engine
that causes a court to move.”  Hendon claimed the indictment was flawed, saying there was
no evidence that any “insider” breached a fiduciary duty not
to disclose material non-public information. She also said
prosecutors failed to prove Jiau engaged in a scheme to defraud
“by trick, deceit, chicane or overreaching.”  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman told Rakoff
the government has evidence Jiau passed inside information
obtained from sources at Nvidia and Marvell to Noah Freeman, a
Boston hedge-fund manager who pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the U.S., and Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital
Management LP in  New York .  ‘Needed to Pay’  “Jiau informed Freeman that he needed to provide more
money because she needed to pay her sources at Marvell and
Nvidia,” Weitzman said.  Prosecutors have charged that Freeman was involved in a
separate conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud with
Donald Longueuil, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP fund manager.  The U.S. said Freeman passed inside information he obtained
from sources, including Jiau, to Longueuil, who in turn tipped
Freeman off to material, non-public information. Jiau received
as much as $10,000 a month for the tips, prosecutors said.  Rakoff today said he was disappointed to read news reports
of plea talks. The judge has scheduled the trial to begin June
1. In a May 3 letter, prosecutors said that there were “ongoing
plea discussions” between the government and defense lawyers.  “I am so impressed with the level of ‘lawyering’ on both
sides in this case,” Rakoff said, “that when I saw parties
were talking about settlement, I really hope that that’s not
true, because I was really looking forward to this trial.”  Hendon and Weitzman both declined to comment after court.  Jiau faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted of
conspiracy and securities fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  