-- 
JPMorgan Managing Director May Determine When Jeter Gets His 3,000th Hit

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/jpmorgan-managing-director-may-determine-when-jeter-gets-his-3-000th-hit.html
Derek Jeter ’s 3,000th career hit
may come down to a ruling by Jordan Sprechman far uptown from
his Park Avenue office as a managing director at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)   Sprechman and Howie Karpin, an on-air anchor for Sirius
Satellite Radio, will moonlight this season as the two primary
official scorers for  Major League Baseball ’s New York Yankees
and Mets, earning $150 a game and trying to stay unnoticed and
free of controversy.  Jeter needs 74 hits to become the 28th player to reach
3,000 and the only one to do so entirely in a Yankee uniform.
His 2,000th hit, in May 2006, was on a judgment call by Bill
Shannon, Sprechman and Karpin’s scoring mentor who died on Oct.
26. Whether a milestone moment or a mid-September meeting of
last-place clubs, Shannon preached that you can’t let the
situation dictate the scoring call.  “There’s no such thing as a big game in baseball,”
Sprechman, a 49-year-old wealth adviser from  Manhattan , said in
an interview. “They all count for 1/162nd of a season.”  Baseball’s regular season begins today with six games,
including the  Detroit Tigers ’ visit to Yankee Stadium, which
will be scored by Sprechman.  An accredited scorer for New York baseball since 2000,
Sprechman was promoted from part-time status to succeed Shannon,
who was an official scorer at Yankees and Mets games for 32
seasons before dying at age 69 in a New Jersey house fire, six
days after handling the Yankees’ final 2010 victory in Game 5 of
the American League Championship Series.  “He was totally respected by everybody and considered the
authority,” said Karpin, 56, a lifelong Bronx resident who has
scored  New York  baseball since 1998. “If it wasn’t for him, I
wouldn’t be a scorer.”  Scorer’s Call  Jeter’s  2,000th hit  came on a slow roller in front of home
plate that produced an errant throw by Kansas City Royals
catcher Paul Bako. Shannon ruled that Jeter would have beaten
the throw.  Not unlike umpiring, scoring is a mostly thankless job that
draws notice only when someone thinks a ruling is controversial,
said Phyllis Merhige, who oversees the accredited scorers in
baseball’s 30 major-league ballparks.  “It does take a special breed, a great passion for the
game and a great desire to make a contribution,” Merhige said
in a telephone interview from her New York office. “It doesn’t
pay all that well, it does take a lot of free time and most of
these guys have other jobs.”  Sharing the Duties  Sprechman and Karpin will split 140 New York area contests
while giving the rest to backups  Billy Altman  and David Freeman.
The scorer’s responsibilities include deciding whether a batted
ball is a hit or an error, and whether a pitch that gets by the
catcher is a passed ball or a wild pitch, and occasionally,
which pitcher gets a victory.  “What Bill always said was that the purpose of errors was
to protect the pitcher from the malfeasance of his fielders,”
Sprechman said. “Errors are not designed to be punitive.
They’re designed to protect the pitcher’s ERA.”  When he leaves his office for the press boxes at Citi Field
in Queens or Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, Sprechman said, it’s
most important that he bring along both his judgment and
decisiveness.  “In what I do here as a wealth adviser, you have to be
confident,” he said in the interview at the headquarters of
JPMorgan Chase, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets. “You
have to do the same thing at the ballpark. Your judgment could
be outstanding as a scorer but if you don’t present well, your
judgment is always going to be suspect.”  Historic Call  A scoring decision can have historic ramifications.  Former Tigers pitcher Virgil Trucks is one of four to throw
two no-hitters in a single major-league regular season. The
second came amid controversy.  In the third inning of a 1952 game at Yankee Stadium, New
York’s Phil Rizzuto was called safe on a close play at first
base after Tigers shortstop Johnny Pesky bobbled a one-hop
ground ball.  John Drebinger of the New York Times, the game’s official
scorer, called the play an error, then changed his mind.  “When I went in the dugout, there was an error on the
wall,” Trucks, now 93, said in a telephone interview. “When I
came back out, I saw a hit.”  Dugout Call  Trucks said Drebinger, under pressure from other reporters,
called the Tigers’ dugout during the seventh inning to talk to
Pesky, who said he had erred. Drebinger then changed his ruling
back to an error. Six outs later, the no-hitter was secured, and
almost six decades later, Trucks still signs memorabilia with
the date -- Aug. 25, 1952.  “Nothing could overcome something like pitching a no-
hitter in Yankee Stadium,” Trucks, nicknamed “Fire,” said
from his Calera,  Alabama , home.  Sprechman, who also is the public address announcer in the
media room at tennis’s  U.S. Open  and a member of the  New York
Jets ’ statistics crew, said his most memorable scoring effort
was Curt Schilling’s “Bloody Sock Game” win over the Yankees
for the  Boston Red Sox  in the 2004 playoffs. Schilling pitched
Boston to victory while an incision in his foot from a temporary
surgery that allowed him to play bled through his sock.  Karpin, the author of the new book “ 162-0: Imagine a Mets
Perfect Season ,” is the only scorer in major league history to
name a winning pitcher in a no-hitter. He gave the victory to
Brad Lidge on June 11, 2003, after six  Houston Astros  combined
to no-hit the Yankees.  Clean Play  Karpin and Sprechman said they’ve had confrontations with
players angry over their decisions. Both said their biggest hope
is that feats such as Jeter’s 3,000th hit come on clean plays.  If Jeter performs up to his career average, he’s poised to
get No. 3,000 on June 9 at Yankee Stadium in the finale of a
three-game series against  Boston .  “I’ve got that Red Sox series,” Karpin said with a laugh.
“Oh, boy. That’ll be a beauty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 