-- 
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for March (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-03-31T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-march-text-.html
Following is the text from the Kansas City Fed’s
Manufacturing Survey.  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity accelerated rapidly in March,
posting a record high for the second straight month. Expectations moderated slightly
from last month, but still remained solid. Price indexes for raw materials reached
historically high levels, and more firms indicated plans to pass cost increases on
to customers.  The month-over-month composite index was 27 in March, up from 19 in February
and 7 in January. This reading set a new all time survey high. The composite index
is an average of the production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery time, and
raw materials inventory indexes. Growth in factory activity increased at both
durable and non-durable goods producing plants. Most other month-over-month
indicators also improved markedly in March. The production index jumped to 39, its
highest level in survey history, and the shipments and order backlog indexes also
increased to historically high levels. The employment index inched higher from 23 to
25, also a new survey record. The new orders for exports index eased slightly but
still remained solid. Both inventory indexes rose after falling last month.  Growth in most year-over-year factory indexes increased from the previous
survey. The composite year-over-year index moved higher from 21 to 30, and the
shipments, order backlog, and employment indexes also increased. The  capital
expenditures  index edged up for the second straight month, while the new orders
index remained unchanged. The new orders for exports index eased from 22 to 12 after
matching an all time survey high last month. Both inventory indexes increased
considerably.  Future factory indexes eased somewhat after last month’s jump in activity but
remained solid. The future composite index edged down from 30 to 23, and the future
production, shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes also decreased. The
future employment index eased from 27 to 19, and the future new orders for exports
index also fell. In contrast, the future capital expenditures inched higher from 23
to 24, reaching its highest level since early 2007. The future finished goods
inventory index increased from 5 to 11, while the future raw materials inventory
index was relatively unchanged.  Price indexes increased further with some indexes reaching record highs. The
month-over-month raw materials price index rose to an all-time survey high of 72,
and the finished goods price index edged higher. The finished goods price index
jumped from 30 to 48, and the year-over-year raw materials price index also
increased. The future raw materials price index posted a record high, and the future
finished goods price index moved higher to 40, indicating a considerable number of
firms plan to pass recent cost increases through to customers. 