-- 
Kansai Paint's Takeover of Freeworld Opposed by South Africa's Government

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-03-31T12:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/kansai-paint-s-takeover-of-freeworld-opposed-by-south-africa-s-government.html
South  Africa ’s government asked
antitrust regulators to stop Kansai Paint Co.’s takeover of
 Freeworld Coatings Ltd. (FWD) , the second foreign purchase authorities
in Africa’s largest economy have tried to block this year.  The  Department of Trade and Industry  asked the Competition
Commission to prohibit the deal because it is “likely to weaken
competition in a market which is already highly concentrated and
prone to collusive behaviour,” the Pretoria-based ministry
said. It also threatens government efforts to produce automotive
paint locally and may cause job losses, it said.  South Africa’s departments of economic development,
agriculture and trade and industry on March 22 won an
application to delay until May antitrust hearings on  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s acquisition of a controlling stake of Massmart
Holdings Ltd., citing doubts it was in the public interest.  Kansai offered to buy all of Freeworld for 12 rand a share,
valuing the South African paint manufacturer at 2.45 billion
rand ($361 million). The Competition Tribunal last year allowed
insurers Momentum Group and Metropolitan Holdings Ltd. to merge
on condition that no jobs, bar those of managers, were cut.  If the Kansai deal is approved, the Competition Commission
should recommend to the Tribunal that conditions are imposed
that will “secure the protection of  South Africa ’s industrial
capacity, employment and intellectual property,” the Department
of Trade and Industry said in an e-mailed statement.  No FDI Opposition  “This intervention should not be construed as opposition
by the department to foreign direct investment,” it said. “On
the contrary, the Department of Trade and Industry is doing
everything possible to encourage inward investment.”  More than 90 percent of Freeworld’s shareholders have
accepted the offer, Kansai said March 18. The takeover will
boost competition and give Kansai a decorative coatings business
in South Africa, an area in which it doesn’t operate. Kansai
supplies two types of coatings used in South Africa’s automotive
industry, the only area that may be of concern to competition
authorities, the Osaka-based company said on Dec. 13.  Kansai “is prepared to accept appropriate conditions to
address public interest concerns relating to the proposed
merger,” the company said today in a statement. “Kansai is
committed to addressing the apparent concerns of government on a
pro-active basis.”  Antitrust Fine Risk  Freeworld today postponed its annual general meeting of
shareholders until April 28 as most investors have agreed to
support the takeover. Voting the shares at the AGM may result in
a “prior implementation of the proposed transaction,”
breaching antitrust rules with the risk of fines being imposed
on Kansai and Freeworld, it said.  “Kansai is very disappointed and surprised at the
adjournment of the AGM,” Nauman Malik, Kansai’s global head of
strategy, said in the statement.  The  Competition Commission  will make its decision on the
transaction by no later than April 18, Kansai and Freeworld
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  