-- 
Koch Industries Wins Labor Praise for Collective Bargaining Role

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-03-31T18:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/koch-industries-wins-labor-praise-for-collective-bargaining-role.html
Koch Industries Inc., which spent
$1.2 million in 2010 to help elect governors who oppose
collective bargaining for public employees, won praise from a
labor union official for backing the rights of factory workers.  Koch’s Georgia Pacific unit “has positive collective
bargaining relationships with its unions,”  Jon Geenen ,
international vice president of the  United Steelworkers  union,
wrote in a blog post on the group’s website.  “The company’s workforce is highly unionized,” Geenen
wrote. “It is not inaccurate to say these are among the best-
paid manufacturing jobs in America.”  Koch Industries, a closely held energy and chemical company
based in Wichita,  Kansas , is controlled by David and Charles Koch, billionaire brothers. Koch, which owns refiner Flint Hills
Resources LLC and C. Reiss Coal Co., has opposed labor on
regulation and free trade, said  Craig Holman , a lobbyist for
Washington-based advocacy group  Public Citizen .  Republican Governors  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin and  John Kasich  of Ohio, elected last year with Koch support, pushed
bills to limit the ability of public-employee unions to
negotiate for salaries and benefits.  Cash from Koch Industries, its employees and units included
$1.1 million to the  Republican Governors Association , which
spent more than $3.4 million to back Walker, according to  Common
Cause , a Washington-based advocacy group that opposes the
governor’s proposal. Koch gave $43,000 directly to Walker, his
single largest corporate donation, and $22,000 to Kasich,
according to the  National Institute on Money in State Politics .  Boycottkochbrothers.com and a Facebook page called Boycott
Koch Industries are among Internet efforts urging supporters of
union rights to avoid buying products from companies owned by
the Koch brothers.  Georgia Pacific’s “plants, though, are great examples of
American advanced manufacturing,” Geenen wrote. The company
“makes everyday products like facial tissues, napkins, paper
towels, paper cups and the like.”  The Steelworkers said boycotting Koch companies could
ultimately hurt union workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  