-- 
N.Y. Fed Derivatives Club Decried by Pension Plans as Danger to Dodd-Frank

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-03-31T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/n-y-fed-s-derivatives-club-decried-by-u-s-pension-plans.html
A private derivatives regulatory
group led by the New York Federal Reserve may weaken rules
required by the Dodd-Frank Act, two associations representing
large corporate pension plans said.  The panel of international banking supervisors fosters a
kind of shadow regulation by dealing only with a “discrete
group” of members, the pension plans said in a March 25 letter
to New York Fed President  William Dudley . The regulators meet at
least once a year with buyers and sellers of derivatives
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “We are concerned about a secondary regulatory process
that could undermine the public regulatory process,” wrote the
pension trade groups, the  American Benefits Council  and the
 Committee on Investment of Employee Benefit Assets , in the
letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  A “process that is closed to most market participants
needs to be examined very closely,” said the associations,
which represent pension plans from dozens of companies including
 3M Co. (MMM) ,  Target Corp. (TGT) , Chrysler Group LLC, U.S. Steel Corp. and
 Textron Inc. (TXT)   The New York Fed has drawn criticism from lawmakers and
others for being too close to the large banks it supervises,
which had to be bailed out in the financial crisis. The
institution came under particular fire for its rescue of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and the decision to pay off
the insurer’s derivatives counterparties such as Goldman Sachs
and Deutsche Bank AG with taxpayers’ money.  Crafting Rules  Under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, the  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  and the  Securities and Exchange
Commission  are leading U.S. efforts to increase oversight of the
$583 trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market . The agencies
are crafting rules that would, for the first time, require most
derivatives to trade openly and be guaranteed by clearinghouses.  The law requires the CFTC and SEC to implement most of the
rules by mid-July.  The  OTC Derivatives Supervisors Group , of which Dudley is
chairman, was formed in 2005 when then-New York Fed chief
 Timothy F. Geithner  assembled the 14 largest derivatives dealers
and regulators. Invitees to its most recent meeting in January
included regulators from the U.K.,  Japan  and  Germany  as well as
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Pacific Investment
Management Co., Citadel LLC and D.E. Shaw Group, according to
the New York Fed’s website.  The derivatives group commits to written goals aimed at
making markets more transparent after its meetings.  Conflicting Rules  In their letter, the corporate pension plans said a draft
they had seen of the latest goals raised concerns. They said
that one commitment to the New York Fed regarding trading
derivatives via electronic markets may diverge from rules the
CFTC is drafting. The commitment could require the pension plans
to confirm trades electronically even if the CFTC didn’t require
it, the letter said.  “This is just one example of the potential conflict
between the commitment letter and regulations being developed,”
the pension groups wrote.  Jeffrey Smith, a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined
to comment. Jason Hammersla, a spokesman for the American
Benefits Council, didn’t comment beyond confirming that the
group sent the letter.  After its last meeting in January, Dudley said that the
regulatory group will “continue to play a key role” in helping
firms work “cooperatively and proactively to drive structural
improvements, monitor emerging risks and support consistent
supervisory approaches across jurisdictions.”  Dodd-Frank Timeline  The new goals being drafted by the banks and hedge funds
may be released as early as today. They focus mainly on setting
a timeline to meet requirements from the Dodd-Frank law,
according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg News.  The firms believe that completing such a massive
undertaking hinges in part on whether U.S. and foreign
regulators can cooperate, both on detailed rules and on broader
objectives, according to the draft. “International coordination
is essential,” they wrote in the letter.  The draft said that by September the financial firms could
identify the first set of derivatives that could comply with the
mandatory clearing requirement under Dodd-Frank.  The timeline would also establish a voluntary phase-in
process for simpler derivatives to be cleared by next March and
more complicated products, including  credit derivatives , by July
2012, according to the draft letter.  Legal and risk management concerns are “significant
barriers to widespread use of clearing by” purchasers of
derivatives, the draft said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  