-- 
Natural Gas Caps Biggest Monthly Gain Since May on End-of-Quarter Buying

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-03-31T21:44:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/natural-gas-futures-decline-in-new-york-on-outlook-for-inventory-drawdown.html
Natural gas futures advanced for a
second day, capping the biggest monthly gain since May, as
traders bought back previously sold contracts at the end of the
first quarter.  Gas futures climbed as traders covered short positions, or
bets that prices will fall, said  Stephen Schork , the president
of the Schork Group Inc. energy advisory company in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. Prices rose this month on colder-than-normal
weather and speculation  Japan  will boost demand for liquefied
natural gas.  “This is a function of a position being held by  Wall
Street  that’s very short the natural gas market,” Schork said.
“People seem to be willing to buy gas between $4.20 and $4.30.
I’m always very skeptical that there’s something fundamental
driving prices at the end of the quarter.”  Natural gas for April delivery rose 3.4 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $4.389 per million British thermal units
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The futures gained 8.7
percent this month and were down 0.4 percent in the first
quarter.  Colder-than-normal weather is likely in the Northeast and
parts of the Great Lakes region through April 4, according to
MDA EarthSat Weather in Rockville,  Maryland . Below-normal
temperatures may boost demand for the heating fuel.  Meanwhile, temperatures may be above normal in the
Southwest and parts of the south-central U.S. during that
period, MDA said. Warmer-than-normal weather may increase air
conditioning use, sparking demand for gas as a power-plant fuel.  Weather Outlook  The low temperature in New York on April 3 may be 39
degrees Fahrenheit (4 Celsius), 1 below normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. The high in
Houston may be 82 degrees Fahrenheit, 5 above normal.  U.S. heating demand may be 6 percent above normal on April
3, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist with Weather Derivatives
in Belton,  Missouri , in a note to clients today. Cooling demand
may be 70 percent above normal.  Weather derivative pricing implies the market expects near-
term heating demand in the eastern U.S. to be 15-25 percent
above normal, analysts at Canaccord Genuity in Houston said in a
note to clients today.  Futures earlier declined as much as 3.4 percent after the
Energy Department said inventories rose 12 billion cubic feet in
the week ended March 25 to 1.624 trillion cubic feet. Analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed a decline of 2 billion. A
separate survey of Bloomberg users showed an expected increase
of 5 billion.  Supply Report  U.S. stockpiles of the heating and power-plant fuel decline
during the cold-weather months, when demand exceeds production
and imports. Inventory levels increase when the weather turns
warmer.  The stockpile gain compares with a five-year average
withdrawal for the week of 22 billion cubic feet, department
data show. A surplus to the five-year average rose to 4.4
percent from 2.2 percent the previous week. A deficit to year-
earlier supplies was unchanged at 0.7 percent.  The Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration
said March 29 U.S. gas  production  fell 3.7 percent in January to
74.39 billion cubic feet a day as below-normal temperatures
reduced drilling in  New Mexico  and  Wyoming . Cold weather can
cause small amounts of water produced with gas to freeze,
clogging pipelines and forcing wells to shut.  Production in the lower 48 states dropped 0.5 percent to
66.67 billion cubic feet a day, according to the monthly report
known as  EIA-914 .  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
346,739 as of 2:46 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 317,000. Volume was 263,281 yesterday. Open interest was
885,398 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
886,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  