-- 
NBN Suspends Broadband-Network Project Bidding, Says Costs Are Too High

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-01T00:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/nbn-suspends-broadband-network-project-bidding-says-costs-are-too-high.html
NBN Co., the Australian government-
owned builder of a national broadband network, suspended the
bidding process because proposed construction costs are too
high.  “We have said all along that we are building an NBN, but
not at any price,”  Kevin Brown , the company’s head of corporate
services, said today in a statement. “We will not proceed on
the basis of prices we are currently being offered.”  Australia , fueled by a boom in the resource sector, faces a
shortage of skilled laborers, pushing construction costs higher
as wage pressures increase. HSBC Holdings Plc has estimated the
value of Australian mining and resource projects proposed or
under construction at $777 billion, or about 60 percent of gross
domestic product, and said it expects  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens to boost  interest rates  to compensate.  “We’re seeing capacity constraints across a wide array of
industries not just the resource sector,” said  Helen Kevans ,
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney.  The broadband project, estimated since last year by the
government to cost A$36 billion ($37 billion), is intended to
connect 93 percent of all Australian homes to a fiber-based,
high-speed, Internet network. It’s the biggest infrastructure
project in the country’s history.  “NBN Co. does not regard current pricing reflects capacity
constraints,” Brown said. “We are progressing a different
approach that we think will produce a better result.”  Bidding Process  Brown didn’t elaborate on the company’s alternative plan.
Rhonda Griffin, an NBN spokeswoman, declined to elaborate in a
phone interview.  NBN  asked  bidders on March 29, 2010 to provide detailed
design and construction services for the project.  “Potential construction partners will need to show they
have the capability and capacity to design and deliver
telecommunications infrastructure projects of significant size
and complexity,” NBN said in the invitation to bidders.  The process attracted 45 potential suppliers, and was
narrowed to 14 companies or joint ventures that proceeded to a
Request for Proposals, NBN said.  The company didn’t name the final bidders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  