-- 
New York City Will Probably Miss Out on Snowfall Aiming for Northeast U.S.

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-31T12:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/new-york-city-will-probably-miss-out-on-snowfall-aimed-at-northeast-u-s-.html
Little or no snow is expected to
fall in  New York City  from a storm system forecast to move up
the U.S. East Coast tonight and tomorrow, according to the
 National Weather Service .  North, west and east of the city, as much as 10 inches (25
centimeters) of snow may fall and the wind may gust as high as
30 miles per hour (48 kilometers per hour), according to the
weather service in Upton,  New York .  “It looks like it shouldn’t be a big problem in the
city,” said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist with Hometown Forecast
Services in Nashua, New Hampshire.  Winter storm warnings and advisories stretch from northern
 Pennsylvania  and  New Jersey  through eastern New York state and
into New England, according to the  National Weather Service . In
Manhattan, today’s rain will probably continue until about 9
a.m. tomorrow, Carolan said.  “The major cities should be fine, although Boston is a
pretty close call,” said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with
AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania. “Providence,
New York, Philadelphia down to D.C. should be rain.”  There is a slight chance cold air will wrap around the back
of the storm as it passes and bring less than an inch of snow to
New York City, Carolan said. To the north and west of the city
and into New England, snow totals may be higher, he said.  Snowfall Totals  The hills around  Albany  may receive as much as 14 inches of
snow, while in central Massachusetts totals may reach 7 inches,
Carolan said. The mountains of  New Hampshire  may get as much as
16 inches.  “Some of those ski areas across New York state and
northern New England are going to do quite well out of this,”
Kines said. “They could get well more than a foot of snow.”  Fourteen years ago, another March 31-April 1 storm left
25.4 inches of snow in Boston and 33 inches in neighboring
Worcester, according to the weather service.  Since December, 61.9 inches of snow has fallen in Central
Park, the third-snowiest season on record, according to the
weather service. The top snow season was 1995-96, when 75.6
inches fell  in Central Park .  Boston has had 79.5 inches of snow, according to the
weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  