-- 
New York Purchasers Index Report on Business for March (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-03-31T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/new-york-purchasers-index-report-on-business-for-march-text-.html
Following is the text of the New
York area business conditions from the National Association of
Purchasing Management-New York.  NEW YORK CITY REPORT ON BUSINESS
That 70s Show Canceled  New York City business activity expanded at the slowest
pace in three months, according to the survey taken by the
Institute for Supply Management-New York (ISM-NY). The Current
Business Conditions index cooled to a still elevated level of
66.4 in March, down from February’s nine-month high of 77.5.
Historically, readings above the 70 mark have not been sustained
for more than two months at a time.  Future optimism eased for a second straight month. The Six-
Month Outlook index came in at 71.4 in March from 77.8 in
February.  Purchase volume and job growth advanced at a slower pace.
The Quantity of Purchases index decreased to 61.8 in March from
February’s ten-month high of 64.8. The Employment index dipped
to 62.0 in March from February’s eight-month high of 62.5.  Higher input prices were a little less widespread. The
Prices Paid index pulled back to 63.0 in March from February’s
two-and-a-half year high of 68.2.  Business impediments  Labor shortages - skilled and unskilled - picked up. So did
supply disruptions, some anecdotally related to the Japan
disaster. Raw material shortages were at a seven-month high, and
weather/natural disasters were at a twelve-month high.  March’s Question of the Month:  Oil and gasoline prices have surged in recent weeks. How is
the higher cost of energy affecting your organization?
Respondents cited pass-through to selling prices slightly more
than cuts in demand, although a large majority mentioned no
effect. The question was last asked in June 2008 when cuts in
demand were more prevalent - and the economy was in recession.  SOURCE: National Association of Purchasing Management- New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  