-- 
NFL Players Seek Order Barring Owners From Accessing Lockout-Related Money

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-31T23:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/nfl-players-seek-order-barring-owners-from-accessing-lockout-related-money.html
National Football League  players
asked a federal judge to bar team owners’ access to some
lockout-related revenue until the labor dispute between them is
resolved.  In a filing today with U.S. District Judge David Doty in
 Minneapolis , the players asked for an order enforcing a special
master’s award of $6.9 million, punitive damages and an
injunction preventing the owners of the league’s 32 teams from
accessing what they called “lockout provision funds.” The
request was filed as part of a 1992 lawsuit between the players
and the league.  The owners locked out the players on March 11, hours after
the National Football League Players Association announced it
would no longer act as a union and after 10 players, including
New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady , filed a new lawsuit
accusing the NFL of violating federal antitrust laws.  The players today also asked Doty for an order that an
undisclosed amount of money due from DirecTV, the satellite-
television provider that offers a subscription package to see
every NFL game, be placed in escrow until the lockout ends.  The 1992 case, filed in the name of defensive lineman
Reggie White, concerns a dispute over $4 billion in television-
derived revenue. White died in 2004.  Unsealing Opposed  The NFL on March 16 filed papers with Doty opposing a bid
by players to unseal arbitration records in the dispute. The
league said the disclosures “would cause commercial harm to the
NFL.”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the NFL, wouldn’t discuss the
relief sought today by the players. He said in an e-mailed
statement that the league’s response is due April 21 and a
hearing is set for May 12. He declined to comment further.  The 1992 case is White v. NFL, 4:92-cv-00906, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota (Minneapolis). The latest case is
Brady v. National Football League, 0:11-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  