-- 
Nigerians Kill for Election to Parliament With $100,000 a Month Pay, Perks

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-04-01T12:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/nigeria-starts-elections-in-a-violent-struggle-for-the-spoils-of-office.html
Nigeria holds the first of its
three-stage national elections tomorrow as candidates vie to win
a seat in parliament, a job that pays $100,000 a month in a
country where half the people earn less than $1 a day.  The spoils of office in  Africa ’s top oil producer are one
reason why a violent electoral campaign has claimed the lives of
more than 50 people since July, according to  Amnesty
International . In a March 3 attack, at least 10 people died when
explosives were hurled at a rally of President Goodluck Jonathan’s ruling People’s  Democratic Party  in the town of
Suleja.  “Every office appears worth killing for, given the amount
of money they make,” said Jibrin Ibrahim, director of the
Centre for Democracy and Development, a group based in Abuja,
the capital, that campaigns for democracy and good governance.
“That’s why we’re seeing this level of violence.”  The concern about sectarian and election-related violence
has sparked domestic demand for foreign currency, central bank
Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a March 15 interview in Abuja.
That has weakened the naira, which reached an 18-month low
against the dollar on March 17.  “People want to see a smooth transition, a free and fair
election before they bring back the money,” he said.  Borders Closed  All land borders are to be closed from midday today until 6
a.m. on April 3 to “ensure peaceful and hitch-free” elections,
the Ministry of Internal Affairs said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  While an armed insurgency in the Niger River delta that cut
more than 28 percent of the nation’s oil output from 2006 to
2009 remains relatively quiet, parts of the north have been hit
by a mounting campaign of violence by Islamic militants inspired
by  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement.  Jonathan’s PDP currently holds majorities of about 54
percent in the 109-member Senate and the 360-seat  House of
Representatives . Of the 59 bills the two chambers passed from
the start of their tenure in 2007 to the end of last year,
including their pay structure, none were part of the governing
party’s political program, said Clement Nwankwo, executive
director of the Abuja-based  Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre ,
which tracks parliamentary activities.  ‘Selfish Advantage’  “That advantage was never deployed to a higher national
goal,” Nwankwo said in a phone interview yesterday. “Instead,
they took selfish advantage of their powers to budget for
themselves extravagant pay and allowances.”  While basic pay for legislators was set at between 1.9
million naira ($12,250) and 2.4 million naira a month, the
lawmakers in 2007 approved legislation that gave them monthly
allowances of as much as 400 percent of their salary for 21
items including cars, furniture and housing, enabling them to
collect as much as 15 million naira a month each.  Jonathan, who succeeded former President Umaru Yar’Adua on
his death on May 5, tried to rein in spending this year by
cutting recurrent outlays by 29 percent. Parliament rebuffed him
and raised the budget 17 percent to 4.97 trillion naira.  Since  Nigeria ’s return to civilian government in 1999 after
15 years of military rule, the PDP has presided over the
spending of more than $300 billion in oil export revenue. During
that time income disparities have widened, with 54 percent of
the population living on less than a dollar a day, about 22
million citizens illiterate, and maternal mortality of 800 per
100,000 live births, a rate among the highest in the world,
according to the  United Nations Development Programme .  Poverty  “People in Nigeria see very little in terms of
infrastructure, health and basic services,” Sola Tayo, an
analyst at London-based research group,  Chatham House , said by
phone on March 30. “And to hear that people who should be
responsible for providing these things are getting all that
money is bound to fuel resentment. They don’t seem to be doing
much for all that money.”  About a quarter of last year’s budget, about 1.12 trillion
naira, went to pay 17,474 officials in federal, state and local
governments, according to the  Revenue Mobilization Allocation
and Fiscal Commission , the Abuja-based agency responsible for
setting their pay.  Finance Minister Olusegun Aganga called this year’s budget
“unimplementable,” while Sanusi cited the spending boom as a
reason for the decision on March 22 to raise the benchmark
interest rate by a percentage point to 7.5 percent.  ‘Cost of Governance’  “We have a constitution that says we must have a minister
from every state, so we must have 36 ministers. Do we need 36
ministries? These are questions that we need to ask,” Sanusi
said in a speech on March 19. “Can we do something about that
and reduce the cost of governance and free up funds for
education and health?”  Tomorrow’s vote will be followed in a week by the
presidential election. That race pits Jonathan against 18
rivals, including former military ruler Muhammadu Buhari and the
ex-head of the anti-graft agency,  Nuhu Ribadu , who is the
candidate of the Action Congress of Nigeria. A week after that,
voters choose state governors and legislatures.  The main opposition parties, the ACN and Buhari’s Congress
for Progressive Change, stand a good chance of cutting into the
PDP’s parliamentary majority, Nwankwo said.  Flawed Vote  The last elections, in 2007, were condemned as flawed by
international and local monitors for violent intimidation of
voters, falsification of figures and widespread ballot-
snatching. Jonathan pledged a more transparent vote and won
plaudits by appointing a respected academic, Attahiru Jega, to
head the  Independent National Electoral Commission .  “This is an opportunity for Nigeria to demonstrate its
capacity to both manage and hold democratic elections, which are
the desire of the people,” U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
for African Affairs Johnnie Carson said in a March 29
 teleconference  with reporters. The last elections “were deeply
flawed and, in fact, were poorly administered and poorly run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 