-- 
Northrop’s $6.7 Billion Spinoff May Set Defense Trend

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-04-06T22:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/northrop-s-6-7-billion-dramatic-ship-spinoff-may-set-trend.html
(Corrects story published March 31 in 16th paragraph to
say General Dynamics makes nuclear submarines)  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , the third
largest U.S. defense contractor, has potentially set a precedent
for other defense giants by spinning off its $6.7 billion ship
unit as Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.  “This is one of the first big divestitures in a long time
and it’s pretty dramatic because of that,” David Berteau,
director of defense-industrial initiatives at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, a nonpartisan study group.  Other defense contractors may consider spinning off “their
armament division or rotorcraft business and still retain a
core” as Northrop has, Berteau said. The Pentagon may not stop
such divestitures because it hasn’t yet analyzed the effect of
spinoffs, Berteau said. He declined to name companies that might
be candidates for similar actions.  Los Angeles-based Northrop’s chief executive officer, Wes Bush, last July decided to divest the ship unit because it had
“little synergy” with the rest of the corporation, whose
products include Global Hawk surveillance drones and electronic
radar. The decision marked a reversal for a company whose former
CEO, Kent Kresa, made 20 acquisitions between 1990 and 2003,
expanding the airplane maker’s business into shipbuilding.  In November, Bush chose to spin off rather than sell the
unit that makes nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, submarines
and destroyers because offers from private equity bidders
weren’t high enough, people familiar with the discussions said.  Northrop rose 49 cents to $62.71 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have gained 25 percent since July
13, when Bush announced the company would seek options for
divesting the ship unit. Huntington Ingalls began trading today
as an independent company under the ticker HII and closed at
$41.50.  Spinoff Versus Sale  Company strategies vary on whether to spin off or sell
units that no longer fit their strategies,  Howard Rubel , a New
York-based analyst for Jeffries & Co., said in a phone
interview.  In Northrop’s case, a “spinoff was appropriate and in
other cases a sale was appropriate,” Rubel said, citing the
example of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, the world’s largest
defense supplier, in February sold its Pacific Architects &
Engineers unit to private equity firm Lindsay Goldberg & Co. The
company also sold its Enterprise Integration Group unit to
comply with U.S. regulations.  ITT Corp. (ITT) , whose defense unit makes military night-vision
goggles and jammers to counter roadside bombs, announced in
January it would split the company into three parts -- a defense
company, a unit focused on water business and a third dealing in
specialized products for oil and gas industries.  Huntington Ingalls  Shareholders of Northrop get one share of Huntington
Ingalls for every six shares of the parent company, according to
Northrop.  The new unit, which had 2010 sales of $6.7 billion, will
operate yards at Avondale,  Louisiana ; Pascagoula,  Mississippi ;
and  Newport News ,  Virginia , according to Northrop. The company
will have 39,000 employees and will be based in Newport News.
CEO Bush has said the company plans to close Avondale yard by
2013 and move work to Mississippi.  The separation of the ship unit will mark the end of an
eight-month process when Northrop worked to overcome Pentagon
concerns that the stand-alone unit may lack the financial
strength to meet its obligations, including pension liabilities
and unforeseen cleanup expenses from the planned closure of the
Avondale yard, according to a government official familiar with
the negotiations.  The Navy on March 15 said Northrop had resolved all
concerns posed by the spinoff, without further explanation.  Spinoff Debt  Huntington Ingalls will start with a net debt of $1.58
billion, Northrop said last week.  Northrop is applying “much of their debt to the spinoff,”
as is common in spinoffs, William Mitchell, author of Spinoff &
Reorg Profiles, a monthly newsletter published from  Costa Mesa ,
 California , said in an interview. Still, investors may be
attracted to Huntington, seeing the unit as “too big to fail,”
he said. Huntington is the sole supplier of nuclear-powered
carriers and shares submarine work for the Navy with  Falls
Church , Va.,-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   Northrop, the parent company, would benefit from lower debt
and a higher return on invested capital than the ship unit,
Mitchell said.  Huntington’s long-term goal is a profit margin exceeding 9
percent, compared with 5.5 percent in 2010. Success depends on
“how good the management team” led by CEO Michael Petters will
be at “wringing cost out of the business,” Rubel said. He has
a “buy” rating on Northrop shares.  ‘More Attuned’  Still, Huntington is “not going to collapse,” Rubel said.
“The reality is the operational focus of Huntington Ingalls can
be better and more attuned” to the Navy’s needs, “as opposed
to being part of a large corporate portfolio.”  Northrop’s earnings have been hurt by $431 million in
charges since 2008 for delays, poor-quality work and damage from
 Hurricane Katrina  at Avondale and Pascagoula.  Huntington’s potential for improved profit margins over the
next five years will generate investor interest in the company,
Michael Broudo, New York-based analyst for Miller Tabak & Co.
LLC wrote in a March 25 note to clients. He has a “buy” rating
on Huntington.  Spun off entities often yield better returns for investors
than the broad market, according to the Bloomberg U.S. Spin-Off
Index. The index, which includes  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) ,
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and cigarette maker  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ,
jumped 170 percent from Dec. 31, 2002, through yesterday. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has increased 51 percent over the
same period.  Not all divestitures succeed at first, Mitchell said,
citing the example of Tronox Inc., which was spun off from Kerr-
McGee Corp. in 2006. Since the separation, Tronox, the maker of
titanium dioxide, went into Chapter 11 bankruptcy in May 2009,
after environmental clean-up costs saddled the company with $550
million in liabilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  