-- 
Norway Spending, Credit Growth Add to Rate Pressure

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-31T09:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/norway-spending-credit-growth-add-to-pressure-on-norges-bank.html
(Corrects to say three months in first paragraph.)  Norwegian retail sales rose the
most in three months in February as falling unemployment and low
borrowing costs boost spending, adding to pressure on Norges
Bank to lift  interest rates .  Retail sales excluding motor vehicles and gasoline rose 2.7
percent in February from a year earlier, after rising an annual
0.4 percent in January, Oslo-based  Statistics Norway  said on its
website today. Annual credit growth for households accelerated
last month to 6.6 percent from 6.5 percent the previous month,
the agency said.  “This is a very strong outcome,” Camilla Viland, an
analyst at DnB NOR ASA, said by phone today. “The Norwegian
figures, in particular the retail sales, maybe heighten the
probability of a rate hike from Norges Bank already in May.”  Norges Bank, which has kept its benchmark rate at 2 percent
since May last year, signaled this month it may start raising
borrowing costs earlier than previously indicated to quell a
credit-driven surge in property prices.  The krone gained 0.3 percent against the euro to trade at
7.8544 at 10:49 a.m.  “ House prices  and  consumer spending  have picked up,”
Norges Bank said in its latest  monetary policy report . To avoid
financial imbalances, the key policy rate “should be increased
in the near term,” the bank said. Policy makers will meet on
May 12 to decide on interest rates.  Europe ’s lowest unemployment rate and an economic recovery
that will see non-oil output grow 3.25 percent this year,
according to the central bank, have spurred household spending
on retail goods.  Norges Bank forecasts it will raise rates to an average of
2.25 percent this year and 3.5 percent next year. The economy,
excluding oil and gas output, will grow 3.75 percent next year,
the bank estimates. A rebound in exports is driving  Norway ’s
economic expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  