-- 
Ohio Lawmakers Pass Government Union Curbs That Let Kasich Channel Walker

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-31T04:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ohio-lawmakers-pass-government-union-curbs-that-let-kasich-channel-walker.html
Ohio  lawmakers sent a bill limiting
collective bargaining by state and city workers to Governor  John Kasich  for his signature, passing a measure similar to the
Wisconsin bill that spurred protests from coast to coast.  The Senate voted 17-16 for the measure yesterday after the
 House of Representatives  passed it earlier in the day. Kasich
has backed the bill, which also would require government workers
to make minimum payments for health-care coverage and pensions.  Ohio Democrats have pledged to ask voters to repeal the
measure. That would require more than 231,000 voters to sign
petitions within 90 days of passage to prevent it from taking
effect until the public vote, according to the secretary of
state. The measure and a similar bill sought by Wisconsin
Governor  Scott Walker  have spurred nationwide labor protests.  “These folks are not numbers on a page or lines on a
graph,” said Representative Matt Szollosi, a Democrat from
 Oregon , near Toledo. “They do not deserve to be slapped in the
face and put further into harm’s way, because the liberty groups
or Tea Party groups or whoever is pulling the Republican strings
right now have demonized public workers.”  Ohio’s Republican-led House voted 53-44 yesterday to accept
changes made by a committee March 29, sending the measure to the
Senate, which concurred and moved it to Republican Kasich.  Needed Measure  “Helping local governments reduce their costs so they can
begin lightening Ohio’s tax burden helps us compete better
against states that are far friendlier to job creators,” Kasich
said in a statement released after the Senate vote.  Similar legislation passed in  Wisconsin  and championed by
Republican Walker has been challenged in court by Democrats.
Opponents are seeking recall elections of eight Republican
senators who supported the measure in Madison.  With states facing combined shortfalls that may reach $112
billion during the next fiscal year, Kasich and Walker say the
bills will help balance budgets without raising taxes and give
state and local governments tools to control costs.  Democrats and labor leaders say the two governors, both
elected in November, are trying to break unions and cripple
their support of Democratic candidates. The bill in Wisconsin
prompted Senate Democrats to flee the state to block passage for
weeks and drew tens of thousands of protesters to the Capitol.
Similar protests occurred in Columbus, Ohio’s capital, and in
states from  California  to  Massachusetts  last month.  ‘Workplace Democracy’  “Collective bargaining, in my view, is democracy in the
workplace,” said Senator Tom Sawyer, an Akron Democrat, ahead
of yesterday’s vote in Columbus.  Members of government unions at all levels “are people
with families, often times living paycheck to paycheck,”
Representative Szollosi said.  One such worker, Tim Alger, 38, a firefighter from
Portsmouth, across the  Ohio River  from  Kentucky , said the bill
will cut his family’s income by 10 percent. He came to the
Statehouse to protest outside the House chamber.  “All the fat’s been cut and now they’re going to cut into
what we need,” said Alger. He said he has stopped contributing
to his son’s college savings to pay his monthly bills.  Ohio  House Republicans  changed the bill, prohibiting
contracts that require employees who aren’t union members to pay
“fair share” fees and banning deductions for contributions to
a political action committee, according to  an analysis  by the
 Ohio Legislative Service Commission .  Bargaining Restrictions  The measure limits collective bargaining to wages, hours
and working conditions. The House added a provision saying that
public-safety unions may still bargain over equipment issues,
the commission said. Police and fire labor leaders had said that
provision was vital to keep their members from being endangered.  The bill would eliminate binding arbitration to resolve
impasses in contract talks with public-safety unions, and outlaw
strikes by government workers. Provisions to impose fines and
jail time for violations of the no-strike rule were removed, the
commission said.  Government workers would be required to pay at least 15
percent of the costs for their health insurance, while their
employers would be barred from covering workers’ pension
contributions. It replaces automatic pay increases with merit-
based adjustments.  About half of Ohio voters surveyed disagreed with limiting
bargaining by government unions, a Quinnipiac University poll
said this month. By a margin of 55 percent to 37 percent,
registered voters said limiting union bargaining wasn’t
“necessary to help balance” state budgets, the poll showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Stevens Point, Wisconsin at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  