-- 
Commodities Gain for Third Quarter, Led by Oil, as Earthquake Saps Stocks

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-04-01T16:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/oil-leads-quarterly-gains-on-middle-east-unrest-as-earthquake-saps-stocks.html
Oil’s biggest advance in two years
led commodities to a third straight quarterly gain as political
turmoil erupted in the Middle East and north  Africa , while
stocks were curbed by Japan’s strongest earthquake on record.  Brent jumped 5 percent in March for a three-month gain of
24 percent, helping to drive the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total
Return Index 12 percent higher. The MSCI World Index of stocks
fell 1.2 percent last month, paring its quarterly advance to 4.3
percent. Bonds were little changed and the Dollar Index, a gauge
of the currency against those of six major U.S. trading
partners, lost 4 percent.  Rising food prices sparked protests in Tunisia and Egypt
and fighting erupted in Libya as unrest swept across a region
that produces about 35 percent of the world’s oil. Central banks
from China to  Brazil  raised interest rates, while  Japan  grappled
with the worst nuclear crisis since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster
following the March 11 quake that left more than 27,000 people
dead or missing. Government bonds may fall through the rest of
the year, while stocks and oil extend gains, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The two largest themes have been Middle East-North Africa
unrest and the Japan quake,” said  Francisco Blanch , head of
commodities research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New
York . “These two things will have important implications for
markets over the next quarters and years. We’ve lost a lot of
oil supply. The potential for unrest doesn’t stop in Libya.”  Dwindling Returns  The quarterly gain in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index was the third
straight, as investors bet radiation leaks from the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant following the magnitude-9 quake and
tsunami would hamper industrial production and sap growth. The
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slid 8.2 percent in March, ending a
four-month rally and producing a quarterly drop of 4.6 percent.
Tokyo Electric Power Co., which runs the plant, lost 78 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 5.4 percent,
following gains exceeding 10 percent in the previous two
quarters. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was little changed in the
quarter, as was the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index ended the quarter down 1.4 percent, its first loss since
dropping 9.8 percent in the three months ended June 30, 2010.  The  S&P 500  will climb a further 7.5 percent by the end of
the year, according to the median of 13 strategists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Supporting Markets’  “It is remarkable to me how well stocks have done, given
all the headlines,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer
at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, which oversees $55
billion. “I suspect it’s the largesse of central banks and
federal governments that they’ve been pretty much supporting
their markets for years now. So far this year, we think negative
in bonds, positive in stocks and commodities.”  Global sovereign, corporate, asset-backed and mortgage
bonds lost 0.07 percent this quarter through March 30, after
tumbling 1.64 percent in the final three months of 2010, the
worst performance since losing 1.67 percent in the three months
ended June 30, 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  U.S. government bonds fell 0.14 percent, extending a 2.7
percent drop in the final three months of 2010, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master Index shows. German bunds
slipped 2.23 percent, following a loss of 2.64 percent in the
prior quarter. Portugal’s debt tumbled 8.26 percent as
speculation the nation would be the third nation in the euro
region to seek a bailout sent yields to all-time highs.  Central Bank Stimulus  Government bonds are falling amid speculation that the
world’s major central banks may soon end unprecedented monetary
stimulus. European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
said in March that  interest rates  in the region may rise as soon
as this month. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said policy makers should consider curtailing purchases
of Treasuries earlier than planned as the economy strengthens.  “If the economy is as strong as I think and hope it will
be in 2011, I think it will be time for us to start to reverse
our ultra-aggressive and ultra-easy monetary policy,” Bullard
told reporters at a financial conference in  Prague  this week.
“We could pull up a little bit shy of our total” of $600
billion in purchases through June, he said.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note may rise
42 basis points to 3.89 percent by year-end, from 3.47 percent
on March 31, according to the median of 63 strategists’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  America’s Economy  America’s economy, the world’s largest, may expand 3.1
percent this year, up from 2.9 percent in 2010 and the most
since 2005, according to the median estimate of 68 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecasts a
global economic expansion of 4.8 percent this year, while
JPMorgan Chase & Co. predicts 4.4 percent. The average over the
past two decades is 3.4 percent.  The People’s Bank of  China  raised interest rates last month
for the third time since mid-October. Policy makers in Brazil
lifted the nation’s benchmark rate a second consecutive time in
March. Central banks in  India , Russia, Sweden, Poland,  South
Korea , Peru, Chile, the Philippines, Thailand and Israel also
increased borrowing costs.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, fell to
75.996, from 79.028 at the end of 2010. The measure dropped to
75.249 on March 22, the lowest level since December 2009.  Sweden, Japan  The Swedish krona rose the most against the dollar among
the 16 most-widely traded currencies, appreciating 6.13 percent,
followed by the euro’s 5.78 percent gain. The Dollar Index is
likely to slip a further 0.3 percent by year-end, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Japan’s yen fell the most, weakening 2.42 percent, while
New Zealand’s dollar depreciated 2.4 percent as that nation
dealt with the aftermath of its own earthquake.  The yen depreciated tumbled as Group of Seven nations sold
the currency on March 18 after it reached its strongest level
since World War II. The yen surged in the days following the
earthquake on speculation investors would repatriate funds to
help the reconstruction effort. It tumbled the most in more than
two years against the dollar on the day of the sales.  The euro strengthened against 15 of the 16 major currencies
as the prospect of higher interest rates overshadowed concern
that the sovereign-debt crisis will worsen. It may weaken to
$1.35 by year-end, from $1.4158 yesterday, according to the
median of 39 analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Crude, Cotton  Crude and refined products posted three of the four biggest
gains among the 24 materials on the GSCI Index, as anti-
government protests in  Libya , home to Africa’s largest oil
reserves, turned into an armed conflict. Gasoil climbed about 28
percent and gasoline about 24 percent. Brent may decline to $100
a barrel by year-end, from $117.36 in  London  yesterday,
according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Cotton, which has a 1.1 percent weighting in the gauge, had
the biggest increase, rising 40 percent, on surging export
demand for U.S. supplies amid crop damage in China and India,
the biggest producers. Cotton may still drop about 50 percent to
$1 a pound by Dec. 31, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts and traders.  “The amplitude of the cotton price increase was a real
surprise,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “It’s been a very divided quarter
for commodity markets. It started on a very positive note on
recovery hopes. On agriculture in general, the sentiment in the
first weeks of this year was extremely optimistic. Then the
turmoil in North Africa, and under pressure from what’s going on
in Japan, the whole tenor of the market reversed.”  Production ‘Trickle’  Oil production in Libya fell to a “trickle” as fighting
between rebels and soldiers loyal to Muammar Qaddafi forced
companies to suspend operations, the Paris-based International
Energy Agency said. The country pumped 1.6 million barrels a day
in January, about 1.8 percent of global production.  Silver jumped about 20 percent during the quarter, trading
at the highest level since 1980. Lean hogs gained on speculation
of increased demand for U.S. pork supplies from Japan after
elevated levels of radioactivity were discovered in milk and
vegetables in parts of the country.  Raw sugar futures, wheat and rice all declined. Copper slid
on the London Metal Exchange, and gold for immediate delivery
advanced 0.8 percent to $1,432.30 an ounce, after reaching a
record $1,447.82 March 24.  Emerging Markets  In emerging markets, Hungarian stocks were the best
performers, with the BUX Index gaining 8 percent. The forint
appreciated 9.8 percent against the dollar as the government
promised to reduce spending and delay tax cuts.  Russia’s Micex Index jumped 7.4 percent as investors bet
the world’s biggest energy exporter would benefit from gains in
oil. Holders of ruble-denominated bonds earned 10.4 percent in
the quarter, the strongest performance since the second quarter
of 2009 and topping the 1.8 percent average for emerging
markets, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co. GBI-EM Unhedged
Index. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 1.7 percent.  The first quarter “could be split down the middle with
roughly the first 45 days representing an attempt to get
exposure across that board and the final 45 days being a period
of correction and consolidation,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman
of Marketfield Asset Management, which oversees $1 billion in
New York. “There have been some dramatic headlines accompanying
this latter period, but for the majority of the U.S. equity
market they strike us as fairly irrelevant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  