-- 
Oil Heads for Third Quarterly Gain as Libya Disruptions Counter U.S. Glut

-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-03-31T03:16:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/oil-heads-for-third-quarterly-gain-as-libya-disruptions-counter-u-s-glut.html
Oil rose, heading for a third
quarterly gain in  New York , as concern the Libyan conflict will
prolong production cuts countered signs of rising supplies in
the U.S., the world’s largest crude consumer.  Prices advanced as much as 0.5 percent today after troops
loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  forced rebels to retreat
as the U.S. and U.K. said they would consider arming opposition
forces. Crude stockpiles climbed to a record last week at the
delivery point for U.S. futures and fuel consumption fell,
according to an Energy Department report yesterday.  “Investors are torn between the inventory levels in the
U.S. and event risk in the Middle East,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney.
“Inventory levels are continuing to build and demand continues
to fall, which suggest to me that the market has ample supply.”  Crude for May delivery advanced as much as 50 cents to
$104.77 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $104.67 at 10:55 a.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract fell 52 cents to settle at
$104.27. Futures have increased 15 percent between January and
March, the strongest first quarter since 2005. Prices topped
$106 three times this month before retreating.  Brent oil for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose as much as 46 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $115.59 a barrel. Prices are up 22 percent this
quarter. The European benchmark traded at a $10.86 premium to
U.S. futures, from a record $19.54 on Feb. 21. The gap has
averaged 76 cents last year and $10.98 in the first three months
of the year.  Crude Stockpiles  Oil supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , where New York-traded
West Texas Intermediate grade is delivered, increased by 1.69
million barrels, or 4.2 percent, to 41.9 million, according to
the Energy Department. That’s the highest in records since 2004.  Total crude inventories climbed 2.95 million barrels in the
week ended March 25 to 355.7 million as imports continued to
rise, the Energy Department said. It was the fourth weekly
increase in supplies and almost double a median gain of 1.5
million barrels forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  A measure of fuel demand decreased 3.7 percent to 18.6
million barrels a day, the lowest since November, the report
showed. Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
gained 0.8 cent to $3.595 a gallon yesterday, the highest since
October 2008, according to  AAA , the country’s largest motoring
organization.  Gasoline Futures  Gasoline futures for April delivery settled at $3.064 a
gallon yesterday, the highest since Aug. 27, 2008. The more
actively traded May contract was at $3.068 today.  Gasoline is the second-biggest gainer so far this quarter
among 22 commodities tracked by Bloomberg, behind a 34 percent
jump in cotton. Sugar, down 15 percent, is the worst performer.  The conflict in  Libya , a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is the bloodiest in a wave of
uprisings that has toppled the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and
spread to  Algeria ,  Bahrain ,  Iran ,  Oman , Syria and Yemen.  Output from Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest producer, has
slumped to a “trickle” as companies suspended operations and
evacuate staff, the Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said
March 15. The country pumped 1.6 million barrels a day in
January, according to Bloomberg estimates.  ‘Risk Premium’  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron said they may consider sending arms to opposition
forces.  Rebels , after advancing toward Qaddafi’s hometown of
Sirte, withdrew in the face of artillery and rocket attacks as
pro-Qaddafi forces retook control of the oil port of Ras Lanuf.
Allied air strikes have been hampered by bad weather for two
days, U.S. administration officials told Congress, according to
Representative Norm Dicks.  “We can expect, as people get used to the concerns in the
Gulf, that the risk-event premium will start to erode,” said
Barratt at Commodity Broking Services. “Prices should correct a
little bit and come back to more realistic levels.”  Qatar’s Oil Minister Mohammed Saleh Al Sada said yesterday
there’s no need for OPEC, a 12-member group pumps 40 percent of
the world’s crude, to hold an emergency meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee at   jalee@bloomberg.net  