-- 
Toll Brothers Joins With Deutsche Bank to Buy Distressed Real Estate Loans

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-31T12:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/toll-brothers-joins-with-deutsche-bank-to-buy-distressed-real-estate-loans.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest
U.S. luxury-home builder, and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  bought non-
performing real estate loans with a face value of about $200
million, the companies said in a statement today.  The portfolio, purchased from an unnamed financial
institution, consists of 83 loans that are mainly for the
acquisition, development and construction of residential
properties in nine states and  Washington , D.C., the companies
said. The average loan is for about $2.4 million.  “Deutsche Bank’s financial resources and structuring
expertise coupled with Toll Brothers’ proven ability to
underwrite, workout and create value in real estate across the
nation make this an exciting transaction,” Douglas C. Yearley
Jr., chief executive officer of Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Toll
Brothers, said in the statement.  Toll Brothers and  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-biggest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, have moved into managing and trading
distressed real estate assets to boost earnings as demand for
houses slumps. U.S. new-home sales sank last month to their
lowest pace in records dating to 1963, according to the Commerce
Department.  The transaction with Deutsche Bank is the second for Toll
Brothers’ distressed investing division, Gibraltar Capital Asset
& Management LLC. The unit joined Oaktree Capital Management LP
and Milestone Asset Resolution Co. last year to purchase a
portfolio of loans from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Those loans, with a $1.7 billion face value, were originated by
Amtrust Bank, which was seized by regulators in 2009.  The cost of the the purchase with Deutsche Bank wasn’t
disclosed. Toll Brothers acquired a majority interest and will
be the portfolio manager conducting the day-to-day management
and workout of the loans, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 