-- 
Tombini Tells Brazil Lawmakers It’s Hard to Curb Real Gains

-- B y   M a r i o   B e s s a   L i m a   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-03-31T17:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/tombini-tells-brazil-lawmakers-it-s-hard-to-curb-real-gains-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini told lawmakers today that it’s hard to prevent
the real from appreciating given the attractiveness of the
economy as an investment destination, lower house representative
Claudio Puty said after meeting with Tombini.  Tombini told members of the congressional finance and tax
committee that he expects inflation to ease in the second half
of this year, Puty, who heads the committee, said in a telephone
interview today. The government may adopt additional curbs on
 consumer credit  to fight inflation, adding that any increases in
interest rates will be gradual, Puty said.  “He said the government is taking the proper measures on
the exchange rate, such as the tax increase,” Puty said.
“Tombini said it is hard to control the  exchange rate  in
Brazil, because of the country’s powerful economy, foreigners’
confidence and big liquidity in the international market.”  Brazil’s real retreated from the highest level since August
2008 after the central bank intervened four times today in the
market to slow its advance. The government also raised this week
taxes on foreign loans by companies and debt-selling by banks
overseas, in a bid to slow a currency rally.  The central bank said it bought dollars for immediate
delivery twice today, the first time for 1.6262 reais each and
later for 1.6285. The bank also announced two auctions of 30,000
reverse currency swaps each, calling the second after rejecting
all bids in the first offer.  Strong Currency  The real strengthened 42.8 percent against the dollar in
the last 24 months, the second-best performance after the
Australian dollar among the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The real gained 2.1 percent this year.  The real strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.6264 per dollar at
12:52 p.m. New York time, from 1.6288 yesterday, after rising as
much as 0.5 percent earlier today. Yields on interest rate
future contracts due January 2012, the most traded on the BM&F
Bovespa stock exchange today, fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 12.11 percent.  Brazil imposed a tax of 6 percent on international bond
sales and loans with an average minimum maturity of up to 360
days, according to a decree by president  Dilma Rousseff 
published in the Official Gazette this week. Companies had paid
a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90 days and zero tax when the
operation exceeded three months.  “Tombini said that prudential measures are yielding
results and that the central bank is monitoring the market,”
Puty said. “He added that policy makers will, when necessary,
adopt more orthodox monetary policy measures and that any
increase in the benchmark interest rate will keep being done
gradually.”  Inflation Accelerates  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index
accelerated 6.13 percent in the year through mid-March, from
6.08 percent in mid-February. Policy makers estimate inflation
in the third quarter may exceed the top range of the
government’s 4.5 percent target, plus or minus two percentage
points, before slowing in the fourth quarter, according to the
central bank’s reference scenario published in its quarterly
inflation report yesterday.  The bank also said in the report that it will seek to bring
inflation down to its 4.5 percent target in 2012 as the economic
costs of meeting the goal this year would be “too high.”  The bank will use monetary policy to “ensure the
convergence of inflation to target in 2012,” policy makers
said. “In the current circumstances, good practice recommends
that one seeks a smoother convergence of inflation to its
target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  