-- 
London Police Lose Bid to End Lawyer’s Libel Case on Hacking

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T17:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/london-police-lose-bid-to-end-lawyer-s-libel-case-on-hacking-1-.html
London’s Metropolitan Police lost a
bid to end a lawsuit claiming they defamed a lawyer representing
celebrities whose phone messages were hacked by  Rupert Murdoch ’s
News of the World newspaper.  The police, which are investigating the hacking, must go to
trial over attorney  Mark Lewis ’s claims they wrongfully implied
he was a liar when contradicting testimony he gave to a
parliamentary committee in 2009, Judge Michael Tugendhat ruled
today at the  High Court  in London.  “The words complained of are capable of being understood
in the meaning attributed to them by Mr. Lewis,” Tugendhat said
in the judgment. “Whether that is what they meant is another
question and will be determined at the trial.”  At the hearing, Lewis recounted a conversation outside a
London courtroom in 2007 or 2008, in which a police detective
said as many as 6,000 phones may have been hacked. Police
Commissioner  John Yates  said at the same committee hearing that
“a handful” of people may have had their phones hacked and not
been made aware by authorities.  The ruling is the latest development in a scandal triggered
by News of the World’s former royal editor  Clive Goodman  and a
private investigator employed by the  News Corp. (NWSA)  newspaper, Glen Mulcaire, who were both jailed five years ago for hacking into
the voicemails of members of the royal household.  Since then, more than a dozen lawsuits have been filed
against the newspaper and police have been sued for failing to
disclose evidence from an earlier probe. The police haven’t
officially said how many phones may have been hacked.  Soccer Executive  Lewis, who represented soccer executive  Gordon Taylor  in a
lawsuit over hacking and currently represents other celebrities
in similar cases, said police tried to “brush him aside” and
“bad-mouth him.”  “The police attempted to bring my case to an end and
therefore stop the truth from getting out,” Lewis said outside
court. “They thought I’d just roll over.”  Tugendhat ordered the police to pay 20,000 pounds ($32,100)
of Lewis’s initial legal costs in the case. A date for trial
wasn’t scheduled.  A police spokesman, who declined to be identified, said he
couldn’t comment on today’s ruling because the litigation is
ongoing. The spokesman also declined to comment on behalf of
Yates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 