-- 
Moody’s Signals More Euro-Nation Downgrades Possible on ESM's Limitations

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T10:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/moody-s-signals-euro-nation-downgrades-possible-if-bailout-is-insufficient.html
Moody’s Investors Service said it
can’t rule out further credit downgrades for euro-region nations
because the agreement on a permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, doesn’t go far enough.  European Union leaders met March 25 and set out new rules
on bailout loans. Their failure so far to provide a permanent
system whereby stronger nations support the finances of their
weaker counterparts leaves bondholders at risk, Moody’s said.  “The absence of a fiscal-transfer mechanism and the
conditions under which assistance will prospectively be made
available leave downside risk to private creditors,” the rating
agency said in an e-mailed report today. “Consequently, further
rating downgrades cannot be ruled out.”  Bonds of  Europe ’s so-called peripheral nations have fallen
since the summit in Brussels. Portuguese bonds’ extra yield, or
spread, over their German counterparts soared to a euro-era
record today on speculation a bailout is inevitable.  Standard &
Poor’s  cut its ratings for Portugal and  Greece  on March 29,
while  Fitch Ratings  has said the ESM, which starts in 2013,
won’t allay concern that nations may need to restructure debts.  Moody’s rates Greece B1, Ireland Baa1 and Portugal A3.  ‘Debt Overhang’  Funding costs for stressed nations are likely to remain
problematic because of their “low projected economic growth and
in some cases a significant debt overhang,” Moody’s said.  “The pact also confirms very distinctly the possibility of
a debt restructuring if countries do not comply with the
conditionality of the program that they’re in,” Bart Oosterveld, managing director of sovereign risk at Moody’s and
one of the report’s authors, said today by phone.  As private creditors’ claims would be subordinated to EU-
level lending, “recoveries would probably be very poor for both
current bondholders of stressed sovereign credit and future
bondholders,” he said.  Some aspects of the deal “will improve the competitiveness
of sovereign credits over time in the region,” Oosterveld, who
is based in  New York , also said. “We will continue to focus 3-5
years out, medium term, on the debt trajectory, the debt
affordability and the ability of countries that are in a
package, currently Greece and Ireland, to execute.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  