-- 
OPEC Supply to Drop 2.3% on Libyan Losses, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-31T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/opec-supply-to-drop-2-3-on-libyan-losses-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will cut oil shipments to their lowest level
since October as armed conflict halts exports from  Libya ,
according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Shipments will fall to 22.91 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to April 16, down 2.3 percent from 23.44 million in
the period to March 19, the consultant said in a report today.
That’s the lowest since mid-October, the company estimates. The
data exclude Ecuador and Angola.  “I can’t see any movements from Libya at all,” Oil
Movements founder Roy Mason said by phone from Halifax,  England .
“From the market’s point of view the timing is perfect, because
this would have been a seasonal low in demand anyway.”  Libyan oil output has slumped as a conflict between its
government and insurgents forced companies including Total SA
and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to suspend operations and evacuate staff.
Crude exports from the country may be halted for many months,
the  International Energy Agency  said on March 15.  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including those
from non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen, will increase 0.9 percent
to 17.65 million barrels in the four weeks to April 16 as Saudi
Arabia and other Gulf nations fulfill a pledge to replace lost
Libyan output, Oil Movements said.  A total of 482.31 million barrels of crude will be on board
tankers in the four weeks to April 16, up 0.6 percent from the
March 19 figure of 479.36 million, according to Oil Movements.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships used as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  