-- 
Toronto-Dominion Expects Record Year for Wealth Management, Pedersen Says

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-03-31T14:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/toronto-dominion-expects-record-year-for-wealth-management-pedersen-says.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  expects
profit this year from asset-management to eclipse the record
C$501 million ($515.7 million) set in 2007, said Mike Pedersen,
head of  wealth management  at  Canada ’s second-biggest lender.  “When you’ve invested as much as we have during the
downturn in advisers and technology and products, frankly, it
will continue to pay off,” Pedersen said in an interview
yesterday in Victoria, British Columbia.  Demand for mutual funds, online trading and financial
advice has led Toronto-Dominion’s wealth management unit to
eight straight quarters of increased profit. The unit posted
earnings of C$133 million in the fiscal first quarter,
representing about 8 percent of profit.  “The wealth business is a little more volatile than
retail, so things like markets and the economic market do impact
us,” said Pedersen, who  worked  at Barclays Plc and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce before joining Toronto-Dominion in
2007. “We’ve been building the advice businesses for the past
six or seven years, and we’re now at critical mass and we’re
starting to generate significant growth.”  Although the Toronto-based bank has reached its goal of
hiring 750 to 850 advisers for investment advice, Pedersen said
the lender will continue to hire, as well as expand its network
of financial planners in the branches.  TD Ameritrade  Toronto-Dominion also began working with  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD)  last year to place advisers in its U.S. bank
locations. Toronto-Dominion is the largest shareholder in Omaha,
Nebraska-based TD Ameritrade.  “We’re in the early days of making the U.S. retail
commercial bank and TD Ameritrade partnership work, but the
early indications are very, very positive,” said Pedersen, who
took over the wealth-management role in November. “We think
that will continue to grow quite quickly.”  Toronto-Dominion holds its annual meeting today in
Victoria, where the bank donated C$250,000 to develop bike
trails.  Toronto-Dominion rose 11 cents to C$86.51 in 10:10 a.m.
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange and rose to a record high
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 