-- 
Most New York Voters Say City Is Headed in the Wrong Direction, Poll Finds

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/most-new-york-voters-say-city-headed-in-wrong-direction-marist-poll-finds.html
Most registered  New York  City
voters say the city is headed in the wrong direction in a  Marist
College poll  that showed only 40 percent approve of Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s job performance.  Sixty-five percent of those surveyed disapprove of
Bloomberg’s handling of schools, and 56 percent oppose his $65.6
billion budget, which proposes to eliminate 6,166 of 75,000
teachers. The mayor wants state permission to fire about 4,666
teachers without regard to seniority.  Bloomberg’s lowest approval rating of 37 percent came in a
January Marist poll after a Dec. 26-27 blizzard dropped 20
inches of snow, leaving some streets in Staten Island,  Brooklyn 
and Queens unplowed for more than a week. The mayor’s
performance continues to slide in  Staten Island  and Queens, with
35 percent who rate his performance as excellent or good
compared with 49 percent in early February.  “Mayor Bloomberg is not immune from ‘third term-itis,’”
said  Lee Miringoff , director of the Marist College Institute for
Public Opinion. “If you mix together the rough winter weather,
a sluggish economy and the ongoing battle over public schools,
he’s spending too much of his political capital.”  March’s 40 percent approval matched Marist’s poll finding
in April 2004, after Bloomberg pushed through an 18 percent
property-tax increase and campaigned for construction of a $1
billion domed stadium and convention facility to be paid for by
the  New York Jets . The Legislature killed the proposal.  Manhattan  Base  The only borough where Bloomberg’s approval climbed this
month was in Manhattan, where 59 percent of registered voters
were pleased with his performance, compared with 50 percent last
month, Marist said.  “Manhattan is his base,” Miringoff said in a telephone
interview from Poughkeepsie, New York. “He hasn’t been strong
in the other four boroughs for some time.”  Fifty-three percent of voters across all five boroughs said
the city is moving in the wrong direction while 42 percent said
it’s on the right track. That’s a turnaround from February, when
52 percent surveyed by Marist said the city was headed in the
right direction.  Marist last reported the mayor’s approval rating above 50
percent in April 2010, when 56 percent rated his performance as
good or excellent. His highest approval rating came in October
2008, when 68 percent rated him positively.  The Marist poll findings are consistent with a March 16
Quinnipiac University survey that reported the mayor’s lowest
rating since November 2003, with 39 percent who approve and 51
percent who don’t.  `Tough Choices'  Stu Loeser, spokesman for the mayor, attributed the low
ratings in the Quinnipiac poll to “making tough choices in a
difficult time, which is what people elected him to do.”  Marist contacted 605 voters citywide March 22-24 on their
cell and landline telephones for the poll, which had an error
margin of 4 percentage points, the polling institute said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  