-- 
House Panel Votes to Exclude Abortion From Health Tax Breaks

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-03-31T20:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/house-panel-votes-to-exclude-abortion-from-health-tax-breaks.html
The  House Ways and Means Committee 
approved a bill that would prevent women from using tax benefits
for health care to cover the cost of abortions.  The 22-14 vote today sends the bill to the full U.S. House
of Representatives. The vote on the bill was along party lines,
with all Republicans in favor and all Democrats opposed.  “We make sure that the destruction of an innocent human
life is not something that is subsidized by this government,”
said Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican.  The tax bill is part of a broader effort by Republicans who
took control of the House this year to prevent taxpayer funding
for abortion.  The legislation would bar women from using abortion costs
to claim deductions for medical expenses exceeding 7.5 percent
of adjusted gross income. They also couldn’t receive tax credits
established under last year’s health care law for insurance if
it includes abortion coverage.  Paying for Abortion  The bill also would prevent women from using tax-advantaged
health savings accounts and flexible spending arrangements to
pay for abortions.  The measure doesn’t address the two largest tax breaks for
health care. Even if it passes, employers could still deduct the
costs of health insurance that covers abortion and employees
could receive such coverage without its value counting as
taxable income.  The limits in the measure don’t apply to abortions that
save the mother’s life or to abortions that terminate
pregnancies caused by rape or incest.  It’s an “open question” whether the bill would consider
the use of the morning-after pill as an abortion, said Thomas Barthold, chief of staff of the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation.  Negligible Effect  Congressional scorekeepers  estimate that the bill would
have a negligible effect on government revenue collection.  Democrats criticized the proposal, maintaining that it
would hurt low-income women.  “I regret that it takes away from our attention and our
shared goals of  job creation  and  tax reform ,” said
Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat.  A separate bill passed by the House Judiciary Committee
would make permanent a ban on using government spending programs
to pay for abortions. Congress has routinely passed such
limitations as part of annual spending bills.  Republican tax writers criticized the ambiguous tax
language in that measure, sponsored by Republican Representative
Christopher Smith of  New Jersey . Instead, Ways and Means
Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, authored the separate
bill that his panel approved today. Camp said today that he was
trying to protect the committee’s jurisdiction over  tax policy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  