-- 
Libyan Rebel Forces Need Training More Than Weapons, Gates Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-01T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ousting-libya-s-qaddafi-not-part-of-u-s-mission-gates-says.html
Rebel forces fighting Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  have less need for sophisticated weapons than
they do for help with training and organization, U.S. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  told a Senate panel.  “What they really need is training, command and control,
and some coherent organization and I believe that that requires
advisers on the ground,” Gates told the Senate Armed Services
Committee in Washington, making clear he didn’t mean American
advisers. “More sophisticated weapons might enable them to be
more successful but I think that, frankly, is not the primary
need right now.”  When the rebels do need arms, “I think somebody else
should do that” other than the U.S., Gates told the House Armed
Services Committee, where he also testified yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  has issued a “finding” to the
Central Intelligence Agency that provides the legal framework
necessary to ask formal permission to arm the rebels, according
to a U.S. government official who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  The U.S. hasn’t yet made a decision on what assistance, if
any, should be provided to the rebels, who Gates described as
“very disparate, very scattered.”  Gates said the U.S. still has little information about the
rebels who are fighting Qaddafi, such as who led the uprisings
in the western part of the country, which is still under
Qaddafi’s control.  Qaddafi’s Tanks  Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral Michael Mullen,
testifying beside Gates, said that after almost two weeks of
coalition air attacks, Qaddafi’s forces continue to have an
almost 10 to 1 advantage in heavy equipment such as tanks,
armored personnel carriers and artillery.  “That is a great concern,” said Mullen,  As the military campaign shifts to the command of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization from U.S. leadership, the American
forces will provide mainly what other nations aren’t able to
supply, including electronic jamming, aerial refueling,
logistics, search and rescue, and intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance, Gates said.  Air-to-ground missions to protect civilians from attack
will be performed mostly by NATO, he said. Mullen said U.S. A-10
and AC-130U gunships, designed specifically to destroy tanks and
ground targets with cannon fire, won’t be used unless they are
expressly requested. Those aircraft have been flying missions
against Qaddaffi’s best units.  Limited Mission  “The military mission is a limited one and does not
include regime change,” Gates told the House panel.
“Personally, I felt strongly about that. We’ve tried regime
change before.”  Political and economic pressure and the Libyan people
probably will achieve the “welcome” removal of Qaddafi, he
said.  “However, this NATO-led operation can degrade Qaddafi’s
military capacity to the point where he -- and those around him
-- will be forced into a very different set of choices and
behaviors in the future,” Gates said.  The defense chief told lawmakers that Obama is determined
that no U.S. troops set foot on the ground in  Libya . He made no
mention of reports that Central Intelligence Agency personnel
are working in Libya with the rebel forces.  Congressional Consent  Since launching the attack on March 19, the coalition of
the U.S., U.K.,  France , Qatar, the  United Arab Emirates  and
others has managed to degrade Qaddafi’s forces by 25 to 28
percent, Mullen said.  House committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon, a
California Republican, said the administration’s goal of ousting
Qaddafi from power seems to conflict with the limits of the
military operation. “I’m concerned that such a mismatch is a
recipe for stalemate,” he said.  Representative  Adam Smith  of Washington, the top Democrat
on the panel, said that, while the failure to act to protect
Qaddafi’s opponents would have been a “crushing blow” to the
U.S. image abroad, the American public needs more information.  “I think it’s very important to explain to the American
people that this is not an open-ended commitment,” Smith said.  Gates defended the administration’s verbal and written
notifications to Congress, saying it was consistent with the
actions of previous presidents. He said he was on the White
House National Security Council’s staff when Congress passed the
 War Powers Act of 1973 , outlining requirements for consultation
with Congress.  “I think it is fair to say there has been disagreement
between the Congress and the president since then over what is
required,” Gates said.  Allied Support  While Gates inserted a note of caution about the rebels,
deputy secretary of State  James Steinberg  spoke more positively
in testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  Calling the rebels “courageous individuals,” he praised a
statement this week by the Transitional National Council, the
opposition’s ruling group, that embraced democratic ideals and
disavowed any connection to al-Qaeda. Steinberg said the
administration’s confidence in the rebels is growing and there
is little evidence of any connection with extremists.  “Being supportive of the legitimate aspirations of the
Libyan people” who oppose Qaddafi gives the U.S. the best
chance of preventing extremism from taking hold there, he said.  “The more we are able to be involved” with the opposition,
Steinberg testified, the lesser the risk of the rebels becoming
radicalized.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  