-- 
Toyota Reaches Agreement Over Handling of Source Code Evidence in Lawsuits

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T20:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/toyota-reaches-agreement-over-handling-of-source-code-evidence-in-lawsuits.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and lawyers
suing the carmaker over alleged unintended sudden acceleration
reached an accord on how to handle evidence involving the source
code Toyota uses in its vehicles, a lawyer said.  “We do have an agreement,” said Mark Robinson, one of the
lead lawyers for the plaintiffs in the consolidated federal
lawsuits in Santa Ana,  California . “The judge has approved the
plan between Toyota and the plaintiffs to allow us access to
Toyota’s source code with security protection given to Toyota.”  Access to the source code for Toyota’s electronic throttle-
control system has been an obstacle in moving the first of the
hundreds of cases involved to trial by early 2013, U.S. District
Court Judge James V. Selna has said. Selna, who is overseeing
the case, today ordered the details of the agreement sealed.  The two sides have been wrestling for several months over
how the plaintiffs’ attorneys and their experts can analyze the
source code for the automaker’s electronic system, which the
plaintiffs have said in court papers is critical to determining
whether it played a part in alleged sudden acceleration.  “Toyota is pleased to have reached an agreement on a
source code protective order that ensures the security and
strict confidentiality of this invaluable intellectual
property,”  Celeste Migliore , a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor
Sales USA in Torrance, California, said in a statement.  The Japanese automaker has cited in court papers a report
by  NASA , the U.S. space agency that conducted an analysis of
possible electronics defects for the  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration , in which there were no findings of
electronic defects in connection with sudden acceleration in the
vehicles they analyzed.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 