-- 
Toyota May Lose 500,000 Vehicles of Output Post-Earthquake, Analyst Says

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-03-31T08:55:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/toyota-may-lose-500-000-units-of-output-post-quake-endo-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  may delay the
production of at least 500,000 vehicles in Japan because of a
shortage of parts and electricity after the nation’s record
earthquake, said an analyst at Advanced Research Japan.  Toyota’s operating profit may be hurt by at least 100
billion yen ($1.2 billion) in the fiscal year ending today and
up to 200 billion yen next fiscal year, said  Koji Endo , an auto
analyst at the research company. Any impact on production that
spills overseas will further damp earnings, he said.  Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, has said the company
lost 140,000 units of production from March 14 to March 26,
citing a shortage of electronic parts, rubber and plastics. The
carmaker resumed output of three models at two factories on
March 24, prioritizing hybrids including the Prius. All 18
plants in  Japan  were halted until then. Toyota built 3.28
million cars in Japan in 2010.  “Hardly any cars will be built in April and a very low
level of production will continue from May,” Endo said.  Toyota rose 0.6 percent to 3,350 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in  Tokyo . The stock has lost 8.2 percent since March 10,
the day before the magnitude-9 temblor struck off the coast of
Sendai, north of Tokyo.  Toyota has been able to resume hybrid output using parts
from suppliers who have recovered and remaining inventory,
spokeswoman  Shiori Hashimoto  said.  Japanese manufacturers face a cut in summer power supply of
about 15 percent after the March 11 temblor knocked out
generators, curbing growth in the world’s third-largest economy.  Toyota may cooperate with other carmakers to devise a
production rotation plan or conserve power in other ways,
spokesman Masami Doi said.  Nissan Resuming Production  Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest automaker, said it
lost 55,000 units of production this month. The Yokohama-based
carmaker is supplying its factories in Japan with some
automobile components from overseas as some of the local
suppliers were affected by the earthquake and tsunami, Senior
Vice President Andy Palmer said on March 29. The parts being
supplied include engine components from the U.S. as its Iwaki
engine factory in Fukushima was damaged, he said.  Nissan will resume production at all car factories in Japan
from April 11, the company said today. A damaged engine plant in
Iwaki, Fukushima prefecture will restart mid-April, it said.  North America   The parts shortage is already affecting North American
production at Honda Motor Co., which said earlier this week it
is reducing output on the continent from March 30. The company
declined to say how much North America production would be lost
as a result of the cuts.  Tokyo-based Honda has said it will lose 46,600 units of
auto production from March 14 to April 3. Car output in Japan
will resume at half the originally planned level on April 11,
the company said today. Parts production will restart on April
4, it said.  Globally, automakers may give up production of 600,000
vehicles by the end of this month, and manufacturing at plants
in North America may be affected when parts supplies start
running out as soon as early April,  Michael Robinet , vice
president of Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Automotive, said
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  