-- 
Panama Set to Pass Tax Deal Next Month, U.S. Trade’s Sapiro Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-03-31T04:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/panama-set-to-pass-tax-deal-next-month-u-s-trade-s-sapiro-says.html
Panama ’s Congress probably will
pass a tax-information exchange agreement before taking a recess
in late April, said Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Miriam Sapiro, who is working with the nation’s trade ministry.  The accord, signed by the U.S. and Panama in November, must
be approved by the nation’s legislature before it can take
effect, clearing the way for the Obama administration to send a
free-trade agreement to Congress for consideration.  The tax deal will allow both nations to seek and exchange
bank account information, a requirement sought by U.S. lawmakers
such as Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, before they
consider the accord reached during the George W. Bush
administration.  “I have every reason to believe they will do it before
they recess,” Sapiro said late yesterday in response to a
question at a hearing of the House Ways and Means Committee’s
panel on trade in  Washington . “We are working very hard, and so
is Panama. The ball is really in their court right now.”  Panama Commerce Minister Roberto Henriquez declined to
comment in an e-mail.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is waiting for
Panama to ratify tax and labor changes it says are necessary
before that pact can be approved. The U.S. Trade
Representative’s office also is negotiating labor-rights
provisions with  Colombia  aiming to complete work on a separate
free-trade agreement.  OECD List  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
lists Panama among nations that must share tax data or face
sanctions as the Group of 20 cracks down on banking secrecy.
Tax-information agreements, which let officials request details
about citizens’ bank accounts in another nation, are needed to
ensure that taxpayers have no place to hide their income and
assets, the organization said in November.  The U.S. began negotiations with Panama on a tax-exchange
treaty in 2002. The agreement covers information since Nov. 30,
2007.  A pending free-trade agreement with  South Korea  is the
biggest prize for U.S. companies among three deals, as trade
with that nation topped $87 billion in 2010, compared with $28
billion for Colombia and $6.5 billion for Panama, according to
U.S. Census Bureau data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in  San Francisco  at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
-0- Mar/31/ :00 GMT 