-- 
Panamax Ship Rents May Fall Further on Quake, ICAP’s Slavov Says

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-03-31T16:39:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/panamax-ship-rents-may-fall-further-on-quake-icap-s-slavov-says.html
Rents for panamax ships that haul
coal and other dry-bulk commodities may fall further because
 Japan  has limited ability to handle cargoes after this month’s
earthquake, according to shipbroker ICAP Shipping International
Ltd.  Hire rates for the vessels have slid 7.1 percent since
March 10, the day before the disaster. That’s the worst
performance among the four vessel classes tracked by the Baltic
Dry Index. Japan is the world’s biggest importer of coal burned
for energy or used to make steel, according to information on
the World Coal Association’s  website .  “Short-term for panamaxes, we expected it to be bleak,”
Georgi Slavov, head of ICAP’s freight and basic-resources
research, said today in an interview at a Coaltrans conference
in Geneva. Japanese “domestic logistics are not fully
operational yet, and a lot of stems have been redirected,” he
said, using a shipping-industry term that denotes cargoes.  Japanese demand may revive starting in May, according to
Slavov, who said panamax usage also was curbed by floods this
year in northeast  Australia  that closed coal mines and cut
transportation links. The state of Queensland supplies about
half the seaborne market for coking coal used to make steel.  Panamax rates fell 2.3 percent to a daily $15,807 today,
retreating for a third day, according the  Baltic Exchange  in
 London . They slid to the lowest level since March 3. Rents for
larger capesize ships are down 1.3 percent since March 10, while
hire rates have climbed for supramax and handysize vessels
smaller than panamaxes.  The quake and subsequent tsunami shut factories, caused
power shortages and killed more than 11,000 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  