-- 
Parmalat’s Bondi Turns to Banks He Sued to Ward Off Lactalis

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-04-01T14:55:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/parmalat-s-bondi-turns-to-banks-he-sued-to-ward-off-lactalis.html
Parmalat SpA (PLT)  Chief Executive Officer
Enrico Bondi revived  Italy ’s biggest dairy company by reaping
about 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) from suing former
creditors, including the nation’s biggest lenders. Now, his
survival may depend on their support.  Groupe Lactalis, the French maker of President cheese that
last month bought a 29 percent stake in Parmalat, had hoped to
oust the company’s management at an annual meeting originally
scheduled for this month. Parmalat’s board today decided to
delay the assembly, giving Bondi and his allies more time to
block Lactalis.  Shareholders will now meet June 25 to June 28, the company
said in a statement. The decision is based on a government
decree, effective March 27, that allows companies to delay
annual meetings, Parmalat said.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and the government are mounting a
campaign to keep Parmalat Italian and save Bondi’s job. Bondi,
76, has been under fire all year from investors who say he
failed to invest the company’s 1.4 billion euros in financial
assets on growth or return money to investors. Bondi won
settlements from Parmalat’s former creditors, including
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Intesa, following Italy’s biggest bankruptcy.  “Bondi’s only chance of survival hinges on the banks
finding an Italian solution,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of
Alisei SIM in Milan, who oversees 200 million euros and sold
Parmalat shares a few weeks ago. “Bondi is a good rescuer, but
he doesn’t have a global strategic vision. Lactalis and foreign
investors know that.”  Government Support  Bondi got support yesterday from the Italian government,
which authorized the  Finance Ministry  to buy stakes in companies
considered strategic, including Parmalat. The Italian move
matches the approach of  France , which has invested 2.4 billion
euros directly and indirectly in 430 “strategic” companies.  Bondi took over Parmalat in December 2003, after it
collapsed in the region’s biggest bankruptcy, fueled by a decade
of accounting fraud by senior management. Bondi, first as
bankruptcy administrator and then CEO, accused the dairy’s
biggest lenders and auditors of helping management sustain the
fraud.  He brought lawsuits in Italy and the U.S. against companies
including Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Grant
Thornton LLP, aimed at recovering some of the 14 billion euros
of debt left in the bankruptcy’s aftermath. Bondi has built a
cash position equaling about a third of the company’s market
value, while Parmalat has mostly sat out the consolidation
taking place in the industry.  Fight for Control  The company has lost more than 1.5 billion euros of its
market value since the Jan. 31, 2007, high of 5.7 billion euros,
and is worth less than it was after its first day of trading in
its return to the market in 2005.  The fight for control of Parmalat, which began when a group
of foreign investors in January said they would push for Bondi’s
removal, has boosted the shares by 17 percent in 2011.  Intesa CEO Corrado Passera has said his bank plays an
ancillary role in supporting long-term industrial projects and
that a union between the dairy company and chocolatier Fererro
SpA could create “enormous” opportunities. Ferrero has
confirmed it’s looking at Parmalat, and Granarolo SpA,
Parmalat’s biggest Italian rival, has also shown interest.  Italian Solution  A spokeswoman for UniCredit declined to comment on the
lenders’ involvement in finding an Italian solution for
Parmalat.      Lactalis, which has said it doesn’t plan on
raising its stake over 30 percent, said yesterday its 29 percent
holding doesn’t represent control.  There have been 168 acquisitions of European dairy
companies since 2005, worth a total $13.4 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. Parmalat has made three purchases since
returning to the stock market that year, the largest of which
was about $54 million to buy some fresh milk operations from
 Australia ’s National Foods Ltd., according to Bloomberg data.
Lactalis has made at least 15 purchases since 2005, including
the 2006 purchase of Italy’s Galbani SpA, the data show.  “In the last couple of years, Parmalat has done virtually
no mergers or acquisitions or extraordinary transactions and
limited itself to careful management and amassing cash,” said
Daniele Demartis, a  fund manager  at Rome-based Agora Investments
Sgr, and an owner of Parmalat shares. “A manager that maximizes
value for shareholders is well overdue.”  ‘Mediocre’ Management  While Bondi did a good job of recovering cash in legal
settlements, “management of Parmalat’s dairy business was pretty
mediocre,” said Gianluca Codagnone, head of research at
Fidentiis Equities in Milan. “Parmalat didn’t expand
internationally in fast-developing markets, or introduce new
blockbuster products in the high-end segments.”  Parmalat’s labor unions aren’t convinced a rival Italian
bid would assure growth for Parmalat.  “There’s a lot of talk about control of the company, but
no talk about projects,” said Tilla Pugnetti, general secretary
for the agriculture division of Cgil, Italy’s biggest labor
federation. “Bondi clearly has done a great job turning the
company around, but we started to criticize him strongly over
the past couple of years for not developing Parmalat through
acquisitions and investing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 