-- 
PBOC Adviser Says SDR System Without Yuan Is ‘Ridiculous’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T05:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/pboc-adviser-says-sdr-system-without-yuan-is-ridiculous-1-.html
China ’s yuan should be part of the
International Monetary Fund’s currency basket and the issue of
convertibility shouldn’t be linked to its inclusion, People’s
Bank of China adviser  Li Daokui  said in Nanjing today.  The IMF’s Special Drawing Rights system without the yuan
would be “ridiculous” and “lack legitimacy,” Li told
reporters in the Chinese city where he is attending a seminar of
leaders, officials and economists from Group of 20 nations to
discuss reform of the international monetary system.  China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  called for an
increased role for the IMF’s Special Drawing Rights two years
ago as the country sought to reduce the U.S. dollar’s global
dominance and curb its own reliance on the currency. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that
currencies of large economies “heavily used in international
trade and financial transactions” should be part of the SDR
system, subject to certain conditions.  “Inclusion of the yuan into the SDR basket will be a
confirmation of China’s economic power by the G-20 and may
encourage China to speed up the internationalization of the yuan
and capital account opening,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based
economist with Societe Generale SA. “As the second-largest
economy in the world, China should be more proactive in
international talks and its participation is crucial to
addressing global imbalances.”  Yuan Support  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said in opening remarks at
today’s seminar that he supported the inclusion of the yuan in
the IMF’s currency basket.  “The SDR basket should include the yuan otherwise it is
just ridiculous,” Li said. “The fact that a currency of such a
big economic, trade and financial entity, which is also well
received in the market, is excluded from the basket shows that
the SDR itself lacks legitimacy and rallying power.”  Many countries already have yuan reserves and “in reality
the internationalization of the Chinese currency is way ahead of
SDRs,” said Li, who is one of three academic members of the
People’s Bank of China’s monetary policy committee.  China’s economy  has doubled over the past five years and
its foreign-exchange reserves have tripled in the same period to
a world record $2.85 trillion. The nation overtook  Germany  as
the world’s biggest exporter in 2009 and passed  Japan  to become
the second-largest economy last year.  “The composition of the SDR should reflect more of the
real economy on the ground, the Chinese economy included,” Li
said today. “The convertibility of the yuan should not be
connected with its inclusion in the SDR,” he said, adding that
China should proceed with allowing capital to flow freely in and
out of the country for investment purposes at its own pace.  Capital Account Convertibility  China already allows convertibility of its currency for
trade purposes and has pledged for the past decade to gradually
move toward free movement of the yuan on the capital account.  The conference in Nanjing today is being attended by French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet, Geithner and the PBOC’s Zhou.  In his opening remarks, Geithner said that while the U.S.
supports a broadening of the composition of the SDR basket,
countries whose currencies are to be included “should have
flexible exchange rate systems, independent central banks, and
permit the free movement of capital flows.”  --Bonnie Cao, Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  