-- 
Philips’s New Chief Van Houten Tackles Elusive TV Overhaul

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-04-01T06:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/philips-s-van-houten-tackles-tv-overhaul-that-eluded-predecessor.html
Frans  van Houten  starts as chief
executive officer of Royal Philips Electronics NV today with the
challenge of turning around the 3 billion-euro ($4.2 billion)
television business, a task that eluded his predecessor.  Van Houten, whose appointment was approved by shareholders
yesterday, succeeds Gerard Kleisterlee, who is stepping down
after 10 years at the helm. Leaving behind the “unfinished
dossier” of fixing the TV unit is “frustrating,” Kleisterlee
lamented yesterday at the annual general meeting in Amsterdam.  “It’s what everyone is looking at,” said Jos Versteeg, an
analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers, which has a “buy”
rating on Philips. “Van Houten made it very clear that it is
the top priority for him.”  In a timely reminder of the job in hand, Philips this week
predicted a first-quarter loss from TVs of as much as 120
million euros ($170 million), close to the unit’s entire deficit
for all of 2010. TVs are a remnant of the once consumer-
orientated electronics company that Philips was before
Kleisterlee spent a decade buying and selling businesses to
focus on more profitable industries such as medical equipment.  Philips forecast it will likely fail to break even with the
business this year, which would mark the fifth consecutive
annual loss. The television subsidiary has suffered as Sony
Corp. and Panasonic Corp. cut prices to combat local Chinese
suppliers.  Shrinking Value  Philips has lost 5 percent in value over the period of
Kleisterlee’s tenure. Kleisterlee sought to make Philips’s
earnings more stable by selling assets including the chip
business, which van Houten ran before returning last year.  “I started with the TV issue, and I’m ending with the TV
issue,” Kleisterlee told shareholders yesterday.  Philips felt investors’ discontent on March 28, when the
shares dropped 1.8 percent after the company said the TV
business is heading for a loss of 100 million to 120 million
euros in the first quarter. Last year, Philips lost 125 million
euros from televisions, measured as earnings before interest,
taxes and amortization. TVs account for 12 percent of sales.  The company’s stock is little changed so far this year,
valuing it at 22 billion euros.  “It’s absolutely necessary for Philips to resolve this
issue,” said Victor Bareno, an analyst at SNS Securities, which
also has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Management Reshuffle  The appointment of van Houten, who rejoined Philips in
October last year for an introduction period, is part of a
broader management reshuffle. Chief Financial Officer Pierre- Jean Sivignon was succeeded by Ron Wirahadiraksa, who used to be
CFO of the Philips’ health-care unit. Former Royal Dutch Shell
Group Plc Chief Executive Officer Jeroen van der Veer was
appointed chairman, succeeding Jan-Michiel Hessels.  The new management team looks “very promising” yet it
will take “some time” to make significant progress on the main
challenges facing Philips, said Bank of America Merrill Lynch
analyst Mark Troman in a note on March 29. With the TV business
so weak, the strategic options open to van Houten could be
limited, the analyst said.  The new executive comes with restructuring credentials.
After overseeing the semiconductor unit’s spinoff and eventual
sale to private-equity owners, van Houten set up an advisory
firm at the end of 2009. Among his services was helping ING
Group NV break into banking and insurance companies in 2009.  Dental Floss  Philips, which invented the compact disc, now consists of
three businesses: health-care, lighting and a consumer lifestyle
division that aims to develop electronics that synch with aging
population and healthy lifestyle trends. Among Philips’s most
recent products is an air-powered dental floss.  Kleisterlee revived earnings from the low point in 2001 and
2002, the first years of his reign, when the company posted
losses. With the exception of 2008, the company has been
profitable since with margins climbing from near zero.
Profitability equaled 8.1 percent of sales in 2010.  Shareholders have yet to reward his efforts. The total
annualized return over the past decade was negative. The company
has been underperforming peers such as  Siemens AG (SIE) , which has
been more aggressive in divesting loss-making units and focusing
on growth. Siemens had a total annualized return of 3.16 percent
since 2001.  “The market is not convinced yet after the steps they have
taken,” said Christian Vondenbusch, a  fund manager  at Robeco
Hollands Bezit, which oversees about 2 million Philips shares.  No Sweeping Changes?  Philips is unlikely to make sweeping strategy changes or
major acquisitions, analysts and investors said after recent
meetings with the company where van Houten was present.  In lighting, the new CEO will find the marketplace in flux
following a Siemens’ announcement this week that it will carry
out an initial public offering of Osram, the world’s No. 2
lighting supplier after Philips. Slicing off a business with
sales of 4.68 billion euros and 40,000 workers could change the
dynamics of the industry.  “An independently managed Osram that is separately listed
may prove to be a fiercer competitor to Philips in the medium to
longer term,” said Sjoerd Ummels, an analyst at ING.  Home health care is one of the targeted growth areas for
Philips. The division represents about 15 percent of total
health care revenue of 8.6 billion euros in 2010. Healthcare
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Rusckowski predicted in an
interview last week that the market for medical products that
can be used at home will grow 7 percent to 9 percent annually.  Philips has in the past been notorious for failing to
monetize its inventions, many of which haven’t been successful
on a commercial basis, said Egbert van Acht, executive vice
president for Philips’s Health & Wellness group.  “What we need to do is first really understand what
clients want,” van Acht said. “Van Houten is one of the people
coming in who understands that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  