-- 
Ping An Insurance Plans to Boost Bond Investments, Lift Stocks, Ren Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ping-an-insurance-plans-to-boost-bond-investments-lift-stocks-ren-says.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. will
boost fixed-income investments this year to tap rising yields
and may “slightly” lift equities in the portfolio as it turns
more optimistic on stocks, its president said.  An underwriting profit margin of about 5 percent can be
expected in 2011 at the property and casualty unit of  China ’s
second-biggest insurer, following last year’s record 6.8 percent
margin, President Alex Ren said in an interview.  Ping An’s profit climbed 25 percent last year as premiums
expanded and rising interest income helped ameliorate the drag
on investment returns from a slump in equities. The benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index has rallied 5.3 percent this year,
after a 14 percent decline in 2010 that pushed the insurer’s
overall investment income down 4.7 percent.  “This year we’ll firstly step up fixed-income investments
to grasp the opportunity of a rising interest rate cycle,” Ren
said in an interview in Shanghai on March 30. “We’ll also
appropriately adjust stock positions as we’re now prudently
optimistic.”  China’s bond yields, after climbing as much as 1 percentage
point on corporate debt since the third quarter, are “very
attractive” now, Deputy Chief Investment Officer Timothy Chan
told a briefing in  Shanghai  this week. China has raised  interest
rates  three times since October to curb rising inflation and
prevent an asset bubble.  Banks, Energy  Ping An likes undervalued index heavyweights such as banks
and energy stocks, Ren said, without naming companies. The
proportion of equities in its portfolio this year may “rise
slightly” from 9.8 percent as of Dec. 31, after falling by 1
percentage point in 2010, he added.  The insurer part-owned by  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  will also see
“relatively fast” growth in its real estate, private equity
and infrastructure investments this year, although they will
still account for a “very small” share of its portfolio and
the impact on returns won’t be “very big,” Ren said.  The company is seeking investments in commercial properties
such as big-scale shopping malls, as well as nursing homes,
which provide stable rental income, he added.  Chairman Peter Ma is raising HK$19.4 billion ($2.5 billion)
from  Hong Kong ’s fourth-richest billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung  to
boost Ping An’s solvency ratio. Ping An said in March it’s
selling 272 million new shares to Chow Tai Fook Nominee Ltd.,
controlled by Cheng’s family, to “satisfy the capital demand”
of its insurance, banking and asset management operations.  The sale will meet Ping An’s capital needs for “a certain
period of time,” Ma told reporters on March 30, without being
specific.  ‘Rest More Assured’  There won’t be new fundraising plans before the announced
transaction is completed, and the company doesn’t have plans for
the local A-share market either, Ren said. “People should rest
more assured” about further share sales.  The company said in September it would pay 29.1 billion
yuan for control of Shenzhen Development Bank Co. to enhance
banking operations. The deal, upon completion, may bring Ping
An’s solvency ratio to below 170 percent without the planned
share sale, according to Nan Sheng, a Shanghai-based analyst at
UOB Kay Hian Investment Co.  Ping An pays more attention to the solvency level, which
measures an insurer’s ability to settle claims, of its
subsidiaries, Ren said, and investors don’t need to pay “too
much” attention to that of the group. The non-life unit, whose
gauge rose to a “healthy” 179.6 percent as of Dec. 31, can
still sell subordinate debt to boost capital and may receive an
injection from funds being raised, he said without elaborating.  Solvency Ratio  Chinese insurers may be subject to dividend payout
restrictions when their solvency ratios drop below 150 percent,
according to government rules. They may also be ordered to
submit plans to prevent the gauge from falling below 100
percent, when the regulator can freeze approvals for new
branches, curb management pay and restrict the scope of
investment.  The non-life business slashed its combined ratio, which
measures claims and expenses as a percentage of premiums earned,
by 5.4 percentage points last year to a record low 93.2 percent,
beating a 93.7 percent gauge at industry leader China Pacific
Insurance (Group) Co. The improvement drove a nearly sixfold
surge in the unit’s profit to 3.9 billion yuan.  There’s “still room” to lower expenses at the unit by
further integrating back-office operations, Ren said. The
executive added that he’s optimistic about maintaining the
profitability level, “especially this year,” citing the impact
from the “very good” underwriting quality of last year and
improving claims management, although the insurer plans price
cuts for some auto insurance clients.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors:  Malcolm Scott , Andreea Papuc  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  