-- 
Portugal Misses 2010 Deficit Target, Raising Chances of European Bailout

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-03-31T17:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/portugal-misses-2010-deficit-target-raising-chances-of-european-bailout.html
Portugal reported a  budget deficit 
of 8.6 percent of gross domestic product last year, missing a
government target of 7.3 percent and causing a jump in borrowing
costs that increases the risk of a bailout.  The revisions won’t affect the government’s goal for a 4.6
percent shortfall in 2011, the national statistics agency said
today in an e-mailed statement. The agency also revised the 2009
budget gap to 10 percent from 9.3 percent, after European Union
accounting changes prompted Portugal to add more than 2 billion
euros ($2.8 billion) to the 2010 deficit. The yields on the
country’s two, five and 10-year bonds rose to euro-era records.  Portugal has been raising taxes and implementing the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades, aiming to
convince investors it can narrow its budget gap, curb its debt
and avoid following Greece and Ireland in seeking a bailout. The
nation was downgraded twice in the past week by  Standard &
Poor’s , which said new European bailout rules may mean it will
eventually renege on its debt obligations.  “We always thought the debt sustainability of Portugal was
at risk,” said  Giada Giani , an economist at Citigroup in
 London , “It does add more pressure on Portugal, which is
probably unable to access markets in the next few weeks and will
probably need a bailout.”  Bonds Slump  Portugal’s two-year government bond yield climbed 75 basis
points today to 8.78 percent, topping the rate on the nation’s
10-year debt for the first time since 2006. The difference in
yield that investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds
instead of German bunds rose to a euro-era record 505 basis
points. The 10-year yield gained 30 basis points to a record 8.4
percent.  S&P followed its cut in Portugal’s creditworthiness today
by lowering its ratings on Banco Espirito Santo SA and three
other lenders, leaving their outlook negative due to a possible
further downgrade of the country’s credit rating. Another cut
would strip Portugal of an investment grade. Portugal’s lenders
have become increasingly dependent on financing from the
 European Central Bank  as investor concern about a bailout has
left them virtually shut out of interbank markets.  S&P said on March 29 the country may need an international
bailout and debt restructuring. A rescue may total as much as 70
billion euros, said two European officials with direct knowledge
of the matter.  No Aid Request  “The government is not in conditions and does not have the
powers to request any type of external aid,” Portuguese Finance
Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos told reporters in Lisbon
today. “The government will guarantee that there is the
necessary financing for the country to face its responsibilities
and honor its commitments.”  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  offered to resign on March 23
after the opposition rejected further measures to curb the
deficit. President Anibal Cavaco Silva began meeting in Lisbon
this afternoon with the Council of State, an advisory body
including past presidents that must be consulted to set the date
of the vote. Under Portuguese law, the vote is likely to fall
between two bond redemptions  Portugal  faces on April 15 and June
15 that total 9 billion euros.  Bond Maturities  Portugal’s ability to raise funds to finance those
maturities may determine whether it will have to seek EU aid.
The country can meet “debt redemption commitments scheduled or
2011, especially the redemptions of long-term debt that will
take place in April and June,” Secretary of State for Treasury
and Finance Carlos Costa Pina said earlier this week.  Socrates said on Jan. 28 the 2010 deficit would be 7
percent of GDP or less, narrower than the 7.3 percent the
government had initially forecast. In 2009, the shortfall was
9.3 percent, the fourth-biggest in the region after Ireland,
 Greece  and  Spain .  Teixeira dos Santos acknowledged in parliament on March 23
that the EU accounting changes would have an impact on public
finances. “It’s like changing the score after the match is
over,” he said. Without the additional charges, the deficit
would have been 6.8 percent of GDP, he said today.  Impairment costs stemming from the 2008 seizure of Banco
Portugues de Negocios SA added 1 percentage point of GDP to the
budget deficit last year and charges linked to the public-
transportation system accounted for 0.5 percentage point of the
deficit, the statistics agency said.  The accounting changes ordered by Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics agency, inflated 2010 deficits in other countries.
Austria today revised its shortfall for last year to 4.6 percent
after reclassifying debt of government-owned companies worth
about 1 percentage point of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 