-- 
Portugal Calls June 5 Election as Looming Bond Payments Raise Bailout Risk

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-04-01T17:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/portugal-calls-june-5-election-as-looming-bond-payments-raise-bailout-risk.html
Portugal  will elect its next
government on June 5, just 10 days before its last bond
redemption of the year, as surging financing costs threaten to
push the country to the brink of requiring a bailout.  “The amount of payments to be made this year in the form
of interest costs and maturing loans is quite high,” President
Anibal Cavaco Silva said last night in a speech in Lisbon after
calling the vote two years early. “The next government faces an
unprecedented economic and financial crisis.”  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned on March 23 after
opposition parties rejected his deficit-cutting plan that aimed
to prevent Portugal from following  Greece  and Ireland in seeking
a European Union rescue. After consulting political parties last
week and former leaders in Lisbon, Cavaco Silva announced the
vote after a day when yields on Portugal’s two-, five- and 10-
year bonds reached euro-era records.  Portugal is already raising taxes and implementing the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades as it tries to
narrow its budget gap, curb debt and bring down bond yields. The
election, which couldn’t be set before the last week of May
under Portuguese law, will fall between two bond redemptions, on
April 15 and June 15. The maturities total 9 billion euros ($13
billion) and may determine whether Portugal can avoid a rescue.  June Maturity  Portugal’s cash balance “is unlikely to be far above 3
billion euros,” Emilie Gay, an economist at  Capital Economics 
in  London , wrote in a note to investors yesterday. “While this
figure remains uncertain, it is hard to see how Portugal could
cope without external support beyond June.”  The president’s consultations yesterday began hours after
Portugal reported a budget deficit of 8.6 percent of gross
domestic product for 2010, higher than the 7.3 percent the
government had previously forecast. The EU’s statistics office,
Eurostat, has required accounting changes in some countries and
costs related to a 2008 bank failure were added to last year’s
accounts, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said.  Without the charges the shortfall would have been 6.8
percent, he said, adding that the government was still committed
to trimming the gap to 4.6 percent this year.  “More important than the issue of elections is what the
next austerity plan will be and how the new government will
fight the deficit,” said Filipe Silva, who manages 60 million
euros at Banco Carregosa SA in Oporto, Portugal.  Bonds Slump  Portugal’s two-year government bond yield fell 8 basis
points 8.7 percent, after surging 75 basis points yesterday to
8.78 percent, topping the rate on the nation’s 10-year debt for
the first time since 2006. The difference in yield that
investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of
German bunds reached a euro-era record of 514 basis points
today. The 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-era record of 8.53
percent, and the five-year bond yield also climbed to a record
9.82 percent.  “Currently accessing the European Union and International
Monetary Fund loans would be far cheaper for Portugal than
market financing,” Gay said. Ireland pays an average interest
rate of 6 percent on its seven-year maturity bailout loans.  Portugal’s bonds are down 7.7 percent in the first quarter,
the worst performance among 26 indexes tracked by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Rating Cut  Fitch Ratings today downgraded Portugal’s debt rating three
notches to ‘BBB-,’ or the lowest investment grade rating, said
it maintained the “rating watch negative,” which indicates “a
heightened probability of a downgrade in the near-term.”  “The severity of the downgrade by three notches mainly
reflects Fitch’s concern that timely external support is much
less likely in the near term following yesterday’s announcement
of general elections to take place on 5 June,”  Douglas
Renwick, a director at Fitch’s sovereign ratings group, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Standard & Poor’s  on March 29 downgraded Portugal for the
second time in a week to BBB-, the lowest investment grade,
saying the country will “likely access”  Europe ’s rescue fund.
Portugal is rated lower than Ireland, which in November became
the first to request aid from the  European Financial Stability
Facility , set up after Greece’s rescue in April 2010.  The surge in financing costs is lending urgency to
resolving the political impasse to have a government in place
that can seek aid if necessary.  “The government is not in condition and does not have the
powers to request any type of external aid,” Teixeira dos
Santos said yesterday. “The government will guarantee that
there is the necessary financing for the country to face its
responsibilities and honor its commitments.”  “The government is not blocked from carrying out the
necessary acts to lead the country’s destiny,” Cavaco Silva
said yesterday after accepting the prime minister’s resignation.
“The current government will have all of my support to adopt
the indispensable measures to safeguard the superior national
interest and ensure the necessary financing means for the
functioning of our economy.”  Extraordinary Auction  Portugal today sold 1.6 billion euros of 14-month debt due
in June 2012 at an average yield of 5.793 percent, more than the
4.331 percent it paid at a sale of 12 month bills on March 16.
The IGCP, as the government debt agency is known, yesterday
announced the indicative amount for today’s sale was 1.5 billion
euros and said it planned the “extraordinary” auction due to
“specific demand” for the securities. It also announced plans
to carry out bill auctions in April, May and June.  The country can meet “debt redemption commitments
scheduled for 2011, especially the redemptions of long-term debt
that will take place in April and June,” Secretary of State for
Treasury and Finance Carlos Costa Pina said earlier this week.  Alberto Soares, the head of Portugal’s debt agency, said on
March 29 that it had already carried out 36 percent of this
year’s estimated issuance of medium and long-term debt. Portugal
intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros of bonds this year
to finance its budget and cover maturing debt.  Elections could help reduce Portugal’s borrowing costs,
Costa Pina said. “The cost of financing was substantially
worsened by the political crisis triggered by the opposition,”
he said. “A clarification of the political situation is
urgent.”  Latest Polls  Opinion polls suggest that Socrates, who leads the
Socialists, will lose the election. The  Social Democrats  led the
Socialists by 37.3 percent to 30.4 percent in a survey of voters
published today on the  website  of weekly newspaper Expresso.  Socrates became prime minister in 2005 and his Socialist
Party won re-election in 2009 without a majority in parliament.
The Social Democrats agreed in October to let the government’s
2011 budget proposal pass by abstaining in parliament. Their
opposition to the new austerity measures announced on March 11,
which included a reduction in some pensions and cuts in tax
benefits, was key to toppling Socrates.  Cavaco Silva said on March 28 that the three biggest
political parties pledged their commitment to meet the current
deficit targets and bring the shortfall down to the EU’s 3
percent limit in 2012.  Between 1995 and 1999, Socialist leader Antonio Guterres
led the only minority government in Portugal to survive a full
term since the end of a four-decade dictatorship in 1974.
Portugal has been trying to avoid requesting aid for the first
time since 1983, when it received external help from the
Washington-based IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  