-- 
Portugal Facing ‘Difficult Situation,’ IMF’s Atkinson Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-03-31T15:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/portugal-facing-difficult-situation-imf-s-atkinson-says-1-.html
Portugal  is facing a “difficult
situation,” and authorities will need to sustain efforts to
narrow the country’s budget deficit, an  International Monetary
Fund  spokeswoman said.  “We have had no request for financial assistance from
Portugal,” IMF director of external relations  Caroline Atkinson 
told reporters in Washington today. The commitments made by the
government to improve public finances and promote growth “are
important steps that will need to be continued.”  Portugal today reported a budget deficit of 8.6 percent of
gross domestic product last year, missing a government target of
7.3 percent and causing a jump in borrowing costs that increases
the risk of a bailout.  Authorities been raising taxes and implementing the deepest
spending cuts in more than three decades, aiming to convince
investors it can narrow its budget gap, curb its debt and avoid
following Greece and Ireland in seeking a bailout.  Asked about  Spain , Atkinson said that “strong measures”
taken by the government on the fiscal side as well as on its
labor market were important and have “also seem to have borne
some fruits in the markets and there seems to be a belief that
Spain’s fundamentals are definitely moving in the right
direction.”  Atkinson said the IMF remains concerned about the debt and
deficits in the U.S. and that some actions may be needed in the
short term to improve the medium-term fiscal position.  An IMF technical team went to  Tunisia  recently and one is
going to  Egypt  in the next few days, she said. In both cases,
the aim is to discuss the economic prospects, not to negotiate
financial aid, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  