-- 
Portugal Will Have Special Debt Auction Tomorrow, Citing ‘Specific’ Demand

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   K e i t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-31T20:59:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/portugal-will-have-special-debt-auction-tomorrow-citing-specific-demand.html
Portugal  announced an auction of
one-year notes tomorrow, saying it has “specific demand” for
the securities, after concern the nation may need a bailout to
avoid default drove its debt yields to records today.  The target amount for the “extraordinary” auction of the
June 2012 securities is 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion), IGCP,
the Lisbon-based debt agency, said in an e-mailed statement
after the nation’s bond market closed today. Portugal has
secured buyers for the sale, Diario Economico reported on its
website, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the
operation.  Portugal’s two-year note yield surged 75 basis points to
8.78 percent today, the most since 1996, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as the nation reported a 2010  budget
deficit  that exceeded its target. President Anibal Cavaco Silva
is in talks to set an election date to resolve a political
impasse that led to the resignation last week of Prime Minister
 Jose Socrates , after proposed austerity measures were rejected
by rivals.  Brazil  may buy Portuguese sovereign debt, Diario Economico
 reported  yesterday, citing an interview with President  Dilma Rousseff . Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today the
country is unlikely to buy Portugal’s sovereign debt in the
auction.  Gesture versus Solution  “I don’t believe so,” Mantega said, when asked by
reporters in Brasilia whether Brazil would purchase Portuguese
government bonds.  Any Brazilian purchase would be “much more a gesture than
it would be a solution for Portugal,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co. said in
an interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York . “The
notion that a European country would go to Brazil for help
speaks to the global realignment that’s going on.”  An official at Brazil’s finance ministry declined to
comment on the report when telephoned by Bloomberg News.  Brazil is studying the best way of taking part in the
process of Portugal’s economic recovery and is considering other
alternatives, such as buying back Brazilian securities held by
the  Portuguese government , the Portuguese newspaper said.  Tomorrow’s sale will take place from 9:15 a.m. local time,
the IGCP said.  Bond Redemptions  Portugal faces bond redemptions on April 15 and June 15
that total more than 9 billion euros, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In December, the debt agency said it intended to
sell as much as 20 billion euros of bonds this year to finance
Portugal’s budget and cover maturing debt. The IGCP also
scheduled Treasury-bill auctions for the second quarter, with
two sales set for each of the next three months.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year
Portuguese debt instead of their German counterparts soared 29
basis points to more than 5 percentage points for the first time
on record.  Portugal’s government doesn’t have the power to request a
bailout after Socrates resigned last week, Teixeira dos Santos
said. “The government is not in conditions and does not have
the powers to request any type of external aid,” he said. “The
government will guarantee that there is the necessary financing
for the country to face its responsibilities and honor its
commitments.”  Portugal will “be probably unable to access markets in the
next few weeks and will probably need a bailout,”  Giada Giani ,
an economist at Citigroup in  London , said earlier today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joao Lima at   jlima1@bloomberg.net  