-- 
Prada Said to File for IPO, Aims for $10.7 Billion Valuation

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-03-31T13:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/prada-said-to-file-for-ipo-aiming-for-10-7-billion-valuation.html
Prada SpA, the Italian fashion
house known for its triangular logo, submitted an application to
the  Hong Kong  exchange to hold an initial public offering in the
city by July, said two people familiar with the company.  The planned sale may give the maker of Miu Miu bags and
Church’s shoes a valuation of about $10.7 billion excluding
debt, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private. Prada made the IPO filing
yesterday, the people said.  Prada, based in Milan, follows European brand-name
companies including  L’Occitane International SA (973)  in selling
shares in Hong Kong, where IPOs reached a record last year. By
listing in Hong Kong, the company will tap into local funds and
individual investors who are betting on the luxury goods
industry’s growth in the region.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Credit Agricole SA’s CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are managing
the IPO. Sally Kwong, a Prada spokeswoman in Hong Kong, declined
to comment.  This is the fifth time in the past decade that Prada has
attempted to sell shares. The company’s profit more than doubled
last year on growth in the Asia-Pacific region.  Net income rose to a record 250.8 million euros ($355
million) from 100.2 million euros in 2009, Prada said in a
statement on March 28. Revenue increased 31 percent to 2.05
billion euros, with growth of 63 percent in  Asia , almost 30
percent in the U.S. and 20 percent in  Europe , the company said.  Net Debt Cut  Prada cut net debt to 408.6 million euros from 485.3
million euros in the financial year ending Jan. 31, the company
said.  L’Occitane raised HK$6.1 billion ($783 million) from its
Hong Kong IPO in May last year. That included proceeds from the
sale of overallotment shares. Samsonite LLC, the U.S. luggage
maker owned by London-based CVC Capital Partners Ltd., plans to
raise about $1 billion in a Hong Kong IPO in the second or third
quarter, people with knowledge of the matter said in February.  Prada, which was founded by head designer  Miuccia Prada ’s
grandfather Mario Prada in 1913, still operates its first outlet
in Milan’s 19th-century Galleria shopping arcade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net . 