-- 
Prostate Cancer Tests Don’t Save Lives Over 20-Year Study, Researchers Say

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-03-31T22:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/prostate-cancer-tests-don-t-save-lives-over-two-decades-of-study.html
A two-decade-long study of prostate
cancer screening found that prevention saved few lives in the
latest research to cast doubt over the benefit of such tests.  The study, led by Gabriel Sandblom of the  Karolinska
Institute  in  Stockholm , shows that blood tests and digital
rectal exams helped detect cancer but didn’t reduce deaths. The
study of 9,026 men, started in 1987, is the longest to date and
its results were published today in the  British Medical Journal .  “After 20 years of follow-up, the rate of death from
prostate cancer did not differ significantly between men in the
screening group and those in the control group,” the
researchers wrote.  The  American Cancer Society  changed its guidelines a year
ago to reflect a growing body of research suggesting screening
tests may do more harm than good. The cancer group said  patients
should be warned  of the risk of misleading tests results and
treatment side effects, which might in some cases cause more
damage than the slow-growing disease.  Sandblom and his colleagues began the trial in  Sweden  in
1987. They randomly picked one out of six men to be screened
every third year, with the rest acting as a control group. The
first two screenings were done by digital examination of the
rectum, which was then combined with blood tests.  Prostate cancer was the second-most common malignancy in
U.S. men last year with 217,730 new cases, and the second-
highest killer with 32,050 deaths, according to the  American
Cancer Society .  Screening for prostate cancer is done by blood tests that
measure levels of PSA, or prostate specific antigen, a protein
that can increase because of benign prostate conditions or
cancer, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 