-- 
Pugilistic NEA Head Will Testify Arts Create Jobs: Commentary

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/pugilistic-nea-head-will-testify-arts-create-jobs-commentary.html
Republicans have declared war on
federal support for the arts (again). The  National Endowment for
the Arts  is facing massive budget cuts (again).  “I’m having a ball,” says NEA chairman Rocco Landesman.
“The arts are now part of domestic policy.”  This may come as news to domestic-policy wonks in other
government agencies. But Landesman, 63, says that since taking
over the perennially underfunded agency in August 2009 “we have
gained a seat at the domestic policy planning table.”  To substantiate his claim, he points to joint initiatives
with the departments of Education, Housing and  Urban
Development , and Transportation, as well as the Environmental
Protection Agency.  Those programs -- several at the $100 million level -- will
make housing and studio space available to artists in downtown
redevelopment projects. They also include the NEA in
establishing “sustainable communities.”  The project closest to the chairman’s heart is the new $5
million Our Town initiative. Linking urban planning, design,
public-private partnerships and arts support in development
projects around the country, it epitomizes Landesman’s
determination to make an economic case for public arts support.  “This is a big win for the arts,” he said. On April 6 the
cowboy-booted chairman will make his case before Congress.
That’s when discussion begins about arts funding in the 2012
fiscal year, which starts Oct. 1.  Never one to shy away from critics, he heads into the
hearing buoyed, no doubt, by the fact that “The Book of Mormon,”
the biggest hit of the Broadway season to date, just opened in
one of his theaters.  $25 Million Cut  For next year, President  Barack Obama  chopped NEA funding,
already an embarrassing pittance, to $146 million from $161
million. But we’re not yet done with FY2011. The Republican-
controlled  House of Representatives  has troops calling for the
immediate dismantling of arts programs and such invaluable
contributors to quality of life as the  Corporation for Public
Broadcasting  and  National Public Radio .  On April 8, Congress will vote to approve the budget or
stay open for business while continuing to negotiate, or shut
down the government. The long knives have been out for the arts
endowment, with calls to cut an additional $20.5 million or
more.  Landesman says he’s gotten support from Democratic
Representatives Jim Moran of  Virginia , Louise Slaughter of  New
York  and Patrick J. Tiberi of  Ohio . A significant addition to
this group, he says, is Representative Mike Simpson. The
outspoken Republican from  Idaho  chairs the House appropriations
subcommittee that will set his budget.  Playing in Peoria  Illinois Representative Aaron Schock was one of 23
Republicans to vote against the proposed amendment slashing
funds. This is what passes these days for bravery.  Among the projects supported most recently by the NEA were
grants to the Omaha Symphony for outreach, including 22
workshops and 55 performances ($15,000). And in the Bronx, New
York, to the DreamYard Drama Project for an out-of-school
program for teens (a $37,000 matching grant). Critics would get
rid of everything.  Landesman insists he’s unfazed by the threats.  “We’ve gotten so much done so fast,” he said. “It’s the
opposite of what I expected. I want to be graded -- and the NEA
to be graded -- on what we bring into the field.”  Asked why the government should underwrite art that some
might find offensive, Shock lived up to his name with this
comment to the Peoria Journal Star:  Public Service  “One thing you learn in public service is that anything you
do in public service can be objectionable. They may not like
where the highway was built. You’re never going to make everyone
happy.”  Such reasonableness made him an instant friend of
Landesman, who will need all the support he can muster in the
coming weeks.  “My hope is that we’re not going to be cut
disproportionately,” Landesman said. “I don’t sense that will
happen. I think we’ll be OK.”  His mantra lately has been “points of intersection.”  That means providing places where art comes down from the
mountain and meets real people. For example,  “Blue Star
Museums,”  an NEA program that gives the families of active
servicemen free admission to museums from Memorial Day through
Labor Day.  The cost is minimal -- average museum admission nationwide
is $8 -- while the impact is great, though undoubtedly some
children are being exposed to nudes. Does  John Boehner  know
about this?  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 