-- 
Qaddafi Exile Options Span Uganda to Venezuela as Libyan Defections Worse

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-01T10:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/qaddafi-exile-options-span-uganda-to-venezuela-as-ally-defects.html
Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
fled to  Saudi Arabia  after 28 days of protests. Demonstrators in
 Egypt  needed 18 days to get Hosni Mubarak to retire to Sharm el-
Sheikh. After almost seven weeks of war, Muammar Qaddafi’s exile
options are more limited.  Uganda said on March 30 it would consider a request for
political asylum, while Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez still
calls the North African dictator a “friend.” The self-
proclaimed “king of kings” may also find refuge in about a
dozen African states, such as  Zimbabwe , where he has ample
investments and protection from prosecution for war crimes,
diplomats and analysts say.  The defection to London of Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa, Qaddafi’s closest collaborator, highlights the
dictator’s growing isolation and raises the prospect he may be
amenable to a graceful exit. While Western powers say it’s
inconceivable for Qaddafi to stay, he has vowed he’d rather die
in his homeland “as a martyr” than leave.  “Exile is feasible, though it’s difficult to read into the
psyche of a dictator who has ruled for 42 years and made some
irrational decisions,” said Shashank Joshi, an associate fellow
at the  Royal United Services Institute  in London. “He has to be
careful not to enter a country under the jurisdiction of the
International Criminal Court.”  ‘Moral Suasion’  While Qaddafi has so far managed to stay in power after 14
days of allied bombing and is pushing the rebels back to the
central city of Ajdabiya, the combined forces of the U.S., U.K.
and  France  will probably force him out eventually, said
Alessandro Politi, a former adviser to the Italian Defense
Ministry.  “Over the decades, he has developed a taste for the finer
things in the life” and faced with a military stalemate, he is
unlikely to agree “to go to an armpit of a country,” Politi
said. “One of his considerations will be a country that is
reasonably pleasant.”  With all diplomatic ties with the Tripoli regime severed,
leaders of the anti-Qaddafi coalition are counting on the 53-
member  African Union  and its Commission Chairman Jean Ping, a
Gabonese diplomat, to exercise heavy “moral suasion” on the
Libyan leader to quit and accept asylum in one of their
countries, according to an Italian diplomat, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  African Hosts  Qaddafi said on March 29 he is willing to adhere to any
settlement for the crisis recommended by the African Union.  “I hope there will be a certain number of states ready to
host him, maybe under the auspices of the African Union, which
can have a leverage over him,” Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said on March 30.  Several African nations could take Qaddafi, the diplomat
said, citing  Ethiopia  or Mauritania as examples. The likeliest
countries to let him in are those that aren’t parties to the
Rome Statute, the treaty that established the  International
Criminal Court , a tribunal based in The Hague that seeks to try
despots charged with genocide and crimes against humanity.  “All you need is one country to take him,”  Shadi Hamid ,
director of research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar, said
in a telephone interview. “ Uganda  sounds like a good option. We
are most likely talking about Africa.”  Under Investigation  So far, the ICC has six open investigations, all of which
are in Africa: Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, Central
African Republic,  Sudan ,  Kenya  and  Libya . Notable non-ICC
African countries include  Angola , Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ivory Coast, Mauritania,  Mozambique , Rwanda,
Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Togo, and Zimbabwe.  “It’s easier for a leader to leave a country even on sweet
terms that would be considered distasteful and horrible and
immoral by much of the world, but it’s just a trade off,” said
Steven Clemons, founder of the American Strategy Program at the
New America Foundation. He has visited the White House in the
past two weeks to advise the administration on Libya.  Qatar’s prime minister, Sheikh Hamad Bin Jabr Al Thani,
said on March 28 that Qaddafi should quit now before an offer to
let him go into exile -- which he didn’t detail -- is taken off
the table “in a few days.”  No doubt, the chance of Qaddafi settling down in any of
these countries is unsavory. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said on March 1 in Geneva that the idea of Qaddafi and Robert Mugabe together rendered her “almost speechless.”  Bitter Pill  “We are working to find a solution,” AU Peace and
Security Director el-Ghassim Wane said in a phone interview
today from Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital. “The African
Union has not had any discussions with the Libyan authorities
over potential safe havens for Qaddafi.”  Still, it’s a bitter pill the coalition may be more than
willing to swallow, especially when their borders are closed,
according to Rusi’s Joshi.  Asked if  Italy  would consider taking him, Frattini grimaced
visibly and told the BBC it was out of the question. When
pressed why Italy, Libya’s biggest trading partner, would not
welcome its former ally, he said: “We don’t want to have a
dictator.”  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague said on March 20 that
the coalition forces pressing Qaddafi to leave do not have any
say in where he goes. “I’m not going to choose Colonel
Qaddafi’s retirement home,” Hague said.  No Plan to Leave  Qaddafi was welcomed in Venezuela as a guest of honor when
Chavez hosted a summit in September 2009 aimed at forging links
between  Africa  and  South America . During his visit to the
tourist island of Margarita, Chavez gave Qaddafi a replica of
Venezuelan liberator Simon Bolivar’s sword. On Feb. 28, he
refused to condemn Qaddafi’s use of force, saying: “I’d be a
coward to condemn someone who has been my friend.”  Chavez, when asked on March 31 whether Venezuela would
offer the Libyan leader asylum, said Qaddafi told him he isn’t
leaving Libya and that his exile is “not foreseen.”  That raises the specter of Qaddafi defying odds and
prolonging an armed conflict that President  Barack Obama  had
hoped would last days, not weeks.  Former Libyan Interior Minister Abdel Fattah Younes al Abidi said last month when he defected to the opposition that
Qaddafi “is stubborn” and could “commit suicide” in the form
of dying on the battlefield.  “It’s difficult to tell” if he would rather die in Libya
than accept an offer of exile, said Guma El-Gamati, the U.K.
representative for the Libyan Transitional Council. “The
practical solution is that he leaves, or he dies there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  