-- 
Rand Rallies to Two-Month High on Carry Trade, as Commodity Prices Advance

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-31T14:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/rand-rallies-to-two-month-high-on-carry-trade-as-commodity-prices-advance.html
The rand rallied to its strongest
in more than two months against the dollar, paring the second-
worst loss among emerging-market currencies this quarter on bets
rates will rise and as commodities climbed.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated as
much as 0.4 percent to 6.7780 per dollar, its strongest level
since Jan. 7, and traded at 6.7959 per dollar as of 3:27 p.m. in
Johannesburg, paring its decline this quarter to 2.5 percent.
The rand is the worst performer after  Chile ’s peso among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Investors have increased bets that  interest rates  will rise
this year after central bank Governor Gill Marcus said on March
29 the bank won’t be “soft” on inflation. Higher interest
rates would boost the rand’s carry-trade appeal. The currency
was also buoyed as the prices of gold and platinum, which
together comprise a fifth of  South Africa ’s export earnings,
rose for a second day.  “The trend for pushing commodity and high-yielding
currencies consistently stronger is re-emerging,”  John Cairns 
and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank
in Johannesburg, said in a research note.  In a carry trade, investors borrow where interest rates are
low, such as the U.S., to fund purchases in countries with
higher yields. South Africa’s benchmark interest rate is 5.5
percent, compared with a rate of 0.25 percent in the U.S.  Forward-rate agreements for December, which investors use
to speculate on interest rates, have climbed 12 basis points
this week as investors bet that the central bank will raise the
repo rate before the end of the year.  Commodity Currencies  The currencies of other high-yielding, commodity-exporting
economies also rallied. The Australian dollar reached a record
against the dollar this week, and the Brazilian real rose to its
strongest level since 2008.  Government bonds  gained. The 13.5 percent government
security due 2015 rose 5 cents to 120.89 rand, driving the yield
down 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.84 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 