-- 
Treasuries Head for Quarterly Loss; Gross Sees ‘Little Value’

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T11:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/treasuries-head-for-quarterly-loss-gross-sees-little-value-.html
Treasuries were little changed, on
course for a second quarterly loss, on speculation improving
U.S. economic growth and accelerating inflation will prompt the
 Federal Reserve  to withdraw record monetary stimulus.  Ten-year yields traded within six basis points of a three-
week high before reports today and tomorrow that are forecast to
show the U.S. job market is in recovery.  Bill Gross , who runs
the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management
Co., said Treasuries “have little value” and the U.S. faces an
inflation threat. Traders added to bets for a fourth month that
consumer-price gains will quicken.  “The Fed will have to be a lot more aggressive in
tightening monetary policy than the market expects,” said
Morten Hassing Povlsen, senior rates analyst in Copenhagen at
Nordea Bank AB, Scandinavia’s biggest lender. “The economy is
improving and inflation is picking up -- the trend for yields is
to move higher.”  Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.44 percent as of
7:07 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices, after reaching 3.50 percent yesterday, the highest since
March 9. The 3.625 percent security due February 2021 traded at
101 1/2.  The 10-year yield will increase to 3.89 percent by year-
end, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  Energy, Food Prices  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.1 percent loss this
quarter as of yesterday, after losing 2.7 percent in the final
three months of 2010, according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. The decline comes as soaring
food and energy prices raise the cost of living in the U.S. and
signs of economic recovery prompt some Fed members to argue that
interest rates should be raised to curb inflation.  “We expect to see higher Treasury yields through the
year,” said Mark Schofield, the London-based head of interest-
rate strategy at Citigroup Inc. “The market will begin to price
in more aggressive interest-rate increases from the Fed,
possibly for about the third or fourth quarter this year.”  Inflation-protected Treasuries have returned 1.9 percent
this year, according to the Merrill Lynch indexes.  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  said in London
yesterday that “highly accommodative” monetary policy in the
U.S. is stoking commodity prices and policy makers should raise
the benchmark interest rate toward 1 percent soon.  Fed Divisions  Fed policy makers, who affirmed plans on March 15 to buy
$600 billion in  Treasury securities  through June, disagreed this
week over whether to curtail the purchases, end them early or
keep the program in place. St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard 
said the program may need to be cut by about $100 billion. The
Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren  said that high unemployment and low
 core inflation  mean it’s still too soon to withdraw record
monetary support for the economy.  Claims for initial jobless benefits in the U.S. fell for a
third week, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before today’s Labor Department report. Data from the department
tomorrow will show the U.S. added 190,000 jobs in March, on top
of 192,000 in February, separate surveys show.  Pimco “has been selling Treasuries because they have
little value within the context of a $75 trillion total debt
burden,” Gross, the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s
chief investment officer, wrote in a report published on its
 website . The U.S. debt burden is close to 500 percent of gross
domestic product, counting what it owes on its bonds, plus
obligations for Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, Gross
wrote.  Avoiding Dollars  Gross’s comment echoes  Warren Buffett , the billionaire
investor who advised avoiding long-term fixed-income bets in
dollars because the currency’s purchasing power will drop.  “I would recommend against buying long-term fixed-dollar
investments,” Buffett, the chairman and chief executive officer
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said on March 25
in  New Delhi .  The central bank may need to begin an exit from record
levels of monetary accommodation even amid global uncertainties
in  Japan  and the Middle East, Bullard said yesterday.  “The process of normalizing policy, even once it begins,
will still leave unprecedented policy accommodation on the
table,” Bullard said at a  London  dinner hosted by UBS AG,
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank. Fed policy makers “may not be
willing or able to wait until all global uncertainties are
resolved to begin normalizing policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  