-- 
Treasuries Decline Before Payrolls on View U.S. Economy Gaining Strength

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-03-31T21:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/treasuries-advance-as-u-s-jobless-claims-last-week-higher-than-forecast.html
Treasuries fell, pushing the 10-
year note yield toward a three-week high amid concern payrolls
data tomorrow will move the  Federal Reserve  closer to reducing
stimulus measures as the economic recovery gains momentum.  Bonds headed for a second quarterly decline on concern the
Fed may end its $600 billion program of debt buying earlier than
planned as inflation accelerates. Minneapolis Fed President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  said the federal funds target may need to
rise by 75 basis points by late 2011, CNBC reported, citing the
Wall Street Journal.  “The market is reacting to yet another hawkish comment by
another Fed official,” said Michael Pond, co-head of interest-
rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, one of 20 primary
dealers that trade with the U.S. central bank. “Some officials
do seem more concerned about the inflation that is starting to
come from the data.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes gained three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.46 percent at 5:32 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
3.625 percent security due in February 2021 dropped 7/32, or
$2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 11/32.  The 10-year note yields rose after falling as much as three
basis points to 3.40 percent. They touched 3.50 percent
yesterday, the highest level since March 9.  U.S. debt  lost 0.1 percent this quarter through yesterday,
the latest available figures, after dropping 2.7 percent in the
final three months of 2010, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Inflation-indexed debt has returned 1.9 percent
since Dec. 31.  Hoenig’s View  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  said in  London 
yesterday that “highly accommodative” monetary policy in the
U.S. is stoking commodity prices and policy makers should raise
the benchmark interest rate toward 1 percent soon. Policy makers
affirmed plans on March 15 to buy Treasuries through June.  The central bank may need to begin an exit from record
levels of monetary accommodation even with global uncertainties
in  Japan  and the Middle East, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said yesterday in London.  “The market will begin to price in more aggressive
interest-rate increases from the Fed, possibly for about the
third or fourth quarter this year,” said Mark Schofield, head
of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London. “We
expect to see higher Treasury yields through the year.”  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., a primary dealer, lifted its
forecast for five-year Treasury yields to 2.50 percent from 2.30
percent, saying the outlook for growth and inflation is becoming
less friendly for  government bonds .  The five-year note yield was 1.94 percent on March 18, when
Goldman Sachs recommended a short on the security, which is a
bet prices will fall.  The yield increased eight basis points today to 2.28
percent. Yesterday it snapped nine days of gains in what was the
longest losing streak for the maturity since before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.  Treasuries “have little value,” and the U.S. faces an
inflation threat, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, wrote in his
monthly investment outlook published on the firm’s  website .  Pimco “has been selling Treasuries because they have
little value within the context of a $75 trillion total debt
burden,” wrote Gross, the  Newport Beach , California-based
company’s co-chief investment officer. The figure is close to
500 percent of gross domestic product, counting what the U.S.
owes on its bonds, plus obligations for Social Security,
Medicare and Medicaid, according to Gross.  Jobless Claims  Bonds rose earlier after the Labor Department reported that
initial jobless claims slid to 388,000 during the week that
ended March 26 from a revised 394,000 in the previous week. The
median forecast of 42 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a decrease to 380,000 from a previously reported 382,000.  “The jobless claims were marginally weaker overall for the
labor market,” said  David Ader , head of government bond
strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The U.S. jobless rate held at 8.9 percent in March,
economists forecast before the Labor Department’s payrolls
report tomorrow. Unemployment fell below 9 percent in February
for the first time in 22 months. Employers added 190,000 jobs,
economists in another Bloomberg survey estimated.  “No one wants to take any big bets before tomorrow’s
payrolls data,” said  Sean Murphy , Treasury trader in  New York 
at  Societe Generale , a primary dealer. “We were up initially as
we were oversold for several days, which lent some support.”  The  Fed  bought today $2.1 billion of government debt
maturing from May 2021 to February 2027 as part of its program
of quantitative easing to support the economic recovery by
keeping borrowing costs low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  