-- 
Renault, Nissan Deny Joint Holding Company Being Planned

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T01:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/renault-nissan-deny-joint-holding-company-being-planned.html
Renault SA (RNO)  and Nissan Motor Co.
aren’t planning to form a joint holding company and described a
report that it was planning such a move as a
“misinterpretation” of comments by  Carlos Ghosn , chief
executive officer of both carmakers.  Japan ’s Nikkei newspaper said today that the creation of a
holding company representing both automakers, along with their
affiliates in  Russia  and in other markets, would take place
within two to three years, citing an interview with Ghosn.  The article was “a misinterpretation of a wide-ranging
interview in which Mr. Ghosn said that the corporate structure
of the Renault-Nissan Alliance would remain dynamic,” the
companies said in a statement from spokeswoman Rachel Konrad.
“There are no plans to create a holding company, and in fact
Mr. Ghosn did not say that Renault and Nissan are ‘leaning
toward establishing a holding company,’" the statement said.  Renault,  France ’s second-largest automaker, is the biggest
stakeholder in Nissan, owning 43.4 percent of the Yokohama-based
company. While the two companies share platforms and components,
they’ve maintained separate operations since their alliance
began in 1999.  Evolving Alliance  Ghosn "frequently stated to the media, investors and
others that the corporate structure of the Renault-Nissan
Alliance would continue to evolve -- as it has for the past 12
years,” the companies said today.  Shares in Nissan rose 0.7 percent to 736 yen as of 10:08
a.m. in  Tokyo . The stock has declined 4.8 percent in 2011.
Renault rose 0.9 percent to 38.73 euros in Paris trading
yesterday.  Separately, the head of Nissan’s operations in  Mexico  said
in an interview yesterday the company’s two plants there may
experience production interruptions in April and May as a result
of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan that have disrupted parts
supplies.  In Japan, Nissan said it expects to resume “normal”
production operations at all factories there on April 11 using
parts delivered by suppliers and not inventories. Its Iwaki
engine plant, which was partially damaged by the quake, will
resume mid-April.   The company estimates it has lost about 55,000
units of vehicle production this month in Japan, after the
magnitude-9 quake that’s left more than 27,000 dead or missing
since it struck on March 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net 
RNO FP <Equity>
7201 JT <Equity> 