-- 
Republicans Promise at Tea Party Rally to Stand Firm on Spending

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-03-31T20:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/republicans-promise-at-tea-party-rally-to-stand-firm-on-spending.html
Tea Party-backed Republican
lawmakers promised at a  Washington  rally to stand firm on
pledges to slash federal spending and resist compromises with
Democrats, even if the result is a government shutdown.  “If liberals in the Senate would rather play political
games and shut down the government instead of making a small
down payment on fiscal discipline and reform, I say: shut it
down,” Representative Mike Pence, an Indiana Republican, told
dozens of Tea Party supporters gathered outside the Capitol
today.  The event marked the first official Tea Party rally since
the fiscally conservative activists propelled Republicans to
gains in last year’s elections. Tea Party support helped elect
87 new Republicans to the House, ending Democratic control of
the Chamber.  Now, the activists are demanding the new House majority
make good on their campaign promises by refusing to support a
compromise budget package currently being negotiated by leaders
of both parties.  As Tea Party supporters waving “Don’t Tread on Me” flags
protested amid an intermittent rain, aides to House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, met inside the Capitol with
Democratic counterparts to discuss legislation that could result
in total spending cuts of about $33 billion in the 2011 fiscal
year.  The compromise package falls short of the $61 billion plan
passed by the House last month. An agreement on spending is
needed to stave off a government shutdown on April 8, when
current funding authority expires.  Tea Party activists have promised to challenge any
Republican they deem not conservative enough on spending issues
-- including Boehner.  Targeting Boehner  “There is no other way to put this,” wrote Judson Phillips, founder of Tea Party Nation, in a blog post. “The Tea
Party movement should find a candidate to run against John
Boehner in 2012 and should set as a goal to defeat in a primary
the sitting Speaker of the  House of Representatives .”  At today’s rally, a series of Republican lawmakers pledged
allegiance to Tea Party principals as they stood on a small
stage decorated with a banner reading “Remember your promises -
- we do.”  “If we can’t keep our pledge, we deserve to be thrown out
of office,” said Representative Louie Gohmert, a Texas
Republican.  The spending fight, said Pence, was a “defining moment”
for the new Republican House majority.  “It will be a first win for taxpayers that could set the
stage for larger victories,” Pence said.  Balancing Act  Boehner has sought since assuming the speakership to tamp
down unrest within his ranks from those pushing for spending
cuts and other measures more sweeping than the Democratic-
controlled Senate and the White House would accept. The House’s
$61-billion spending-cut bill stemmed from objections from Tea
Party-backed lawmakers over a smaller figure that Boehner’s
leadership team had proposed.  The outcome on the fight over the 2011 budget looms as the
first major test of his clout and credibility.  Boehner today disputed reports of an agreement on $33
billion in cuts, saying Republican negotiators would continue to
fight for the House-passed bill.  “There’s no agreement on the numbers and nothing will be
agreed to until everything is agreed to,” he told reporters on
 Capitol Hill .  Still, he signaled that a compromise could be coming soon.  “We control one-half of one-third of the government here
in Washington. We can’t impose our will on another body,” he
said. “All we can do is to fight for all of the spending cuts
that we can get an agreement to.”  Tea Party Reaction  That reasoning didn’t satisfy some Tea Party activists, who
questioned whether he was fighting hard enough for budget cuts.  “He sold the conservative movement down the river,” said
Frank Sherman, 60, a land developer from  Virginia . “The $61
billion is nothing, and then to turn around and cut that in half
is just a complete sell out.”  Chuck Floyd, a Tea Party supporter from  Maryland , had some
tough advice for the speaker.  “He needs to man up and do what’s right,” he said.
“Boehner needs to quit crying and stop compromising,”  Editors: Don Frederick, Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer
in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  