-- 
Retail Sales Unexpectedly Dropped in February as Oil Costs Curbed Spending

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-31T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/retail-sales-unexpectedly-dropped-in-february-as-oil-costs-curbed-spending.html
German retail sales unexpectedly
declined in February as higher energy prices curbed  consumer
spending .  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, fell 0.3
percent from January, when they climbed 0.4 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a
0.4 percent gain, according to the median of 21 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier, sales advanced 1.1
percent.  Political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa has
pushed  oil prices  above $100 a barrel, driving up fuel and
energy costs. German inflation held at a two-year high of 2.2
percent in March, breaching the  European Central Bank ’s limit
for a third month.  Consumer confidence  will decline for the
first time in 10 months in April as higher prices erode
household purchasing power, market research company GfK AG said
this week.  At the same time, declining unemployment and a stronger
economy may help offset price concerns.  Unemployment fell to a two-decade low of 7.3 percent in
February as companies ramped up production and hiring to meet
export demand. The Bundesbank predicts economic growth of 2.5
percent this year after last year’s record 3.6 percent
expansion. German business confidence held close to a record
this month, the Munich-based Ifo Institute said March 25.  Stuttgart-based Daimler AG said on Feb. 24 it will add more
than 10,000 jobs, while Volkswagen AG,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, plans to add 6,000.  Cosmetics retailer Douglas Holding AG last week reported a
4.1 percent increase in sales for the first five months of the
business year and confirmed its full-year pretax profit and
revenue forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  