-- 
Retiring ECB Member Quaden Calls for ‘Cautious’ Rate Increase

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-03-31T10:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/retiring-ecb-member-quaden-calls-for-cautious-rate-increase-next-month.html
European Central Bank council
member  Guy Quaden , whose term ends today, called for a
“cautious” interest rate increase on April 7.  “I will not take part in the meeting next week but I
wouldn’t be surprised or unhappy if indeed the Governing Council
were to decide on a cautious increase of its  interest rates ,”
Quaden, who has headed the Belgian central bank for 12 years,
said in an interview in Brussels yesterday. “A cautious
increase of the official interest rates from that very low level
cannot hamper the economic recovery.”  Quaden, 65, is one of the longest-serving ECB council
members and established himself as a centrist policy maker whose
views often reflected the consensus. While the ECB has made
clear it intends to follow through on its threat to raise the
benchmark rate from a record low of 1 percent in April,
increased economic uncertainty caused by  Japan ’s earthquake and
soaring oil prices may give it reason to limit subsequent moves.  “I’m not a hawk,” Quaden said, referring to policy makers
who use tough inflation-fighting rhetoric. “Am I a dove? I’m
not sure of that. I’m a pragmatist.”  Quaden said economic growth in the 17-nation euro area
isn’t “fantastic,” nor the inflation situation “tragic.”  “But both growth and inflation have become again
significantly positive and in this new context it seems
difficult to me to say that this very, very low level of
official interest rates of 1 percent is still appropriate,” he
said.  Luc Coene  Quaden, who will be succeeded on the ECB council and at the
Belgian central bank by Vice Governor Luc Coene tomorrow, holds
economics degrees from the University of Liege in  Belgium  and La
Sorbonne in Paris. He joined the  National Bank of Belgium  as a
director in 1988 and became the first Socialist Party member to
take its helm in March 1999, nine months after the ECB was
founded.  Quaden said if the structural trend of rising commodity
prices is confirmed, it could lead central banks, “and the ECB
in particular,” to “amend somewhat” their targets, though
“it would be absolutely premature to do that now.” He declined
to elaborate. The ECB currently aims for average inflation of
just below 2 percent over the medium term.  Imports from emerging markets with lower wages and costs
“was one of the factors explaining the great moderation of
inflation at the beginning of this century,” Quaden said.  ‘Real Problem’  “Now, living standards are fortunately improving in
emerging countries and their consumption, especially of
commodities, is increasing,” he said. “Consumption in these
countries will possibly now contribute to an increase of
inflationary pressures in the world. Potentially it could be a
real problem for the years to come, for monetary policy and
central banks.”  Quaden accepted a third five-year term as head of the
Belgian central bank in February 2009. At the time, he told the
government that he “didn’t wish to get to the very end of this
mandate.” After retiring, he will focus on his work as chairman
of a committee studying the budgetary consequences of
demographic changes, Quaden said.  Reflecting on his central banking career, Quaden said the
biggest challenge for the first ECB policy makers had been
“building up and preserving the credibility of a new currency
and a new institution.”  ‘Some Audacity’  “I think we were able to do that,” he said. “And that
was due to the fact that we had, and still have, a clear
strategy --  price stability  in the medium term. But we were also
capable in recent difficult instances of flexibility, and even
some audacity.”  Some of the ECB’s so-called non-standard measures, such as
buying the bonds of distressed euro-area governments, caused a
split on the Governing Council. Quaden said the bank, under the
leadership of  Jean-Claude Trichet , “reacted quickly and
appropriately.”  “I was not the manager of a relatively small national
currency as was the case with my predecessors, but the co-
manager, with 22 colleagues, of one of the two biggest
currencies of the world,” Quaden said. “It was a pleasure, but
it was also challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  