-- 
Facebook Is Tool for Trial Lawyers Scouring Juror Profiles to Unearth Bias

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/trial-lawyers-scour-jury-members-profiles-on-facebook-twitter.html
When jurors were chosen for the
perjury trial of baseball star  Barry Bonds  this month, they were
barred from using social media in regards to the case. Such a
ban doesn’t extend to lawyers, who mine Facebook Inc. profiles
of jurors to unearth a bias that might hurt or help their side.  Facebook, Twitter Inc. and other services have become a
major resource for both prosecutors and defense attorneys,
letting them glean more insight than they can get from jury
questionnaires, said Joseph Rice, chief executive officer of
 Jury Research Institute  in Alamo, California.  “Social media has given us an incredible tool, because
it’s something jurors voluntarily engage in, and they post
information about their activities or affiliations or hobbies,”
Rice said. That reveals “their life experience or attitude that
may have an impact on how they view the facts of the case.”  The practice adds fuel to the debate over social-networking
privacy and whether Internet postings should be used to reject
someone from a job or academic program -- or a seat in the jury
box. Facebook has more than 500 million users, while Twitter
members post 140 million messages daily. That yields a wealth of
data that lawyers can use to screen people or hone arguments.  David Wenner, a partner at  Snyder & Wenner  in Phoenix, said
any piece of information about a juror’s life that’s relevant to
a case could help determine who may be biased.  “Let’s say you have a case involving an emergency room --
you’re suing a hospital for negligence,” he said. “Wouldn’t it
be nice to know that there’s some picture posted on a website of
you attending some hospital charity event?”  Definition of Friend  If jurors aren’t truthful about their social-networking
connections during vetting, convictions can be overturned. Take
the 2008 example of Amber Hyre, a  West Virginia  juror who didn’t
disclose that she was MySpace friends with the defendant, a
police officer being tried on criminal charges. After the
relationship came to light, a state appeals court threw out the
defendant’s conviction and ordered a new trial.  Hyre, who lives in Gassaway, West Virginia, said the
defendant had requested to be her friend before the trial, and
she accepted. When he posted messages about being depressed, she
sent him a note online to cheer him up. During jury selection,
she was asked if she had ever visited the defendant’s house or
had other interactions, which she hadn’t.  “Maybe I should have said he was on my MySpace page, but
then I thought to myself, I really don’t know him, so I’m really
not lying,” Hyre, 30, said in an interview. Since then, she’s
been “much more cautious” about whom she communicates with
online.  Easier Detective Work  To ensure lawyers aren’t surprised, companies are selling
social-media monitoring services.  DecisionQuest , a trial
consulting firm, started offering it three years ago, said
Christine Martin, a  senior consultant  with the firm in  New York .  “In the old days, they could use private investigators,”
Martin said. “This just makes it a lot easier.”  She cites an example last year of a Michigan woman who was
removed from a jury because she said on Facebook that the
defendant was guilty -- before arguments were finished.  In the Bonds case, jurors had to agree in writing not to
communicate about the case via social media, the Internet “or
any other means, electronic or otherwise,” according to a
filing in federal court in San Francisco.  Jury Questionnaire  That language was added to the jury questionnaire, an
unusual step, said Chris St. Hilaire,  president  of Jury Impact,
a consulting firm in  Costa Mesa , California. It’s more routine
for judges to admonish jurors verbally not to discuss the case
outside of court.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeff Nedrow, who is prosecuting
Bonds and participated in jury selection, declined to comment,
as did Allen Ruby, an attorney for Bonds.  There are rules governing how far firms and lawyers can go
to obtain the information, said  DecisionQuest ’s Martin.  “You can’t use trickery to get someone to friend you or
get behind their privacy wall,” she said. “It’s a breach of
legal ethics.”  Even so, the searches raise privacy questions, said Kurt
Roemer, chief security strategist of Citrix Systems Inc., a
 software company  in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . He focuses on
Internet security and privacy issues.  If potential jurors are concerned, they should limit who
can see their profiles to friends only, he said. They also need
to be mindful of location-based applications, such as
Foursquare, which broadcast a person’s location for all the
world to see, Roemer said.  In Danger?  “They definitely expose your privacy and erode your
anonymity,” he said. “From a jury perspective, you want to be
really careful that people don’t know who you are, that you’re
on the jury, that you’re actively considering this type of a
case, because they could try to influence you or potentially
even harm you.”  In some cases, an Internet search can reveal when potential
jurors lie during questioning, said Kathy Kellermann, who runs a
litigation  consulting firm  in  Marina del Rey ,  California .  She says she worked on a case where a prospective juror
indicated he had never been in court for any reason. It turns
out the person served as an expert witness as part of his job --
something Kellermann found in a  Google search .  Twitter, a site that lets users share 140-character
messages, is rife with jury members posting their thoughts. A
search for the term “ juryduty ” brings up new posts every few
minutes. Comments range from observations about other people in
the jury pool to remarks such as, “Dear judge, thank you for a
two-hour lunch break. I needed the rum and Coke to carry on.”  If a juror suggests online that a witness didn’t seem
believable, or that she’s made up her mind about the evidence
without a judge’s guidance, “that would be something that you’d
like to bring to somebody’s attention,” said Rice, the
litigation consultant. “That’s inappropriate activity.”  Courts are still hashing out how to handle social media,
especially in high-profile cases, he said.  “The court system is struggling to understand the roles
that technology can play in a juror’s life,” Rice said, “and
how to keep that genie in a bottle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  