-- 
Russia's Evraz Seeking Iron Ore, Steel Purchases in South Africa, CEO Says

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-03-31T12:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/russia-s-evraz-seeking-iron-ore-steel-purchases-in-south-africa-ceo-says.html
Evraz Group SA (EVR) , the Russian steel
producer part-owned by billionaire Roman Abramovich, is seeking
 iron ore  and steel assets in  South Africa , and projects in East
Siberia, Chief Executive Officer Alexander Frolov said.  “We’re interested in acquiring iron ore deposits and steel
distributors in South Africa,” Frolov said in an interview from
Moscow today. Evraz had looked at  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Scaw
Metals Group steel unit, he said, without elaborating.  The company, seeking to expand in mining as prices of metal
and minerals soar, is studying iron ore opportunities in Russia,
Frolov said. First-quarter profit may jump as much as 89 percent
from a year earlier as demand rises, Evraz said today.  Russia ’s
largest steelmaker after OAO Severstal plans to increase capital
spending by 44 percent this year to $1.2 billion, it added.  “We are looking at many green-field projects but the
problem is that most of them are not very easy to develop and
rather expensive,” Frolov said, declining to identify them.  Evraz is studying joining ZAO Alrosa’s Timir iron ore mine
in East Siberia’s Yakutia region, said two people familiar with
the matter who declined to be identified. Alrosa, Russia’s
diamond-mining monopoly, is seeking local and foreign investors
for the untapped field, CEO Fyodor Andreev said this month.
Timir has about 5 billion metric tons of reserves, Alrosa says.  Evraz confirmed this month it was considering the future of
its 40 percent stake in OAO  Raspadskaya (RASP) , a Russian coal company,
after two people familiar with the matter said the steelmaker
was seeking to sell the shareholding. “As the coal prices
started to rise, we decided that we should consider different
options in respect of this investment,” Frolov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 