-- 
Ryan Struggles to Match ‘Hot Rhetoric’ Against Obama With Entitlement Cuts

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-03-31T15:36:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/ryan-struggles-with-hot-rhetoric-on-entitlements-correct-.html
Weeks after Republicans assailed
President  Barack Obama  for not taking the lead on overhauling
entitlement programs, House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan 
is likely to avoid laying out detailed cuts to Social Security
in preparing his first budget plan.  Ryan’s draft budget, likely to be released April 5, is
focused instead on specific spending cuts in areas such as
education, agriculture and Medicaid, according to two people who
said they were briefed on the Wisconsin Republican’s plan by
committee staff. The panel is still debating what to do about
Medicare.  The reluctance to specify reductions to Social Security and
Medicare, primary drivers of the  U.S. debt , reflects growing
anxiety among Republicans as party leaders try to square their
criticism of Obama with polls showing public opposition to
taking benefits away from future retirees.  “Politics plays into this,” said Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican and vice chairman of Ryan’s
Budget Committee. “Is he going to come out with a plan where he
wants to go, or is he coming out with a plan of where he is
being allowed to go” by the party leadership. “We need to
start taking some of these tough calls now.”  Republican aides stress the debate within the party over
entitlements isn’t finished and is likely to continue through
this week. Ryan spokesman Conor Sweeney declined to comment,
saying it’s premature to confirm the contents of the budget.  Immediate Results  Social Security and the Medicare insurance program for the
elderly will account for 36 percent of federal spending in 2020,
the White House budget office says. Medicaid, which is jointly
funded with the states, will make up 10 percent.  To be sure, trimming Medicaid, an insurance plan for lower-
income people, could produce the immediate results that many
House freshmen and Tea Party conservatives are demanding.  Still, Ryan, 41, is under pressure to present a plan
balancing the budget within the next decade, and his blueprint
may not go far enough for lawmakers elected on a pledge to
redirect the U.S. long-term fiscal path.  Representative Joe Walsh, a freshman from  Illinois , is
among a bloc of Republicans who have been at odds with their
leaders over a series of short-term spending bills, a showdown
that’s likely to intensify with debates over a 2012 budget bill
and an increase in the $14 trillion federal debt ceiling
looming.  ‘Tough Choices’  “There’s some tough choices that need to be made,” and
“it’s not just playing around with Medicaid,” said Walsh, who
was among 54 Republicans voting against the most recent
temporary spending bill.  Walsh is a member of the Republican Study Committee, which
is drawing up an alternative budget that he says will “provide
that healthy push” on reform of entitlements, or programs
directed at certain segments of the population.  “This is a dialogue still being had, and I’m hoping that
we can still influence that dialogue,” he said.  Ryan’s job is complicated by Republican “hot rhetoric”
criticizing Obama, said Robert Bixby, executive director of the
Concord Coalition, a budget watchdog group. Party leaders
attacked the president after he offered no guidelines for
revamping Social Security and Medicare in his 2012 budget.  “Our budget will lead where the president has failed, and
it will include real entitlement reforms,” House Speaker  John Boehner  said in a Feb. 15 statement with Republican House
leaders. Boehner said Republicans “will not punt” on
entitlements. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal
earlier this year, Boehner reiterated his commitment to offering
a budget curbing Social Security and Medicare.  Pumping Up Expectations  Normally, a congressional budget resolution is required to
contain only numerical targets for programs, without detailed
policy directives, Bixby said. The Republicans will have to go
beyond that on entitlements, he said.  “They’ve pumped up expectations quite a bit,” Bixby said.
“Ryan’s got a very difficult job, and part of that job is
unrealistic rhetoric,” he said. “Turning that into a reality
is now proving to be very difficult. It won’t be enough to say
‘here’s our numerical goal.’”  Yet one person familiar with the House budget panel’s
deliberations said there’s a reluctance to be specific on
Medicare or Social Security because many of the needed changes,
such as increasing the age for eligibility, can’t be enacted
unless the president agrees.  No Funding Crisis  White House officials have rejected the idea of making
major changes to Social Security part of the debt debate, saying
the system isn’t facing an immediate funding crisis.  While the Social Security trust fund will last until 2037,
according to the annual trustee’s  report , its disability
insurance program will run dry in four to seven years, becoming
the first major federal benefit program to run out of cash.  Targeting Medicaid is politically easier, said Ron Pollack,
executive director of Families USA, a health-care advocacy
group. The program serves predominantly lower-income, minority
voters who don’t belong to the Republican base, and elderly
individuals in long-term-care facilities who often don’t vote,
he said. Many Medicare and Social Security recipients helped
propel the party to victory last year.  Cutting Medicaid also draws less public opposition, with 59
percent of voters opposed, compared with 70 percent or more who
oppose reductions in Social Security and Medicare, according to
a Feb. 21-28 Quinnipiac University  poll . It also plays into the
Republican plan to dismantle Obama’s health-care law, because
Medicaid expansion is a main feature.  Ryan, Rivlin Plan  In 2014, states will be required to broaden their Medicaid
programs to cover more low-income adults, an obligation that has
drawn opposition from a number of Republican governors.  Last year, Ryan released a block-grant proposal along with
Democrat  Alice Rivlin , President  Bill Clinton ’s former budget
director, that cut $180 billion from the program over 10 years.
Washington Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the House’s
fifth-ranking Republican, is working on a proposal she says will
give states more flexibility.  Starting in 2012, capping Medicaid growth at inflation plus
1 percent could save more than $1 trillion over a decade, said
Brian Riedl, a budget analyst at the  Heritage Foundation  in
Washington, which advocates limited government.  “Medicaid is a good place to start because it can provide
savings relatively quickly compared to many Social Security and
Medicare reforms,” said Riedl. “It would likely go down as one
of the biggest budget savers ever.”  Ryan’s Roadmap  Ryan last year also released a report called “the Roadmap
for America’s Future” that called for private accounts to be
added to Social Security, benefit cuts for people under age 55
and increasing the  retirement age .  For Medicare, new beneficiaries in 2021 would be put on a
voucher program providing a fixed sum each year to buy private
coverage, according to the roadmap.  Many Republicans argued in the last election that Obama’s
health-care overhaul would amount to cutting Medicare benefits,
since cost savings from the program are intended to fund the
law. Republicans took the elderly vote by a 21-percentage-point
margin in the 2010 elections in which they won control of the
House, compared with an even spread in the 2008 elections.  That makes it “very politically difficult” now for them
to support any plan to scale back benefits, said  David Wasserman , House editor for the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  