-- 
SAC Capital’s Steven Cohen Wins Dismissal of Ex-Wife’s Racketeering Suit

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-31T00:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/sac-capital-s-steven-cohen-wins-dismissal-of-ex-wife-s-racketeering-suit.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP founder
 Steven A. Cohen  won’t have to face his ex-wife’s lawsuit
accusing him of cheating her out of money in their 1990 divorce,
a judge said.  U.S. District Richard Holwell in  New York  today dismissed
Patricia Cohen’s lawsuit, ruling she took too long to bring the
case filed in 2009. The judge said Cohen made similar claims in
a 1991 lawsuit in which she accused her ex-husband of hiding
assets and misrepresenting the value of his investments.  Patricia Cohen also said in her lawsuit that hedge fund
SAC Capital was “the product of an ongoing racketeering
scheme” that has engaged in  insider trading , bank fraud,  money
laundering  and other misconduct.  “By 1985 Steven had become a very successful trader, but
the Cohen’s marriage was far from a success,” Holwell said in
his ruling. “This is a case where, some twenty years ago,
Patricia alleged the same kind of fraud -- hiding assets -- by
the same person -- Steven --in the same negotiations at the same
time.”  The judge barred  Patricia Cohen  from re-filing her
complaint.  ‘Scoundrel’  “Here, where Patricia believed that Steven was defrauding
her and had essentially alleged that he was a ‘scoundrel,’ she
should have perceived a need to determine the verity of his
affidavits” in the divorce case about his net worth and
business deals he claimed were worthless, Holwell said.  Patricia Cohen also claimed she was entitled to at least
half of his business, saying it was developed in part with
$1 million that she earned from a real estate business.  “As we have said from the outset, the allegations by Mr.
Cohen’s former spouse were without merit,” Jonathan Gasthalter,
a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC Capital, said in
a phone interview. “We are pleased that the case has been
dismissed.”  Howard Foster, a lawyer for Patricia Cohen, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Cohen, 54, started SAC in 1992 with about $25 million and
the firm now has about $14 billion under management.  Steven Cohen  said the couple had $17 million in marital
assets in the divorce, and Patricia Cohen accepted a $3.5
million settlement, $2.5 million of which was an apartment,
according to the complaint.  “Only three weeks after their second round of divorce
proceedings had concluded in 1992, Steve reassembled SAC
Trading” under “SAC Capital and other entities, with some
newfound $25 million,” according to Patricia Cohen’s complaint.  The case is Cohen v. Cohen, 09-cv-10230, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  