-- 
SADC Calls on Zimbabwe to Complete All Provisions of Power-Sharing Accord

-- B y   O b e r t   S i m w a n z a
-- 
2011-04-01T08:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/sadc-calls-on-zimbabwe-to-complete-all-provisions-of-power-sharing-accord.html
The  Southern African Development
Community  called on  Zimbabwe  to implement all the provisions of
a power sharing agreement, including the completion of
constitutional amendments and a referendum.  The government of Zimbabwe should undertake “all the steps
necessary for the holding of elections,” SADC’s executive-
secretary, Tomaz Salomao, told a press conference in
Livingstone,  Zambia , today following a summit of the political
committee of the 15-nation group.  SADC is disappointed by “insufficient progress” made in
sticking to the agreement and “noted with grave concern the
polarization of the political environment” through a resurgence
of violence, arrests and intimidation, he said.  While the power-sharing government of President Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front and
Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ’s Movement for Democratic
Change, formed two years ago after a disputed election, helped
end a decade of recession, it has often come close to breaking
down. Tsvangirai said on March 18, after the arrest of Energy
Minister Elton Mangoma, a top MDC official, that the country
risks “sliding back into chaos.”  The MDC accuses Zanu-PF of preventing it from holding
rallies before elections that Mugabe wants this year. Lawmakers
haven’t yet drafted a new constitution that is meant to precede
the vote.  Madagascar Summit  There must be an “immediate end of violence, intimidation
and hate speech” in Zimbabwe, Salomao said. The regional group
will help Zimbabwe’s government set up the guidelines for an
election, he said. It didn’t blame either party for violence and
didn’t set a date for the vote.  The heads of state of  South Africa ,  Namibia , Zambia and
Mozambique met with both Tsvangirai and Mugabe at the meeting.  SADC agreed to hold a separate summit on Madagascar, which
has been in political and economic crisis since Andry Rajoelina
ousted  Marc Ravalomanana  as leader, with the help of the
military, two year ago, Salomao said.  All parties must support the group’s mediation team in the
Indian Ocean island nation and work peacefully toward an
election, he said.  Most political parties in Madagascar accepted a SADC
roadmap that leaves Rajoelina as president of a transitional
administration and Ravalomanana still in exile in South Africa.
It was rejected by the three main opposition groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  