-- 
Sands China Being Investigated by Hong Kong Regulator for Alleged Breach

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 
2011-03-31T16:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/sands-china-says-under-investigation-by-hong-kong-regulator.html
Las Vegas  Sands Corp.’s  Sands China
Ltd. (1928) , said it’s being investigated by the Hong Kong Securities
and Futures Commission for alleged breaches of regulations,
following U.S. probes of the parent company.  Sands China, the Macau casino operator, slid the most in
four weeks in Hong Kong today after saying in a statement that
it was “requested to produce certain documents.” Las Vegas
Sands fell in the U.S. The company said this month it is being
investigated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
 Justice Department , which have sought documents related to the
Macau unit’s compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Founder and Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson  said
this week the company is cooperating with U.S. investigators and
he is sure it will be cleared of wrongdoing in Macau. Adelson
said the U.S. probes stem from allegations in a lawsuit filed by
former Sands  China  CEO Steven Jacobs, who claims the company
breached his employment contract.  “When the smoke clears, I am absolutely, not 100 percent,
but 1,000 percent positive that there won’t be any fire below
it,” Adelson said of the U.S. probes at a March 28 JPMorgan
Chase & Co. conference. The investigation began about a week ago
and attorneys say it will take four to six months, he said.  Ron Reese , a Las Vegas Sands spokesman, declined to
comment, as did Jacqueline Wu, a spokeswoman for Sands Macau,
and Ernest Kong, a spokesman for the Hong Kong regulator.  Shares Fall  Las Vegas Sands fell $1.96, or 4.5 percent, to $41.51 at
12:42 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Sands
China fell 5.7 percent to HK$17.36 in  Hong Kong , paring its gain
over the past year to 41 percent.  “The incident is hurting investor sentiment,” said
Gabriel Chan, a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst. “If the
investigation is an extension to Steven Jacobs, it will not be a
big issue in the short term. Now the issue is we need to find
out is if there is anything new.”  The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act bars U.S. companies and
their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign
officials to win or retain business.  “They want to get all my e-mails,” Adelson said at the
conference, which was webcast. “I don’t have a computer. And I
don’t use e-mails, I’m not an e-mail type of person,” he said.  Jacobs Lawsuit  Sands China said in July Jacobs was fired by the board,
without saying why. Jacobs sued in October in  Nevada , alleging
breach of contract. Las Vegas Sands must face the lawsuit in
Nevada, a judge ruled on March 15, rejecting the company’s
request to dismiss the suit. Lawyers for the casino company
argued the case should be heard in China.  Jacobs alleges in the complaint, among other things, that
Las Vegas Sands demanded he use improper “leverage” to win
government concessions, that he retain a lawyer who was part of
the Macau government and that he mislead the board.  In his March 28 remarks, Adelson questioned the motivation
behind Jacobs’s lawsuit, mentioning three Macau government
leaders who aren’t named in the complaint.  “So I suppose that the attorney for Jacobs thinks he’s
going to go over to Edmund Ho and say, did Adelson bribe you?
And Edmund Ho’s going to say yes,” Adelson said. “And then
he’ll go to Fernando Chui and to Francis Tam, say, Adelson bribe
you? Oh, yes. He bribed me.”  Ho is the Macau special administrative region’s former CEO.
Chui is CEO and Tam is economics and finance secretary.  ‘Extraordinary’ Comments  “I found Mr. Adelson’s comments quite extraordinary and
indeed most puzzling, because he is the only person that is
linking the names of Edmund Ho, Fernando Chui and Mr. Tam with
the allegation of bribery,” Don Campbell, Jacobs’s lawyer said
in a March 29 phone interview. “No such allegation has ever,
ever been made in our lawsuit, by Mr. Jacobs, by me, or anyone
connected with our case.”  Adelson said on March 28 Jacobs’s lawsuit is “not a
serious case.” A judge has required a settlement conference
that will take place in April, he said.  “I’m not optimistic there’ll be a settlement, but we’ll go
through the motions,” Adelson said.  The case is Jacobs v.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , A-10-627691,
Nevada District Court,  Clark County  (Las Vegas)  (Click here for an audio replay and transcript of Adelson’s
March 28 discussion.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Leung in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  