-- 
Santos Says Colombia Would Take More Measures to Rein In Peso If Necessary

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-03-31T18:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/santos-says-colombia-would-take-more-measures-to-rein-in-peso-if-necessary.html
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  said he’d take additional measures to curb gains by the
peso if necessary to offset pressure on the currency from
international investment.  Santos, in an interview at the presidential palace in
Bogota, said Colombia has been the “most successful” emerging
market at fighting capital flows spurred by near-zero  interest
rates  in the U.S. and other developed countries.  “The trend continues to be against the interest of our
country and emerging markets,” he said. “If we have to take
more measures, we will take them.”  Santos, 59, said he hoped to reach an agreement “very
soon” with President Barack Obama’s administration that would
strengthen Colombian labor rules and allow the  U.S. Congress  to
approve a free trade agreement stalled since 2006. He said he
has no plans to raise royalty fees charged mining and oil
companies, and would sell “bit by bit” a 10 percent government
stake in  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  after the state oil producer issues new
shares this year.  The peso, after strengthening 20 percent against the dollar
since the end of 2008, has declined 3.9 percent in the last six
months, more than all 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg News except the Turkish lira.  To keep pressure off the currency, the government last year
eliminated tax exemptions on foreign borrowing and delayed
repatriating $1.5 billion held overseas, most of it dividends
from Ecopetrol. The central bank last month extended a plan to
buy a minimum of $20 million daily in the local market until
“at least” June 17.”  Trade Agreement  Santos, who took office in August, said “things are
moving” to get the U.S.- Colombia  free trade agreement approved
this year.  “They have submitted a list of things they would like to
see happen in Colombia and when I saw that list, that list is
exactly what we want also,” said Santos, sitting in his office
decorated with a portrait of Simon Bolivar, the 19th century
South American independence hero. “There are no contradictions.
We don’t want to violate the rights of the workers, we don’t
want to violate human rights.”  Unions and Democrats have opposed the deal because of
Colombia’s record for violence against trade unionists. At least
282 trade unionists were killed in Colombia between 2002 and
2010, though the annual number of labor murders has declined 84
percent during that period as violence from drug trafficking and
a half-century Marxist insurgency ebbs.  Colombian exports to the U.S. jumped 31 percent last year
to $16.9 billion. The U.S. is Colombia’s biggest trading
partner.  Mining Royalties  Santos said he would “give no guarantees” though “in
principle” would shun raising royalties on mining and oil
companies that accounted for 60 percent of $6.5 billion in
 foreign direct investment  in the first nine months of 2010.  “For me sending signals to the foreign investors is very
important,” said Santos. “I want foreign investors to see
Colombia as a serious country and that means not changing the
rules of the game.”  Santos said the government will sell “bit by bit” up to a
10 percent stake in Ecopetrol after Colombia’s largest oil
producer issues new shares this year amid a busy market for
share offerings by local companies, including airline
AviancaTaca Holding SA.  “We don’t want to commit ourselves to any percentage per
year,” said Santos, who served as finance minister between 2000
and 2002. “We want to do these operations completely
coordinated and with the best result possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 Hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  