-- 
Sarkozy Backs IMF as Currency Enforcer as G-20 Officials Gather in Nanjing

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T03:12:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/sarkozy-backs-imf-as-currency-enforcer-at-g-20-china-opening.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
should get the power to police rules envisioned to promote
currency-market stability, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told
Group of 20 finance chiefs in Nanjing,  China .  “Greater supervision by the IMF” of nations’ balance of
payments and reserves “appears indispensible,” Sarkozy said
today in remarks prepared for a one-day seminar that he
initiated. “ France  supports modifying the IMF’s status to
expand its oversight capacity.”  With France holding the presidency of the G-20 this year,
Sarkozy has made the monetary system one of his priorities. In
his opening remarks, he omitted mention of the two biggest
economies -- the U.S. and China -- whose policy makers have been
criticized for keeping their currencies weak to promote growth.  Sarkozy sought to summon the G-20’s unity at the height of
the global financial crisis in 2009. Now, nations pursuing their
own interests risked a “proliferation of unilateral measures
during crises resulting in a new financial protectionism in
which all economies suffer,” he said.  The conference, attended by economists including Nobel
laureate  Robert Mundell  and  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Global
Sachs Asset Management, is intended to lay the groundwork for an
agreement at the G-20 summit in Cannes, France, in November that
would lead to a more “stable and resilient” monetary order,
said the French leader, who is up for re-election next year.  G-20 Disputes  The last gathering of G-20 finance ministers in February
underscored the difficulties, with China fighting against the
inclusion of foreign-exchange reserves as a yardstick for
gauging global imbalances. Sarkozy views China’s decision to
host the conference as a first step toward a more flexible yuan
that should result in its inclusion in the IMF’s currency basket,
known as Special Drawing Rights, according to a French official
who spoke to reporters before the gathering.  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  told Sarkozy yesterday in
Beijing that China views the internationalization of the yuan as
inevitable, with only the pace of the move in question, the
French official said.  In promoting the IMF’s role, Sarkozy would boost the power
and prestige of a potential presidential challenger in 2012, IMF
Managing Director Dominique Strauss Kahn. Strauss-Kahn, a former
Socialist finance minister who has yet to announce his
intentions, would be the top vote-getter, French polls show.  --James Hertling. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Stephanie Phang.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  