-- 
Sarkozy Pledges Japan Aid, Calls for Stronger Nuclear Safety

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-03-31T10:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/sarkozy-pledges-japan-aid-calls-for-stronger-nuclear-safety-1-.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
pledged support for  Japan ’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  in
containing the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years and called for
strengthening international atomic power safety standards.  “We want to set up a standard by the end of this year,”
Sarkozy said at a joint press conference with Kan in Tokyo. “I
wanted to convey our international support for Japan and our
trust that Japan will rise again.”  Kan said he appreciated France’s offer of equipment and
expertise and said he will discuss the impact from the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant at the Group of Eight summit
that Sarkozy will host in May.  Sarkozy is the first foreign leader to visit Tokyo since
the March 11 record earthquake and subsequent tsunami devastated
much of northeastern Japan, leaving almost 28,000 people dead or
missing. He flew to  Tokyo  from Nanjing,  China  where he was
attending a Group of 20 gathering.  “We have a duty to other countries to accurately share our
experience with this nuclear accident so that we can prevent a
recurrence,” Kan said.  The Dai-Ichi plant may be in danger of uncontrolled chain
reactions, the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said yesterday,
putting workers at risk as they struggle to cool reactors that
have leaked radiation into the air and sea. Tokyo Electric Power
Co., the operator of the facility, has reconnected power to the
six reactors while working to repair its cooling systems.  Kan said he intended to review how Japan’s electricity
companies are managed as private-sector companies once the
crisis subsides.  Sarkozy said that while he won’t allow the building of new
nuclear power stations that don’t adhere to strict safety
standards, the developed world has no choice but to harness
atomic power for its electricity needs as well as reducing
greenhouse gas emissions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  