-- 
Saudi Arabia to Target Solar Power in $100 Billion Energy Plan

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-03-31T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/saudi-arabia-to-target-solar-power-in-100-billion-energy-plan.html
Saudi Arabia , with 20 percent of the
world’s oil reserves, is targeting  renewable energy  and nuclear
power in a $100 billion spending drive aimed at meeting a jump
in electricity demand and curbing its dependence on crude.  The kingdom sees solar power and other non-hydrocarbon
sources as crucial parts of a plan to boost generating capacity
by 50 percent in this decade, said Abdullah al-Shehri, governor
of the Electricity and Co-Generation Regulatory Authority. The
government may announce details of a renewable-energy strategy
at a  conference  in the capital  Riyadh  on April 3.  Persian Gulf oil producers need to produce more electricity
to sustain a regional economic growth rate averaging about 10
percent a year,  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at  National
Commercial Bank  in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, said on March 29. At
the same time, countries in the region are hungry for new ways
to generate power because they prefer exporting crude to
maximize income and allocating natural gas to make
petrochemicals.  “Fuel supply is one of the major challenges facing the
power sector and the nation,” Saleh Al-Awaji, Saudi Arabia’s
deputy minister for electricity at the Ministry of Water, said
at a conference in Abu Dhabi on March 28. “The policy is to
work intensely on saving energy and making sure every barrel of
oil that can be saved is, and is made available for export.”  Oil For Power  Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in OPEC, uses crude and
refined products as fuel for power stations because it doesn’t
have enough gas to generate all the power it needs and also
supply industry. Liquid fuels generate about half of the
country’s power, according to the state-run utility  Saudi
Electricity Co. (SECO)  Saudi Arabia burns some 800,000 barrels a day of
oil equivalent to satisfy domestic demand, Khalid Al Senani, the
gas supply director at the Ministry of Petroleum and  Mineral
Resources , said in Doha, Qatar, on Nov. 30.  The nation’s other power plants use gas, which costs about
one-fourth as much as oil on the basis of a barrel of oil
equivalent, according to U.S. benchmark prices.  By burning oil to keep electricity flowing, Saudi Arabia
may find it harder to maintain its global role as the crude
supplier of last resort.  The country pledged to help ensure adequate supply to the
market after violence curbed exports from  Libya . It raised
output to 8.87 million barrels a day in February, a 3.3 percent
increase over January, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries said in a monthly report on March 11.  Aramco’s Warning  Given consumption forecasts, Saudi Aramco Chief Executive
Officer Khalid Al-Falih warned last April that national daily
energy demand would more than double to 8.3 million barrels of
oil equivalent in 2028 from 3.4 million barrels in 2009.  To expand generating capacity and the transmission grid,
the country will need investments of more than $100 billion over
the next ten years, al-Shehri of the electricity authority said
in Abu Dhabi on March 28. A third of that amount will go to
building  power plants , including those using renewable energy,
he said.  Current generating capacity is about 45,000 megawatts,
according to Saudi Electricity. This is likely to increase to
75,000 megawatts by 2018 and to more than 120,000 megawatts by
2030, al-Shehri said. Saudi Arabia agreed with  France  in
February to cooperate in developing nuclear energy and announced
on Feb. 22 that it would also make use of geothermal, wind and
solar power.  Solar Energy Targets  Officials from the King Abdullah City for Atomic and
Renewable Energy, the agency in charge of promoting alternative
energy, may announce guidelines and targets for solar generation
at the conference in Riyadh, a communications consultant said.
The consultant, who asked not to be identified because he’s not
an authorized spokesman, declined to say how much solar energy
the kingdom aims to produce.  “I’m expecting they will announce the target to generate
20 percent of their electricity from renewables by 2030,” said
Paddy Padmanathan, CEO of  ACWA Power International , a private
Saudi electricity provider. That would equal about 18,000
megawatts, he said in  Abu Dhabi , the capital of the  United Arab
Emirates .  “Saudi Arabia can support a huge amount of solar
generation, with the country’s combination of sun and the load
profile,” Padmanathan said, referring to Saudi needs that peak
at midday, when sunshine is brightest.  Saudi Arabia is already experimenting with solar power to
desalinate water. Al-Shehri said he expects the government to
issue tenders for additional renewable projects next year.  “My guess is they’ll announce plans for a few thousand
magawatts at first and take it from there,” said Alex Katon,
head of Middle East business strategy for International Power
Plc, a unit of GDF Suez SA. As the cost of generating power
using renewable technologies falls, the kingdom should be able
to add capacity more affordably, the U.A.E.-based Katon said on
March 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  