-- 
Schapiro SEC Seen Ineffectual Amid Dodd-Frank Funding Curbs

-- B y   J o h n   J .   C u r r a n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/schapiro-sec-seen-ineffectual-amid-dodd-frank-funding-curbs.html
On a stormy night in October 2009,
Mary Schapiro, the newly appointed head of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, returned to her alma mater, Franklin &
Marshall College in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania , to be inducted into
the hall of fame for student athletes. Receiving her award, she
grasped the podium, confessed she was near tears and spoke of
how she had never even seen a lacrosse game before attending
college.  “But I knew if I worked hard and persevered, I might
ultimately play,” she said. She competed for four years and
served as captain of the team in her senior year, when it went
7-4. She also lettered in field hockey, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its May issue.  Today, Schapiro, 55, faces challenges a good bit nastier
than a muddy lacrosse game. As she hits the halfway point of her
five-year term as head of the SEC, she must deal with a
sprawling legislative mandate to rewrite regulations affecting
the financial industry while, at the same time, trying to erase
the stain of the SEC’s failure to uncover  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi
scheme.  Oh, yes, and Congress has effectively frozen her budget.  Not since Joseph Kennedy was appointed the first SEC
chairman by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1934, in the
shadow of a stock market crash that had shattered investor
confidence, has the agency’s leadership faced such a broad call
to action. Kennedy might have been speaking for Schapiro when he
described his challenge as “one of the most difficult and one of
the most delicate tasks ever given to a governmental agency.”  ‘A Bit Overwhelming’  Taking stock of her lot, Schapiro is more understated.  “It can feel a bit overwhelming at times, but we just have
to take it one step at a time and get it done,” she says. She
has tempered that can-do attitude with warnings that the volume
of work and the lack of additional funding will cause the SEC to
miss deadlines as it writes up to 100 new rules designed to curb
fraud and excessive risk taking in the financial industry. And
it could get worse from there.  “The real crunch comes after the rules are in place and we
have to operationalize them,” she told the Senate Banking
Committee in late February. “We lack the resources to do that.”  Representative  Scott Garrett , the new Republican chairman
of the House subcommittee on capital markets, counters that the
commission, like every federal agency, is already bloated. He
wants to reduce, not increase, its budget.  Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who
was chief sponsor of the financial regulation bill together with
former Senator Christopher Dodd, says the real goal of Garrett
and the other Republicans who took charge of the House in
January is to derail Dodd-Frank.  ‘De-reregulating’  “They are looking to de-reregulate the financial markets,”
Frank says.  Limited resources aside, Schapiro and her enforcement
chief, former federal prosecutor  Robert Khuzami , have kept the
SEC in the news by filing lawsuits against high-profile
financial players. SEC lawyers helped the Justice Department
build its insider-trading case against hedge-fund mogul Raj Rajaratnam, now on trial in federal district court in Manhattan.
While the SEC doesn’t have the power to bring criminal
prosecutions, agency lawyers can appear in the courtroom to help
question witnesses.  Days before the trial of Rajaratnam started in early March,
the SEC filed a civil suit against Rajat Gupta, former head of
McKinsey & Co. and former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director,
alleging that Gupta had funneled inside information about
Goldman’s finances to Rajaratnam. Gupta denies wrongdoing.  Goldman Sued  Goldman itself was the object of an April 2010 SEC suit,
alleging that it had committed fraud when it sold investors a
mortgage security without disclosing that bearish hedge fund
Paulson & Co. helped pick the loans. Goldman paid a record $550
million fine and acknowledged that its marketing materials
contained incomplete information.  Schapiro also announced on March 2 that the SEC was writing
regulations that would allow it to challenge the bonuses paid to
the top executives of  Wall Street  banks, brokerage firms and
hedge funds.  Lynn Turner , former chief accountant at the SEC, says that
however tough Schapiro is on bonuses and inside traders, she
can’t overcome her failure to sue the executives he holds
responsible for the market crash.  “Name me one executive at Merrill Lynch the SEC has held
accountable, or name me one at Bear Stearns or at Lehman
Brothers,” Turner says. “Here you have the worst financial
crisis in history and you can’t name one.”  Fannie, Freddie  The SEC isn’t finished pursuing top executives from the
financial crisis. In mid-March,  Daniel Mudd , the former CEO of
 Fannie Mae , confirmed that he had received a Wells notice from
the SEC, indicating a pending enforcement action. Richard Syron,
former CEO of  Freddie Mac , also got a notice, according to two
people briefed on the matter.  The two government-backed mortgage giants have stayed
afloat only with the help of more than $150 billion of bailout
money.  The bonus controls are another measure mandated by the
Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law, passed in July 2010.
Formally called the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act, Dodd-Frank also foisted onto the SEC a mandate to conduct
studies on 20 open-ended questions, including whether or not to
have credit ratings on structured financial instruments such as
securitized mortgage loans.  ‘An Imperfect Law’  As the SEC staff works to implement the law, the agency’s
commissioners are highlighting the challenges.  “The act is an imperfect law,” Commissioner Kathleen Casey,
one of two Republican Party members on the five-member
commission, told an audience of corporate directors in January.
“It is vague in some areas; it sets forth timelines that are in
some cases unrealistic. And in some areas, the law is
unworkable.”  Her concerns include new SEC rules expanding shareholders’
right to challenge management.  Harvey Pitt, SEC chairman from 2001 to 2003 under President
 George W. Bush  and now head of Washington-based consulting firm
 Kalorama Partners LLC , doesn’t mince words on what Dodd-Frank
means for the commission.  “The SEC has been set up for failure,” he says. “Congress
was eager to say, ‘We’ve addressed the financial crisis,’ and
they didn’t worry about how effectively they had addressed the
crisis. We needed smarter regulatory reform than we got.”  He says Dodd-Frank’s requirement that the SEC write rules
to regulate the derivatives market by September 2011 is
unnecessarily rushed, and he calls a mandate that it set up an
investor advocate office superfluous.  New Trading Rules  “The SEC is the investor advocate, so why do we need a
special office for that?” he asks.  Schapiro has also had to address long-standing SEC issues
not covered by Dodd-Frank. She made it a high priority to
formulate a new series of trading rules and limitations to
prevent a repeat of the May 2010 market meltdown, when 340
stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange dove more than 60
percent in minutes, for reasons no official could immediately
explain, before recovering later in the day.  Schapiro is also overseeing a broad reorganization of the
commission’s enforcement division, which had wilted under
restrictions imposed by her predecessor, Christopher Cox. He
ruled that the division’s lawyers had to seek approval from the
commissioners before negotiating agreements on corporate fines,
which delayed resolution of some cases for many months.  Penalties Under Cox  During Cox’s tenure, the dollar value of penalties
decreased every year, falling from $1.5 billion in 2005 to $256
million in 2008.  Schapiro and Khuzami have portrayed the insider cases as
the tough new face of an SEC determined to root out financial
crime. Khuzami himself led the March 1 press conference
announcing the suit against Gupta, who was also a director of
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   “Gupta was honored with the highest trust of leading public
companies, and he betrayed that trust by disclosing their most
sensitive and valuable secrets,” Khuzami said.  “The SEC allegations are totally baseless,” says Gupta’s
lawyer, Gary Naftalis. “Mr. Gupta has done nothing wrong and is
confident that these unfounded allegations will be rejected by
any fair and impartial fact finder.”  The insider-trading cases have done little to mute the
continuing cry from Congress and media commentators for
punishment of the executives who brought down the financial
system through the manufacture of high-risk debt instruments.  Insider Trading  “Insider trading is really flash,” says Peter Henning, a
former SEC enforcement attorney and Justice Department
prosecutor who now teaches law at Wayne State University in
Detroit. “If you look at some of the biggest numbers, like Raj,
you’re talking about $50 million. But Lehman is the biggest
bankruptcy in history, and it alone has cost over $1 billion in
legal and other professional fees.”  The public anger reached as far as the February Academy
Awards ceremony, where a film about the financial meltdown
called “Inside Job” won the award for best documentary. In his
acceptance speech, director Charles Ferguson lamented that Wall
Street hadn’t really been held to account.  “I must start by pointing out that three years after our
horrific financial crisis caused by financial fraud, not a
single financial executive has gone to jail, and that’s wrong,”
he said.  Schapiro and enforcement chief Khuzami say the government
is restricted both by the law, which requires knowledge and
intent to file fraud charges, and the agency’s continued funding
constraints.  Quashing a Budget Rise  The Dodd-Frank law authorized the SEC budget, which was
$1.1 billion in 2010, to rise to $1.3 billion in 2011 and $2.25
billion by 2015.  House Republican leaders are determined to quash any
increase.  In mid-February, President Barack Obama requested $305
million more than last year’s SEC budget even as he agreed to
freeze or cut spending across most other agencies. Congressman
Garrett says neither the SEC nor its sister agency, the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, needs more money.  “A dramatic spending increase to fund the SEC and the CFTC,
as envisioned by the authors of the Dodd-Frank legislation,
would further the mindset that our nation’s problems can be
solved with more spending, not more efficiency,” Garrett said in
a January statement.  House Disagreement  Garrett has proposed to reduce the SEC budget to the 2008
level of $906 million.  He won’t necessarily get his way. Fellow Republican Jo Ann Emerson, head of a House appropriations subcommittee considering
the SEC’s budget, said at a March 15 hearing she opposed a
rollback in the SEC budget to 2008 levels.  “They’ve got a huge mission here,” she said. “They need the
tools to do their job.”  The SEC has given ammunition to its funding opponents. In
April 2010, the office of Senator Charles Grassley, Republican
of Iowa, said it was investigating a report that 33 SEC staff
had been disciplined over five years for watching pornography on
their office computers. Then in July of the same year, the
agency signed a 10-year lease for an additional 900,000 square
feet (83,600 square meters) of office space in downtown
Washington, even though it didn’t yet have the funds to expand
its staff.  Becker Controversy  In March, Schapiro landed before the House Oversight
Committee over her decision to allow the SEC’s general counsel,
David Becker, to participate in deliberations about how Madoff
victims should be compensated, even though his mother had
amassed $2 million in a Madoff account that he and his brothers
inherited.  “I wish that Mr. Becker had recused himself, absolutely,”
Schapiro told the committee.  Becker, who has been sued by Madoff fraud trustee Irving Picard, left his post in late February.  A Dodd-Frank-mandated review of the SEC by  Boston
Consulting Group Inc. , released in March, finds that the SEC is
about 400 employees short of what it needs to manage its new
workload, which includes oversight of hedge funds, derivatives,
credit-ratings firms and municipal bonds.  “Without sufficient human resources, the agency will be
unable to complete the requirements of Dodd-Frank while
maintaining its current activities,” the report says.  Staff Pressures  The SEC staff, which numbers 3,800, is already showing the
strain. A  survey  by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management,
released in late February, says that when employees were asked
in 2008 whether they had sufficient resources to do their job,
59 percent said they did. In the new survey, only 44 percent
said they had such resources.  Henry Hu is one person who got a close-up view of the
overworked SEC. In September 2009, Schapiro appointed Hu, a
professor of business law at the University of Texas Law School,
to head the SEC’s new division of Risk, Strategy and Financial
Innovation, known as Risk Fin. Hu, who left the SEC to return to
academia in January 2011, gave a December speech on his
experience at the Hedge Funds New York conference sponsored by
Bloomberg. He described the frenetic pace of work as reminiscent
of the famous skit from “I Love Lucy,” in which Lucy and Ethel
work on a chocolate candy production line and frantically try to
keep up with the conveyor belt.  “The SEC is doing the best it can under very challenging
conditions,” Hu says. “It was already faced with tight resource
limitations and then Congress imposed new rules and studies on
top of that without giving any additional money.”  Schapiro Too Quiet  Arthur Levitt, who led the SEC from 1993 to 2001, the
longest run for any SEC chairman, says Schapiro, while smart and
accomplished, has been too quiet as support has waned in
Congress for stronger regulation.  “I wish Mary had had the personality to create the broadest
possible public and political engagement as soon as the
administration and the Congress began to backtrack almost a year
ago,” he says.  Adds former SEC Chairman William Donaldson, “It’s just not
her style to cry bloody murder.”  Levitt sits on the board of Bloomberg Inc., the general
partner of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  Brooksley Born, who was chairwoman of the CFTC from 1996 to
1999, sees parallels between Schapiro’s situation and the time
she tried to push forward legislation to make over-the-counter
derivatives more transparent. She says the effort failed due to
pushback from Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin,  Federal Reserve 
Chief  Alan Greenspan  and Levitt. She thinks gender bias may have
played a role then and now.  Gender Issues  “The financial services industry is male dominated still,
and it may be a little easier to discredit a female voice
because of that,” she says.  Born, now a partner in the Washington office of law firm
Arnold & Porter, served last year on the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission, created by Congress to examine the financial
breakdown.  If it’s possible to be a born regulator,  Mary Schapiro  fits
the bill. After graduating from Franklin & Marshall with a
degree in anthropology, she attended George Washington
University law school, where she met her husband, Charles
Cadwell, now an attorney at the  Urban Institute , a Washington
think tank. They have two teenage daughters, Anna and Molly.  Schapiro’s first job after law school was as a staff
attorney with the CFTC. In 1984, she jumped to the Futures
Industry Association, where she worked until President  Ronald Reagan  made her a commissioner of the SEC in 1988. She was 33.
She served until 1994.  NASD Head  In 1995, President  Bill Clinton  appointed Schapiro head of
the CFTC, a job she held until 1996, when she joined the
National Association of Securities Dealers as president. In
2007, she led NASD into a merger with the NYSE’s regulatory arm
to form the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra,
the largest nongovernment securities industry regulator in the
country.  Schapiro’s total compensation in her final year at Finra
added up to $3.26 million. When she left in 2009 to head the
SEC, she got a lump sum pension distribution of $7.6 million.  At NASD and Finra, Schapiro had a reputation as being soft
on enforcement, says Turner, who was chief accountant at the SEC
around that time. Fines levied by Finra declined in each of the
last three years she was there, from $125.4 million in 2005 to
$28 million in 2008, according to Finra data. Turner says her
weak enforcement record didn’t hurt her career at all.  ‘Smart and Tough’  “It’s probably why the financial industry liked her for the
SEC job,” he says.  That wasn’t the impression President-elect Obama gave when
he nominated her in December 2008.  “Mary is known as a regulator who is both smart and tough,
so much so that she’s been criticized by the same industry
insiders who we need to get tough on,” he told the press on the
day she was nominated.  When she returned to the SEC after 15 years -- at a
government salary of $163,000 -- Schapiro says she saw quickly
that the agency was ill-equipped to attack what Obama in his
nomination speech called Wall Street’s “culture of greed.”  “I was a bit taken aback when I returned by how far we had
fallen behind the financial industry’s technology,” she says.  The agency, for example, had very limited knowledge of
real-time trading action taking place off the exchanges -- a
fact that became clear in the May 6, 2010, market plunge. A
report later concluded that the incident was caused by the
abrupt sale of shares via programmed trades and high-frequency
traders.  Real-Time Information  Schapiro has since moved to create a consolidated audit
trail that would give the SEC real-time trading information for
both the NYSE and electronic platforms.  Schapiro’s other important focus when she took over the SEC
was enforcement. She hired Khuzami to take over the biggest
division less than two months after Madoff confessed that he’d
operated a giant fraud under the SEC’s nose for more than 15
years.  Khuzami was brought in to change the culture.  “We have retooled the division to make it more targeted,
quick, insightful and proactive,” he says.  Khuzami also joined hands with the Department of Justice to
offer suspects in financial wrongdoing deferred prosecution in
return for cooperation.  ‘Demoralizing’  “Chairman Cox did a pretty good job of demoralizing parts
of the agency, and I think Khuzami has lifted things up,” says
James Cox (no relation), professor of corporate and securities
law at Duke University.  Khuzami also moved to create specialized units within the
division, including teams focused on “market abuse” and
structured products, which Schapiro says have been highly
effective.  “We look back on it now and it seems obvious,” Schapiro
says. “Rather than having an enforcement attorney work on
insider trading one month, then market regulation the next
month, let’s help them build expertise in one area, get them
tools and training, bring in outside experts. It’s really been
quite transformational.”  By traditional metrics, the changes are paying off. In
2010, penalties collected by the enforcement division were up
$800 million over 2009, while disgorgements -- the surrender of
ill-gotten gains -- rose $200 million. And, as Schapiro likes to
point out, the SEC is, in effect, a great deal for taxpayers. In
2010, she says, the SEC paid $2 billion in penalties and
disgorgements to wronged investors.  Two Dollars for One  “That’s two dollars for every dollar the agency costs the
taxpayer,” she says.  Most of that money was collected from institutions such as
Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs. As
Turner and other critics point out, the commission’s record
against individuals involved in the financial crisis is less
impressive.  In October, the SEC settled a case against  Angelo Mozilo ,
former head of mortgage bank Countrywide Financial Corp.,
hitting him with $22.5 million in penalties and $45 million in
disgorgement for misleading investors as the subprime-mortgage
crisis emerged. It turned out that Mozilo had been indemnified
by Countrywide, which in July 2008 was bought by Bank of
America. The bank will pay more than half of Mozilo’s tab.  “There have been attempts over the years to deny similar
indemnification rights in our settlements, and those efforts
didn’t fare well in the courts,” Khuzami says. “That’s a fact of
life we have to live with.”  Rattner Case  The SEC was also criticized for being too soft on Steven Rattner, former head of the hedge fund Quadrangle Group LLC, who
the agency sued over his alleged involvement in a New York
scandal in which investors paid middlemen for the chance to
manage money for the state pension fund.  Rattner settled with the SEC for $3 million in penalties
and $3.2 million in disgorgement, without admitting or denying
wrongdoing.  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, who was the state’s
attorney general at the time, refused to join the settlement,
saying the SEC terms were far too lenient.  “This is not justice,” he said.  Cuomo pressed his own suit against Rattner under New York’s
powerful Martin Act and settled for $10 million.  The SEC has also had bad luck in the courts. In September
2009, the agency moved in federal court to conclude a case in
which Bank of America was accused of failing to disclose to its
shareholders bonuses that Merrill Lynch & Co. had agreed to pay
to its executives just prior to its purchase by BofA in 2008.  ‘Façade of Enforcement’  When the $33 million settlement was presented to Judge Jed Rakoff in U.S. District Court in New York, he rejected the
terms, calling it “a contrivance designed to provide a facade of
enforcement.”  Six months later, the SEC went back to court with a revised
$150 million penalty and the judge approved it.  In August 2010, a proposed SEC settlement with Citigroup
over its failure to disclose its exposure to subprime mortgages
was rebuffed by New York U.S. District Judge Ellen Huvelle. The
SEC later went back to court, spelling out specific corrective
measures Citigroup was taking, and the judge approved the
settlement.  The public’s appetite to punish the nation’s financial
kingpins is based on anger and emotion, Khuzami says.  ‘A Nation of Laws’  “But we are a nation of laws, and that often means proving
knowledge and intent. Our task is to distinguish that which is
illegal from that which resulted from bad judgment or poor
investment decisions or faulty risk management,” he says.  While taking its licks over its enforcement effort, the
agency soldiers on with its attempt to fulfill its Dodd-Frank
obligations. The legislation calls for 243 separate sets of new
rules and 67 studies, divided among various agencies, including
the CFTC, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. More of that work falls on the SEC than any other agency,
with many of the rules to be completed by mid-July and to take
effect in September.  The SEC is required to come up with a dozen new rules
related to credit-ratings companies alone, reviewing and
recommending changes in the firms’ methods for evaluating
structured financial instruments and other arcane products of
the investment banking industry. Each rule is opened for public
comment, then undergoes multiple revisions before being voted on
by the commission.  Derivatives Challenge  Schapiro says the agency’s most daunting task is to write
new rules governing derivatives -- financial instruments such as
futures contracts and credit-default swaps whose value is
derived from that of an underlying commodity or security. Dodd-
Frank requires that many derivatives previously traded
privately, or over the counter, be placed on exchanges and
regulated like other securities.  “It’s the biggest challenge,” Schapiro says. “It’s a
massive undertaking, where you are really creating a whole new
regulatory regime from a blank slate.”  The SEC currently has about 75 people working on the new
derivatives rules, and Schapiro expects to have about 10
finalized by the end of 2011.  “As challenging as the rule-writing phase has been, I think
it will pale in comparison to the implementation challenges --
both to the agencies and the regulated entities,” says Annette Nazareth, a former SEC commissioner who departed a year before
Schapiro arrived.  Whistleblower Conundrum  One new Dodd-Frank creation, the whistleblower program, is
already in effect. Informants who blow the whistle on wrongdoing
in their financial firms are entitled to 10 to 30 percent of the
amount recovered. While the law went into effect in July 2010,
the SEC’s poverty has prevented the agency from staffing the
office.  Schapiro named a coordinator only in February, and he will
rely on existing SEC staff.  Former SEC Chairman Pitt worries that the SEC will be
overwhelmed with tips from employees of financial companies
trying to collect multimillion-dollar government rewards. (A
whistleblower in the $550 million Goldman Sachs case could have
collected as much as $165 million.)  “Somebody has to separate the wheat from the chaff,” he
says. “Somewhere, somebody has to step back and say, ‘We’re
piling all these responsibilities on, creating all these new
provisions, but how do we expect the agency to cope?’”  Four Deadlines Missed  While the budget battle rages, the SEC struggles. It has
already missed four rule-related deadlines and is also late on
two studies. Schapiro is busy seven days a week.  “I work on weekends, but from home,” she says.  That’s an improvement over her first year as chairman,
when, she says, “I got home for dinner no more than six or seven
times.”  Now she spends more time with her family. She says that
when CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  came to her office for a
derivatives-related meeting on his birthday, Schapiro and her
daughters baked cupcakes for him.  The relentless pace of work is taking a toll on the SEC
staff. Barbara Roper, director of investor protection at the
Consumer Federation of America, who makes frequent visits to SEC
headquarters, sees troubling signs.  “They are working under enormously challenging conditions,”
she says. “You go over there and the people look exhausted.”  As the deadlines arrive for dozens of additional Dodd-Frank
provisions, the staff will lose more sleep. If help doesn’t
arrive soon, Schapiro says, investors could wind up losing
something more precious: fair and honest markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John J. Curran in New York at 
 jcurran24@bloomberg.net ; Jesse Hamilton at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 