-- 
Seattle Police Department Probed by U.S. Over Civil Rights

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-03-31T18:43:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/seattle-police-department-probed-by-u-s-over-civil-rights.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  said it
opened a civil rights investigation into the  Seattle Police
Department  to determine whether there is a pattern of excessive
force and racial discrimination by officers.  The investigation is wide-ranging and isn’t focusing on an
individual incident, said Thomas Perez, the assistant attorney
general overseeing the department’s civil rights division, in a
conference call with reporters today. The department opened the
civil investigation after conducting a preliminary review.  “We believe a formal investigation is warranted to
determine whether there has been a pattern or practice of
violations of the Constitution or federal law,” Perez said.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  of Washington and 34
other civil rights groups in December  requested  an investigation
into whether the department used “unnecessary and excessive
force” against residents. The groups cited incidents over 18
months including the fatal shooting by police of  John Williams ,
a woodcarver who didn’t drop his knife as instructed by police
and may not have heard officers because he was partially deaf.  Perez said the department already was considering an
investigation when it received the request from the ACLU and
other groups.  The Justice Department conducted a civil rights 
investigation into the conduct of the New Orleans Police 
Department and concluded earlier this month that there was a
pattern of unconstitutional conduct, including the use of 
excessive force by officers.  In the Seattle case, the department is examining
allegations of racial or ethnic profiling, said Xochitl
Hinojosa, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department.  Detective Renee Witt, a spokeswoman for the Seattle police,
declined to comment on the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in  Washington  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  