-- 
Serbians Wait for Prosperity 10 Years After Milosevic Arrest

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z
-- 
2011-04-01T09:44:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/serbia-s-citizens-wait-for-prosperity-10-years-after-milosevic.html
Ljubica Mladic, a 76-year-old
pensioner, says  Serbia  should join the European Union. Ljubica
Rovic, an unemployed wallpaper hanger, says it shouldn’t. Mladic
favors capital from abroad; Rovic wants foreign banks to leave.  The two women, who were window-shopping in Belgrade’s
three-year-old  Usce  shopping mall, agree on one thing: The
former Yugoslav republic is floundering.  “Everything has changed for the worse,” complained Mladic
after peering at a well-stocked Ecco shoe display. Rovic, 62,
agreed. “I know it’s impossible to make everyone happy, but
can’t they at least please 75 percent of us?”  Ten years after  Slobodan Milosevic ’s March 31 arrest for
war crimes, citizens are still waiting for authorities to make
good on promises to create jobs, stamp out corruption and build
trust in the Balkan nation’s institutions. No cabinet since
Milosevic’s ouster has lasted four years, the  government  is
struggling to sell state assets, borrowing costs are the highest
in Europe and entry into the 27-nation bloc is years away.  Serbia’s long-term credit rating, raised by Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Service on March 16 to BB, is still two levels
below investment grade and lower than those of Romania,  Russia ,
 Azerbaijan  and  Croatia . A March 30 government-bond sale planned
for 20 billion dinars ($27.5 million) attracted bids for only
2.7 billion dinars, pushing yields above 14 percent for the
longest maturities.  Bailout Loan  Gross domestic product per capita was $5,260 last year,
according to the IMF, compared with $13,527 in Croatia, a former
 Yugoslavia  partner that will join the EU as early as next year,
and $38,600 in  Germany .  The 12.25 percent main interest rate is Europe’s highest
and last month’s 19.2 percent jobless rate tops the 9.9 percent
euro-region average and every EU nation except  Spain .  Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic , who faces elections next
year, is struggling to persuade voters they are better off a
decade after Milosevic, said Svetlana Logar, a research analyst
at Belgrade-based pollster  Ipsos Strategic Marketing .  “Citizens are most afraid of uncertainty and have reached
a high level of distrust,” said Logar. “People are unhappy
because of a sense of injustice.”  Facebook Protest  That sense of injustice has prompted about 3,000 people to
sign up on the social-networking website of Facebook Inc. to
 protest  on April 4 in one of Belgrade’s main squares, the venue
of many opposition protests in the past.  “Enough’s enough! Day by day, we are sinking deeper and
deeper and it’s clear to everyone that life in Serbia has become
unbearable,” the invitation for the protest said. “This
situation can’t be changed in elections where we choose between
those who are in power or those who had been in power, those who
are accountable to their financiers and not their people.”  Investors and overseas analysts are more optimistic,
saluting the government’s commitment to slash spending and stick
to the terms of a 3 billion-euro ($4.2 billion) bailout loan.
The economy, devastated during the 1990s Balkan wars that led to
the breakup of Yugoslavia, may expand 3 percent this year,
double the pace of neighboring  Romania  and Croatia, according to
the  International Monetary Fund .  Rising Dinar  The dinar has strengthened 1.9 percent against the euro
this year, driven by high yields on government debt and the
perception that the central bank is serious about fighting
inflation and keeping the currency stable.  “Belgrade is actually looking pretty good,” said Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at RBS in  London , in a
phone interview. “They have kept the IMF on board. Investors
like that, but the cost of doing this is very heavy.”  Still, the “painful” effects of austerity measures over the
past decade have kept Serbia behind other countries in the
region, Ash said.  Public mistrust of government harkens back to Milosevic, a
banker-turned head of state who incited Serbian nationalism
during his tenure as president of Yugoslavia and, after
dissolution, Serbia between 1989 and 2000.  He was indicted in 1999 by the International Criminal
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia for alleged crimes against
humanity during Serbia’s attack that year on the breakaway
province of  Kosovo . He lost power a year later amid massive
street protests, surrendered to authorities on March 31, 2001,
and died during his trial in  The Hague  in 2006.  Balkan Conflict  The nation is still dogged by the shadow of the 1990s
Balkan wars, the bloodiest in  Europe  since World War II, and
concerns about corruption. Serbia is rated 78th by  Transparency
International  on that issue, behind Bulgaria and Romania and
former Yugoslav partners Croatia and Slovenia.  The government also has had trouble selling its property.
Cvetkovic on March 29 gave  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , the sole bidder
in a field of seven prospective buyers for phone company Telekom
Srbija AD, 14 days to improve its bid or see it canceled.
Thousands of phone company workers protested on March 19, saying
Cvetkovic’s price was too low. The Austrian company said the
cost was too steep.  The government failed to sell copper miner and smelter RTB
Bor three times after Cuprom SA of Romania and  Austria ’s  A-Tec
Industries AG (ATEC)  dropped their bids. It also scrapped sale plans
for JAT Airlines in 2007 and 2008 over the price.  Falling Support  “Investment in Serbia is not attractive,” said Vladimir Gligorov, an economist at the  Vienna  Institute for International
Economic Studies. “There’s the assessment that Serbia won’t
restore macroeconomic stability and convincing economic growth
relatively soon.”  To boost investor interest, Cvetkovic, 60, is forging ahead
with plans to join the EU, even though popular support for
membership slipped to a record-low 57 percent in December from
72 percent seven years ago, according to a survey by the
government’s  European Integration Office  of 1,030 respondents
between Dec. 17 and Dec. 23. Another 18 percent would vote
against membership, the highest in the survey’s history. The
poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.31 percent.  EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule declined to give
any timeframe for Serbia on March 27, other than saying the
“ball is in Serbia’s hands” to improve the judicial system and
fight organized crime before starting talks in December. Serbia
also needs to arrest two remaining  war crimes  fugitives, Ratko Mladic and  Goran Hadzic .  Outside the shopping center across the river from downtown
Belgrade, Ljiljana Zivkovic, 59, said she is disappointed in the
government’s progress toward the EU and isn’t moved by such
visible signs of economic progress as the red-and-white mall.  “We used to be a lot better off,” she said, glancing at her
friend Rovic. “If elections were held tomorrow, I would not know
who to vote for.”  To contact the reporters on this story
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net 
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 