-- 
Sharon Stone, Schwarzenegger Salute Gorbachev at Gala Marathon

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T06:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/sharon-stone-schwarzenegger-salute-gorbachev-at-birthday-marathon-review.html
Mikhail Gorbachev’s 80th birthday
party in  London ’s Royal Albert Hall last night had diamonds,
furs, Hollywood stars, wrinkly rockers and enough Botox to fill
the craters of the moon. Understated it was not.  At more than 4½hours of songs, speeches and awards, the
event wasn’t undersized either.  It felt like the Soviet empire could have risen and
collapsed again before we got to the final encore.  Everyone wanted to say “Happy Birthday,” salute
Gorbachev’s achievements in ending the Cold War and help him
raise money for cancer charities in the U.K. and  Russia .  Sharon Stone and  Kevin Spacey  hosted, cheerfully
mispronouncing just about every non Anglo-Saxon name that fell
off their tongues. Spacey tried impressions of Jack Nicholson,
 Morgan Freeman  and  Bill Clinton . The real Clinton sent a chirpy
video greeting, and Bono and Sting did, too.  Mezzo Katherine Jenkins mangled a Rossini aria. Pianist
 Andrei Gavrilov  omitted an entire section of Rachmaninov’s
Second Piano Concerto. The leathery German rock group the
Scorpions gyrated and grimaced.  Actress Milla Jovovich burst into tears for some reason.
Maybe she realized the evening was still only halfway over.  Gorbachev used the event to start annual awards in honor of
people who have changed the world. The first set went to Ted Turner (founder of  CNN ), Timothy Berners-Lee (inventor of the
Internet) and 25-year-old Kenyan engineer Evans Wadongo, who has
developed an inexpensive solar lamp.  Storming Shirley  The good-bad, stop-start energy was flagging until Dame Shirley Bassey stormed in and bellowed “Diamonds are
Forevuuuuuh!” She gave everyone an object lesson in old-
fashioned razzle-dazzle and in jump-starting a catatonic
audience. They should market her as a defibrillator.  Arnold Schwarzenegger  trotted out mercifully brief
platitudes. Former French Prime Minister Michel Rocard used his
speech to castigate Western degeneracy. Israeli President Shimon Peres was delightfully upbeat. Lech Walesa gave a dignified
tribute to his fellow Nobel laureate.  “You wanted to reform the old world, and I wanted to fight
against it,” Walesa said from the platform. “I thought I was
right and you were wrong. Today, I admit that maybe you were
more right than I.”  A tribute to Gorbachev’s deceased wife, Raisa, came with a
recent film of him singing (surprisingly well) a sad ballad
called “Letters,” intercut with youthful images of the couple.
Heartstrings were plucked. Over the last notes of the song a
glitter cannon released a shower of foil in front of the screen.  Israel ’s Peres, who is 87, offered consolation.  “It’s OK, Mikhail Sergeyevich,” he said. “The first 80
years are the hardest.”  For more information about  Mikhail Gorbachev 
 http://www.gorby.ru/en   (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 