-- 
Singapore LNG Completes 30% of Import Facility for 2013 Opening

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T05:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/singapore-lng-completes-30-of-import-facility-for-2013-opening.html
Singapore  has completed 30 percent
of its first liquefied natural gas import facility and is on
track to open in the second quarter of 2013, according to the
chief executive of the company operating the terminal.  State-owned Singapore LNG Corp. will operate two  storage
tanks  with 180,000 cubic meters of fuel capacity each and a
third facility will be added in 2014, Neil McGregor, chief
executive officer of  Singapore LNG Corp. , said in an interview
at a conference in Singapore today.  BG Group Plc, the biggest supplier of LNG from the Atlantic
Basin to  Asia , won a 20-year contract to provide the fuel to the
import terminal, located on the south-western part of Jurong
Island in Singapore.  After meeting BG’s import needs of 3 million metric tons a
year, the third storage tank will give an option to store fuel
for other traders or to sell it, McGregor said, declining to
comment if Singapore LNG will become a trader in addition to
being a service provider.  “We can ramp up capacity of the terminal to 6 million
tons,” he said, without giving a date for the expansion.
 Japan ’s need for fossil fuels because of the shutdown of nuclear
reactors following the March 11 earthquake should support
“short-to-medium term demand” for LNG, he said.  Spot and short-term contract supplies typically account for
20 percent of the 240 million-tons global market, McGregor said.
Potential Japanese purchases of an additional 8 million tons a
year may “tighten” immediate supplies, he said.  BG will supply more than 2 million tons a year of LNG to
local utilities and may boost sales further as  power plants 
switch to gas, according to McGregor.  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830)  is
building the terminal, the Energy Market Authority of Singapore
said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  