-- 
Skin-in-Game Rule, ‘Big 4’ Report, China’s SAFE: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-31T12:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/skin-in-game-rule-big-four-report-china-s-safe-tarp-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may vote to seek comment on a Dodd-Frank Act measure
that would require lenders and bond issuers to keep a 5 percent
stake in loans they package for sale to investors.  The proposal, part of a joint rulemaking with five other
federal regulators, was weighed by SEC commissioners yesterday
at a meeting in  Washington . The proposed rule was released for
comment yesterday by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the
 Federal Reserve .  Lawmakers put the risk-retention provision in Dodd-Frank,
the regulatory overhaul enacted last year, aiming to eliminate
weak underwriting practices and risk-based incentives blamed for
fueling the subprime mortgage crisis. The proposal, which could
increase reliance on federal mortgage insurers and permits some
hedging tactics, includes exemptions for some business, auto,
real estate and home loans.  Reliance on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac may be reinforced by
the proposal. Lenders could avoid keeping a share in riskier
mortgages if they get them insured by federal agencies or sell
them to Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the government-sponsored
enterprises, or GSEs, now under U.S. conservatorship.  The GSEs and the  Federal Housing Administration  own or
insure more than 96 percent of home loans now being originated.
Making their loans exempt from the rule would maintain the
government as the main holder of mortgage-market risk, said
Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of  Federal Financial
Analytics  in Washington.  The proposal allows the companies to offload some of the
retained risk, even as portions of the  draft rules  prohibit
hedging. Companies packaging loans and leases into bonds will be
barred from buying default protection tied to the “particular”
asset-backed securities in which they must hold slices,
according to the proposal.  Regulators said the rule, designed to curb dangerous
lending, permits other hedging tactics, potentially reducing how
much the regulation will depress the flow of credit. Congress
mandated last year that agencies create the provisions,
reflecting a view that a lack of skin in the game among lenders
and bond issuers helped fuel the shoddy mortgages that sparked
collapses in housing and financial markets.  In addition to the SEC, five other federal agencies must
approve the rule before it is formally passed.  For more, click here, and click here.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Lawmakers Call for Competition Probe of ‘Big Four’ Auditors  U.K. lawmakers called for a competition inquiry into the
“Big Four” auditors, saying their domination of the market
limits choice and that those auditing banks failed to alert
regulators to the buildup of risky assets.  The U.K., as a financial center, should take a lead in
looking at the workings of  Deloitte & Touche LLP , Ernst & Young
LLP, KPMG LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the House of Lords
 Economic Affairs Committee  said in a report published in  London 
yesterday. These firms audit 99 of the 100 largest U.K.
companies.  As well as raising the possibility that the withdrawal of
one of them from auditing would further hurt competition, the
committee said the three firms involved in bank audit -- which
Ernst & Young doesn’t offer in the U.K. -- had acted with a
“dereliction of duty” in failing to meet with regulators to
discuss their clients’ stability. It said such meetings should
be mandatory in future.  Russia May Tighten Rules on Beer Brewing, Sales, Vedomosti Says  Russia may tighten rules on the production and sale of
alcoholic beverages, Vedomosti reported, citing draft amendments
to the law.  Brewing and selling beer may be licensed and regional
administrations may have the power to ban beer sales at night,
the newspaper said.  Some members of the  State Duma  committee expected to
discuss the document yesterday suggested that beer should be
legally equated with strong alcoholic drinks such as vodka,
Vedomosti said.  N.Y. Fed’s Derivatives Club Decried by U.S. Pension Plans  A private derivatives regulatory group led by the New York
Federal Reserve may weaken rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act,
two associations representing large corporate pension plans
said.  The panel of international banking supervisors fosters a
kind of shadow regulation by dealing only with a “discrete
group” of members, the pension plans said in a March 25 letter
to New York Fed President William Dudley. The regulators meet at
least once a year with buyers and sellers of derivatives
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “We are concerned about a secondary regulatory process
that could undermine the public regulatory process,” wrote the
pension trade groups, the  American Benefits Council  and the
 Committee on Investment of Employee Benefit Assets , in the
letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  A “process that is closed to most market participants
needs to be examined very closely,” said the associations,
which represent pension plans from dozens of companies including
 3M Co. (MMM) ,  Target Corp. (TGT) , Chrysler Group LLC, U.S. Steel Corp. and
 Textron Inc. (TXT)   The New York Fed has drawn criticism from lawmakers and
others for being too close to the large banks it supervises,
which had to be bailed out in the financial crisis.  Jeffrey Smith , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined
to comment. Jason Hammersla, a spokesman for the American
Benefits Council, didn’t comment beyond confirming that the
group sent the letter.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Estonia Banks May Cut Fees on Card Payments to Placate Watchdog  Estonian lenders, including local units of  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and
SEB AB, may cut fees on card payments, in line with the
competition watchdog, after banks in neighboring Latvia were
fined for operating a price cartel.  The banks have started talks to reduce commissions they
charge from each other on card payments in case the merchant
that receives a card payment is served by a different bank than
the one that issued the card, officials from Swedbank and SEB
said in e-mailed statements March 29.  Estonia’s Competition Board said on March 22 the banks need
to accelerate the reduction of such commissions, which make up a
“significant” part of service fees charged from the merchants
and affect mark-ups by the merchants.  The Estonian system is based on bilateral agreements
between the banks as opposed to more common multilateral
agreements such as in Latvia. Still, the watchdog is “not
fully” convinced the Estonian practice, similar to one in
Sweden, significantly improves the competitive situation, it
said then. The board is due to give its final opinion after the
banks have agreed on new fees.  Latvia’s Competition Council fined 22 lenders about 5.5
million lati ($11 million) for colluding on the price for bank-
card transactions and the use of automated teller machines, it
said in a statement on March 18.  For more, click here.  China  to Reduce Short-Term Overseas Borrowing Quota This Year  China will cut domestic financial institutions’ short-term
overseas borrowing quotas from April 1, signaling it’s stepping
up efforts to curb hot money inflows attracted by yuan
appreciation.  The rules will help lower the financial risks of cross-
border capital flows, said the State Administration of Foreign
Exchange, or SAFE, in a  statement  published on its website
yesterday, without giving further details. The currency
regulator also reduced the net amount of yuan forward contracts
some banks can sell to clients, according to the statement.  SAFE last year cut its quota for 2010 short-term overseas
borrowings by 1.5 percent to $32.4 billion from 2009, according
to a statement on April 29.  People’s Bank of China’s purchases of foreign currency to
counter yuan appreciation increased lenders’ cash holdings in
January by 502 billion yuan, the most in three months, central
bank data showed on March 2.  N.Z. Regulator to Consider Milk-Price Inquiry After Complaints  New Zealand’s  Commerce Commission  may hold an inquiry into
retail milk prices after rising costs prompted complaints, the
agency said yesterday.  The competition regulator said it was carrying out a
“preliminary analysis” to decide whether a price-control
inquiry was needed, according to an e-mailed statement. The
commission had received complaints about prices, it said,
without naming any parties.  U.K. Finance Executive Registration Slowed After Computer Delays  The U.K. Financial Services Authority said computer delays
forced it to postpone plans to require more executives at banks
and hedge funds to register with the agency as people of
“significant influence.”  The rules, which could force some U.S.-based executives at
companies with U.K. offices to register with the FSA, were
scheduled to take effect May 1. The online registration form for
the program won’t be ready in time, the FSA said  in a statement 
on its website on March 25.  The FSA is imposing stricter supervision after being
criticized for failing to prevent the U.K.’s worst financial
crisis since the Second World War.  Deutsche Bahn  Confirms EU Raids, Says Will Cooperate in Probe  Deutsche Bahn AG, Germany’s state-owned railway, will
cooperate closely with European Union authorities in a probe
concerning a possible breach of antitrust rules, a spokesman
said.  The  European Commission  raided Deutsche Bahn on March 29
and March 30, the spokesman said on condition he not be
identified, declining to become more specific. The Commission
said today an investigation of Deutsche Bahn and some of its
subsidiaries involves a possible breach of antitrust rules on
the German market.  Interviews/Speeches  Massad Says Criticism of TARP ‘Moral Hazard’ Is Unfair  Timothy Massad, acting assistant secretary for financial
stability at the U.S. Treasury, and  Neil Barofsky , special
inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
testified about the performance of TARP and financial-market
regulation.  The spoke before a House Oversight Committee panel in
Washington.  For the video, click here.  Ranieri Says Risk Rule May Hurt U.S. Housing-Market Withdrawal  Lewis Ranieri, a mortgage-bond pioneer, said proposed rules
requiring lenders who securitize home loans to shoulder more
risk may “complicate” a U.S. government withdrawal from the
housing market.  Ranieri, 64, chairman of Ranieri Partners LLC, made the
remarks yesterday in a phone call with reporters.  “The proposal attempts to define a riskless loan, not a
gold standard. The original intent was to reward low-risk
behavior while allowing regulators to levy a premium on high-
risk behavior,” he said.  For more, click here.  EU Says a Lot of Work Needed for Stricter Rules on Rating Firms  The  European Commission  said much work needs to be done to
have stricter rules for credit rating companies, commission
spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  “We have some doubts and indeed a fair degree of criticism
as to the way these credit rating agencies function,” Altafaj
said. “There is still a lot of work that needs to be done” to
have stricter and “more transparent regulation of this
sector,” he said.  Separately, European Central Bank council member Yves
Mersch said he’s heard of “increasing uneasiness” in Europe
about “surprising movements” in sovereign credit ratings by
the main rating companies.  “I hear some increasing worries about thorough
misunderstanding of the European environment,” Mersch said at
an event yesterday in Luxembourg. “There are initiatives coming
from the private sector” in “reaction to some surprising
movements of the credit rating agencies,” he said, without
elaborating.  Comings and Goings  Sonova Executives Resign After Insider Trading Investigation  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  said its chief executive and finance
chief resigned and its chairman will step down after a delayed
profit warning prompted an investigation into possible insider
trading at the Swiss hearing-aid maker.  Chief Executive Officer Valentin Chapero, who had led the
company since 2002, and Oliver Walker, Sonova’s chief financial
officer, resigned and Chairman Andy Rihs will step down from his
post while remaining on the board, the company said yesterday.  Chairman Robert Spoerry took over as chairman from Rihs,
the Staefa, Switzerland-based company said in the statement.  The resignations came after an external investigation into
share sales by directors and executives before Sonova reduced
its profit forecast on March 16. Sonova cited the recall of an
implant, a delay in introducing new products and currency swings
as the cause of the warning.  Spoerry said the Swiss stock exchange is reviewing the
hearing-aid maker’s delayed profit warning, which led to the
resignations of top executives after the company commissioned a
probe of possible insider trading.  “We were late and we are fully prepared to cooperate with
the authorities,” Spoerry said in an interview after a press
conference in Zurich.  Sonova said it hired the law firm  Homburger AG  to
investigate share sales by company insiders in the period
leading up to the March 16 announcement of a reduced profit
forecast. The SIX Swiss Exchange can’t confirm preliminary
investigations have begun, said Stephan Meier, an exchange
spokesman, citing its policy.  For more, click here.  Russia’s Pankin to Head Financial Market Service, Vedomosti Says  Russian Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  may become
head of the country’s Financial Market Service, Vedomosti
reported yesterday, citing three unidentified government
officials.  Pankin was proposed by  Finance  Minister Alexei Kudrin, the
newspaper said. Vladimir Milovidov, who has been head of the
financial markets regulator since 2007, told Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin he wanted to step down, Vedomosti reported,
without giving further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  