-- 
Somaliland Government Plans to Enforce Compliance on Tax, Double Revenue

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-31T12:22:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/somaliland-government-plans-to-enforce-compliance-on-tax-double-revenue.html
Somaliland, the breakaway republic
in northern Somalia, may double revenue collection this year as
it enforces tax compliance among the country’s 40 biggest
businesses and richest individuals, the  Finance Ministry  said.  The autonomous region expects government income to total
$100 million this year, even after the government slashed tax
rates and abolished other levies, Vice Finance Minister Warsame
Said Abdi told reporters in the capital, Hargeisa, yesterday. As of
Jan. 1, payroll and sales taxes fell to 5 percent from 12
percent, while income taxes dropped to 10 percent from as much
as 25 percent, Abdi said.  “Somaliland people aren’t tax-oriented,” he said. “What
they give to the government is seen as a loss. We are trying to
educate them. We’ll use it to build schools, hospitals.”  Somaliland , a former British colony, declared independence
from Somalia in 1991 after the fall of dictator Mohammed Siad Barre.
While no country has yet officially recognized its independence
it has remained largely free of the clan warfare, kidnappings
and assassinations that have plagued  Somalia .  Somaliland’s government relies entirely on taxes for its
budgetary expenses and is debt-free, Abdi said. Foreign
assistance is not channeled through the government, he said.  The  World Bank  is helping to train tax officials and the
 United States ’ aid agency this week agreed to build 10 state
revenue centers across Somaliland, Hassan Jama Mohamed, the Finance
Ministry’s public finance management coordinator, said in
Hargeisa yesterday.  Revenue Loss  The loss of annual revenue from Telesom, the country’s
biggest telecommunications operator, alone is about $25 million,
because of authorities failing to enforce the domestic tax laws,
according to Abdi.  “We haven’t had the capacity to do the auditing or enforce
the existing laws,” Mohamed said.  The government is counting on improved revenue collection
this year to pay for a doubling of salaries for civil servants,
the police and military and a free primary-school education
program introduced at the start of the year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Hargeisa at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  