-- 
Somaliland Central Bank Plans to Grant First Bank Licenses, Governor Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-31T08:39:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/somaliland-central-bank-plans-to-grant-first-bank-licenses-governor-says.html
The central bank of Somaliland, a
breakaway republic in northern  Somalia , expects lawmakers to
enact a draft banking law by June, enabling commercial lenders
to extend credit to borrowers for the first time.  Somaliland is in talks with Banque pour le Commerce et
l’Industrie, based in neighboring  Djibouti , and two other
lenders to grant them banking licenses “right away,”  Bank of
Somaliland  Governor Abdi Dirir Abdi said in an interview in the
capital, Hargeisa, yesterday. The nation of 3.5 million people
currently has no banks.  “Once we see credit to small businesses then our economy
will start to grow,” said Abdi, a 61-year-old former trade-
financing expert with the  Islamic Development Bank . “The
presence of international banks will help us trade with the
world.”  Somaliland’s annual gross domestic product is estimated at
$500 million, of which remittances from overseas workers
represent about 80 percent, Abdi said. The remainder of the Horn
of Africa nation’s economic output is mostly generated by the
export of camels, cattle, sheep and goats to the Middle East and
North Africa, he said.  Abdi, who received his MBA from Northrop University in  Los
Angeles , was appointed governor six months ago by President
Ahmed Silanyo, who came to power following a June 26 election.
Somaliland is stable relative to its southern neighbor Somalia,
where a civil war has been raging for the past two decades.  Recognition  Somaliland, a former British colony, declared independence
in 1991, following the ouster of former Somali dictator Mohammed Siad Barre. No sovereign state has formally recognized the
region as independent, posing concerns for potential funders who
question whether their investments can be legally protected.  “We have constraints of course because we’re not recognized
as a state. The risk averse may not come to invest in
 Somaliland ,” Abdi said. “We should be in a better position
economically soon. Our democratic institutions and human rights
record are strong, and we would like to see ourselves recognized
as a state.”  Legislators are also soon expected to approve legislation
expanding the central bank’s role to include regular monetary
operations including supervising lenders, accumulating foreign
currency reserves and controlling inflation, Abdi said.  “We expect the GDP to start growing,” he said, without
providing a specific forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  