-- 
South African Producer-Price Inflation Accelerates by More Than Expected

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-31T09:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/south-african-producer-price-inflation-accelerates-by-more-than-expected.html
The cost of goods leaving South
African factories and mines rose at a faster pace in February
than the previous month as fuel and food prices surged.  Producer prices increased an annual 6.7 percent after
gaining 5.5 percent in January, Pretoria-based  Statistics South
Africa  said on its website today. The median estimate of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 6.1 percent. Prices rose
1.5 percent in the month.  Crude oil has surged 15 percent in  New York  this year,
climbing above $100 a barrel, as public protests in North Africa
and the Middle East raised concern about supply disruptions.
South Africa’s government increased gasoline prices by 3 percent
on Feb. 2 and 3.3 percent on Jan. 5.  “With global commodity prices expected to remain elevated,
partly due to political turmoil, further upside pressure on PPI
can be expected,” Kgotso Radira, an economist at Investec Ltd.
in Johannesburg, said in a note to clients before today’s data.  Rising producer costs may boost consumer-price inflation as
retailers pass on higher fuel and energy prices. The inflation
rate was unchanged at 3.7 percent in February, within the
central bank’s target range of 3 percent to 6 percent.  Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus left the benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 5.5 percent on March 24, concerned
that inflation may breach the target. The bank won’t be “soft”
on inflation and will take “whatever measures we need to take”
to curb price pressures, she said on March 29.  Food costs are also rising, with the price of white corn, a
staple in  South Africa , climbing 17 percent on the South African
Futures Exchange this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 