-- 
South Africa’s Trade Deficit Narrows as Vehicle Exports Jump

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-31T12:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/south-africa-s-trade-deficit-narrows-as-vehicle-exports-jump.html
South  Africa ’s trade deficit
narrowed to 350 million rand ($51.5 million) in February as
exports of vehicles and machinery surged, helping to offset the
rising cost of oil imports.  The shortfall eased from 4.9 billion rand in January, the
South African Revenue Service said in an e-mailed statement
today. The median estimate of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 1.5 billion-rand deficit.  A rebound in global demand and rising prices for gold and
platinum have boosted exports in Africa’s biggest economy,
helping to narrow the current account deficit, which slid to a
seven-year low in the fourth quarter. Imports are also rising
after crude oil surged 15 percent this year in  New York ,
climbing above $100 a barrel.  Trade figures are often volatile, reflecting the timing of
shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  Exports increased 17 percent to 52.2 billion rand in
February as shipments of vehicles surged by 2.1 billion rand, or
86 percent, from the previous month, the revenue service said.  Vehicle manufacturers are boosting investment as demand
picks up. Daimler AG said on Dec. 7 it will invest an additional
2 billion rand ($282 million) at its Mercedes-Benz plant on
South Africa’s southeast coast to build its latest C- Class
model from 2014.  Imports rose 5.8 percent to 52.6 billion rand, as purchases
of mineral products, which include crude oil, climbed 44
percent, the revenue service said.  The deficit in  South Africa ’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, narrowed to 0.6 percent
of gross domestic product in the fourth quarter from 3.1 percent
in the previous three months, the central bank said on March 22.
That’s helped to underpin the rand, which gained 15 percent
against the dollar in the final six months of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  