-- 
South Korean Inflation Accelerates to 29-Month High, Adding Rate Pressure

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-03-31T23:21:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/south-korean-inflation-accelerates-to-29-month-high-adding-rate-pressure.html
South Korean inflation climbed to a
29-month high in March, breaching the central bank’s ceiling and
adding pressure for another interest-rate increase.  The consumer-price index rose 4.7 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 4.5 percent pace in February,
Statistics  Korea  said today in Gwacheon, south of Seoul. That’s
the fastest since October 2008 and compares with the median
estimate of 4.8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 15
economists. Prices gained 0.5 percent from February.  Costlier oil and food have stoked inflationary pressures in
South Korea, where consumer-price growth has exceeded the
central bank’s 4 percent ceiling since the start of the year.
Officials face the need for higher rates even as  Japan ’s worst
earthquake on record threatens to disrupt trade flows in  Asia .  “Consumer prices are getting out of control and may rise
by more than a 5 percent pace,” Choi Seok Won, an analyst at
Samsung Securities Co. in  Seoul , said before the release. “The
central bank may want to raise rates as early as this month.”  The won advanced 0.7 percent to 1,096.93 per dollar in
Seoul at the 3 p.m. close yesterday and has risen 2.44 percent
in the past month, the most in Asia, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A strengthening currency can help pare price
pressures by curbing the cost of imports. The Kospi stock index
gained 0.7 percent to end at a two-month high.  Growing Pressure  The  Bank of Korea  targets inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent through 2012 and aims for the midpoint of the range in
the medium term. The central bank said two days ago that
consumer-price pressures will likely grow, driven by an economic
recovery, wage increases and the rise in oil and raw material
prices.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and the policy board raised the
benchmark rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent
on March 10, following an increase of the same amount in January.  South Korea  is one of eight Asian economies to have
tightened monetary policy last month as the region fights price
pressures.  India ,  Thailand , the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam
also raised rates in March, while  China  and Malaysia told
lenders to set aside more cash as reserves.  Regional officials are also assessing the impact of the
magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami in Japan on March 11.  While the catastrophe likely won’t “derail” worldwide
growth, interruptions to Japan’s exports, transportation and
output on the global supply chain are “the biggest
uncertainty,” according to Morgan Stanley.  Japan Impact  The temblor contributed to a slide in South Korean  consumer
confidence  to the lowest level in almost two years in March,
while manufacturers’ confidence for April declined from a five-
month high.  Core prices, which exclude oil and food, rose 3.3 percent
in March from a year earlier. Prices for agricultural, dairy and
fisheries goods increased 14.9 percent, today’s report showed.
Oil products climbed 15.3 percent.  The expected inflation rate over the next year rose to 3.9
percent in March from 3.7 percent in February, according to
central bank survey last month. President  Lee Myung Bak  said in
January that consumer-price growth should be contained at 3
percent to protect families on low incomes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  