-- 
Soybeans Gain on Speculation Lower U.S. Sowing, Brazil Rain May Cut Supply

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-03-31T09:58:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/soybeans-may-gain-on-expectations-u-s-report-to-show-farmers-cut-planting.html
Soybeans gained on speculation that
reduced planting in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter, and
rain in  Brazil  that is slowing collection of the oilseeds will
curb production.  The area planted with soybeans in the U.S. may total 76.79
million acres this year, compared with the Department of
Agriculture’s February estimate of 78 million acres, according
to the average forecast of 32 analysts surveyed last week by
Bloomberg News. Rain in Brazil, the third-biggest shipper of the
oilseeds, has delayed the harvest and may curb yields.  “The Brazilian situation is still a major issue, and the
continuing rain is still holding exports down,” said Jonathan Bouchet, an analyst at broker OTCex Group in Geneva. Investors
may be buying contracts ahead of the USDA report, set to be
released at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington , expecting planting
estimates to be lower than previously forecast, Bouchet said.  Soybeans for May delivery gained 6 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $13.78 a bushel by 10:07 a.m. London time on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The most-active contract is set for a 1.8
percent loss this quarter, the first in three.  “Soybean values are sitting just under resistance
levels,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , said today in a report. “A low-acreage
estimate should be enough to push the market through these,” he
wrote, referring to points where investors may sell contracts.  The U.S. is estimated to account for 39 percent of global
 corn harvests  in the 2010-2011 season, 35 percent of  soybean
output , and 28 percent of world  wheat exports , according to USDA
estimates on March 10.  Expand Plantings  Wheat futures were little changed on speculation that
farmers in the U.S., the world’s largest shipper, may expand
plantings, easing supply concerns.  Sowing of the grain may reach 57.2 million acres, up from
the USDA’s estimate last month of 57 million acres, and 53.6
million acres a year ago, according to a Bloomberg News survey
last week.  Wheat for May delivery dropped 1 cent, or 0.1 percent, to
$7.2625 a bushel in  Chicago . Futures have dropped 8.6 percent
this quarter, the first such loss in four.  Corn for May delivery gained 0.2 percent to $6.6475 a
bushel in Chicago, taking the quarterly gain for the most-active
contract to 5.7 percent. Futures jumped 93 percent in the past
year as production lagged behind demand, draining global
stockpiles.  Areas seeded with the grain in the U.S., the largest grower
and exporter, may climb to 91.751 million acres from 88.192
million last year, according to the Bloomberg survey. That would
be the biggest since 2007 and the second-largest since 1944.  “The grains are holding pretty well following that
Japanese quake, as they are expected to boost imports very
soon,” Bouchet said. “But for today, most traders are waiting
for the USDA report to come out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  