-- 
Spanish Caja Merger Collapse May Scare Off Potential Investors

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-04-01T13:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/spanish-caja-merger-collapse-may-scare-off-potential-investors.html
The unravelling of the merger of
four Spanish savings banks may deter potential investors in
similar tie-ups because of concern over hidden real-estate
losses.  “It’s definitely a call for people to be very alert
because this whole process is still not at all clear,” said
 Ricardo Wehrhahn , a partner at Roland Berger Strategy
Consultants, which is advising potential investors in the
Spanish savings-bank industry, including private-equity firms.  Three lenders led by Cajastur voted on March 30 against
completing a merger with  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM)  to
create Banco Base, which would have been the third-biggest
Spanish savings group with  assets  of 124 billion euros ($176
billion). The collapse undermines government efforts to bolster
confidence in the banking system and may increase concern that
property-related losses still lurk on lenders’ books, said
Wehrhahn.  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo, known as CAM, will hold a
board meeting today at 5 p.m. Madrid time to consider its
options, a spokesman for the Alicante, Spain-based lender said
by telephone.  Capital Requirements  Nomura Holdings Inc. has contacted Spanish banks on CAM’s
behalf to explore alternatives and help the lender resolve its
future, said two people with knowledge of the situation, who
asked not to be named because it’s a confidential matter. A
spokeswoman for Nomura in Madrid declined to comment on whether
it was advising CAM.  Spokesmen for  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Banco Popular SA and Banco Sabadell SA declined
to comment on whether the respective banks may be interested in
buying CAM.  As many as 12 banks must raise a combined 15.2 billion
euros to comply with minimum capital requirements set by the
government. Lenders including Bankia, the entity emerging from
the combination of  Caja Madrid  and six other savings banks, and
Banca Civica say they will use share listings to raise the
capital they need.  J.C. Flowers & Co. may be among initial investors in Banca
Civica, the Spanish lender’s Co-Chairman Enrique Goni said at a
Feb. 8 news conference. Cerberus Capital Management LP and
Paulson & Co. are among investors that have showed interest in
buying savings-bank assets in  Spain , El Economista reported
March 3.  Bailout Concerns  Spain is seeking to shore up confidence in its financial
system as investors increase bets that  Portugal  may be forced to
follow Greece and Ireland in seeking a European bailout.  Spain’s Socialist government, which tightened capital
requirements for lenders in February, is implementing austerity
measures to rein in the euro region’s third-largest budget
deficit. The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing
costs narrowed to 191 basis points today from 194.3 basis
points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The Spanish bank sector desperately needs to be
consolidated, especially the cajas with their stretched balance
sheets,” said Espen Furnes, a  fund manager  at Storebrand ASA in
Oslo who helps oversee $70 billion. “The cajas’ deal falling
apart means that the Spanish banking landscape is still clouded
and this will scare away new investors.”  The general assemblies of Cajastur, Caja Cantabria and Caja
de Extremadura, the three partners along with CAM in the
proposed Banco Base, voted against completing the tie-up,
aborting a process begun last May.  ‘Rotten Apple’  The collapse resulted from concern over the state of CAM’s
assets, said Vicente Arce, the general secretary of the
 Comisiones Obreras  union in Cantabria, who attended the Caja
Cantabria meeting as a board member.  “We decided we’d be better off without the rotten apple,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Maria Dolores Amoros, CAM’s general director, said in an e-
mailed statement on March 30 that it is “absolutely false”
that there had been any surprise or change in the bank’s
numbers, which had been known to its merger partners “for
months.”  Banco Base said on March 29 it would seek 2.78 billion
euros from Spain’s bank-bailout fund, almost twice the amount
the Bank of Spain told it to raise.  Following the unravelling of Banco Base, CAM said in a
filing to regulators it would seek support from the  rescue fund ,
a step that would entail at least partial nationalization. CAM,
which has about 74 billion euros in assets, would have had a 40
percent share in the merger along with Cajastur, while Caja de
Extremadura had 11 percent and Caja Cantabria 9 percent.  “It shows there are still uncertainties around the issue
of asset-quality risk and how big the losses are going to be,”
said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International in  Madrid .
“It would confirm for some would-be investors that there will
have to be absolute clarity on what they are buying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  