-- 
Sushi Safe From Japan Radiation as Ocean Dilution Makes Risk Negligible

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-03-31T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/sushi-safe-from-japan-radiation-as-ocean-dilution-makes-risk-negligible-.html
The health risks of eating ocean
fish caught near  Japan  are low because seawater is diluting the
radiation from the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, said Robert
Peter Gale, who coordinated medical relief efforts following the
nuclear accident at Chernobyl.  “Eating fish is not something to worry about,” said Gale,
a visiting hematology professor at Imperial College  London  who
was in Japan this week to speak to doctors responding to
radiation threats. “No one could afford to consume enough sushi
to get radiation damage.”  The observations by Gale, who in 1999 was asked by the
Japanese government to help treat victims of the nuclear
accident in Tokaimura, may help allay concerns that have
prompted  Taiwan ,  Singapore , the U.S. and  Australia  to restrict
some imports of Japanese fish.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant may be in danger of emitting
sudden bursts of heat and radiation, undermining efforts to cool
the reactors and contain fallout. The potential for limited,
uncontrolled chain reactions, voiced March 30 by the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , is among the phenomena that
might occur, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters
in  Tokyo  yesterday.  Contamination of seawater found near the 40-year-old plant
has increased. Radioactive iodine rose to 4,385 times the
regulated safety limit on March 30 from 2,572 times the previous
day, Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman for Japan’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency, said yesterday. No fishing is
occurring nearby and the sea is dispersing the iodine so there
is no health threat, he said.  WHO Advice  Too little is known about the potential health risks, said
said Gregory Hartl, a spokesman for the  World Health
Organization  in Geneva. The United Nations health agency is
advising people to “avoid consumption and harvesting” of
aquatic animals and plants including fish, shellfish and algae
“in areas considered to be seriously contaminated,” according
to its  website .  “Public health operates under the precautionary
principle,” Hartl said in a telephone interview. “Measuring
radioactive contamination in the sea and in fish is not
something there is a whole lot of experience in.”  Since last week, the  Fisheries Research Agency  has tested
samples from five types of fish caught off the coast of Choshi
city in Chiba prefecture, the fishing area south of the
Fukushima nuclear plant. The institute has been monitoring
radioactivity in Japanese marine life for the past five decades,
after nuclear arms testing by the U.S. and the former  Soviet
Union  raised concerns about contamination.  Cesium Levels  The institute detected 3 becquerel per kilogram of
cesium-137 in anchovy, but nothing in samples from alfonsino,
mackerel, spear squid and olive flounder. The level was far
below the standard set by Japan’s health ministry of 500
becquerel per kilogram for fish.  Radioactive elements in the ocean are significantly less
harmful than if they are airborne or permeate the soil, Gale
said.  “From a radiation safety point of view, if it’s got to go
somewhere, that’s the best place,” he said. “Radiation is
least dangerous to humans when diluted, so the sea is the
perfect place.”  Contamination Potential  The potential for maritime contamination occurs once
airborne radioactive particles fall on the water and enter the
maritime ecosystem. This happens when elements including
iodine-131 and cesium-137 are absorbed by microscopic organisms
such as phytoplanktons and zooplanktons, said Qian Pei-yuan, a
professor of marine biology at  Hong Kong University of Science
and Technology .  “Any particle in the water falls into their feeding
appendages or apparatus,” Qian said. “If other small fish eat
them, then they will go through the food chain.”  Larger fish which live longer and survive by eating smaller
fish have a higher chance of being contaminated. Sharks,
porpoises and whales are particularly at risk, he said.  “The level of contamination of fish tissues depends on the
level of contamination consumed and the exposure time of fish
and how much they accumulate or expel contaminants,” Qian said.  While dilution lessens the risks the further marine life is
from the source of contamination, Qian said people should avoid
any seafood from the immediate vicinity of the Fukushima plant.  “Be alert, but don’t panic,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  