-- 
Sweden's Krona Gains May Be Cause for Concern, Finance Minister Borg Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-04-01T12:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/swedish-krona-appreciation-could-be-cause-for-concern-borg-says.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
said further gains in the krona, the world’s best performing
major currency this year, would be a cause for concern.  “Were we to see a considerable strengthening from”
current levels, “I would think that would be worrying,” Borg
said in response to Bloomberg questions in  Stockholm  yesterday.  The krona is the best performer of the 16 most-traded
currencies this year against the euro, the dollar and the yen,
and is up 9 percent against the euro and 13 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months. Sweden is delivering the biggest
economic rebound in the European Union, forcing the central bank
to promise more rate increases after raising the benchmark five
times since July.  “The exchange rate is currently at a reasonable level,”
Borg said. Asked whether the government may have to adjust
fiscal policy to address the currency’s appreciation, he said
“should it strengthen significantly then that could create
problems.”  Though Sweden enjoys an overall  trade surplus , it has run a
deficit with the EU since the middle of 2009. The krona has
gained 17 percent against Europe’s single currency since the
middle of 2009, according to data available on Bloomberg. The
krona gained 0.17 percent against the euro to 8.9369 at 2 p.m.
in Stockholm. Sweden’s currency lost 0.3 percent against
 Norway ’s krone to trade at its lowest level since March 7.  Trade Outlook  Sweden’s manufacturing, most of which is exported, expanded
less than expected last month as growth in production,
employment an orders slowed.  “The Swedish index may be suffering some adverse effects
from the strong currency,” said  Michael Saunders , London-based
chief economist for Western  Europe  at Citigroup Inc., in an e-
mailed note.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index, compiled by Swedbank AB,
slipped to 58.6 from 60.9 in February. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had expected a reading of 60.3, according to the
median estimate.  “Sweden is moving away from high, persistent current-
account surpluses and part of that, of course, is due to the
exchange rate, which we judge is still undervalued,” said  Carl Hammer , chief foreign-exchange strategist at SEB AB in
Stockholm. Hammer expects the krona to strengthen to 8.4 against
the euro by 2012 and to trade “a bit below that” in 2013, he
said.  Still ‘Undervalued’  If the krona strengthens below 8 to the euro, “the
pressure would increase to conduct a fiscal policy that is
conducive to a more expansionary monetary policy,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a London-based currency strategist at Deutsche Bank
AG, the world’s biggest foreign-exchange trader. “Should we
come down to that level, that would seriously worry exporters”
and “the pressure on the government or on the Riksbank to do
something would increase.”  According to Gullberg, the Swedish krona is still
“undervalued” at the current level.  In neighboring Norway, Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen
said the government will conduct “very” tight economic policy
to curb any currency appreciation that may hurt exporters, in a
March 3 interview.  Borg said governments shouldn’t use policy to influence
exchange rates and said he will work to avoid bottlenecks in the
labor market to take pressure off Europe’s fastest-growing
economy.  Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt in November said exporters
shouldn’t rely on exchange rates and instead advocated boosting
competitiveness through other avenues.  The largest Nordic economy will grow 4.2 percent this year
after expanding 5.5 percent in 2010 as employment approaches the
highest level in two decades, the National Institute for
Economic Research said yesterday. Gross domestic product will
expand 3.2 percent in 2012, forcing the Riksbank to raise its
benchmark rate to 3 percent by the end of next year from the
current 1.5 percent, it estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  