-- 
Swiss Benchmark Stocks Retreat as Credit Suisse, Kardex Decline

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-31T16:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/swiss-equities-retreat-for-second-day-in-three-kardex-plunges.html
Swiss stocks fell for the second
time in three days as the European Union statistics office
reported inflation unexpectedly accelerated.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank,
fell 1.2 percent while the automated storage systems supplier
 Kardex AG (KARN)  tumbled 9.4 percent after reporting a loss. Swiss
Reinsurance Co., the world’s No. 2 reinsurer, rose 2.3 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies dropped 0.6 percent to 6,357.55 in Zurich. The
gauge has risen 5.6 percent the past 11 trading days as
investors speculated the Japan earthquake and North Africa and
Middle East unrest would not derail the economic recovery. It
still lost 1.2 percent over the first quarter of the year. The
broader Swiss Performance Index declined 0.5 percent today.  European inflation unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest
in more than two years in March as European Central Bank policy
makers prepared to raise  interest rates  to fight increasing
price pressures.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.6
percent from 2.4 percent in February, the EU’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said today in an initial estimate. That’s the
fastest since October 2008 and exceeds the ECB’s 2 percent limit
for a fourth month.  Oil, Inflation  Crude-oil prices have surged 15 percent this year as output
from  Libya  slumped. An armed conflict between Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops and rebel forces has forced companies
including Total SA and ConocoPhillips to suspend operations and
evacuate staff. Crude was trading at $105.30 a barrel today.  Fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, a sign the labor market is firming heading
into the second quarter. Jobless claims fell by 6,000 to 388,000
in the week ended March 26, Labor Department figures showed
today in  Washington .  The U.S. publishes payrolls data tomorrow at 2:30 p.m.
local time.  “Good news on the jobs market could help sentiment as
 consumer confidence  has been under pressure thanks to rising oil
prices,” said Fabrizio Quirighetti, an analyst at Banque Syz &
Co. SA in Geneva. “Investors will mainly focus on Friday’s
employment report.”  Credit Suisse fell 1.2 percent to 39.03 Swiss francs, the
second-biggest decline in the SMI after  UBS AG (UBSN)  slid 1.7 percent.  Kardex slid 2.55 francs to 24.60 francs, the most since
July, after the Zurich-based company reported a full-year loss
of 9.8 million euros ($13.9 million) compared with a loss of 7.5
million euros estimated by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  lost 0.7 percent to 81.85 francs as
former Chairman Andy Rihs told Le Temps he did nothing illegal
by selling 300,000 shares in the week before the hearing-aid
maker lowered its profit forecast on March 16. The stock
declined 32 percent in the first quarter of the year.  Swiss Re Advances  Swiss Re rose 1.2 francs to 52.55 francs. Reinsurers are
closer to ending a two-year decline in global rates after this
year’s disasters including the Japanese quake, according to
Willis Group Holdings Plc. The catastrophes in the first quarter
“have significantly accelerated the likelihood of a market-wide
turn should reinsurers be tested again this year,” said Willis
Re, the London-based brokerage’s reinsurance unit.  Gurit Holding AG (GUR)  rose 4.5 percent to 653 francs. The
composite-materials maker said it bought balsa producer
Balseurop for about 20 million euros.  “The acquisition enables the company to provide a complete
product offering in the core material segment,” Alessandro Migliorini, an analyst at Helvea AG, wrote in a note to clients.  Separately, Joern Iffert, an analyst at UBS, raised the
bank’s price estimate for Gurit shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 