-- 
U.K Summer Gas Snaps Two-Day Loss, Posts 16% Quarterly Gain

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-03-31T16:16:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-k-summer-gas-snaps-two-day-loss-poised-for-a-quarterly-gain.html
U.K. summer natural gas ended two
days of declines on the last day of the winter heating season,
extending its quarterly gain to 16 percent before a potential
drop in imports tomorrow and rising exports. Power also rose.  The summer contract, for fuel to be delivered from April
through September, gained as much as 3.5 percent, or 2.15 pence,
to 64.5 pence a therm as of 4:30 p.m. in London, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s $10.35 for a million
British thermal units.  The contract has gained 18 percent in the last month,
Bloomberg data show. It reached a two-year high on March 16
following a halt in Libyan flows to  Italy  and amid speculation
that the Japanese nuclear crisis would boost demand and divert
LNG cargoes away from Britain.  “There’s risk everywhere,” Kerri Maddock, a London-based
analyst at Barclays Plc, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“ Japan  is still in crisis mode.”  Delivery of the summer gas contract begins tomorrow when
pipeline shipments may decline as sellers typically curb flows
in expectation of lower heating demand. U.K. gas prices may be
turbulent during the summer months, Maddock said.  “We’re oversupplied in capacity but not necessarily
oversupplied in gas,” she said  Exports to mainland  Europe  may also increase tomorrow,
boosting demand, if buyers increase their call on U.K. gas to
replenish underground inventories.  Britain- Belgium   The pipeline between Britain and Belgium was exporting gas
to the continent at a rate of about 10 million cubic meters a
day, according to a website run by  Interconnector  (U.K.) Ltd.,
owner of the link. It’s forecast to jump to 27 million tomorrow.  Gas for tomorrow gained 4.95 pence, 8.7 percent, at 61.7
pence a therm.  National Grid Plc forecast gas demand at 284 million cubic
meters in the 24 hours through 6 a.m. London time tomorrow,
about 31 million less than normal for the time of year. The
nation’s pipelines will hold 343 million cubic meters of the
fuel at that time, 1 million more than at the start of today.  Same-day gas gained 2.75 pence to 60 pence a therm. U.K.
baseload power for tomorrow gained 70 pence, or 1.5 percent, to
50.7 pounds a megawatt-hour, broker data show.  Almost half of Britain’s electricity can come from natural
gas-fed power stations so the fuel costs influence electricity
markets.  Summer power rose 1.4 pounds, or 2.6 percent, to 55 pounds
a megawatt-hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in  London  at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  