-- 
U.K. Tax Damages EU Carbon Market, Emissions Trading Lobby Says

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-31T13:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-k-tax-damages-eu-carbon-market-emissions-trading-lobby-says.html
The U.K. tax on power generation
from fossil fuels will hurt the European Union carbon market and
distort the region’s economy, an emissions-trading group said.  “There is no question of the market cracking as a result
of what the British have done,” said  Henry Derwent , president
of the Geneva-based International Emissions Trading Association
and climate envoy for former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair .  “It’s certainly a significant deviation from the proposals
of the EU-level approach to reduce carbon,” Derwent said in an
interview at the Coaltrans conference in Geneva today. “It
distorts national economic flows between the U.K. and other
European countries.”  Britain may have  Europe ’s most-expensive power as a result
of plans to introduce a carbon tax in 2013 to reduce emissions
blamed for  climate change , the Association of U.K. Coal
Importers said at the same conference.  The U.K. said it will charge power producers an average
4.94 pounds ($7.97) for every metric ton of carbon-dioxide in
2013 on top of what they pay for EU permits. U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced the plan in his annual
budget presentation last week. The government said the tax may
rise to 7.28 pounds in 2014 and 9.86 pounds in 2015.  “Unless this policy is followed across Europe, it will
mean the U.K. has the most expensive electricity” in the
region, said Nigel Yaxley, the group’s managing director.  Britain’s power-station are already covered under the EU’s
cap-and-trade program. EU permits for December, the benchmark
contract, are up 21 percent this year to 17.33 euros ($25) a
metric ton today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  U.K. imports of power generated by coal may rise after the
carbon tax is imposed, the owner of the country’s biggest coal
power station said.  “If we have a higher cost of generation in the U.K.
because of the floor, that may encourage more imports of coal
fired generation from Europe,” Dave Docker, head of fuel
procurement and trading at Drax Power Ltd., said at the
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in  London  at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  