-- 
Sarkozy Backs Broader Role for Yuan as Geithner Urges Flexibility at G-20

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T09:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-s-france-signal-openness-to-greater-role-for-yuan-at-g-20.html
The U.S. and  France  signaled
openness to a greater role for the yuan while stressing the
importance of exchange-rate flexibility as Group of 20 officials
met in China to discuss the international monetary system.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said the yuan should be in
the  International Monetary Fund ’s Special Drawing Rights, a unit
of account derived from the value of the dollar, yen, pound and
euro. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said world
powers’ currencies should be included “over time” so long as
they have flexible exchange rates and free capital flows.  Chinese officials said that the yuan’s value wouldn’t be a
topic at today’s seminar in Nanjing and Geithner didn’t refer to
the currency directly in his prepared remarks. At the same time,
he said the mismatch between flexible currencies and the
“tightly managed” exchange rates of some emerging economies is
the most important problem to solve in the international
monetary system.  “ China  will continue to proceed with currency reform at
its own pace” and regardless of Sarkozy and Geithner’s comments,
said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., who formerly worked for the International
Monetary Fund and the  European Central Bank .  The yuan touched 6.5488 per dollar in Shanghai today, the
highest in 17 years. The U.S. describes the currency as still
“substantially undervalued,” with American lawmakers arguing
that gives China, the world’s biggest exporter, an unfair
advantage in global trade.  ‘Overwhelming’ Support  The Special Drawing Rights basket is reviewed every five
years by the IMF’s executive board, and the most recent changes
took effect in January. The next review will be in 2015,
according to the Washington-based fund’s website.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
said the “overwhelming” view at today’s event seemed to be
that the yuan should be included earlier than the IMF procedures
may currently allow. His view is that the currency doesn’t need
to be fully convertible and should be brought in “now.”  Sarkozy said that imbalances under existing monetary
arrangements indicate the need for a “more flexible system”
rather than a return to fixed or managed exchange rates.  G-20 finance chiefs, central bankers including the European
Central Bank’s Jean-Claude Trichet and private economists are
meeting for the one-day seminar that Sarkozy initiated on
altering the monetary system to reduce the risk of a repeat
global financial crisis.  IMF’s Role  The French president said that the IMF should have a bigger
role in supervising nations’ balance of payments and reserves to
help limit risks.  In October 2008, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., the volatility of the world’s major currencies
rose to the highest level since at least 1992, according to a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index. Price swings also increased in May
last year because of  Europe ’s debt turmoil and this month
because of  Japan ’s earthquake.  The Group of Seven nations intervened to weaken Japan’s yen
after the March 11 disaster. Sarkozy suggested today that a
broader group should monitor  currency markets .  Today’s meeting at the Purple Palace resort is being
attended by economists including Nobel laureate  Robert Mundell .
It’s intended to lay the groundwork for an agreement at the G-20
summit in Cannes, France, in November that would lead to a more
“stable and resilient” monetary order, Sarkozy said.  ‘Financial Protectionism’  With France holding the presidency of the G-20 this year,
Sarkozy has made the monetary system one of his priorities. He
said today that without extra rules for foreign-exchange regimes,
there is a risk of more conflict over currencies.  Sarkozy recalled the G-20’s unity at the height of the
global financial crisis in 2009. Now, nations pursuing their own
interests risk a “proliferation of unilateral measures during
crises resulting in a new financial protectionism in which all
economies suffer,” he said.  A gathering of G-20 finance ministers in February
underscored the difficulties, with China resisting the inclusion
of foreign-exchange reserves as a yardstick for gauging global
imbalances. Sarkozy views China’s decision to host today’s event
as a first step toward a more flexible yuan that should result
in its inclusion in the IMF’s currency basket.  Created in 1969, Special Drawing Rights serve as
international reserve assets and represent potential claims on
usable currencies of IMF members. As of March 30, one SDR was
the equivalent of $1.5797.  Capital Flows  “Currencies of large economies heavily used in
international trade and financial transactions should become
part of the SDR basket,” Geithner said. “To achieve this
objective, the concerned countries should have flexible
exchange-rate systems, independent central banks and permit the
free movement of capital flows.”  An SDR system without the yuan would be “ridiculous” and
lack legitimacy, People’s Bank of China adviser  Li Daokui  said
in Nanjing.  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  told Sarkozy yesterday in
Beijing that China views the internationalization of the yuan as
inevitable, with only the pace of the move in question, a French
official said.  Officials including French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  are discussing topics including “shortcomings in the
international monetary system” and dealing with volatile
capital flows, according to the schedule for the conference at
Nanjing, a city on the  Yangtze River , about 170 miles (270
kilometers) from  Shanghai .  U.S.  Monetary Policy   Nations including  Brazil , China and  South Korea  have argued
that U.S. monetary easing has added to the threat of inflows of
capital fueling inflation and asset bubbles. Ahead of today’s
meeting, Xu Hongcai, a Chinese state economist, revived
complaints about U.S. monetary policy in a paper that said the
world had fallen into a “dollar trap.”  Xu is an official at
the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, the co-
host of the Nanjing event.  China has an extra stake in the U.S. maintaining the value
of the dollar as the biggest foreign holder of Treasuries,
owning more than $1.1 trillion of the securities. China’s build-
up of a world-record $2.85 trillion of foreign-exchange holdings,
driven by trade surpluses and limits on gains in the yuan,
highlights imbalances blamed for contributing to the global
financial crisis.  --James Hertling, Michael Forsythe,  Kevin Hamlin , Bonnie Cao in
Nanjing and Zheng Lifei in Beijing. Editors: Paul Panckhurst,
Sunil Jagtiani  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  