-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for March 30 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-31T18:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-march-30-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in Washington D.C.:  Cooler-than-normal temperatures helped to briefly lift natural
gas cash market prices at nearly all domestic pricing points
during the middle of the week, after which general price
declines continued. For the week ending March 30, the Henry Hub
price rose a token 7 cents per million Btu (MMBtu) (1.7 percent)
to $4.25 per MMBtu.  Working natural gas in storage rose to 1,624 billion cubic feet
(Bcf) as of Friday, March 25, according to the Energy
Information Administration’s (EIA) /Weekly Natural Gas Storage
Report (WNGSR)/. The implied increase for the week was 12 Bcf,
with storage volumes positioned 12 Bcf below year-ago levels.  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange  (NYMEX), the May 2011
natural gas contract price lost 5.7 cents from the previous
Wednesday, reaching $4.355 per MMBtu after peaking last Friday.  The natural gas rotary rig count, as reported March 25 by Baker
Hughes Incorporated, rose by 5 to 880 active units, ending a
five-week slide. This activity level stands 61 units less than
the same period last year.  Prevailing natural gas prices resumed their decline during the
week except for a brief reversal around the end of last week
when a brief cold snap passed. The New York citygate was
reflective of pricing points showing an overall loss for the
week falling from a level of $5.48 per MMBtu last Wednesday to
$4.87 per MMBtu yesterday. However, during the week, the New
York citygate price jumped $0.47 per MMBtu when a cold snap
passed, hitting a peak of $5.95 per MMBtu on Thursday before
giving back $1.08 of the gain this week. The Chicago citygate
was also representative of the general weekly trend and dropped
from $4.41 per MMBtu the previous Wednesday to $4.40 per MMBtu
yesterday.  Spot Prices  At the NYMEX, the price of the May 2011 contract decreased 5.7
cents (1.3 percent) over the week from $4.412 per MMBtu to
$4.355 per MMBtu after peaking on Friday. The NYMEX price has
declined in 2 of the past 3 trading sessions.  The Henry Hub price followed the general direction of the NYMEX,
but was much more muted, rising 1.7 percent from $4.18 per MMBtu
and ending the week slightly up at $4.25 per MMBtu. The Henry
Hub price has resumed its general decline since peaking on
Monday.  An overall increase in natural gas consumption, primarily due to
colder temperatures during the week, was likely the prime
catalyst causing the price spike and briefly stemming the
general trend in softening natural gas prices. According to
estimates from BENTEK Energy Services, LLC, domestic consumption
this week increased by a robust 23.2 percent from the previous
week. A large jump in the residential/commercial sector of 41.1
percent led the increase, followed by gains of 14.9 percent and
5.0 percent, respectively, in the power and industrial sectors.  According to BENTEK estimates, the week’s average 68.1 Bcf per
day of total nominal gas supply represented an increase of 2.0
percent from last week’s value. Domestic gas production was 63.8
Bcf, up 0.9 percent, accounting for the bulk of the increase.
BENTEK notes that more new daily production records were set
during the week. Canadian imports averaged about 6.3 Bcf per
day, representing an increase of about 1 Bcf per day (14.9
percent) for the week, and now stand 3.2 percent above year-ago
levels likely due to increasing productivity of new wells in
 Canada . Supply also picked up slightly in the liquefied natural
gas (LNG) arena, where imports (less than 1 Bcf per day)
increased 2.4 percent above last week but remain 27.3 percent
below the corresponding week last year.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage rose to 1,624 Bcf as of Friday,
March 25, according to EIA’s WNGSR. After a 12-Bcf injection,
the first injection of 2011, stocks are now 68 Bcf above the 5-
year average. This marks the sixth week in a row of either lower
draws or higher injections than average. Stocks remain 12 Bcf
below last year, however, after matching last year’s injection
for the same week.  The injection last week was entirely the result of a significant
stock build in the Producing Region. The 25 Bcf injection in the
Producing Region was partly offset by draws of 7 Bcf and 6 Bcf
in the East and West Regions respectively. It is normal for the
Producing Region to see consistent stock builds in March while
the East Region will usually continue to draw into the start of
April, especially if cold weather continues. The West Region
actually had a small injection the week before, but unusually
cold weather in parts of the region was responsible for the
latest draw.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending March
24 were about 3 degrees warmer than normal and nearly equal to
last year. The  National Weather Service ’s degree-day data show
that the temperature in the lower 48 States last week averaged
49.1 degrees. There were extremely large regional differences.
The East South Central and West South Central Regions were about
9 and 10 degrees above normal respectively while the Pacific
Region experienced weather about 6 degrees below normal.  Other Market Trends  Natural Gas Production Remains Robust in January. On March 29,
EIA released the “Natural Gas Monthly (NGM)”
< http://www.eia.doe.gov/oil_gas/natural_gas/data_publications/na 
tural_gas_monthly/ngm.html>, which includes data through January
2011. According to the NGM, natural gas production hit 63.62 Bcf
per day in January, the highest recorded level for the month,
despite a number of well freeze-offs that occurred, causing it
to fall slightly from the previous month. The January 2011 level
represents an increase of 6.4 percent from the same month in
2010, and a decrease of less than 1 percent from December 2010.
Total natural gas consumption rose about 5 percent from December
2010, increasing from 87.89 Bcf per day to 92.63 Bcf per day the
following month. The bulk of the increase occurred in the
residential and commercial sectors as homes and businesses used
more natural gas for heating. Heating degree-days increased
about 8 percent from the previous month and were greater than
the 30-year normal for January. Consumption of natural gas for
electric power generation dropped about 4 percent from December
2010, while industrial use increased about 3 percent. The
average wellhead price rose from $3.85 per MMBtu in December
2010 to $3.97 per MMBtu in January, but remains below last
January’s level of $5 per MMBtu.  Natural Gas Transportation Update  FERC granted permission to  Florida  Gas Transmission Co. LLC to
start natural gas transportation services on the remaining
facilities of the Phase VIII Expansion Project. According to the
project’s website, Phase VIII will consist of approximately
483.2 miles of multi diameter pipeline in  Alabama ,  Mississippi 
and Florida. One new compressor station will be built in
Highlands County, Florida, that will add 213,600 horsepower to
the existing mainline compression. The project will provide an
annual average of 820,000 MMBtu per day of additional firm
transportation capacity. The project is anticipated to be
completed in the spring.  On March 29, Anadarko Petroleum’s Independence Hub has reduced
production due to required safety testing on subsea equipment.
According to BENTEK estimates, production was reduced by 300
million cubic feet (MMcf) per day from 528 MMcf per day to about
233 MMcf per day on March 29. On March 30, production edged up
slightly, but was still down by 185 MMcf per day in comparison
to normal outflow levels. The facility is expected to resume
normal operations this week. Independence Hub, the largest
natural gas processing facility in the  Gulf of Mexico , has a
design capacity of 1 Bcf per day. According to Anadarko, the hub
spans 1800 square miles, in waters up to 9000 feet deep.  Southern Natural Gas Company has scheduled a shut-in test at the
Muldon Storage Field in Mississippi for April 5 through April
11. Under the terms of Southern’s tariff, this test constitutes
a Force Majeure event. As a result, Southern will allocate CSS
rate schedule customers 36% of their contracted daily injection
and daily withdrawal quantities. In the event notice, Southern
stated that it will monitor nominations closely during the shut-
in tests to “determine if there is an imbalance between
anticipated supply and demand that would threaten the operation
integrity of the system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  