-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending March 29 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-03-31T13:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-march-29-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Overview: Heavy rain eased drought across portions of the
Southeast, while drought intensified across much of the south-
central and southwestern U.S.  Midwest: Dry, cool weather prevailed over northern  Indiana ,
where long-term precipitation deficits persist (4-6 inches below
normal over the past 180 days).  In the northern  Great Lakes ,
Moderate Drought (D1) was introduced to northern-most portions
of  Michigan  to account for below-normal snowfall and
corresponding low 3- and 6-month Standardized Precipitation
Indices.  The Mid-Atlantic: The recent wet, cool trend continued, although
rainfall totals were mostly less than 1 inch.  Lingering
Abnormally Dry and Moderate Drought regions of the lower
Delmarva and southern Virginia reported mostly less than 0.25
inch, which was not sufficient to further improve drought
designation.  Streamflows in the southern portions of the region
continued to reflect D0 and D1 status.  Southeast: Locally heavy rain (2-4 inches) swept eastward from
southern Tennessee and northern  Alabama  into Georgia and South
Carolina, affording northern portions of the region relief from
Moderate Drought (D1) and Abnormal Dryness (D0).  Precipitation
was somewhat lighter (less than 1.5 inches) in  North Carolina ?s
core Severe Drought (D2) area; with weekly normal precipitation
over an inch, the rainfall was not enough to warrant drought
reduction in this area.  Moderate to heavy rain (2-4 inches,
locally more) in central Florida also provided relief from
Moderate to Severe Drought (D1 and D2), although the rain
largely bypassed the southern Extreme Drought (D3) region.
Consequently, modest drought improvement was noted in central
Florida, while southern and eastern Florida remained largely
unchanged.  In northern Florida, D1 was expanded in eastern
portions of the Panhandle, where precipitation deficits over the
past 60 days have tallied 4 to 6 inches (less than 50 percent of
normal).  In southern  Georgia , a small band of heavy showers (2-
3 inches) led to a minor adjustment to Severe Drought (D2),
while Severe and Extreme Drought were expanded westward over
southern portions of the state to reflect declining soil
moisture and streamflow percentiles.  Delta: Dry, warmer-than-normal weather (up to 9F above normal)
in southern portions of the region contrasted with periods of
rain and below-normal temperatures farther north.  Changes in
drought across southern  Louisiana  were minor, with a slight
eastward expansion of Severe Drought (D2) to reflect soil
moisture rankings in the lowest 5th percentile and Standardized
Precipitation Indices indicative of D2 conditions or worse.
Farther north, upwards of 5 inches of rain in northeastern
 Mississippi  led to 1-category improvements of the current
drought depiction, while lesser totals (1-3 inches) resulted in
minor improvements in D0 (Abnormal Dryness) across southern
 Missouri .  It should be noted that the core D3 (Extreme Drought)
regions of the Delta continue to wrestle with deficits locally
in excess of 12 inches over the past 90 days and 15 to 20 inches
(locally more) over the past 180 days  (less than 50 percent of
normal over both timescales).  Texas  &  Oklahoma : Dry, hot conditions led to widespread
intensification and expansion of drought across Texas, where
daytime highs routinely reached into the upper 80s and lower to
middle 90s.  In Oklahoma, despite somewhat cooler weather,
conditions likewise deteriorated under sunny skies.  By week’s
end, soil moisture percentile rankings depicted D3 (Extreme
Drought) or worse from southeastern Oklahoma into most of
central and eastern Texas.  In addition, 6-, 9-and 12-month
Standardized Precipitation Indices (SPI) likewise reflected D3
or D4 conditions over much of this same region.  Remote sensing
data (in particular, the Vegetation Health Index) depicted
widespread vegetation stress across southern Oklahoma and much
of Texas. Meanwhile, from South Texas into the Edwards Plateau
and Trans-Pecos regions, 3- and 6-month SPI likewise correlated
with Extreme Drought (D3) or greater.  To further illustrate the
drought’s impacts, winter wheat crop condition rated 62 and 46
percent very poor to poor in Texas and Oklahoma, respectively,
as of March 27.   It should be noted that many drought
indicators in east-central Texas have reached the Exceptional
Drought (D4) level, and if rain does not materialize soon,
intensification of the current drought is likely.  The remaining
drought regions in northern and central Texas continued to
depict worsening conditions as well, as the lingering benefits
of late-winter rainfall quickly give way to dry, hot weather.  Central Plains: Showers in northern and eastern portions of the
region contrasted with expanding dryness in the south and west.
In central and eastern  Nebraska , light to moderate rain and wet
snow (0.50-1.0 inch liquid equivalent) was sufficient to negate
expansion of D0 (Abnormal Dryness) but not enough to warrant
reduction.  Across the southern tier of Nebraska and into
central  Kansas , Moderate Drought (D1) was expanded to reflect
soil moisture rankings in the lowest 10th percentile as well as
the 6-month Standardized Precipitation Index which correlated to
D1 or worse.  In addition, remote sensing data (in particular,
the Vegetation Health Index) depicted an increase in vegetation
stress across southwestern Kansas; Kansas winter wheat was rated
35 percent very poor to poor as of March 27.  In  Colorado ,
precipitation was generally light (less than 0.75 inch) and
confined to northeastern-most portions of the state’s D2 (Severe
Drought) region.  As of March 27, Colorado’s winter wheat was
rated 55 percent very poor to poor.  The West:  Unseasonably heavy rain and mountain snow persisted
across the Pacific Coast States, while drought intensified in
lower portions of the Four Corners Region.  Over the past 6
months, precipitation has tallied 50 percent of normal or less
from southeastern  Arizona  into southern and central  New Mexico ,
with the greatest departures (locally less than 30 percent of
normal) in southern-most portions of the region.  The
corresponding 6-month Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI)
indicated D3 conditions across the southeastern corner of
Arizona and adjacent portions of southern New Mexico.
Consequently, Moderate to Extreme Drought (D1-D3) was expanded
in the lower Four Corner region. In northeastern Arizona, 3- and
6-month SPI likewise supported modest expansion of Moderate
Drought (D1).  The D0 region along the Nevada- California  border
was removed as updated seasonal SPI (6 and 9 month) indicated
mostly favorable conditions.  In contrast, heavy rain and
mountain snow were observed from California into the Northwest,
providing an additional boost to mountain snowpacks.  Snow
depths exceeded 100 inches at numerous locations in the Sierra
Nevada, with some estimates in excess of 300 inches.  Estimated
weekly total liquid precipitation eclipsed 4 inches in northern
portions of the California coast, and was locally more than 6
inches in the Sierra Nevada.  In the Northwest, precipitation
estimates of 2 to 8 inches (liquid equivalent) were noted from
the Klamath Range into the Cascades and along the Pacific Coast.  Hawaii ,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico: In Hawaii, showers (locally more
than 2 inches) across eastern portions of the Big Island
afforded some reduction of Moderate Drought (D1).  Rain
elsewhere in Hawaii was generally light and not sufficient to
warrant any changes to the current drought depiction.  In Alaska,
dry, unseasonably warm weather prevailed, although no changes
were made to the Abnormal Dryness region which remains due in
part to a drier-than-normal winter.  In Puerto Rico, showers
(locally more than 3 inches) across the northwestern quarter of
the island provided some relief to western portions of the
Abnormally Dry (D0) region, while D0 was expanded slightly on
the southwestern tip of Puerto Rico in response to 90-day
precipitation totaling less than 50 percent of normal.  Looking Ahead: A series of storm systems will maintain wet, cool
weather across the eastern third of the nation, providing some
additional drought relief to the southern Mid-Atlantic and
Southeastern states.  In contrast, mostly dry, increasingly warm
conditions are anticipated from the central Gulf Coast into the
central and southern Plains.  Out west, the story of the past
month will continue, with another round of locally heavy rain
and mountain snow expected by the weekend from central and
northern portions of California into the Northwest.  However,
little if any precipitation from this system is expected to
reach the lower Four Corners region.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (April 5-9) calls for drier-than-
normal conditions from the southern Great Basin and Four Corners
region into the central and southern Plains.  In contrast,
above-normal precipitation is expected across the eastern
quarter of the nation, although southern  Florida  may remain
abnormally dry.  Abnormal warmth across the Gulf Coast region
will contrast with near- to below-normal temperatures across the
remainder of the U.S., including Alaska.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  