-- 
U.S. Must Cut Entitlements to Pare Debt, Honeywell CEO Says

-- B y   J u d y   W o o d r u f f   a n d   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-31T14:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-s-must-cut-entitlements-to-slash-deficit-honeywell-ceo-says.html
Any plan to reduce the U.S. deficit
will need cuts to Medicare and Social Security in addition to tax
increases, said  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  Chief Executive
Officer  David Cote , who served on President Barack Obama’s debt
commission last year.  “It’s impossible, because what’s happening is we have the
baby boomer generation retiring,” Cote said in an interview
that will air on Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations With
 Judy Woodruff ” this weekend. “And there’s not enough people
paying into the system. We will literally crush the system.”  It also will take a combination of entitlement cuts and tax
increases to reach a compromise that can pass in Congress, said
Cote, who is also chairman of the  Morris Township , New Jersey-
based company, the world’s largest maker of turbochargers.  Democrats who would like to reduce the deficit without
cutting Medicare and Social Security and Republicans who would
like to slash it without raising taxes need to come to an
agreement to get it done, Cote said.  “I tell them both the same thing: ‘Cut a deal. You will
get some spending reduction, and there has to be some revenue
increase,’” he said. “It’s almost like we want to revel in our
discordant pluralism rather than pull together.”  Pull Together  “There do come times in a democracy when you actually have
to pull together and say, ‘We need to get something done, and
let’s deal with the facts,’” Cote said.  Cote, 58, has defended the administration’s economic
policies, saying in October that the president received “no
credit” for steering the country away from a depression. He is
among the CEOs whom Obama has chosen for public-service roles, a
group that includes  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt , who is heading an advisory panel on
economic competitiveness and job creation.  The 18-member debt commission consisted of Republican and
Democratic lawmakers, corporate executives and union leaders,
and federal budget specialists. It produced a bipartisan $3.8
trillion plan to shrink the deficit with a mix of tax increases
and cuts in entitlement programs, while falling short of the 14
votes needed to forward the proposal to Congress.  While Cote said higher taxes are necessary to cut the
deficit, he also favors a zero percent corporate tax rate,
though he said he knows that’s out of the question for the
American public. Cote said he would like to see the lowest rate
possible on companies, with loopholes stricken from the  tax
code .  ‘Market Distortions’  “I would say you need to eliminate all deductions, because
all deductions, whether you do them for individuals or you do
them for companies, are market distortions,” Cote said.  The  U.S. economy  will continue to improve during at least
the next three, four, maybe five, years, Cote said. The best way
for government to create jobs is to build an environment
amenable to hiring, he said.  “That’s the one thing the government can do,” he said.  Cote said he expects that oil prices will increase as the
economy improves. Crude settled yesterday at $104.27 a barrel in
 New York , a 14 percent increase this year.  “If you’ve gone back eight years ago when oil was $20
bucks and you asked me in an interview, what happens if oil hits
$35, I’d have said, ‘Recession. There would be a recession.’
Instead, we got to $150 before that happened.”  Honeywell, which manufactures energy-saving products
including turbochargers and programmable thermostats, could
benefit from higher oil prices, he said.  Oil Prices  “The highest oil price that doesn’t damage GDP, that’s
where -- that’s the best spot for Honeywell,” he said. “So to
the extent the economy can keep growing and oil prices go up, it
causes people to focus even more on  energy efficiency .”  Cote praised Obama’s goal of reducing by a third, the 11
million barrels of oil imported by the U.S. in a little more
than a decade and his bid to generate about 80 percent of
electricity by 2035 from clean energy.  “Everything that’s been happening across North Africa
should be a huge reinforcement for us to finally do something,”
he said, alluding to the turmoil in  Libya . “I’ve never seen so
much talk with nothing substantive happening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Judy Woodruff at   jwoodruff@newshour.org ;
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  