-- 
U.S. Auto Sales to Post First Drop in Seven Months on Gas Costs

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-03-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-s-auto-sales-to-post-first-drop-in-seven-months-on-gas-costs.html
U.S. automobile sales probably fell
for the first time in seven months in March as the crisis in
 Japan  and the highest gas prices in more than two years hurt
consumers’ confidence.  March light-vehicle deliveries, to be released tomorrow,
may have run at a 12.9 million annual rate, the average estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. While higher than a year
ago, it’s less than the seasonally adjusted rate of 13.4 million
in February, according to Autodata Corp.  The conflict in Libya helped push gas prices to the highest
since September 2008, slowing truck and sport-utility vehicle
sales. Confidence among U.S. consumers fell more than forecast
to a three-month low this month, the Conference Board said March
29. The group said 3.6 percent of Americans plan to buy a new
auto in the next six months, down from 3.9 percent in February.  “A lot of uncertainty in the geopolitical environment, with
the crisis in Japan and Middle East unrest, affects consumers’
tendency to make big-ticket item purchases,” said  Jesse Toprak ,
vice president of industry trends at TrueCar.com in Santa
Monica,  California . “There’s hesitancy by consumers to pull the
trigger on car purchases.”  A 12.9 million rate this month would be an increase from
the 11.7 million pace in March 2010, and all major automakers
except  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  may report gains in deliveries from a
year earlier, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Light-vehicle sales in 2010 rose to 11.6 million from a 27-
year low in 2009. Deliveries still were 31 percent fewer than
the 16.8 million annual average from 2000 to 2007, according to
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata.  Deliveries at Toyota may have slipped 3.6 percent from a
year earlier, the average of four analysts’ estimates, as the
world’s largest automaker offered smaller discounts. Toyota
City, Japan-based Toyota boosted sales incentives 46 percent in
March 2010 after it began record recalls earlier that year.  Sales may have gained 24 percent at Honda Motor Co., and
Nissan Motor Co. deliveries may have increased 16 percent, the
average of four analysts’ estimates.  Global automakers may lose production of 585,000 vehicles
this month after the March 11 Japan earthquake and tsunami
damaged factories of manufacturers and their suppliers,
according to researcher IHS Automotive.  Toyota said last week it has lost output of more than
140,000 vehicles. Honda, based in  Tokyo , said it had lost 46,600
vehicles, while Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan said it lost 42,000
units of production from March 14 to March 27.  GM, Ford Sales  GM, which closed its Shreveport Assembly plant in  Louisiana 
the week of March 21 because of a Japan-related parts shortage,
may report a 20 percent gain in March deliveries, the average of
five analysts’ estimates.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  may report a 13 percent increase for March,
the average of five estimates. Ford’s increased sales of small
cars such as the Fiesta and Focus may help the second-largest
U.S. automaker outsell GM, which offered smaller discounts
during the month, said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at industry
researcher Edmunds.com.  “The GM and Ford race will be really tight,” said Caldwell,
who’s based in  Santa Monica , California. “GM came out really
strong in the beginning of the year with incentives. When you do
that, you’re going to pull ahead sales from later months.”  Automakers may cut incentives and sales to fleet customers
to conserve inventories as parts shortages threaten the loss of
as much as 100,000 units of production in  North America  in the
near term, said  Jeff Schuster , an analyst at J.D. Power &
Associates in Troy,  Michigan .  Japan Impact  “It feels like it’s going to be a little bit more of an
impact than just a few vehicle shortages,” said Schuster, who
expects the lost output to be made up by the end of the year.
“The depletion of inventory of some key imported models could
happen a lot faster than we expected entering this month.”  Chrysler Group LLC, based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, may
say sales rose 20 percent, the average of five analysts’
estimates. Chrysler and Ford said last week they are restricting
dealers’ orders on some vehicle colors after Merck KGaA, a
producer of a paint pigment for automakers, lost access to its
Japanese factory near a crippled nuclear reactor.  Higher gas prices may drive a shift in market share to cars
from trucks and SUVs, according to  J.D. Power . The average price
of regular unleaded gasoline in the U.S. was $3.54 a gallon this
month through March 29, according to AAA.  Shift to Small  GM’s Chevrolet brand has doubled the share of sales it gets
from vehicles with four-cylinder engines since 2007, to 46
percent of its retail deliveries this year, the automaker said
March 16. Ford, which set monthly records in February for sales
of its Fiesta and Fusion cars, sees consumers changing buying
patterns, said  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas.  “There is a natural kind of water level that if a gallon
of gas goes over, that may shift the market mentality,” Fields
said at a factory in Wayne, Michigan, on March 17, after the
redesigned Focus small car began production.  For every $1 a gallon increase in U.S. gas prices, the
more-profitable light-truck segment may lose 5 percentage points
of market share to lower-margin cars,  Himanshu Patel , a New
York-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a March 22
research note. That would translate to a 56-cent decrease in
annual earnings per share at GM, and a 15-cent drop at Ford, he
said.  Auto Stocks Decline  “Given the magnitude of recent stock price declines, it
appears much of this math has been discounted into both stocks,
though market concerns are likely that oil could trend even
higher medium-term,” Patel wrote.  GM has fallen 14 percent since Feb. 18, before intensifying
violence in  Libya  sent crude  oil prices  to the highest in more
than two years, to close at $31.55 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Ford has dropped 5.8 percent in that
span and closed at $14.86 yesterday.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from March 2010, unadjusted for the difference in selling
days. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted annual rate, or
SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  March had 27 selling days, one more than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 