-- 
U.S. Mortgage-Relief Plan Has Fewer Delinquencies Amid Bigger Reductions

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-31T16:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-s-mortgage-relief-plan-has-fewer-delinquencies-amid-bigger-reductions.html
Mortgages modified through the main
federal relief program fell into delinquency at about half the
rate as those in other plans because the government provides
bigger payment reductions, according to U.S. bank regulators.  Thirteen percent of loans modified through the Home
Affordable Modification Program in the first half of last year
were 60 days delinquent after six months, compared with 24
percent of loans in alternative programs, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision
said today in a report. After nine months, the re-default rate
was 17 percent under the Obama administration’s plan, compared
with 32 percent under others offered mostly by banks.  “The re-default rates on these HAMP mods are
encouraging,” Joe Evers, deputy comptroller for large bank
supervision at the comptroller of the currency’s office, said in
a conference call today. “If you ask some of these homeowners
who got HAMP mods, I think they’d say that it is working.”  Policy makers are debating the best ways to reduce
foreclosures and fix the housing market after a five-year
decline in prices has left about one in four homeowners with
loans bigger than the value of their properties. The  House of
Representatives  voted 252-170 on March 28 to eliminate the HAMP
program, which pays banks and mortgage servicers to modify
monthly payments for delinquent borrowers.  Payment Cuts  Neil Barofsky , special inspector general for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, has called HAMP “a failure,” and said it
pales in comparison to the record 2.9 million foreclosure
filings in 2010.  About 608,000 homeowners started permanent loan
modifications under the administration’s program as of Jan. 31,
up from 117,000 a year earlier, the Treasury Department reported
March 2. Borrowers on about 2 million home loans received
modifications through proprietary programs by banks and loan
servicers.  During the fourth quarter, HAMP modifications reduced
monthly payments by an average $587, or 35.9 percent, compared
with reductions of $351, or 22 percent, from other programs,
according to today’s report.  About half of all trial modifications extended through HAMP
are canceled, a failure rate that isn’t counted in the
regulators’ report, said Bryan Hubbard, a spokesman for the
comptroller of the currency’s office in  Washington . Many
borrowers canceled by HAMP’s trial program later get proprietary
modifications, contributing to a higher failure rate, he said.  Risk Factor  “The riskier borrowers who don’t qualify for HAMP get
these other modifications,” Hubbard said on the conference
call. “Therefore they have inherently more risk associated with
them.”  The number of completed foreclosures decreased almost 50
percent in the fourth quarter to 95,067, as lenders and
servicers put a moratorium on actions after accusations they
used improper procedures, such as “robo-signing” documents, to
seize delinquent properties, the Treasury Department reported.  “New and completed foreclosures are likely to increase in
upcoming quarters as moratoria are lifted and the large
inventory of seriously delinquent loans and loans in process of
foreclosure work through the system,” the report said.  Settlement Talks  State attorneys general and federal authorities including
the Justice and Treasury departments early this month sent a
list of terms to the five largest U.S. mortgage servicers as a
starting point for negotiations to settle allegations of abusive
foreclosure practices. The proposals cover almost every aspect
of servicing, from training employees to developing a single
point of contact for borrowers seeking loan modifications.  Loan servicers started more than 473,415 home retention
actions, such as loan modifications, compared with 146,132
forfeiture actions, such as foreclosures and short sales, the
report said.  The inventory of foreclosures in process increased by more
than 7 percent to 1.29 million, or 3.9 percent of all serviced
loans at the end of the fourth quarter, the report said.  The report is based on information from 32.9 million first
mortgages with $5.7 trillion in principal balances, or about 63
percent of outstanding loans as of December. The offices of
Thrift Supervision and Comptroller of the Currency are divisions
of the U.S. Treasury Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 