-- 
U.S. Government Pensions Gain 5.5% as Stock Market Rises

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-03-31T16:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-s-government-pensions-gain-5-5-as-stock-market-rises-1-.html
U.S. state and local government
pension-fund assets rose in value by 5.5 percent in the last
three months of 2010 as stock market gains helped recoup losses
incurred since the financial crisis.  The assets of the hundred largest government employee
retirement systems grew by $138 billion to $2.64 trillion by the
end of 2010 from three months earlier, the U.S.  Census Bureau 
reported today. The rate marks a slowdown from the previous
quarter’s growth of 5.9 percent.  The gains ease pressure on pensions that were stung by
losses during the financial crisis of 2008. The rout left funds
across the U.S. with less than they will need to cover all the
benefits they have promised, with the shortfalls estimated at
anywhere from $700 billion to more than $3 trillion, depending
on the assumptions one uses to calculate future liabilities.  Last quarter’s returns were driven by gains in stocks,
corporate bonds and foreign assets,  Census figures  show. Stocks
made up 32 percent of holdings, the biggest chunk. The  Standard
& Poor’s  500 index advanced 10.2 percent last quarter. The funds
posted declines in the value of Treasuries and municipal debt.  Pension fund shortfalls have become a political issue, as
Republicans in Congress raised concern they may force states and
cities to turn to the federal government for a bailout.
Lawmakers held a hearing last month on whether states should be
allowed to file for bankruptcy to renegotiate the debts.  Peak Value  The funds’ peak value was $2.93 trillion at the end of
2007. Holdings tumbled to about $2.1 trillion in the first
quarter of 2009.  At the local level, Republican governors in states
including New Jersey,  Wisconsin  and  Ohio  have railed against
what they say are excessive benefits or sought to curb the power
of unions to bargain for benefits.  Yesterday, Ohio lawmakers passed a bill limiting collective
bargaining by state and city workers and requiring workers to
make minimum payments for health care and pensions.  New Jersey 
Governor  Chris Christie , facing a $53.9 billion deficit in the
state pension system, is seeking steps including rolling back
benefit increases granted a decade ago.  Democrats and unions say politicians are seeking to curb
the clout of labor groups that back Democratic candidates. In
2007, before the financial crisis, state pensions had 95 percent
of what they needed to cover all their liabilities, according to
Wilshire Associates, a pension consultant. By 2010, the firm
estimates that tumbled to 69 percent.  Taxpayer Money  Investment gains are used to generate cash for future
benefits. The increases are a positive turn for public officials
faced with pouring more taxpayer money into ailing retirement
funds, an added pressure on governments whose tax revenue has
yet to fully recover from the recession.  In 2010, government  pension contributions  rose by $8.9
billion, or 12.2 percent, from a year earlier to $81.3 billion,
according to the Census data.  This month, the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , the largest U.S. pension, declined to make a reduction
in its assumptions about future earnings recommended by its
actuaries, saying it would trigger higher contributions that
would burden local governments participating in the system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  