-- 
U.S. Wary of Arming Libyan Rebels as Defection Shakes Qaddafi

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-01T07:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/u-s-u-k-say-defection-of-qaddafi-s-top-aide-shows-regime-is-in-disarray.html
U.S. political and military leaders
said they’re unwilling to start providing arms and training for
rebels fighting against  Muammar Qaddafi  in Libya, as the
defection of a senior aide undermined his regime.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and Mike Mullen, the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Congress yesterday
they don’t favor using the military to provide weapons or
training to the rebels. Mullen said there are “plenty of
countries who have the ability, the arms, the skill set to be
able to do this.” Gates said the U.S. doesn’t know enough about
the insurgent groups beyond a “handful” of leaders.  The defection of Qaddafi’s Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa
to the U.K. was welcomed by Western leaders as a signal of
regime weakness. On the battlefield, though, government troops
have regained the initiative even after almost two weeks of
NATO-led air strikes against them. This week’s recapture of oil
ports such as Brega and Ras Lanuf by Qaddafi’s forces has
underscored the military weakness of his opponents.  “The rebels need more heavy weapons,” said  Jan Techau ,
director of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
Brussels and a former analyst at the NATO Defense College.
“They need simple stuff -- not high-tech weaponry that requires
extensive training and would be dangerous if it fell into
terrorist hands.”  Rebels Regroup  The conflict in Libya, which began as a wave of anti-
government protests similar to those in Egypt and  Tunisia ,
escalated into armed conflict as the country’s army split and
some soldiers joined the rebels.  Oil prices  have risen more than
25 percent since fighting began in mid-February.  Oil prices extended gains today, adding 0.1 percent to
$106.87 at 7:40 a.m. in London, after closing yesterday at a 2
1/2-year high.  Libya  holds  Africa ’s largest reserves, according
to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  As Qaddafi’s forces regained control of Brega, many of the
rebels regrouped in Ajdabiya, about 100 miles (160 kilometers)
from the rebel stronghold of Benghazi, and some were even
fleeing from there on fear that the government troops were
approaching, the  Associated Press  said.  The U.S. and the U.K. have deployed special operations
forces and intelligence agents in Libya to assist with targeting
of allied air strikes and to forge contacts with rebels, the New
York Times reported, citing unnamed officials in both countries.
It said CIA agents and “dozens” of British Special Air Service
and Special Boat Service soldiers are in Libya.  Secret Order  President  Barack Obama  signed a secret order authorizing the
CIA to provide arms and other aid to rebels, the newspaper said,
though so far no weapons have been sent.  In London, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said Koussa’s
defection is evidence of “the desperation and the fear right at
the heart of the crumbling and rotten Qaddafi regime.” He said
the former minister hasn’t been offered immunity. The Scottish
prosecutor’s office said it wanted to interview Koussa about the
1988 bombing of a U.S. airliner over the town of Lockerbie.  While dozens of Libyan diplomats have quit since the
uprising against Qaddafi began, Koussa is one of the most senior
officials to flee. Libya’s former deputy ambassador to the
 United Nations ,  Ibrahim Dabbashi , said more diplomats and
senior-ranking Libyans are likely to defect from the Qaddafi
regime “within days,” Sky News reported.  Confidential Talks  Another senior Libyan official, Mohammed Ismail, visited
 London  in recent days for confidential talks, the Guardian
reported today citing unidentified U.K. officials.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets carried out more
than 90 missions yesterday, Charles Bouchard, the Canadian  air
force  general commanding the operation, said via videolink from
Naples,  Italy . A total of 20 of the 28 member states of the
alliance are expected to contribute forces in the initial
stages, NATO said.  Germany  has declined to take part.  The contested Libyan towns of Sirte, Misrata and Zintan are
the focus of coalition air attacks, French Defense Minister
Gerard Longuet said yesterday in Paris.  “We are trying to loosen the noose around these towns, and
it is working,” Longuet said at a press conference. While most
of the Libyan regime’s heavy military equipment has been
destroyed or pinned to its bases, coalition air attacks are
becoming more difficult because the front has been moving fast
and because “lighter units are harder to distinguish between
the sides,” he said.  At least 40 civilians were killed by alliance airstrikes in
the Libyan capital, the Vatican news agency Fides reported,
citing Bishop Giovanni Innocenzo Martinelli, apostolic vicar of
Tripoli. NATO said it was investigating the claim.  Qaddafi said Western air strikes could lead to a war
between Christians and Muslims that could spiral out of control,
Sky News reported, citing a statement by the Libyan leader
broadcast by state television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 Pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  