-- 
Huaneng Power to Buy Conventional Power Plants From Parent

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T07:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/huaneng-power-to-buy-conventional-power-plants-from-parent-1-.html
Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , a
unit of  China ’s biggest power producer, plans to purchase “good
quality” power plants from its parent company to expand over
the next five years.  China Huaneng Group will sell so-called conventional
plants, mainly coal-fired, to Hong Kong-listed Huaneng Power
through 2015 when profitability of those assets improves,
Huaneng Power’s Chairman Cao Peixi, who is also the president of
China Huaneng Group, told reporters in  Hong Kong  today. Huaneng
Power wants to have projects with an investment return of more
than 8 percent, President Liu Guoyue said.  China’s economy  grew 10.3 percent in 2010, the fastest pace
in three years, boosting power demand for electricity and raw
materials. Huaneng Power aims to increase its generating
capacity by almost 70 percent to about 90 gigawatts by 2015 and
will step up investments in cleaner power projects such as
hydro, wind and natural gas plants, Cao said today.  “The plants that Huaneng Power will buy from the group
company will include assets in Shandong and other provinces,”
Cao told reporters. “We want to have stable and sustainable
growth in Huaneng Power through the transactions.”  Huaneng Power posted a profit in the first three months of
this year and its power generation volume increased by a
“double-digit” rate, Chief Accountant Zhou Hui said. The
company plans 19.3 billion yuan in  capital spending  in 2011 and
20.2 billion yuan in 2012, Zhou said.  Nuclear Plants  The company targets as much as 25 percent of its generating
capacity from clean-energy sources and wants to meet 40 percent
of its coal demand from its own production by the end of 2015,
according to Cao.  The parent has injected some nuclear assets and will
encourage Huaneng Power to develop more atomic power, Cai said.
Huaneng Group won’t change its nuclear strategy despite  Japan ’s
atomic crisis, he said.  The government approved the group’s fourth-generation
nuclear plant in Shandong province on March 1, Cao said. The
“high-temperature, gas-cooled” reactor is safer than Japan’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, he said. Construction will take about
four years once the company receives government orders to start,
Cao said.  Outside China, Huaneng Power proposed a natural-gas power
plant in  Singapore  and is seeking opportunities to invest in
coal projects in  Australia , Cao said.  -Wang Ying in Hong Kong. Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Hong Kong at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Gordon at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  