-- 
Lucas Says CFTC Must Slow Down and Seek Delay on Swap Rules

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-03-31T21:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/lucas-says-cftc-must-slow-down-and-seek-delay-on-swap-rules.html
The  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  must “slow down” and ask Congress to delay July
deadlines for new derivatives regulations required under the
Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. Representative Frank D. Lucas said today in
a Bloomberg News interview.  “The first step is: Will the chairman at some point
acknowledge he needs the extra time and ask us?” said Lucas,
the Oklahoma Republican who leads the House Agriculture
Committee, referring to CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler . “If we’re
unable to help the chairman, at some point a legislative
response will be the key.”  The CFTC and the  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
writing regulations for the $583 trillion over-the-counter
 derivatives market  after largely unregulated trades exacerbated
the financial crisis in 2008. Republicans including Lucas have
urged the regulators to take more time writing and implementing
rules to avoid unnecessary costs and unintended consequences.  “I don’t think Congress needs to push back the date,”
Gensler told the Agriculture Committee at a hearing today.
“You’ve already given us great latitude to phase the
implementation dates.”  The CFTC will complete some rules after Dodd-Frank’s July
deadline, Gensler said at the hearing.  ‘Gut the Law’  Republican calls to slow the pace of rule-writing aren’t
aimed at undermining the regulatory overhaul passed by a
Democrat-led Congress, Lucas said in the Bloomberg News
interview before the hearing.  “You’re not going to gut the law because it’s not going to
happen legislatively,” he said.  The CFTC’s $169 million budget for the current fiscal year
has been caught in a congressional stalemate between Republicans
seeking to rein in spending and Democrats looking to fund new
oversight. Under President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal 2012 budget,
presented Feb. 14, the agency’s budget would increase to $308
million.  “I believe the chairman is moving too aggressively,”
Lucas said. “I believe the process needs to be slowed down and
become more methodical. If providing him with dramatic new
amounts of resources to hire more staff simply accelerates his
ability to produce rules and regulations, that’s not answering
the issue I have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  