-- 
Unloved S&P 500 Companies Leave Index Behind: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T15:02:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/unloved-s-p-500-companies-leave-index-behind-chart-of-the-day.html
Buying U.S. stocks that analysts
weren’t recommending proved to be a rewarding strategy in the
first quarter.  The CHART OF THE DAY illustrates this by comparing the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index with a gauge of S&P 500 stocks that
had no “buy” ratings or an equivalent, such as “outperform”
or “overweight,” when the quarter began. The latter weighs
each stock equally and is based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  There were eight unloved stocks in all, including Class B
shares of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , billionaire Warren Buffett’s
company.  Cincinnati Financial Corp. (CINF) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,  Leucadia
National Corp. (LUK) , Masco Corp.,  Nicor Inc. (GAS) ,  NiSource Inc. (NI)  and  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  were also included.  All eight rose in the quarter through yesterday, leading to
a 10 percent gain for their index. Six beat the S&P 500, which
added 5.6 percent in the period. Leucadia National, a holding
company, set the pace with a 28 percent advance. Cincinnati
Financial and Duke Energy were the only ones that trailed.  Four more S&P 500 companies --  AutoNation Inc. (AN) ,  Dean Foods
Co. (DF) ,  Marshall & Ilsley Corp. (MI)  and  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  -- moved into
the no-buy group during the quarter, according to Bloomberg’s
data. Masco got out, thanks to a “buy” rating from Citigroup
Inc. at the end of January. Marshall & Ilsley’s move followed a
takeover bid by Bank of Montreal in December.  The increase is in keeping with a broader shift away from
buy recommendations. Last month, they accounted for 28 percent
of U.S. analyst ratings, the lowest proportion since Bloomberg
started compiling data in 1997. Figures for this month aren’t
yet available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  