-- 
Turkish Growth Accelerated to 9.2% in Fourth Quarter After Boom in Credit

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-03-31T10:45:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/turkish-gdp-increased-unexpected-9-2-in-fourth-quarter-amid-credit-boom.html
Turkey ’s economic growth
accelerated to 9.2 percent in the fourth quarter, extending a
credit-driven boom that the central bank says may pose a risk to
financial stability.  The growth rate rose from a revised 5.2 percent in the
previous three months, the state statistics office in Ankara
said on its website today. The economy had been expected to
expand 7.4 percent, according to the median estimate of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In the whole of 2010, gross
domestic product grew 8.9 percent.  The central bank’s priority is to slow expansion toward the
government target of 4.5 percent this year by restricting bank
lending, Deputy Governor Erdem Basci said on March 29. Surging
demand for imports, plus rising commodity prices, are swelling
the country’s trade gap. The deficit in the current account, the
broadest measure of trade in goods and services, almost doubled
in January from a year earlier to $5.9 billion.  “Turkey led the European growth pack in 2010,” Tim Ash,
head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
in  London , said in an e-mailed report. “They will refocus
attention on the central bank’s efforts to slow domestic
demand.”  Among the Group of 20 of major economies, only  China  has
reported faster fourth-quarter growth, expanding 9.8 percent.  Yields on benchmark two-year bonds rose after the growth
figures were announced, adding 6 basis points to 9.01 percent at
6 p.m. in Istanbul. The lira gained 0.5 percent to 1.54390 per
dollar, the strongest level in more than two months.  Domestic Demand  The economy expanded 3.6 percent from the third quarter,
according to seasonally adjusted figures announced today.  “Domestic consumption and investment were very strong in
the quarter,” said Sengul Dagdeviren, chief economist for ING
Bank AS in Istanbul. “The danger is that the economy’s dynamism
comes from domestic demand and that brings strong imports and
the question of how they’re financed.”  Turkey’s rapid rebound from the global recession may help
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s bid for a third term in
elections on June 12. His government survived the global crisis
without having to bail out any banks and this year Erdogan ended
loan talks with the  International Monetary Fund , saying Turkey
can meet its borrowing needs without external assistance.  It’s the government’s efforts to reduce the debt stock that
have lowered borrowing costs and driven economic growth, Erdogan
said today in a speech at the Bloomberg offices in London.  Monetary Policy   Central bank Governor Durmus Yilmaz has used bank reserve
requirements rather than  interest rates  to rein in economic
growth and avoid a stronger lira that may weaken exports already
hurt by the slowdown in  Europe , Turkey’s main market.  The central bank kept the benchmark one-week repo rate at a
record low of 6.25 percent on March 23, while increasing the
share of one-month deposits that lenders must leave as reserves
at the central bank to 15 percent from 10 percent. That leaves
the banks with less money to lend.  Credit is expanding at an annual pace of about 40 percent,
and the government says 25 percent would be healthier. Banking
industry profits increased 8.7 percent to 21.9 billion liras
($14 billion) last year, according to the banking regulator.  Growth this year is likely to be the fastest in Europe,
Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan , who oversees economic policy,
said in a written statement today.  Shares in  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS, the biggest listed bank by
assets, have dropped 13 percent since the central bank policy of
squeezing bank lending was announced in mid-December. Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS, co-owned by  Spain ’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, which bought a stake for $5.8 billion last year,
fell 11 percent.  Economic growth helped the budget produce a surplus in the
first two months of the year as  tax revenue  grew. The government
aims to narrow the fiscal deficit to 2.8 percent of GDP this
year from about 3.6 percent, and the debt burden to 42.3 percent
from 45.5 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 