-- 
Valeant Offer for Cephalon Still Lowest Drug Deal With 15% Boost: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-31T21:02:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/valeant-offer-for-cephalon-still-lowest-drug-deal-with-15-boost-real-m-a.html
Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX) ’s hostile bid for  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  is so low
that Valeant could raise the offer by 15 percent and still pay
less than any drug takeover in history.  The $73 a share proposal, which lifted Cephalon’s stock 28
percent to $75.44 yesterday, values the Frazer, Pennsylvania-
based maker of sleep and cancer drugs at 5.3 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the
lowest for any acquisition over $1 billion in the  drug industry ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The deal would still be
the cheapest even if Valeant raised it to $84, the data show.  While Valeant’s Chief Executive Officer J. Michael Pearson
said he wouldn’t get into a bidding contest for Cephalon,
traders who wager on mergers and acquisitions are betting on a
higher offer that Gabelli & Co. projects will reach at least $80
a share. Pearson says the Mississauga, Ontario-based company can
profit from Cephalon, which faces competition from generic drugs
and declining earnings, by cutting costs and selling money-
losing assets. It would be the sixth deal by Pearson since
September, during which time Valeant has surged 90 percent.  “There’s a general awareness this is a steal,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris  Private
Bank , which oversees $55 billion. “The deal is as cheap as I’ve
seen and public companies rarely trade anything close to that.
There could be a higher bid, but it would seem like a reasonable
deal at least for Valeant and what they’re looking to do.”  Relative Value  Pearson said on a conference call with investors and
analysts yesterday that Valeant was “paying very fair value.”  Natalie de Vane, a spokeswoman at Cephalon, said in a
telephone interview today that the company’s board of directors
will meet “early next week to further the process of maximizing
value for Cephalon shareholders.”  Cephalon’s shares climbed 0.9 percent to $76.08 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market today. Valeant slipped 0.5 percent to $49.81
in  New York  Stock Exchange trading.  Valeant offered to buy Cephalon in a March 18 letter, which
it disclosed in a statement on March 29. The $73 a share bid
valued the transaction at $5.46 billion including net debt, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. At that price, the deal is 5.3 times
Cephalon’s trailing Ebitda of $1.04 billion last year, the data
show. That’s 65 percent lower than the median 15.1 times for all
drug takeovers over $1 billion.  The acquisition becomes more expensive based on future
earnings as patent protection losses erode Cephalon’s sales. The
deal is valued at 6.9 times analysts’ estimates for Ebitda next
year and 8.1 times for 2013, the data show.  ‘Significantly More’  Shares of Cephalon climbed 3.3 percent above Valeant’s bid
yesterday, indicating that arbitragers are betting on a higher
offer. The level above the bid was the second-highest of all
U.S. deals over $1 billion announced this year, the data show.  Valeant could increase its offer by $11 a share, or 15
percent, to $84 apiece and still acquire Cephalon for less than
the 6.1 times Ebitda that Little Chalfont, England-based
Amersham Plc agreed to pay for Nycomed ASA in July 1997 --
currently the cheapest drug takeover on record, the data show.  While shares of Cephalon had the biggest advance since 1995
yesterday, Valeant’s U.S.-traded shares also jumped 13 percent,
indicating the company has room to increase its offer without
the risk of overpaying, according to Harry Rady, who oversees
$270 million as chief executive officer of Rady Asset Management
LLC, a hedge fund based in  La Jolla ,  California .  “Valeant could raise their price by significantly more
than 10 percent and the market would still like it,” he said.  Narcolepsy Drug  Valeant made its offer public after Cephalon lost 19
percent of its value in the prior 12 months.  Cephalon fell on concern its experimental medicines
wouldn’t make up for the loss of revenue after its top-selling
Provigil drug loses patent protection in 2012, Timothy Chiang,
an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a phone interview yesterday.  Valeant, which in January forecast higher earnings this
year than analysts estimated, expects to wring at least $300
million in cost savings from Cephalon, CEO Pearson said on a
conference call yesterday.  The company will probably reduce research and development
spending and cut jobs, while gaining Cephalon’s “significant”
cash flow from its existing drugs, CRT’s Chiang said.  About 40 percent of Cephalon’s $2.81 billion in revenue
last year came from Provigil, which is used to treat narcolepsy,
a chronic disorder characterized by daytime sleep attacks.
Cephalon’s cash flow from operations doubled in the past three
years to $782 million in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Barbados Tax Treatment  Valeant may also boost Cephalon’s after-tax profit because
its operations in Barbados give it a lower  tax rate . Valeant
pays about 8 percent in taxes, while Cephalon pays closer to 30
percent, CRT’s Chiang said.  “They have a bunch of synergies they can bring to bear in
terms of taxes and cost-cutting that will allow them to pay the
highest price for this asset,”  Eric Schmidt , an analyst at
Cowen & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Valeant plans to fund the deal with debt and anticipates
using cash generated by Provigil and the potential sale of
Cephalon assets in western  Europe  to pay it down, Pearson said.  To complete the takeover, Valeant will need to raise $6.7
billion in debt, Pearson said. The company had $400.4 million in
cash and equivalents versus $3.6 billion in total debt at the
end of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘The Knock’  Valeant is rated B2H, one level below investment grade,
according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings, which analyze
borrowers based on indebtedness, profitability and other
financial ratios. Adding $6.7 billion to Valeant’s long-term
debt to account for the acquisition would lower its rating by
three levels to B1H, the data show.  The company will also assume responsibility for Cephalon’s
$1.04 billion of total debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Valeant’s $1 billion of 6.875 percent, 8-year notes tumbled
1.69 cents, or 1.7 percent, to 100.25 cents on the dollar
yesterday to yield 6.83 percent, according to Bloomberg prices.
The drop was the largest since the debt was issued in November.  “The knock on Valeant is: can they continue to sustainably
make these kinds of acquisitions, because this is how they’re
going to grow,” said CRT’s Chiang. “Rather than do it via an
R&D pipeline, you’re going to continue to buy companies.”  The valuation that Valeant is offering for Cephalon makes
the acquisition worth the risk, according to Kevin Kedra, an
analyst at Gabelli in Rye, New York.  “There’s room for Valeant to raise their bid and still
have it be very attractive to them,” he said.  Overall, there have been 6,029 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $583.8 billion, a 19 percent increase from
the $488.9 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at +1-212-617-2563 or  rgale5@bloomberg.net . 