-- 
Verizon’s New 4G Is Fast, Just Hold the Phone: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-03-31T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/verizon-s-new-4g-is-fast-just-hold-the-phone-rich-jaroslovsky.html
With all the hype and confusion
about 4G data service, it’s at least clear that there’s a leader
in the field:  Verizon Wireless .  When Verizon began rolling out its new LTE (Long Term
Evolution) network late last year, it delivered tremendous
speeds with a big asterisk: There were few users, and no phones
capable of taking advantage of it. The only devices available
were a couple of laptop-computer adapters.  Now, amid an enormous marketing campaign, Verizon has
delivered the first phone capable of using the new network: the
ThunderBolt from  Taiwan ’s  HTC Corp. (2498)  It confirms the promise of
LTE: The network is good, and wicked fast. Yet I encountered
enough problems with the ThunderBolt itself that you might want
to wait until there’s a bigger selection of 4G phones before
making a decision.  First, let’s talk about the network. Verizon’s 4G service
is currently available in 39 U.S. metropolitan areas, and more
than 60 airports; the company says the network will be in more
than 145 markets by the end of 2011. If you’re lucky enough to
be in one of them, prepare to be impressed.  In two dozen tests in the  San Francisco  Bay area using
Ookla’s  Speedtest  app on the ThunderBolt, I averaged download
speeds of 12.4 megabits per second. How fast is that? Very fast.
The Ookla app itself downloaded in less than five seconds.
YouTube videos started quickly and ran stutter-free.  Shaming Cable  The network was more than 10 times the speed of  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s
3G network, which it has long touted as the nation’s fastest.
And it was almost four times the average speed I got in the same
area using  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s WiMax 4G network. The fastest
speed I registered, 25.5 mbps, would put many a home cable-modem
connection to shame. Moreover, at least for now, Verizon is
offering an unlimited data plan for $30 a month, the same as it
charges for its 3G network.  Any discussion of wireless networks is full of caveats.
Speeds may diminish as more users crowd onto the network.
Performance can vary by location, time of day and other factors.
And competition is coming: AT&T is scheduled to begin rolling
out its own LTE network later this year. (AT&T and Deutsche
Telekom’s T-Mobile, which AT&T has agreed to buy, both currently
market 4G service based on a souped-up version of the older 3G
technology.)  Still, Verizon is fastest in the 4G arena right now. The real
question is whether its sole 4G current phone is one you want.  Quality Questions  From the original Nexus One made for  Google Inc. (GOOG)  -- which
failed for reasons unrelated to the quality of the device -- to
the Droid Incredible, HTC is capable of delivering excellent
phones. Too bad the ThunderBolt isn’t one of them.  There are some good things about the phone, which runs
Google’s Android operating system. The big 4.3-inch screen makes
viewing videos a pleasure, and a convenient kickstand lets you
prop it up on, say, an airline tray table. There’s an 8-
megapixel, dual-flash rear camera for shooting still photos and
high-definition video, and a front-facing camera for making
video calls; the phone comes with 8 gigabytes of internal
storage and a 32 gigabyte microSD card.  The ThunderBolt also comes with an app that turns it into a
mobile Wi-Fi hotspot that can be shared with as many as eight
devices; the feature, for which Verizon normally charges an
extra $20 a month, is free until May 15.  Failed Process  That’s the positive side. On the other hand, I encountered
a number of issues with my test  ThunderBolt . The on-off switch
required an inordinate amount of pressure to operate, and the
phone had difficulty holding a charge; a full battery went dead
within two days while the phone was turned off. I also kept
running into an error message about a failed process called
“com.htc.bg.” whose meaning or cause I was unable to decipher.
HTC’s public-relations firm says the company is aware of the
problem and will push out an over-the-air fix “as soon as
possible.”  A second ThunderBolt had fewer such problems. Still, it
suffered from only so-so battery life; with its wireless
features enabled, the battery usually required a recharge to get
through a full day of use, so you might want to invest in a
spare.  The Thunderbolt is also chunky, weighing in at 6.2 ounces;
by way of comparison, that’s about 29 percent heavier than  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4, which runs on 3G networks. And at $249.99 on a
two-year contract, it’s expensive too.  More LTE phones are on the way for Verizon’s new network,
including devices from Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  and Samsung Electronics Co. Given my
experiences with the ThunderBolt, I’d recommend taking your time
about making a buying decision. It’s the only thing about the
Verizon network that flashes a “Go Slow” sign.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 