-- 
Wal-Mart Considers Buying More Land to Build China Stores

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-31T08:51:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/walmart-looking-to-buy-more-land-to-build-china-stores-ceo-says.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
biggest retailer, may buy more land to build stores in China,
which it predicted will be the world’s largest grocery market by
2014.  Wal-Mart is building its seventh Sam’s Club outlet in the
northeastern port city of Dalian, on the first plot of land it
bought in the country, said Ed Chan, chief executive officer of
the company’s China operations.  “When the location is suitable and site is available and
meet our needs, we’ll go and work with the government directly
to acquire” the land-use rights, Chan said today at an
investors’  conference  broadcast on the company’s website.  China’s soaring real-estate prices are seeing some foreign
retailers switch their business model in the country from
leasing property to acquiring land and building their own
stores.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  this month formed a $280 million joint venture
with HSBC’s Specialist Investments Ltd. and Metro Holdings Ltd.
to develop three shopping malls in China.  Inter Ikea, a mall developer part-owned by  Sweden ’s Ikea
Group, plans to spend about 5 billion yuan ($763 million) to
build a shopping center in Beijing to which the furnishings
chain’s second store in the city will be connected. It is to be
the biggest investment by Ikea and Inter Ikea in the world.  New Home Prices  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 5 that China will
“resolutely” press ahead with controls on the  property market 
to curb speculation. About 40 Chinese cities said they will cap
new  home prices  below annual economic and disposable per-capita
income growth after local governments were ordered to submit
home price control targets by the end of March.  The Chinese government is intensifying efforts to keep
housing affordable after prices gained 19 consecutive months to
December. Spending on affordable housing gained 15 percent last
year to 13.6 billion yuan, according to a report by the  finance
ministry .  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , is speeding up
its store openings in China, where it had 329 outlets at the end
of its fiscal year in January. The China operations generated
$7.5 billion revenue, or 1.8 percent of the company’s $420
billion total, during the year, according to Scott Price, chief
executive officer for  Asia .  Wal-Mart rose 0.2 percent to $52.36 in New York trading
yesterday. The stock has lost 5.8 percent in the past year.  The retailer will increase its penetration in smaller
Chinese cities, Chan said today, with the proportion of stores
located in tier one cities falling to 18 percent in 2014 from 20
percent last year.  China will be the world’s largest grocery market by 2014,
Roland Lawrence, Wal-Mart’s chief financial officer in the
country, said at the same briefing.  Sam’s Club  The company will have Sam’s Club outlets in 17 Chinese
provinces in five years, from four provinces now, said Sandy
Tam, a vice president with Wal-Mart  China . Sam’s Club is a
membership division of Wal-Mart that offers warehouse shopping
services.  Chan reiterated today that the company will close its
purchase of Chinese supermarket operator Trust-Mart in the 2011
fiscal year. The U.S. retailer delayed the closing of the deal
to May this year so that some conditions in the contract could
be fulfilled, it said in December.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  