-- 
What Sex Has to Do With Getting Ahead at Wal-Mart: Ann Woolner

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-03-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/what-sex-has-to-do-with-succeeding-at-wal-mart-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
If you want to know why so few women
hold executive positions at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , here’s the
answer the  Walton Institute  gives out to management trainees:  Women aren’t as aggressive at seeking promotions as men.  Not surprisingly, women at Wal-Mart have a different
explanation: Management stereotypes employees by gender (see
example above).  Women from  Florida  to  Alaska  swear in court papers that
they wanted to build careers at Wal-Mart, worked extra hard,
earned good evaluations and openly sought promotion only to be
bypassed by less-qualified men.  So they filed the world’s largest sex discrimination case
against the world’s largest employer. How’s that for gumption?  Their case has been going well for them, if slowly, since
they filed it 10 years ago. But when it got to the U.S.  Supreme
Court  this week, they ran into trouble. How much trouble’s hard
to say until the court rules, probably in June.  Given the size of Wal-Mart’s labor force, we are talking
about a case that would cover at least 500,000 employees and
possibly more than 1 million. Every current female employee can
become part of the lawsuit that claims company-wide bias against
them, two federal courts in  California  have ruled.  The class is so humongous, and each woman’s situation so
different from another’s, that Wal-Mart says the  Supreme Court 
should disband it and force any aggrieved employee to sue
individually. It’s just too big for a court to manage fairly,
they say.  Judge’s Opinion  And yet, the company’s sheer size, with its gargantuan
 labor force , can’t be allowed to insulate it from claims that
something about its corporate conduct denied hundreds of
thousands of employees the pay they would have gotten but for
their sex.  “If the employer had 500 female employees, I doubt that
any of my colleagues would question the certification of such a
class,” 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Susan Graber,
writing approvingly but separately from the 6-5  majority  that
let the class certification stand last year.  Wal-Mart  says  company-wide policy forbids discrimination,
not encourages it. For a class-action lawsuit to prevail, the
women have to show corporate involvement. But at Wal-Mart, each
manager in its 3,400 stores has near-complete freedom to decide
pay and promotions.  So we’re talking about a huge coincidence, apparently.
Women in almost every job category, in each of Wal-Mart’s 41
regions make less than men in the same jobs, by an average of
$5,000,  according  to the plaintiffs’ statistician. This is true
despite findings that women stay with the company longer than
men and generally have higher performance ratings.  Deli Manager  Gretchen Adams says she was told she was getting top pay at
$26,500, when promoted to deli manager at a Wal-Mart Supercenter
in Stillwater,  Oklahoma . Then she found out that a man she was
training for the same position in Jasper,  Alabama , was getting
$30,000. It happened again when she trained a man in Cape Coral,
Florida, and then in  Las Vegas .  Although similar accusations show up in multiple stores
located around the country, Wal-Mart’s statistician challenged
the plaintiffs’ figures as being too regional to be useful.
Looking on a store-by-store, department-by-department basis, she
found little pay disparity, a method the plaintiffs attack.  As for promotions, the company doesn’t post most openings.
You learn about them if your manager taps you on the shoulder
and suggests you apply. Is it surprising that the mostly male
management prefers mostly male management, especially in a
corporate culture as traditional as Wal-Mart’s?  Through classes, meetings and pep rallies at stores, the
company’s Bentonville, Arkansas,  home office  sends forth its
culture to each and every store.  Scalia’s Confusion  So while the plaintiffs acknowledge decentralized personnel
decisions at Wal-Mart, they say that the company’s distinctive
and tightly controlled corporate culture plays an indirect but
powerful role.  “I’m getting whipsawed here” as to how personnel
decisions are made, Justice  Antonin Scalia  complained to the
lawyer for the women.  “On the one hand, you say the problem is that they were
utterly subjective, and on the other hand you say there is
strong corporate culture that guides all of this.  “Well which is it,” Scalia  demanded .  Does he really not understand this?  Just Maybe  It could be both. You just might have a corporate culture
that allows illegal job discrimination to flourish at the hands
of independent store managers. It could happen if management
trainers defend the paucity of women in higher ranks and tells
trainees women don’t want promotions; if the company sponsors
hunting trips as bonding exercises for executives; if the home
office doesn’t intervene when its mostly male store management
keeps promoting mostly men or ask questions when men are
routinely paid more than better-qualified women doing the same
work.  For all the discussion of whether a company-wide policy or
practice keeps women down, it’s too early in the case to say for
sure. A trial will determine that.  But there’s enough for the Supreme Court to allow the class
action suit to keep going.  If you’ve gotten this far, you’re among the readers to whom
I’d like to say good-bye -- as a columnist. After 10 years
writing commentary for Bloomberg, I’ll break out of the column
format starting next week to write features and investigative
pieces related to the law. Thank you for reading.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  