-- 
Japan's Post-Tsunami Wheat Demand Sustained as Grain Sought for East Coast

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-03-31T07:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/wheat-purchase-by-japan-seen-positive-for-post-tsunami-demand-cbh-says.html
Wheat purchased for shipment to
eastern ports in  Japan , the third-largest buyer of Australian
supplies, signaled exports to the country would be little
affected by this month’s earthquake and tsunami,  CBH Group  said.  “The positive sign is they have tendered for the eastern
side, where most of the damage had happened,” Tom Puddy, head
of grain marketing at CBH, Australia’s largest grains shipper,
said today by phone from Perth. “They have continued to import
and there have been no requests to delay cargoes.”  Japan relies on imports for almost 90 percent of its
milling wheat, buying mostly U.S., Canadian and Australian
supplies through tenders. A 9.0-magnitude earthquake on March 11
triggered a tsunami that engulfed towns, damaged ports and
caused radiation to leak from a nuclear power plant.  “I’m not expecting any major delays or spike in demand
going forward,” Puddy said by phone. Hokkaido, the largest
domestic wheat-producing prefecture, is away from the main
region affected by the tsunami and the radiation leak, he said.  Wheat for May delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade fell
0.2 percent to $7.255 a bushel at 6:18 p.m. Melbourne time,
extending a 1.4 percent slump yesterday.  Any reduced flour-milling capacity in the tsunami-hit area
because of power shortages or damage would be offset by
increased output by producers in other regions, Puddy said.  Production Shift  “They will increase their capacity and redistribute the
end-user products to the areas that are affected by truck or
rail,” he said. The damaged areas had more feed production than
flour milling, he said.  Japan bought 103,125 metric tons of milling wheat from the
U.S. and  Australia  in a March 24 tender for delivery to eastern
and northern ports including Otaru, Hakodate, Kashima, Chiba,
Tokyo, Yokohama and Shimizu, Masafumi Otsuka at the ministry’s
grain-trade division said last week. Miyagi, Iwate and Fukushima
prefectures were the worst-hit by the quake and tsunami.  Demand for wheat for noodles and livestock feed was likely
to be little changed in Japan even as damage caused logistical
challenges in the country, Peter Rowe, manager agribusiness
projects and strategy at Bankwest in Perth said today.  “There’s going to be a short-term blip in terms of the
disruption to supply chains, but none of the fundamentals
change,” he said. Wheat for noodles is a staple food and it’s
unlikely there will be a decline in consumption, he said.  Shipment Pace  Australia  shipped  431,900 tons of wheat to Japan in the
first four months of the marketing year started Oct. 1, while
total exports were 5.6 million tons, according to the Australian
Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics & Sciences. Japan is
the largest grain market for  Western Australia .  Farmers will start planting the next wheat crop from late
April as persistent dry  weather  raises concerns that state
output may be curbed for a second year. Drought cut production
by 42 percent in Western Australia’s last harvest, according to
federal government estimates.  “There’s no real rain on the radar for the next couple of
weeks,” Puddy said. “Farmers are becoming a bit anxious here
and the local feed market is becoming anxious about whether we
will have a normal season.”  Western Australia accounted for 18 percent of national
wheat production last harvest, compared with 37 percent the year
before, according to Abares data.  Australia is forecast to be the fourth-largest wheat
exporter in 2010-2011 after the U.S.,  France  and  Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  