-- 
Why Unemployment Rose So Much, Is Falling So Fast: Alan Krueger

-- B y   A l a n   K r u e g e r
-- 
2011-03-31T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/why-unemployment-rose-so-much-dropped-so-fast-commentary-by-alan-krueger.html
Few things are more puzzling and
disconcerting for an economist, and much of the American public,
right now than the  unemployment rate .  From late 2008 to the end of 2009, the U.S. unemployment
rate jumped by 3.1 percentage points. What was so shocking about
this was that the relationship between unemployment and the drop
in the gross domestic product during the recession would have
predicted only a 1.2 percentage point increase. This was the
largest forecasting error in decades.  Since then, the baffling moves have been in the opposite
direction, with unemployment falling from 9.8 percent in
November to 9.4 percent in December. Since then, the
unemployment rate has dropped even further, to 8.9 percent in
February. We’ll get the March figures tomorrow.  Regardless of whether the rate ticked up or down, the 1.2
percentage point drop in the unemployment rate from its peak in
2009 is a puzzle because economic growth hasn’t been strong
enough to generate such a large decline.  The conventional wisdom now holds that the rate should rise
because many workers who left the  labor force  will come back and
start looking for a job as the economy improves. To be counted
as unemployed, someone must have searched for a job in the past
month.  While many jobless workers have indeed given up on the
search, I’m going on record as a contrarian. I suspect a large
rise in the labor force won’t cause the unemployment rate to
jump. Instead, I suspect we’re going to see a continuing decline
in the unemployment rate, though there surely will be some blips
along the way.  Who Drops Out  Here’s how my thinking goes.  First, there’s history: Once unemployment starts falling it
usually does so for a while. Second, and more important, data
that I computed using Bureau of Labor Statistics figures shows a
remarkable development in the types of workers who have been
leaving the labor force.  Those out of work for a year or longer used to have the
highest labor force dropout rate. Now they have the lowest. In
the last couple of years, the recently unemployed have been more
likely to leave the labor force than the long-term unemployed.  What has been keeping the long-term unemployed in the labor
force? There are a few possible explanations.  First, many people out of work for long periods may have
been induced to stay in the labor force because they are
required to search for a job in order to receive unemployment
insurance benefits. Those benefits were extended to a maximum
period of 99 weeks in 2009.  Unemployment Shift  Second, as a result of the depth of the recession, the
composition of the long-term unemployed might have shifted
toward people who are strongly attached to the workforce -- in
other words, people who are motivated and have more advanced
skills.  Third, some of the short-term unemployed might have left
the labor force to get more training and education to improve
their skills and job prospects. Riding out a recession and weak
recovery in school isn’t a bad strategy.  A recent  study  of 6,000 unemployed workers that I conducted
with Andreas Mueller of  Stockholm University  found that the
longer someone is out of work, the less time they spend
searching for a job, and the more discouraged they become. The
long-term unemployed are still seeking work, but without much
enthusiasm or effort, and probably aren’t exerting much
influence in terms of driving down prices or wages.  Expiring Benefits  Here’s something to think about. At the end of this year,
extended  unemployment benefits  will expire, while other people
will exhaust their benefits during the course of the year. Once
that happens we might start seeing more people give up looking
for work, restoring the pattern where people unemployed the
longest leave the labor force at a higher rate than others.  After all, the prospect of finding a job after looking for
two years is small, and it probably won’t improve much even if
the labor market continues to heal.  So we might well see the labor force shrinking more even as
the measured unemployment rate falls. Nonetheless, we still will
have a serious joblessness problem even as the unemployment rate
falls.  Instead of focusing on the unemployment rate, it may be
better to look at the employment-to-population ratio, or the
share of the population that is employed. This rate isn’t
affected by whether someone is counted as in or out of the labor
force.  Tellingly, the employment-to-population rate has hardly
budged since reaching a low of 58.2 percent in December 2009.
Last month it stood at just 58.4 percent. Even in the  expansion 
from 2002 to 2007 the share of the population employed never
reached the peak of 64.7 percent it attained before the March-
November 2001 recession.  What this indicator tells me is that we weren’t creating
enough jobs long before the recession that began in December
2007. If this pattern holds, even in recovery, it points to a
much deeper and disturbing problem for the  U.S. economy .  (Alan Krueger, professor of economics at  Princeton
University , was assistant secretary of the  U.S. Treasury  for
economic policy. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Alan Krueger at  akrueger@Princeton.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  