-- 
Wisconsin Judge Rules Union Collective Bargaining Law Is Not Yet in Force

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-31T18:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/wisconsin-judge-rules-law-limiting-collective-bargaining-not-yet-in-force.html
A  Wisconsin  judge ruled a law
restricting collective-bargaining rights for state public
workers isn’t yet in effect, six days after a state agency
posted the legislation on the Internet.  State Circuit Court Judge Maryann Sumi in Madison today
issued a revised order expanding the terms of a provisional
order she already revamped once following a court hearing on
March 29. The lawsuit over whether the measure was lawfully
created continues.  “It is hereby declared that 2011 Wisconsin Act 10 has not
been published,” as that term is defined by state law, she said
in her order. Publication of the law is the final step toward
giving it force and effect.  Dane County  District Attorney Ismael Ozanne sued to
invalidate the measure signed by Governor  Scott Walker  on March
11, arguing it was the product of a state open-meetings law
violation. Madison, the state’s capital, is Dane’s county seat.  The law championed by Walker, a first-term Republican,
requires annual recertification votes for union representation
by public employees and makes payment of union dues voluntary.
Firefighters and police officers are exempt.  Sumi issued a temporary restraining order on March 18,
blocking Secretary of State Doug La Follette from formally
publishing the law. Still, the state’s Legislative Reference
Bureau posted the measure on the Internet, after being asked to
do so by Republican Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald.  ‘Our Objections’  Walker’s administration and Republican State Attorney
General J.B. Van Hollen, citing that March 25 Internet posting,
then said the law was in effect.  “Today’s order is issued over our objections and we do not
believe that it is proper,”  Van Hollen ’s spokesman, Bill Cosh,
said in an e-mailed statement. “It is the court’s order and we
understand that the DOA will abide by that order,” he said,
referring to Wisconsin’s Department of Administration, the
agency responsible for implementing Wisconsin’s budget.  “Ultimately, we expect a higher court will need to weigh
in on the fundamental issues of constitutional law and judicial
power that these proceedings have put to the test,” the
attorney general’s spokesman said.  Ozanne didn’t immediately reply to telephone and e-mailed
requests for comment.  “While I believe the budget repair bill was legally
published and is indeed law, given the most recent court action
we will suspend the implementation of it at this time,” DOA
Secretary Mike Huebsch said in a separate statement.  Salary Contributions  Under the legislation, state workers would contribute
5.8 percent of their salaries toward pensions and pay
12.6 percent of their health-insurance costs. The law would
generate $30 million in savings this fiscal year and
$300 million in the next two years, the governor has said.  Democrats and organized labor called the bill an attack on
worker rights. Opposition sparked almost four weeks of protests
around and inside the Capitol.  Ozanne, a Democrat, on March 16 sued Fitzgerald and three
other Republican lawmakers, accusing them of drafting the
challenged legislation as part of a six-person joint Senate-
Assembly conference committee, in violation of the state’s open-
meetings law which ordinarily requires 24 hours’ advance notice.  A hearing on the conversion of Sumi’s March 18 provisional
order to preliminary injunction began on March 29 and is
scheduled to continue tomorrow. State legislators are immune
from suit while they are in session. Ozanne has said he seeks to
preserve the status quo until then.  Law Is on Hold  It was clear from the judge’s initial ruling that the law
is on hold, and the Walker administration would be wise to
follow that order, said Senate Minority Leader  Mark Miller , who
boycotted the proceedings that produced the legislation.  He and state Assemblyman Peter Barca were the two
Democratic lawmakers named to the inter-chambers committee that
crafted the law.  “I guess Judge Sumi had to come out and speak in short,
declarative sentences,” Miller said in a telephone interview
today. “I would be surprised if the administration didn’t
understand it. I guess the next thing may be a baseball bat.”  The prosecutor’s case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne
v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  