-- 
Wisconsin’s Professors Unionize in Defiance of Walker’s Law

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-31T19:22:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/wisconsin-professors-unionize-defy-walker-s-law-on-collective-bargaining.html
Lisa Theo cast her vote yesterday
to join a union that may not be able to negotiate a contract for
her and said, “That felt good.”  Theo, 51, a geography instructor, and her  University of
Wisconsin-Stevens Point  colleagues voted in a two-day election
to be represented by AFT-Wisconsin after the passage of a law
championed by Republican Governor  Scott Walker  that would
eliminate collective bargaining for faculty members.  It was the fourth state campus to vote in favor of
representation since Walker introduced the bill Feb. 11, saying
it is necessary to mend the recession-battered budget. The
measure, which has been challenged in court, touched off weeks
of protests. Professors say Republicans are using the  budget
crisis  to attack education with the union bill, by proposing
funding cuts and by seeking e-mails sent by a UW-Madison
professor who wrote a blog posting and a New York Times opinion
piece opposing Walker.  “We’re going to stand up for our rights, and we’re going
to keep fighting until we get them,” Theo said in an interview.  The Stevens Point faculty voted 283-15 for the union, said
Jennifer Collins, an assistant professor of political science
and member of the committee advocating the federation.  “We’re thrilled,” she said in a telephone interview
today. “It’s a strong message to Governor Walker rejecting what
he’s doing.”  Picking Up Speed  The previous decisions in favor of union representation
were Feb. 24 at UW-La Crosse, March 9 at UW-Stout and March 24
at UW-River Falls,  AFT-Wisconsin  said in press releases. The
winning margins ranged from 86 percent to 90 percent, according
to the union, which is affiliated with the  American Federation
of Teachers . The federation has 17,000 members statewide.  Faculty at UW campuses in Eau Claire and Superior also
voted to join AFT-Wisconsin last year after the Legislature
extended collective bargaining to faculty and academic staff in
June 2009, the union said.  The new law, which would limit collective bargaining for
most government workers, would end it completely for university
faculty.  In Stevens Point, 110 miles (177 kilometers) north of state
capital Madison, work toward unionization began almost a year
ago. It gained momentum after Walker signed the law this month,
said Eric Yonke, 48, a history professor and organizing
committee member.  Standing Ready  The law limits most public employees to bargaining for
wages alone; raises can’t exceed inflation unless voters agree.
The measure requires increased contributions for health-care
coverage and pensions.  In Stevens Point, some faculty members saw their votes as
symbolic support for collective bargaining, Yonke, a professor
for 20 years, said in an interview. Others wanted the union in
place if the law is overturned, he said.  State Circuit Court Judge Maryann Sumi in Madison today
affirmed that the law isn’t in effect as a suit over whether it
was lawfully created proceeds. Dane County District Attorney
Ismael Ozanne sued to invalidate the measure, arguing that
lawmakers who approved it violated the state open-meetings law.  Meanwhile,  Wisconsin  Democrats are seeking to recall eight
Republican senators.  Speaking as One  The union would give the faculty “a unified voice” on
issues including tenure, Todd Huspeni, an assistant professor of
zoology, said in an interview.  Walker’s office issued a statement in response to the union
vote saying the governor “is focused on balancing Wisconsin’s
multibillion budget deficit and ensuring our state has a
business climate that allows the private sector to create
250,000 new jobs by 2015.”  Collins, the politics professor, said Walker “has been a
tremendous union organizer.”  “People feel like this is one way we can stand up and
express our opposition to the direction the governor is taking
in the state,” she said in an interview.  That opposition extends to a public-records request by the
 Wisconsin Republican Party  for e-mails sent by William Cronon, a
history professor at  UW-Madison , she said. The party wants
messages that mention Walker and a variety of other Republican
politicians, as well as state employee unions.  ‘Chilling Effect’  Cronon has been critical of Walker and Republicans on his
 blog  and in a March 21 opinion article in the New York Times,
saying Walker “has provoked a level of divisiveness and bitter
partisan hostility the likes of which have not been seen in this
state since at least the  Vietnam War .”  Cronon didn’t respond to two telephone messages and an e-
mail seeking comment.  William P. Jones, an associate professor at UW-Madison who
studies labor history and government unions, said the request
“was pretty clearly a response to things that Bill had
written” in an effort to intimidate him.  “It can have a chilling effect on other faculty members,”
Jones said in a telephone interview.  The Wisconsin Republican Party doesn’t need to explain its
request, its executive director, Mark Jefferson, said in a
statement.  “Taxpayers have a right to accountable government and a
right to know if public officials are conducting themselves in
an ethical manner,” Jefferson said.  AFT-Wisconsin will continue its work on more campuses, said
Bryan Kennedy, the state union’s president.  “I don’t see the organizing stopping,” Kennedy said in a
March 29 interview in his Madison office. The state is “going
to have pry collective-bargaining rights from our cold, dead
hands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Stevens Point at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  