-- 
World’s Biggest Shipping Lines Still Sailing to Tokyo Bay Ports

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e ,   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   L i z a   L i n
-- 
2011-03-31T09:29:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/world-s-biggest-shipping-lines-still-carrying-cargoes-to-tokyo-bay-ports.html
The world’s biggest oil-tanker
firms, dry bulk carriers and container lines are servicing
Japanese ports, judging there to be no threat to vessels or crew
from radiation leaking from a crippled nuclear plant.  Hapag-Lloyd AG, the world’s fourth-largest container
shipping line, said today it would start calling again at the
Ports of  Tokyo  and Yokohama, meaning that none of the world’s 16
biggest cargo-box carriers are routinely shunning the area. All
vessels are avoiding a 30-kilometer (19 mile) exclusion zone
imposed around the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, about 220
kilometers to the north of Tokyo.  Record-high readings of contaminated sea water were found
March 29 near the plant, which was damaged by a magnitude-9
earthquake and 23-foot tsunami on March 11, Japan’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency said. The  International Maritime
Organization , a United Nations agency, said March 21 there was
no medical basis for restricting shipping and the U.S. Navy said
March 28 any radiation on vessels can be scrubbed off with soap
and water and isn’t harmful to people’s health.  “The bottom line is that people haven’t been avoiding
Tokyo, they’re just being more careful about how they approach
it,” Christian Wetherbee, an analyst at Citigroup Global
Markets Inc. in  New York , said by phone yesterday.  China  Cosco (Holdings) Co.,  Nippon Yusen KK (9101) , Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd.,  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107)  and China Shipping
(Group) Co., the five largest dry bulk shipping companies, said
there are no changes to their usual services. Their fleets can
carry about 85 million metric tons of cargo including coal,  iron
ore  and grains, according to data from Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  Coal Importer  Japan is the world’s largest importer of coal and  Asia ’s
second-largest buyer of iron ore and crude oil after China.  Hamburg Sued, the shipping line owned by  Germany ’s Oetker
family, said yesterday it was canceling a port call to Tokyo
because weather conditions in the area are forecast to change.
The company had sent a ship to Tokyo and Yokohama last week.  “The area seems to be working fine, we are not picking up
any reports of substantial delays because of radiation leaks
further north,” said  Guy Campbell , head of dry bulk shipping at
Clarkson in London.  Mitsui, Frontline Ltd.,  Teekay Corp. (TK) , Nippon Yusen and NITC
Co., the world’s five largest oil-tanker companies, also said
they will still sail to Japan. Their combined fleets can carry
enough oil to supply the country for about 100 days.  “It’s not appropriate to stay away” from Japan, said Jack Edlow, president of Washington-based Edlow International Co., a
company that ships radioactive materials. The iodine 131 in sea
water has a half-life of eight days and will “go away pretty
fast,” he said.  Merchant Fleet  The Baltic and International Maritime Council, representing
two-thirds of the world’s merchant fleet, said March 28 it had
not been informed that any shipping line was avoiding Japan
because of the threat of radiation.  Japan  has more than 200
commercial ports.  “Until now there has been no need to issue an advisory for
Tokyo harbor,” Denis Flory, safety director for the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , said in Vienna yesterday.
Crews should monitor internal air circulation and change filters
after leaving the area, he said.  The Liberian Registry, which represents about 11 percent of
the world’s merchant fleet, lifted its recommendation that ships
stay 100 nautical miles away from a section of Japan’s east
coast. Captains should now follow the guidance of the Japanese
government, the registry said in a March 25 notice.  The U.S. Coast Guard advised all ships to stay 50 miles
away from the Fukushima plant, the U.S. Department of
Transportation said in a notice March 18.  Shipping lines sailing into nuclear zones are not insured
if their crew or vessels are affected by radiation, according to
information on the website of the U.K. P&I Club, which insures a
fleet drawn from more than 50 nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in  Singapore  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 