-- 
Boeing Got at Least $5.3 Billion in Illegal Aid, WTO Rules

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-03-31T16:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/wto-says-u-s-gave-at-least-5-3-billion-illegal-aid-to-boeing.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  received at least $5.3
billion in illegal U.S. subsidies that gave it an unfair
advantage over rival Airbus SAS, the  World Trade Organization 
ruled, backing a European Union complaint.  WTO judges in Geneva confirmed previously confidential
findings that the U.S. provided aid to Chicago-based Boeing
through federal research grants and state support in developing
aircraft including the 787 Dreamliner. Airbus parent European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. has said the aid to Boeing cost
it $45 billion in lost sales from 2002 to 2006.  “This report shows Boeing has received huge subsidies in
the past and continues to receive significant subsidies,” EU
Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said in a statement in
Brussels. “These subsidies have resulted in substantial harm to
EU interests, causing Airbus to lose sales, depress its aircraft
prices and unfairly lose market share to Boeing.”  Today’s 783-page  panel report , which comes nine months
after the WTO concluded Airbus had received billions of euros in
low-interest government loans from European governments, is the
latest ruling in the six-year-old dispute between the world’s
two largest commercial planemakers and may encourage the U.S.
and the EU to negotiate a settlement.  U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said judges rejected
most of the EU’s arguments and called today’s decision a
“vindication” of the U.S. position that illegal European aid
to Airbus “dwarfs” illegal U.S. subsidies to Boeing.  EU Argument  The EU asserted that Boeing benefited from $10.4 billion in
unfair assistance from both  NASA  and the U.S. Defense Department
from 1989 to 2006. The 27-nation bloc also claimed another $8.7
billion illegal aid to Boeing by states including Washington,
Kansas and  Illinois .  Judges found that Boeing got at least $5.3 billion in
illegal subsidies between 1989 and 2006 and was slated to get $3
billion to $4 billion in incompatible future aid based on
Washington state tax measures.  This includes NASA research and development programs worth
$2.6 billion in subsidies between 1989 and 2006,  Department of
Defense  programs with aid as high as $1.2 billion in the same
period, three Washington state tax breaks worth up to $4 billion
from 2006-2024 and foreign sales corporation export subsidies
valued at $2.2 billion until 2006.  “Boeing can no longer hide they received massive illegal
subsidies that have severely harmed Airbus,” said Maggie Bergsma, a spokeswoman for Airbus in  Washington  D.C. “Despite
years of denial and attempts to minimize the research grants and
state subsidies it receives, the report shows the contrary.”  $2.7 Billion  The “only recommendation” the WTO panel made to the U.S.
was to withdraw programs and tax measures worth $2.7 billion,
Kirk told journalists in Washington today. The June panel report
against the EU involved financing and other measures worth $20
billion, he said.  In their June 30 public decision backing the U.S., WTO
judges found that Airbus benefited from the support of European
governments, with subsidies for the A380 topping the list of
violations. Toulouse, France-based Airbus overtook Boeing in the
market for commercial aircraft in 2003.  Compared with the ruling over Airbus aid, today’s panel
report “reveals a market distorted by Airbus’ practices, with
illegal launch aid being the key discriminator,” Michael Luttig, Boeing executive vice president and general counsel,
said in a statement. Boeing wants its bigger rival to reimburse
the illegal portion of so-called launch aid until repayments
reach what they would have been had the loans been made at
market rates.  Negotiated Settlement  The EU had sought to prevent the cases from going to the
WTO, calling instead for a negotiated solution that it’s
continued to recommend. The U.S. has expressed a willingness to
negotiate a settlement provided the EU first agrees to scrap
launch aid.  The dual cases have become more important as rivals from
 China ,  Canada  and  Brazil  emerge and the rulings may set
industry-defining guidelines for government support in the $70
billion civil-aviation industry.  The U.S. and  Europe  filed counter-cases at the WTO in 2004
after the administration of former President  George W. Bush 
unilaterally walked out of a 1992 aircraft-aid accord with the
EU. The dispute is the largest ever before the WTO, which can
authorize retaliatory sanctions against countries that fail to
comply with its rulings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  