-- 
TMX Group Can ‘Do Better’ Than LSE in Deal, Toronto-Dominion’s Clark Says

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-03-31T20:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/tmx-group-can-do-better-than-lse-in-deal-toronto-dominion-s-clark-says.html
TMX Group Inc. (X) , parent company of
the Toronto Stock Exchange, can “do better” than its proposed
sale to  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) 
Chief Executive Officer Edmund Clark said.  “I think the TMX is a great institution. The proponents of
this deal say it’s a failing institution,” Clark told reporters
following the bank’s annual meeting today in Victoria, British
Columbia. “We think we can do better.”  Canadian financial-services companies have been debating
the merits of the proposed C$3.1 billion ($3.2 billion) all-
stock transaction. Clark and other bankers have said Toronto-
based TMX has been a large part of the country’s success in
leading resource and oil and gas transactions and doesn’t need
to be taken over.  “The irony here is that I think (TMX CEO Thomas Kloet) has
done a phenomenal job,” Clark said. “We just think you can go
further with it.”  Toronto-Dominion, along with Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce,  National Bank of Canada , Casgrain & Co. and AltaCorp
Capital Inc., signed a letter March 9 voicing opposition to
London Stock Exchange’s proposed takeover of TMX Group, parent
of the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal, respectively the
country’s biggest and fourth-biggest banks, are in favor of the
transaction. Bank of Nova Scotia, the No. 3 bank, supports the
deal as long as governance and Canada’s national interests are
protected.  Debate  “If you looked at all six bank CEOs, every one of them
wants to have a stronger Canada, a better Canada, with strong
capital markets,” said Clark. “To me, we should be having a
respectful debate as to what the right answer for  Canada  is.”  Clark told investors at the meeting that Black Swan-type
events that can’t be predicted are among the things that keep
him “awake at night”.  “I think all of us in the banking industry should remain
cautious here,” Clark told reporters. “I think it would be a
shame if we started to go back down the paths that we did before
and people started extending out the risk curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 