-- 
Yale to Open College in Singapore to Bring Liberal Arts to Asia

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-03-31T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/yale-to-open-college-in-singapore-to-bring-liberal-arts-to-asia.html
Yale University  will open a college
in Singapore, the first overseas campus in the institution’s
300-year history, to bring liberal arts education to  Asia .  The school, which begins operation in 2013, will have about
1,000 students and be jointly administered by Yale and the
 National University  of Singapore, according to a statement
released today by Yale, based in New Haven, Connecticut, and
NUS. Yale-NUS College will grant bachelor’s degrees conferred by
NUS, which will bear the costs of running the institution, the
universities said.  Yale will be the latest U.S. college to teach students in
Asia.  Duke University , based in Durham, North Carolina, runs a
medical school in Singapore with NUS and is planning a campus in
Kunshan,  China , while New York University announced March 28 it
will open a school in  Shanghai . The Yale-NUS College will be
Singapore’s first liberal arts institution and introduces the
Western tradition of broad-based studies into an education
system where students focus on one discipline, according to the
statement.  “It’s a tremendous opportunity for Yale,” said its
president, Richard C. Levin, in a telephone interview yesterday
before the news was released. “We will have an opportunity to
influence the shape of higher education for a region that
constitutes half of the world’s population.”  Among its ventures in Asia, Yale operates a plant genetics
research center in Beijing with  Peking University  and an
exchange program for professors with the University of Tokyo.  Planning Effort  Yale’s administration was first approached by NUS two years
ago, Levin said. The universities signed a memorandum of
understanding in September and Yale’s board voted to approve the
deal at its February meeting, he said.  Yale’s administrators are convinced that academic freedom
will be protected, Levin said.  Singapore ’s government restricts
public speech, stifles dissent and controls information in the
press, according to Human Rights Watch, a New York-based
nonprofit organization.  “We feel very comfortable,” Levin said. “We’ve done a lot
of due diligence. There’s a widespread sense that faculty in
Singapore is free to teach what they want to teach and publish
what they want to publish.”  An education that encourages critical thinking will be
increasingly important for Singapore students to compete
globally, said  Tan Chorh Chuan , president of NUS.  “More and more students are going to realize the value of
a liberal arts education,” Tan said in a phone interview.  Diversifying Singapore’s system of higher education to
retain the country’s best students has been a goal of its
government since at least 2008, when the Ministry of Education
 announced  it would seek to open a liberal arts college.  Yale, a member of the  Ivy League  of eight private U.S.
universities, was founded in 1701.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  