-- 
Yankees Beat Tigers on Baseball’s Opening Day Behind Teixeira, Granderson

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/yankees-beat-tigers-6-3-as-teixeira-granderson-hit-homers-on-opening-day.html
Curtis Granderson  said the  New York
Yankees ’ 6-3 win over the Detroit Tigers on the opening day of
the Major League Baseball season went as well as expected,
apart from some chilly March weather.  The Yankees got home runs from Granderson and Mark Teixeira, six solid innings from starting pitcher CC Sabathia
and three hitless innings from relievers Joba Chamberlain,
Rafael Soriano and Mariano Rivera yesterday at Yankee Stadium.  Granderson’s seventh-inning homer snapped a 3-3 tie for
the Yankees, who were playing a home game in March for the
first time. The game-time temperature on a windy, overcast
afternoon in the Bronx hovered around 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4
Celsius).  “It was great, except for the weather,” said Granderson,
whose status for the game was in question because of a strained
oblique muscle. “You’re excited that the season is pushed up,
but at the same time its March 31 and you know how the weather
can be here in the northeast. We made it through and we got a
victory, which was the best thing.”  It was one of six games yesterday, as the major league
season began on a Thursday for the first time in 35 years.  Atlanta’s Jason Heyward hit the first home run of the
season to lift the Braves to a 2-0 win over the  Washington
Nationals . Ramon Hernandez hit a three-run homer with two outs
in the bottom of the ninth inning as the  Cincinnati Reds 
rallied for a 7-6 win over the Milwaukee Brewers.  Giants Lose  The  World Series  champion  San Francisco Giants  opened
their season with a 2-1 loss at the  Los Angeles Dodgers .  The  San Diego Padres  scored two runs in the 11th inning to
win 5-3 at the  St. Louis Cardinals  and the Los Angeles Angels
won 4-2 at the Kansas City Royals.  The Yankees scored three runs in the seventh and eighth
innings yesterday to improve their record to 35-14-1 all-time
in opening day games at home.  After the Tigers took a 1-0 second-inning lead, Teixeira
hit a three-run homer into the second deck in right field in
the third to put the Yankees up 3-1. The Yankees’ first baseman
had a team-leading 33 homers last season even though he had a
.136 batting average in April.  The Tigers rallied to tie on a run-scoring single by
Brandon Inge in the fourth inning and a sacrifice fly in the
fifth by Miguel Cabrera. Both runs were off Sabathia, who
became the first Yankee pitcher to make three straight Opening
Day starts since Roger Clemens from 2001 to 2003.  Fourth Start  Justin Verlander made his fourth straight Opening Day
start for  Detroit  -- the Tigers’ longest streak since Jack
Morris pitched 11 straight openers from 1980 to 1990 -- and
gave up three runs over six innings.  Verlander was replaced in the seventh by former Yankees
reliever Phil Coke, who surrendered Granderson’s go-ahead homer
into the second deck in right field. It was Granderson’s third
straight Opening Day homer.  Derek Jeter  added a sacrifice fly in the inning and Nick Swisher had a run-scoring single in the eighth.  Chamberlain got the win by pitching a scoreless seventh
inning for the Yankees, while Soriano, who signed a three-year,
$35 million contract in the offseason, threw a perfect eighth
inning. Rivera closed out the Tigers in the ninth for the save.  “It was exactly how you would have drawn it up,” Yankees
manager Joe Girardi said.  The Yankees are beginning the season with a seven-game
homestand, comprising three games against the Tigers and four
against the  Minnesota Twins .  New York , which next hosts Detroit
on April 2, is at home for 13 of its first 16 games this
season. The Yankees have the best home record in the majors
since opening their new stadium in 2009, at 110-53.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at Yankee Stadium in New York at 
8797 or  matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  