-- 
Ethiopian Leader Criticizes Hydropower Opponents Amid Plans for Expansion

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-31T11:33:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/hydropower-opponents-compared-to-criminals-by-ethiopian-premier-meles.html
Ethiopian Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi  said opponents of hydropower projects in poor countries
are “bordering on the criminal,” amid plans in his country to
boost output from the energy source as much as five-fold.  “We all agree that we have to fight and conquer poverty,”
Meles said at a conference today in Addis Ababa, the capital.
“To do that, we have to make massive investments in
infrastructure, including power generation.”  Ethiopia has a hydropower potential of 45,000 megawatts,
the second-largest in  Africa  after the Democratic Republic of
Congo, according to the  World Bank . Under a five-year plan, the
country plans to boost power generation to as much as 10,000
megawatts and expand electricity coverage to 75 percent of the
population from 41 percent now.  Meles’s government has faced criticism from conservation
groups including London-based  Survival International  and
International Rivers, based in  California , for ignoring
environmental concerns over the under-construction 1,870-
megawatt Gibe III project. International Rivers said the project
may be “one of Africa’s worst development disasters” because of
the harm it may cause people in the south of the country.  The views of Western critics are “ironic” as Ethiopian
facilities are “infinitely more environmentally and socially
responsible than the projects in their countries, past and
present,” Meles said. At stake in the debate is the “future of
millions of people in Ethiopia and elsewhere on the continent,”
he said.  African Investment  Africa needs to invest more than $90 billion a year to
address its infrastructure gap, according to the World Bank.  “Hydropower will have to be at the center of Africa’s
energy future,” Meles said.  Yesterday, Ethiopian Water and Energy Minister Alemayehu Tegenu announced plans to build a hydropower plant in the Nile
River basin that will generate 5,250 megawatts of electricity.  The facility, known as the Grand Millennium Dam of
 Ethiopia , will be built at a cost of 80 billion birr ($4.76
billion) and be situated in the Benishangul-Gumuz region near
the border with  Sudan , Alemayehu said. Some of the power may be
exported to neighboring Sudan and  Egypt , he said.  Egyptian politicians who oppose such projects in the Nile
basin that “have beneficial impacts on all,” are as “irrational”
as those in rich countries who oppose the plans on environmental
grounds, Meles said.  Africa’s second-most populous nation has suffered frequent
power outages even as three  power plants  came online in the past
two years. Demand for power is expected to increase by as much
as 32 percent annually, according to Ethiopian Electric Power
Corp., or EEPCo, the state-owned monopoly provider.  The country is also working to achieve zero net carbon
emissions by 2025, which will be achieved partly by reforesting
15 million hectares (37.1 million acres) of land, Meles said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  