-- 
Yen Drops for Seventh Day, Franc Depreciates as Data Seen Backing Recovery

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-04-01T12:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/yen-falls-a-seventh-day-before-reports-on-u-s-jobs-french-manufacturing.html
The yen headed for its longest
losing streak against the dollar since July 2005 and the Swiss
franc declined as speculation global growth is proving robust
boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  Japan ’s currency dropped to a 10-month low against the euro
on speculation the Bank of Japan will keep  interest rates  on
hold as it deals with the impact of the nation’s March 11
earthquake while the  European Central Bank  begins a round of
increases. South Korea’s won had its biggest weekly gain this
year after a gauge of Chinese manufacturing accelerated and
before a report that economists said will show U.S. employers
added jobs last month.  “In general, world economic growth is quite strong,” said
 Lutz Karpowitz , a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “The negative impacts on Japan’s debt levels from
the earthquake are beginning to hit the yen.”  The yen depreciated 0.7 percent, a seventh straight
decline, to 83.69 per dollar as of 7:25 a.m. in  New York , after
reaching 83.74, the weakest since Feb. 17. Japan’s currency slid
0.7 percent versus the euro to 118.45, after touching 118.67,
the least since May 13. The euro traded at $1.4155 from $1.4158.  The yen weakened against all 16 of its major counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. It extended its drop against the dollar
into a second quarter after losing 2.4 percent in the three
months through yesterday, the sharpest quarterly slide since the
end of 2009. The currency strengthened to a record 76.25 per
dollar on March 17, prompting the Group of Seven nations to
jointly intervene in foreign-exchange markets the next day for
the first time in more than a decade.  Tankan Survey  Large Japanese manufacturers forecast on average that the
yen will trade at  84.20  per dollar in the year through March
2012, according to the  Bank of Japan ’s Tankan survey released
today. Almost three quarters of the responses to the survey came
by March 11, the day the magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing
tsunami struck the country.  U.S. employment rose for a sixth month, increasing by
190,000 in March, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the Labor Department report today.  China ’s
Purchasing Managers’ Index increased to 53.4 in March from 52.2
in February, the first rise in four months.  The Dollar Index increased for the first time in three
days, adding 0.3 percent. The dollar traded above its 200-day
moving average against the yen for the first time since June.  ‘Hawkish’ Market  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker
said yesterday the central bank should review whether to reduce
its planned purchase of $600 billion in Treasuries, a program
known as quantitative easing, because of improving economic
data. New York Fed President  William Dudley , Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  and Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  are scheduled to speak today.  “I suspect the market will get quite hawkish on the Fed,”
before the meeting of policy makers on April 27, said Geoff Kendrick, head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  London . “The euro is getting closer to a near-
term top for now” against the dollar, he said.  The euro snapped a three day run of advances against the
dollar today, after strengthening 5.8 percent last quarter.  The shared currency was set for a third weekly advance
against the yen after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled
on March 3 that he may raise rates as soon as this month.  Euro, Won  The central bank will increase its main refinancing rate by
25 basis points to 1.25 percent on April 7, all but one of 50
economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate.  “We are broadly constructive on the euro this year,
especially as Trichet has now primed the markets for imminent
interest-rate hikes,” Morgan Stanley analysts Tim Davis and
Calvin Tse wrote in a research note yesterday. “Rate
differentials should increasingly play in the euro’s favor.”  The euro has risen 3.3 percent against the yen in the past
five days, after adding 8.5 percent in the quarter that ended
yesterday.  Ireland said yesterday it won’t force losses on senior
bondholders, even after revealing that it may need to inject 24
billion euros into the financial system.  The Swiss franc extended a decline after the SVME
Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 59.3 for March from 63.5 in
February when adjusted for seasonal swings, according to Zurich-
based Credit Suisse Group AG. That’s the lowest since February
2010. Economists forecast a drop to 62.5, the median of seven
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Franc Falls  The franc depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.3053 per euro. It
was lower against all its 16 most-traded counterparts apart from
the yen, including a 0.4 percent decline versus the dollar to
92.21 centimes. The franc’s slide against the euro took it to
the weakest level since Feb. 16.  The South Korean won appreciated as the improved outlook
for the global economy boosted confidence in the country’s
assets. Foreign investors increased their holdings of Korean
stocks for a 12th day, the longest run of net purchases this
year, as the Kospi Index of the nation’s shares climbed 3.4
percent during the period.  “Global stocks, including  South Korea ’s, have been
performing well on expectations for an economic improvement,”
said Ha Jun Woo, a currency dealer at Daegu Bank in  Seoul .
“Stock inflows and the  trade surplus  are supporting the won.”  The won rose to 1,091.20 per dollar from 1,096.93, for a
2.1 percent gain for this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 