-- 
Euro Strengthens as Inflation Accelerates; Fed Official Suggests Rate Move

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-03-31T21:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/yen-gains-versus-dollar-on-speculation-japanese-companies-bought-currency.html
The euro strengthened against the
dollar and the yen after euro-region inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in March, bolstering the case for the  European
Central Bank  to raise interest rates next week.  The 17-nation currency pared gains after comments from a
Federal Reserve official fueled speculation about the timing of
potential U.S. interest rate increases. The dollar weakened as
fewer Americans filed jobless benefits applications last week
before the March employment report tomorrow. Norway’s krone rose
to a two- and one-half-year high against the dollar as  oil
prices  advanced and retail sales exceeded forecasts.  “As risk is being put back on, the euro is benefitting as
the market looks forward to interest-rate expectation,
regardless of what their economy is doing, the Irish  stress test 
or any banking issues,” said  Brian Taylor , chief currency
trader a Manufacturers & Traders Trust in Buffalo,  New York .
“Not only is the euro resilient against the dollar, it’s
kicking everyone’s tail.”  The euro climbed 0.2 percent against the dollar to $1.4158
as of 5:03 p.m. in New York, after gaining as much as 0.8
percent. It appreciated 0.5 percent to 117.69 yen and reached
117.90 yen.  Japan ’s currency fell 0.3 percent to 83.15 per dollar. It
earlier depreciated to 83.22, the weakest since March 11, when
Japan was struck by its biggest recorded earthquake.  Fed Update  Narayana Kocherlakota , president of the Fed Bank of
 Minneapolis , said the federal-funds rate target may need to rise
75 basis points by late 2011, CNBC reported, citing the Wall
Street Journal.  “That is way out of expectations, certainly for the
market,” said Jon Wetreich, a currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “I would say the market is
expecting rate increases in first quarter of 2012.”  The euro had remained higher earlier against most its major
counterparts after Ireland announced that four of the country’s
banks need to raise 24 billion euros ($34 billion) of additional
capital. Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Mike Aynsley  said he’s “not sure we’ll get details” of plans for a
funding facility for Irish banks after results of the stress
tests.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.6
percent in March from 2.4 percent in February, European Union
estimates showed today. That’s the fastest pace since October
2008, and exceeds the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a fourth month.
Economists had forecast inflation to hold steady.  ‘Degree of Confidence’  “There’s a degree of confidence in the marketplace that
the sovereign risk related problems in the periphery will not
lead to contagion effects within the core, particularly via
financial sector losses,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New
York.  The euro is the second-best performer, after the Swedish
krona, in the past quarter, according to Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes, which tracks nine-developed market currencies.
It has gained 3.6 percent against nations like the U.S.,  Canada 
and Britain.  “Most of the news has been reasonably well discounted,”
said Lane Newman, director of foreign exchange at ING Groep NV
in New York. “It’s difficult to say whether that’s going to
continue given the overhang of bad news.”  Trichet Stand  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on March 3 that
policy makers may raise  interest rates  at their April 7 meeting.
The implied yield on the three-month Euribor contract expiring
in December rose three basis points to 2.09 percent today, as
investors added to bets that rates will rise.  U.S. jobless claims fell by 6,000 to 388,000 in the week
ended March 26, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Nonfarm payroll are forecast to increase by 190,000
in March, according to the median estimate of 83 economists. The
 unemployment rate  is projected to remain at 8.9 percent.  The Dollar Index, which InterContinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.1 percent to 76.054. It approached a
15-month low of 75.249 reached on March 22 and headed for a 3.8
percent decline this quarter. The gauge is weighted 57.6 percent
to moves in the euro.  Krone Strength  The Norwegian krone was the best performer against the
dollar today, reaching a two and a half year high after retail
sales in February were greater than expected. The krone
appreciated 0.7 percent to 5.53995 per dollar after reaching
5.51028, the strongest since September 2008.  Crude oil rose 2.3 percent to $106.62 a barrel in New York.
 Norway , the world’s sixth-largest oil exporter.  Norges Bank, which has kept its benchmark rate at 2 percent
since May last year, signaled this month it may start raising
borrowing costs earlier than previously indicated to quell a
credit-driven surge in property prices.  The yen headed for an 7.8 percent quarterly loss against
the euro and 2.5 percent decline versus the dollar as Japan  sold 
692.5 billion yen ($8.4 billion) from Feb. 25 to March 29, the
Ministry of Finance said in  Tokyo  today.  The Japanese currency climbed to a record 76.25 per dollar
on March 17, prompting the Group of Seven nations to jointly
intervene in foreign-exchange markets the next day for the first
time in more than a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  