-- 
Myriad, Microsoft, Franklin Mint: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-03-31T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/myriad-microsoft-vpi-franklin-mint-intellectual-property.html
A legal dispute over  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s patents for a  breast cancer  test may decide what
type of genetic research is eligible for  intellectual property 
protection in the U.S.  The test compares a patient’s DNA to a known genetic
sequence to determine the odds of breast cancer developing. A
federal judge said last year gene sequences “are not markedly
different” from what occurs in nature and can’t be patented.
The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington,
specializing in patent law, plans to hear arguments April 4.  Patents limit the right to use gene sequences, reducing the
number of scientists who can discover causes or treatments of
inherited diseases, according to the American Civil Liberties
Union, which filed the suit. The  Washington  trade group for
makers of biotechnology drugs counters that patents create an
economic incentive to develop new products.  “The entire biotechnology industry is watching this
case,” said John Iwanicki, an attorney with Banner & Witcoff in
Boston who specializes in helping biotechnology companies obtain
patents. “They have spent years and invested multibillions of
dollars in isolated gene sequences and that may all go away.
Nobody is going to spend the time to find an isolated gene
sequence unless it has a commercial purpose and function.”  U.S. District Court Judge Robert Sweet in  New York 
invalidated elements of seven patents held by Salt Lake City-
based Myriad last year. The appeals court will decide whether
the identification of a genetic sequence, separated from the
strand of DNA, is sufficiently inventive to qualify for patent
protection.  Acting Solicitor General Neal Katyal said in a court filing
he plans to argue that some isolated DNA shouldn’t be eligible
for a patent.  It may be the first time the solicitor general, the
nation’s top courtroom lawyer, argues in the Federal Circuit
since its creation in 1982, said Don Dunner of Finnegan
Henderson in Washington, a patent lawyer who specializes in
cases before the court.  In a court filing, the  Justice Department  said “the
chemical structure of native human genes is a product of nature,
and is no less a product of nature when that structure is
‘isolated’ from its natural environment than are cotton fibers
that have been separated from cotton seeds or coal that has been
extracted from the earth.”  A ruling limiting gene patents would hurt companies such as
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Metabolix Inc. (MBLX) , which makes
biodegradable plastic without petroleum using a genetically
modified microbe, and universities studying genes to find new
treatments, he said. Metabolix didn’t comment.  Myriad charges as much as $3,340 for each breast cancer
test covered by the patent and Medicaid programs in 32 states
cover the costs, with another two planning to add it, according
to Rebecca Chambers, a Myriad spokeswoman. Medicaid programs in
16 states and the  District of Columbia  don’t pay for the tests,
she said.  The company has a financial assistance program for low-
income and uninsured patients.  DNA, a chemical compound that carries genetic information
such as skin tone, eye color and sex, influences development of
conditions such as obesity, diabetes and bipolar disorder. The
information is encoded on segments of DNA called genes, which
are responsible for inherited traits and are in turn made up of
thousands of nucleotides in different sequences.  A 2005 study reported in the journal Science estimated that
20 percent of known genes are covered by patents. The patent
office, which has declined to comment publicly on the Myriad
case, still processes patent applications under guidelines it
established a decade ago.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad,
10-1406, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Association for Molecular
Pathology v. U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, 09cv4515, U.S.
District Court for the District of New York.  RIM Joins HTC, Samsung in Signing License Agreement With IV  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the Canadian maker of the
BlackBerry smartphone, has joined Samsung Electronics Co. and
 HTC Corp. (2498)  in taking a license to the patent portfolio owned by
Intellectual Ventures.  According to IV spokeswoman Kasey Hakmagyi, these are the
only three makers of mobile devices who have taken licenses to
the Bellevue, Washington-based company’s 30,000 IP assets.  The licenses could provide the three companies with
defensive shields against future patent-infringement suits.
Already makers of mobile devices are embroiled in a number of
patent-infringement cases in federal court and before a
government agency that has the power to exclude infringing
products.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said March 25 that
it would review findings that  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and RIM’s
BlackBerry didn’t violate a patent belonging to Rochester, New
York’s  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  Samsung of Gyeonggi,  Korea , already
settled with Kodak  a dispute over the same patent. Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based HTC, which is the target of a patent suit filed by
Apple in March 2010, signed a license agreement with Redmond,
Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in April 2010.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Microsoft, Apple Bring in Language Experts in ‘ App Store ’ Fight  Microsoft Corp. and Apple Inc. have turned to dueling
linguistics experts in their battle over Apple’s attempt to
register “App Store” as a trademark.  In Microsoft’s corner is  Ronald R. Butters , the retired
head of Duke University’s English department and linguistics
program.  Apple has brought on board  Robert A. Leonard , a professor
of linguistics at Hofstra University. His area of specialization
is forensic linguistics, according to his university website.  In a Feb. 28 filing to the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Leonard -- who said he’s been paid $350 an hour for his
services -- said his research indicated that the predominant use
of the term “app store” is as a proper noun referring to
Apple’s online marketplace for applications.  Generic use of “app store” represents “a minority of the
total uses of that term,” he said in his report. He also noted
that there were “very few hits” on that term before Cupertino,
California-based Apple announced the opening of its app store in
March 2008.  Leonard also noted that Apple’s competitors may have used
either “app” or “store” in their names for similar online
marketplace, “the fact that they avoided using the combined
phrase ‘App Store’ is further recognition that App Store has
achieved brand significance with consumers.”  In a 76-page report filed March 29, Butters, who said he’s
paid $400 an hour for his research, criticized Leonard’s
findings. He said Leonard gave no indication of his basis for
selecting items as generic or non generic, “thus the
reliability of his conclusions are otherwise open to
considerable doubt.”  He contends that “it is clear from standard linguistic
semantic and lexicographical analysis that the compound noun app
store means simply ‘store at which apps are offered for sale.’”  Apple applied to register the term as a trademark July 7,
2008, according to the patent office database. Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft filed documents in opposition to the
registration July 6, 2010.  ‘Hokie’ Mark Fraudulently Obtained, Real Estate Company Claims  A  Virginia  real estate brokerage that was sued for
trademark infringement by  Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University  has responded by claiming the school obtained
the disputed mark fraudulently.  Hokie Real Estate Inc. , of Blacksburg, Virginia, was sued
for infringement in federal court in Roanoke, Virginia, on Oct.
18.  The school had objected to the use of “Hokie,” which it
claimed it had used since the 1890s. The word is “a made-up
word, a coined term with no meaning,” the school said in its
court papers.  After a 2007 shooting in which 31 students and faculty
members died, the phrase “we are all hokies” was used  to show
solidarity with the university .  The real estate company said the school’s application to
register the term was fraudulent in its claim that the term had
been in use in the 19th century. According to its research, the
real estate company said the first documented use of the term
comes much later than the school claimed.  It asked the court to order the patent office to cancel the
school’s “Hokie” registration, and the destruction of all
items marked with the term. Additionally, it asked for an award
of the school’s profits realized from the sale of “Hokies”
items, and for awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The real estate company also asked that the infringement
case brought by the school be dismissed.  Virginia Tech is represented by  John H. Thomas  of  Thomas &
Karceski PC  of Richmond, Virginia. Hokie Real Estate is
represented by  Keith Finch ,  Brian Scott Wheeler , and  James
Robert Creekmore  of the  Creekmore Law Firm PC  of Daleville,
Virginia.  The case is Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University v. Hokie Real Estate Inc., 7:10-cv-00466-GEC, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Virginia (Roanoke).  Franklin Mint, Victorious in Diana Case, to Make Kate Bride Doll  Franklin Mint LLC , the closely held maker of collectible
items that won a trademark suit in collection with a doll
depicting  Princess Diana , will be offering a doll showing Prince
William’s bride in her wedding dress.  According to the Exton, Pennsylvania-based company’s
website,  the doll  will feature an exact copy of Catherine
Middleton’s dress and hairstyle. It will cost $295 and be
shipped sometime in the summer of 2011.  Franklin Mint is already selling a 16” doll dressed like
Middleton on the day her engagement to Prince William was
announced. That doll sells for $195.  Princess Diana’s memorial fund sued Franklin Mint in
federal court in  Los Angeles  in May 1998 for selling
unauthorized mementos of the princess, who died in a car crash
in Paris in 1997. The charity lost the case and was sued for
malicious prosecution by the mint, which is presently selling a
 doll  depicting Princess Diana in the dress she wore to her 1981
wedding for $295.  Tusker Mattresses Sued Over Use of Tuskys Mark in Uganda  Tusker Mattresses Ltd. , a Kenyan supermarket chain, was
sued for trademark infringement by a Uganda company that sells
arts and crafts, Uganda’s New Vision news website  reported .  Tuskys , which specialized in indigenous crafts, registered
the mark in Uganda for arts and crafts in 2008, according to New
Vision.  The company objects to the supermarket chain’s use of the
name “Tuskys” for its new stores in Uganda, according to the
news website.  The craft store is seeking money damages for having been
denied exclusive use of its trademark, New Vision reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  BC Tells Students Use of Wireless Router Infringes Copyrights  Boston  College’s Information Technologies Services has told
students that the use of a wireless router is a “common example
of copyright infringement.”  According to the  guidelines  posted on the service’s
website, wireless routers can give others the opportunity to
share illegal material, “giving the appearance that you are the
guilty party.”  Under the 2008 Higher Education Opportunity Act,
universities are required to make  an annual disclosure  to
students about campus policies related to copyright law. The
schools also must  implement a plan  to combat unauthorized
distribution of copyrighted content.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  