-- 
Poland's Zloty May Strengthen After Current Account Data Release, ING Says

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-03-31T09:41:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/zloty-may-gain-with-revision-unlikely-on-polish-current-account-ing-says.html
The zloty may strengthen as
quarterly current account figures today are unlikely to show
“significant” widening of the deficit, ING Bank Slaski SA said
in a report today.  The Polish currency slumped the most in two weeks yesterday
after HSBC Holdings Plc recommended investors sell the zloty in
anticipation that the central bank will “substantially” raise
its estimate of imports to account for errors and omissions in
the payment data. The fourth-quarter current account is due at 2
p.m. in Warsaw today.  “If the sell-off in the zloty late yesterday was caused by
expectations that errors and omissions will spill over into the
current account, we may expect a bounce back and the return of
the zloty below 4 per euro after” the data is released, ING
economists led by Mateusz Szczurek in Warsaw wrote in a note.  The zloty advanced 0.2 percent to 4.0116 per euro as of
11:25 a.m. in Warsaw. The currency has lost 1.2 percent this
year and is poised for the biggest drop since the second quarter
of 2010.  A team of central bank researchers is examining errors and
omissions in the payments data, Jozef Sobota, the head of the
central bank’s statistics department told newspaper  Parkiet  in
an interview today. The team’s findings may lead to a revision
of current account figures for the first quarter of 2011, which
will be published in June, the newspaper reported.  The errors and omissions balance reached 14.3 billion euros
($20 billion) in January, or about 4 percent of  Poland ’s gross-
domestic product, according to the central bank. The deficit may
be wider by about 1 percentage point of GDP due to unregistered
imports of used cars, Sobota told Parkiet.  ‘Negative Impact’  “Revisions to Poland’s current account, which may take
place in the coming months, will have a negative impact on the
prospects for the zloty,” Cezary Chrapek, a fixed-income and
currency strategist at Citigroup Inc.’s Bank Handlowy SA, wrote
in a note to customers. The changes may lead to “a rise in the
current-account deficit-to-GDP ratio”  The zloty has been the worst performer among the currencies
of the four eastern members of the European Union this quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Hungarian forint 
has appreciated 4.7 percent,  Romania ’s leu advanced 4.2 percent
and the Czech koruna is up 2 percent.  The current account deficit probably widened to 4.98
billion euros ($7.08 billion) in the October-December period
from 3.64 billion euro a quarter earlier, according to the
median estimate of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  