-- 
Zurich Financial Expects $500 Million of First-Quarter Catastrophe Claims

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-03-31T08:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-31/zurich-financial-expects-500-million-of-first-quarter-catastrophe-claims.html
Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest insurer, estimates total claims of about
$500 million from the five natural disasters that hit the Asia-
Pacific region this year.  The preliminary assessment, net of reinsurance and before
tax, is for the Brisbane floods, the Victoria storms and cyclone
Yasi in  Australia , the Christchurch earthquake in  New Zealand 
and the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the Zurich-based
insurer said today in a  statement . The losses will be booked in
first-quarter results due to be released on May 5.  “The total charge is a notch above our estimate but in the
light of these major claims events is proof of Zurich
Financial’s sound reinsurance protection policy,” Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel Holding AG,
said in a note to investors. The loss doesn’t threaten the
company’s “earnings capacity” for this year, he said.  Catastrophe modeling firm Eqecat said on March 16 that
insurers and reinsurers will probably have losses of $12 billion
to $25 billion from the  Japan  earthquake and tsunami. The cost
to insurers of natural disasters rose 76 percent to $40 billion
last year, Swiss Reinsurance Co. said March 29.  Zurich Financial fell 0.4 percent to 258.5 Swiss francs at
9:57 a.m., valuing the company at 37.8 billion francs ($41.3
billion). The stock has gained 6.7 percent this year.  “The full loss assessment, and therefore the ultimate
cost, will take time to complete due to the extreme nature of
the losses and the limited access to the damaged areas
particularly in Japan but also in New Zealand,” Zurich
Financial said in the statement.  Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn said on March 16 that
Zurich Financial won’t suffer “material” losses related to the
earthquake and tsunami in Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  