-- ‘Chemo Brain’ Fog May Be a Product of Stress Not Drugs
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-12-07T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/-chemo-brain-fog-may-be-a-product-of-stress-not-drugs.html
“Chemo brain,” a term describing
the forgetfulness and cognitive fog that breast-cancer patients
undergoing chemotherapy experience, may have more to do with the
stress and fatigue caused by the disease, a study suggests.  More women with breast cancer scored lower on cognitive
function tests before getting chemotherapy than did those
without the disease, according to research presented today at
the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium. Women set to undergo
radiation, rather than chemotherapy, for their disease also
performed worse on memory and thinking tests before therapy.  The findings suggest that more can be done to help reduce
stress and fatigue in breast cancer patients to alleviate their
difficulties thinking clearly, remembering things and carrying
out jobs and other responsibilities, said  Bernadine Cimprich ,
the lead study author. Meditation, exercise and psychological
support may help, she said.  “There is a need for increased clinical awareness that
cognitive problems can begin before any treatment and might get
worse over time,” Cimprich, an associate professor emerita at
the University of Michigan School of Nursing in Ann Arbor, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “‘Chemo brain may not be
the right label for cancer-related cognitive dysfunction. That
then opens an opportunity for various interventions that were
not there before.’’  While worry can lead to fatigue, the cancer itself may
cause inflammation and affect cognitive function, she said.  Study Findings  Researchers in the study looked at 29 women who were
scheduled to undergo chemotherapy, 37 scheduled to undergo
radiation therapy and 32 healthy women. They performed a working
memory task while undergoing magnetic resonance imaging before
therapy and one month after.  They found the chemotherapy group performed the worst on
the cognitive test before the treatment and one month after
therapy. While the radiation group performed about as poorly on
the test before getting treatment as those scheduled to receive
chemotherapy, they did just as well as the women without breast
cancer on the test one month later.  Cimprich said researchers are looking at data taken one
year after the initial test to see if cognitive problems
persist.  The research was funded by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  