-- ‘Pay For Delay’ Drug Accords Get U.S. High Court Scrutiny
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-12-07T20:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/-pay-for-delay-drug-accords-get-u-s-high-court-scrutiny.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to take
up a multibillion-dollar fight between the  drug industry  and
federal antitrust enforcers, a case that may determine how
quickly low-price generic medicines reach the market.  The justices today said they will use a case involving
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  to scrutinize the “pay for delay”
agreements that the Federal Trade Commission says cost drug
buyers $3.5 billion each year. Under those accords, brand-name
drugmakers pay other companies to hold off selling generic
versions. The pharmaceutical industry says the agreements are
legitimate settlements of patent disputes.  Companies have struck more than 100 such deals since 2005.
Medicines made by  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ,  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  have all been the focus of court cases as the
FTC under Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  seeks to crack down on the
practice.  “This case could determine how an entire industry does
business because it would dramatically affect the economics of
each decision to introduce a generic drug,” said Ralph Neas,
president of the Generic Pharmaceutical Association, a
Washington trade group.  Three of the four federal appeals courts to rule on the
issue have said the settlements, also known as reverse payments,
are generally permissible. Drug companies and antitrust
enforcers alike urged the Supreme Court to set a nationwide
standard. The court will rule by June.  The FTC, backed by the  Justice Department , is appealing a
ruling that rejected its suit against Solvay Pharmaceuticals
Inc., now owned by Abbott Labs, and three generic-drug makers
over Androgel, a treatment for low testosterone in men.  Delaying Competition  The FTC says the price for the drug was poised to fall at
least 75 percent in 2007 after the  Food and Drug Administration 
cleared the way for generic competition. Faced with the prospect
of losing $125 million in annual profits, Solvay instead paid
the three generic-drug makers, including Watson, as much as $42
million a year to delay their competing versions until 2015, the
FTC says.  “The agreements made economic sense only as a mechanism
for Solvay to pay its nascent generic competitors to delay
competing with it,” the FTC said in court  papers .  The companies say FDA approval was no guarantee of imminent
generic competition because Solvay had a patent that, if backed
by the courts, would have protected the drug until 2020. Solvay
says it gave up the last five years of that patent protection as
part of the agreement.  Less Exclusion  “Solvay agreed to less exclusion than it lawfully and
realistically might have obtained in the exercise of its
constitutionally protected right to assert its patent
reasonably,” the Abbott unit argued in court papers.  The companies say the payments were compensation for
services to be provided by the generic-drug makers, including
Watson’s marketing of Androgel to urologists.  The case will test the intersection of antitrust
principles, which encourage competition, and  patent law , which
gives innovators a monopoly over their products. That tension is
complicated in the drug context because of a federal law that
aims to bring generic versions to market quickly.  Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the company that files the
first FDA application to sell a generic drug gets the right to
sell it exclusively for six months if it is approved. The FDA
filing typically triggers a lawsuit by the brand-name company
claiming its patent is being infringed.  Baseless Claims  The FTC and its allies, including 31 states, say those
infringement claims are often baseless, making the settlements
similarly dubious. The agency says generic-drug makers, at least
in the 1990s and early 2000s, won about 75 percent of the patent
suits that have been litigated to final judgment.  The FTC says it has less concern about settlements that set
a date for generic entry without involving a payment, accords
the agency says may simply reflect the prospects of success in
the infringement case. A reverse payment, by contrast, “is most
naturally understood as consideration for the generic
manufacturer’s agreement to delay market entry,” the FTC said.  Prices for generics typically are 20 percent to 30 percent
less than the name-brand counterparts, and in some cases are as
much as 90 percent cheaper, according to the FTC.  Drug companies say the settlements enhance competition and
encourage innovation. The  Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America , which represents brand-name
drugmakers, told the justices that companies spend an average of
$1.3 billion to create a new drug, counting the cost of failed
products.  Investment Incentive  Without strong patent protection -- and broad power to
settle cases -- companies would be less willing to make that
investment, the Washington-based trade group said in court
papers.  The trade association filed its brief in a separate case
involving K-Dur, Merck’s treatment for potassium deficiency. In
that case, the Philadelphia-based 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals said drug purchasers could press claims that Schering-
Plough, now part of Merck, improperly paid Upsher-Smith
Laboratories Inc. $60 million to delay introduction of a generic
version of K-Dur in 1997.  “By restricting the ability of innovator companies to
manage risk and avoid the costs and uncertainty of litigation,
the 3rd Circuit’s rule dramatically diminishes incentives for
innovation and product development,” the trade group argued.  Presumed Anticompetitive  In letting the suit against Merck go forward, the 3rd
Circuit said courts should start with the presumption that
reverse payments are anticompetitive. Accords are permissible
only if manufacturers can show the payments serve a purpose
other than delayed entry or offer some procompetitive benefit,
the appeals court said.  Three other federal appeals courts have taken a less
skeptical approach toward reverse payments. In the Androgel
case, the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit ruled that, unless the
patent litigation is a sham, reverse payment agreements are
immune from antitrust attack so long as they stay “within the
scope of the exclusionary power of the patent.”  Because the Androgel accord shortened the period of time
Solvay potentially could exclude generic competition, it passed
antitrust muster, the appeals court said.  The Supreme Court refused to hear an FTC appeal in a
reverse payment case involving K-Dur in 2006. At the time, the
Justice Department under President  George W. Bush  was at odds
with the FTC on the issue and urged the Supreme Court not to
hear the appeal. The Justice Department switched its stance on
the issue after President  Barack Obama  was elected.  Signature Issue  Reverse payment accords have been a signature issue for
Leibowitz as FTC chairman. He has pursued a two-pronged
strategy, pressing cases in court while urging Congress to pass
a law that would limit the deals.  “It’s a high-risk, high-reward case for Leibowitz,” said
Keith Hylton, a Boston University law professor who has written
several books on antitrust topics. “High risk because most of
the courts have rejected the FTC’s position on reverse-payment
deals. The most likely outcome is that the Supreme Court will
side with the majority of courts rejecting the FTC’s view.”  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Watson
Pharmaceuticals, 12-416.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  