-- A-Rod, Harvard Kid’s Beefcake Send Miami Into Overdrive
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-12-09T23:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/a-rod-harvard-kid-s-beefcake-send-miami-into-overdrive.html
Money oils the party machinery at  Art
Basel Miami .  In a penthouse 39 floors above Miami Beach last night, 27-
year-old Harvard Business School student Maria Baibakova greeted
guests next to a huge canvas showing four beefy men in superhero
costumes.  Less than 24 hours earlier the painting, “Intermission
(Halloween Afghanistan IV),” a 10-by-14-foot work by Allora &
Calzadilla, was hanging in the Gladstone gallery’s booth at the
Miami Beach Convention Center.  Baibakova’s father, real estate and commodities
entrepreneur Oleg Baybakov, snapped it up at the VIP opening and
was determined to get it to the apartment pronto. Maria helped
negotiate the deal from a Harvard library, where she was writing
a paper on contemporary art.  “It was a huge challenge to bring it in,” she said after
flying down to  Florida  for a 25-hour stay. “We had to break
down the canvas and then re-stretch it upstairs, but we got it
done.”  The 200 guests included Lincoln Center for the Performing
Arts President Reynold Levy, billionaire  Len Blavatnik , hedge
fund manager  Adam Sender  and Los Angeles museum director Jeffrey Deitch.  There were also representatives of Christie’s and Sotheby’s
auction houses, as well as top galleries Gagosian, David Zwirner
and Gladstone, among others.  “Everyone who was there are my personal friends,” said
Baibakova, who wore a black Stella McCartney dress with an
exposed shoulder and low-cut back. “Miami Basel is an
opportunity to catch up with them.”  Exclusive Invites  The soiree was one of the more exclusive invites during the
annual party madness at the largest contemporary art fair in the
U.S. As its status and attendance grew (50,000 people attended
last year), banks and luxury brands saw a networking opportunity
and joined the fray, sponsoring parties, openings, book signings
and dinners.  “It gets bigger every year,” Miami-based art collector
Carl Schwartz said on December 4 in the packed lobby of Miami’s
Museum of Contemporary Art. “You can drink and eat yourself
into oblivion.”  Some 4,000 people elbowed their way into the opening of
video art pioneer Bill Viola’s exhibition “Liber Insularum.”
Among them: Christian Slater, fashion photographer Bruce Weber
and British artist Tracey Emin.  ‘Paradise’ Found  Most of them hung out in a spacious courtyard illuminated
by Jack Pierson’s light sculpture spelling “PARADISE,” eating
ham-and-cheese sandwiches and meatballs in tomato sauce.  Not far away, U.S. Trust sponsored a reception at the
Rubell Family Collection, founded in 1964 by collectors Mera and
Don Rubell. Guests mingled al fresco around a black Bugatti
painted in orange with mathematical formulas by French artist
Bernar Venet. Inside, oversize canvases by Chinese artist Zhu
Jinshi and Colombian artist Oscar Murillo dwarfed the visitors.  Absolut Vodka, back in the art sponsorship business that
began with Andy Warhol in 1985, commissioned art collective Los
Carpinteros to erect a beach bar by the ocean and then hosted
concerts and parties fueled by the company’s beverages.  The  Royal Bank of Canada  had a fleet of white Rolls Royces
ferrying guests to dinners at the Versace mansion and Jean
Georges at St. Regis, a panel on art lending over brunch at
Setai and a personal tour of her collection by  Rosa de la Cruz .  Royal Rollses  The events drew chief executives of  Rolls Royce (RR/) ,  Tanger
Outlets (SKT)  and  ARGO Group Ltd. (ARGO)  along with Democratic party
fundraiser Patricia Duff, collector  Billie Weisman  and art
historian Sydney Picasso.  “A lot of our clients are big collectors and it’s our way
to entertain them,” said Richard Fitzburgh, the RBC senior vice
president of wealth management, who organized the program. “We
also meet new clients this way. People who come to Art Basel in
Miami are the wealthiest people in the world.”  At the home of New York Yankee Alex Rodriguez, a batting
cage and installations by Andrea Bowers competed for attention
with Warhol’s Marilyn Monroe paintings and an enviable view of
Biscayne Bay. A-Rod, in a white shirt and blazer, chatted with
Damien Hirst.  Owen Wilson showed up with publisher Peter Brant, Demi Moore made the rounds and Whitney Museum of Art chief curator
Donna De Salvo looked a little lost among a bevy of models in
improbably short skirts and dangerously high heels.  Despite the glam-party lure, some visitors kept their
exposure to a minimum.  “It’s a pleasure to be selective,” said RoseLee Goldberg,
founder of the  Performa biennial  in New York. “I only go to two
events a night.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 