-- Japan Reports Little Damage After 7.3-Magnitude Quake
-- B y   T e o   C h i a n   W e i
-- 2012-12-08T04:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/magnitude-7-3-quake-hits-northeast-japan-raising-tsunami-alerts.html
(Corrects toll of dead and missing from 2011 quake, in
seventh paragraph.)  A 7.3-magnitude earthquake struck off
northeastern Japan yesterday, the most powerful since last
year’s record temblor, swaying buildings in  Tokyo  for several
minutes and temporarily disrupting rail and airline traffic.  The quake hit at 5:18 p.m. local time, with an epicenter
about 240 kilometers (150 miles) off the coast of  Miyagi
prefecture  at a depth of 10 kilometers, according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency . At least 26,000 people were temporarily
evacuated and the captain of one fishing boat is missing, the
Asahi newspaper said.  While buildings in Tokyo shook, the quake did little damage,
according to the national police agency. Ten people in five
prefectures suffered minor injuries,  Kyodo News  reported.  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501)  said its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear reactors
were unaffected.  The yen fell 0.1 percent to 82.49 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
 New York  yesterday, after gaining as much as 0.5 percent
immediately following the earthquake. The yen advanced 0.2
percent to 106.67 against the euro.  “The yen is being bought in a knee-jerk reaction to
headlines on the earthquake,”  Marito Ueda , senior managing
director in Tokyo at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , said last night. “Given
the difference in the magnitude of this earthquake to last
year’s, the impact on the currency has been quite limited.”  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda yesterday said he will do
everything needed to deal with the impact of the earthquake.  Aftershock  The temblor was an aftershock of the record 9-magnitude
quake on March 11, 2011, the Japan Meteorological Agency said.
That temblor,  355 times  more powerful than yesterday’s,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey , triggered a tsunami
that left more than 19,000 people dead or missing, and caused
meltdowns of three nuclear reactors.  Tokyo Electric  ordered plant workers to seek refuge in
quake-proof buildings at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi and Dai-Ni
nuclear stations after the tsunami warning, spokesman Hisashi
Otsuka said by phone.  Waves as high as 1-meter hit the coast of Ishinomaki, with
no visible damage in images broadcast on NHK. The ports of Soma
in Fukushima prefecture and Sendai in Miyagi reported 40-
centimeter waves, NHK and Kyodo reported.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Honda Motor Co. and  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) 
reported no damage at their facilities in the area.  Operations at refineries of JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. in
northeast Japan and  Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019)  in Hokkaido weren’t
affected, according to the companies. More than 200 homes were
without power in the northern prefecture of Aomori.  Tsunami warnings were lifted two hours after the quake as
police continued to check for casualties, according to spokesman
Minoru Tanahashi.  For Related News and Information:
USGS real-time earthquake map: Click  here .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Teo Chian Wei in Tokyo at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  