-- Mahathir Signals DRB’s Proton May Buy Engine Asset From Petronas
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-12-07T04:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/mahathir-signals-drb-s-proton-may-buy-engine-asset-from-petronas.html
Mahathir Mohamad, the former
Malaysian prime minister who led the creation of  Proton Holdings
Bhd.  three decades ago, signaled the carmaker plans to buy
engine assets from Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  “We are looking and I think we will purchase a Malaysian
engine,” Mahathir, an adviser at both Proton and Petronas, said
in a Dec. 5 interview in Putrajaya, outside Kuala Lumpur.
“Petronas produces a good engine. We are trying it out with our
cars and I think they work.”  The move would help Proton, owned by autos-to-property
group  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB) , broaden its range of automobile engines as
it faces increased competition from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda
Motor Co. (7267)  in  Malaysia . Proton, which controls luxury sports-car
maker Lotus, has been losing market share for the past 12 years,
said Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an analyst at  OSK Holdings Bhd. (OSK)  in
Kuala Lumpur.  Proton has seen its Malaysian market share dwindle to about
20 percent from about 50 percent in the 1990s,, Ahmad Maghfur
said.  Mahathir, who didn’t specify details of the possible
purchase, said he meets with Proton management weekly. He isn’t
as actively involved with Petronas, Mahathir said.  Petronas, a sponsor of the Mercedes AMG Petronas Formula
One team, has developed an engine called EO1 under its
technology and engineering division, though the Malaysian state-
owned energy firm hasn’t publicly provided updates on the
product’s development since 2006, when it said production would
begin in 2009. Petronas representatives didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Turnaround Plan  Proton previously considered using the Petronas engine in
its cars even as the plan didn’t proceed. Both companies signed
an agreement in January 2006 to  explore  the possibility of using
the 2-liter EO1 engine technology, Petronas said then.  Proton’s ambitions to increase its range of engines comes
as DRB-Hicom, the group controlled by billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary, prepares a plan to boost profit at Proton and turn
around its unprofitable Lotus unit. DRB-Hicom said in an e-mail
that an announcement will be made soon, without providing
further details.  Proton was unprofitable during the first nine months of the
year because of losses at Lotus, though it earned pretax profit
of 57 million ringgit ($19 million) excluding the luxury car
unit, Ahmad Maghfur said.  Proton’s survival as a car manufacturer is crucial for
Malaysia to build a highly skilled workforce as the country
seeks to earn developed-nation status by the end of this decade,
Mahathir said. Mahathir said he’s optimistic.  “The people who are running it are not stupid,” Mahathir
said in reference to DRB. “They had made money, turned around
companies, they bought over companies. They have been very
successful in business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  