-- AIG Says Investor Group in Talks to Buy 90% of Plane Unit
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-12-07T22:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/aig-says-investor-group-in-talks-to-buy-90-of-plane-lease-unit.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that counts the U.S. as its largest shareholder,
said it is in talks to sell 90 percent of its plane-leasing unit
to a group including New  China  Trust Co.  Other investors in the group are New China Life Insurance
Co. and P3 Investments Ltd., together with China Aviation
Industrial Fund and an investment arm of ICBC International, the
New York-based insurer said yesterday in a statement. A deal may
value AIG’s International Lease Finance Corp. at about $5.5
billion, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because talks are private.  At that valuation, the sale of a 90 percent stake would
mark the biggest Chinese acquisition in the U.S., beating China
Investment Corp.’s $3 billion purchase of a stake in  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. ILFC, based
in  Los Angeles , is the largest aircraft lessor in China, with a
30 percent market share and more than  175 aircraft  leased to 16
airlines in the Greater China region, according to the company.  “ILFC by its nature is a business that requires financial
 leverage , and AIG is a company that would like to reduce its
leverage,” said Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, who has a buy rating on the insurer. “Getting ILFC
off of AIG’s balance sheet, I think would be viewed favorably
and make the stock go up.”  AIG advanced 2.6 percent to $34.13 on the  New York  Stock
Exchange yesterday after  Bloomberg News  reported the talks. The
insurer said after the close of regular trading that superstorm
Sandy cost the company about $1.3 billion after tax and
reinsurance, and the stock retreated to $33.50 at 4:39 p.m. in
extended trading.  Credit Swaps  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of ILFC
declined, suggesting higher investor confidence. A deal could be
announced as soon as Dec. 10, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The insurer, which considered selling ILFC in 2009 as it
worked to repay a $182.3 billion U.S. bailout, last year said
that it planned an initial public offering of the unit. AIG has
narrowed its focus to global property-casualty coverage and U.S.
life insurance since its near collapse in 2008, divesting more
than $60 billion in assets to help repay its rescue.  “They’re better served by having a simpler organization,”
said Meyer Shields, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  AIG acquired ILFC in 1990 for $1.16 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It had 918 aircraft in its leased fleet as of
September, with a book value of $34.9 billion, according to the
most recent quarterly report. The unit has more than 200
aircraft on firm order, including Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner
and Airbus SAS’s new A320neo.  Regulatory Approvals  AIG, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , has
“consistently stated that ILFC is a non-core asset,” the
insurer said in its statement. “Any possible transaction
involving ILFC would be subject to required regulatory
approvals, including those in the U.S. and China.”  ILFC credit swaps fell 130.6 basis points to 259.2 basis
points as of 3:30 p.m. in New York yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Aircraft delivery financing will rise to $104 billion in
2013 from $95 billion this year, Kostya Zolotusky, managing
director at Boeing Capital Markets, the Chicago-based
planemaker’s finance arm, said in an interview this week. The
figure will rise to $132 billion in 2017, he said.  Most lessors trade below book value, indicating aircraft
assets may be overvalued, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. ILFC
said in a filing last month that its stockholders’  equity  was
$7.9 billion as of Sept. 30.  A group led by  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  agreed
in January to buy Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s aviation
division for about $7.3 billion in the world’s biggest
acquisition of a leasing business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  