-- AIG Sandy Cost Is $1.3 Billion, Highest Disclosed in U.S.
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-07T21:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/aig-sandy-cost-is-1-3-billion-highest-disclosed-in-u-s-1-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
said superstorm Sandy will cost the company about $1.3 billion
after taxes and reinsurance, the highest sum disclosed by a U.S.
insurer.  AIG will make a capital contribution of $1 billion to its
U.S. property-casualty subsidiaries, the New York-based insurer
said in a statement today. Sandy’s cost was about $2 billion
before tax, AIG said.  Sandy made landfall in New Jersey in October and damaged
homes, vehicles and commercial property while interrupting
business in states including New York.  Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the lone
insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , said this week that
its cost before tax and reinsurance was about $1.14 billion.
Allstate Corp., the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, said Sandy led catastrophes in October costing the
company $1.28 billion by that measure.  “Due to the complexity of factors contributing to the
losses, there can be no assurance that AIG’s ultimate losses
associated with this storm will not differ from this estimate,”
AIG said.  The insurer declined 1.6 percent to $33.60 at 4:19 p.m. in
extended trading in New York.  The loss exceeds expenses from  Hurricane Irene  which struck
in last year’s third quarter, when the company had $574 million
in catastrophe costs at its Chartis property-casualty unit. AIG
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  projected on Oct. 29,
the day Sandy made landfall, that costs from the storm would be
more similar to Irene than to the Japan tsunami.  The insurer previously said the earthquake and tsunami in
Japan fueled about $1.7 billion in catastrophe costs in the
first quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  