-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Fall This Week on Possible Currency Curbs
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-12-07T08:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/taiwan-dollar-forwards-fall-this-week-on-possible-currency-curbs.html
Taiwan dollar forwards fell this week
on speculation the central bank will curb appreciation in the
currency to safeguard a recovery in exports. Government bonds
were little changed.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said yesterday
the euro-area’s economy will shrink 0.5 percent this year, more
than the 0.4 percent contraction predicted in September.
Taiwanese overseas sales rose 0.9 percent in November from a
year earlier, after dropping in seven of the previous eight
months, official data showed today. That compares with the 7.8
percent growth economists forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “Draghi’s words mean the recovery will be slower than
previously expected, damping exports to  Europe ,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Societe Generale SA.
“More regional central banks are getting a bit more aggressive
in intervening in the market to protect the recovery in
exports.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards declined 0.1 percent
this week to NT$29.06 per dollar as of 4:12 p.m. in Taipei,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts, which
were little changed today, are at a 0.2 percent premium to the
spot rate, which was steady today and during the five-day period
at NT$29.125, based on Taipei Forex Inc. prices.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.25 percent this week and gained
11 basis points today.  Bonds Steady  President  Barack Obama  warned lawmakers yesterday that the
U.S. economy will suffer unless there’s an agreement to avert
more than $600 billion of spending cuts and tax increases set to
take effect next year.  Taiwan’s central bank has bought the greenback to counter
gains in the island’s currency on most days in the past seven
months, according to traders who asked not to be identified. The
monetary authority’s mandate is to keep relative exchange-rate
stability and to intervene in the event of abnormal moves,
Governor Perng Fai-Nan said on Sept. 26.  The yield on the government’s 1.125 percent bonds due
September 2022 was steady at 1.136 percent today and this week,
according to Gretai Securities Market. The overnight  interbank
lending rate  was little changed at 0.385 percent, according to a
weighted average compiled by the  Taiwan  Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  