-- Majority of ECB Governing Council Said to Back Rate Cut
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-07T16:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/majority-of-ecb-governing-council-said-to-support-rate-reduction.html
A majority of European Central Bank
policy makers were open to cutting the benchmark rate yesterday
and there is a possibility of a reduction early next year if the
economy doesn’t pick up, three officials with knowledge of the
Governing Council’s deliberations said.  Rates were kept on hold because of concerns about the
negative signal a cut might send in conjunction with the
significant downward revisions to the ECB’s growth and inflation
forecasts, the officials said on condition of anonymity.
Lowering rates will be considered again next month, one of the
officials said. An ECB spokesman declined to comment on what is
discussed in council meetings, which are private.  The euro fell a quarter of a cent on the report to $1.2903.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that while there
was a “wide discussion” about  interest rates , “the prevailing
consensus was to leave the rates unchanged.” The ECB held its
 benchmark  at a record low of 0.75 percent and kept the deposit
rate at zero.  “If the situation doesn’t improve -- and there is a
relatively small chance there will be a significant improvement
-- it’s possible to expect a move in interest rates next year,”
ECB council member Jozef Makuch told reporters in Bratislava
today.  ‘Principle of Consensus’  Julian Callow , chief international economist at Barclays
Plc in  London , said the comments support his view that the ECB
will cut its benchmark rate in the first quarter of 2013 and
increase the chance of it happening as soon as January.  “While the legal situation is that the Governing Council
is required to decide on matters by a simple majority, in
practice it adheres to the principle of consensus, which means
the members try to achieve a common view that reflects their
different positions,” Callow wrote in a note to clients. “In
this sense, it is possible for a minority to block, or at least
delay, a decision in the interest of maintaining a public
consensus.”  Market News International later reported that a rate cut
was blocked by Draghi, ECB board members Benoit Coeure and Joerg Asmussen and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann. The remaining
ECB council members either favoured easing rates or refrained
from actively opposing such a move, MNI cited an unidentified
official as saying.  The sovereign debt crisis, which has pushed at least six of
the 17 euro nations into recession, is now curbing growth in its
largest economies. The Bundesbank today slashed its forecast for
German expansion next year to 0.4 percent from 1.6 percent.  Forecasts Cut  The ECB yesterday forecast that the euro economy will
contract 0.3 percent next year, cutting its estimate from 0.5
percent growth projected in September. The central bank also
estimated that inflation will slow to 1.6 percent next year and
1.4 percent in 2014, well below its 2 percent limit.  “There are clearly problematic developments in the realm
of the real economy,” ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said in
Vienna today. The ECB’s forecasts underwent “a dramatic
deterioration, a significant downward revision to an extent we
rarely see,” he said. “There is a multitude countries that
will shrink” this year and next and “that’s a significant
challenge.”  Two officials said that because the ECB has not finished
analysing the impact of a negative deposit rate, a cut yesterday
would have affected only the benchmark.  “Even those who want to cut will have been given some
pause for thought by the prospect of a negative deposit rate,”
said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London.
“They are happy to signal that they are ready to cut, but
hoping they won’t have to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  