-- Akzo Targets Middle East as Valspar Tests European Market Share
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-12-07T13:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/akzo-targets-middle-east-as-valspar-tests-european-market-share.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s biggest
paint maker, is looking to quadruple sales in the  Middle East  to
about $1 billion as its European volumes are threatened by
dwindling demand and rivals such as the U.S.’s  Valspar Corp. (VAL)   The Dutch company is accelerating expansion in the Middle
East after concluding that it was under-represented there 18
months ago, Regional Director Peter Tomlinson said in an
interview with  Bloomberg News . The maker of Dulux paint a week
ago announced a deal to expand a joint venture with Bahrain-
based Yusuf Bin Ahmed Kanoo to distribute more products.  “Compared to other regions, there are still good
opportunities to grow in the Middle East,” Tomlinson said.  Growth in  emerging markets  is becoming more important,
given Akzo’s looming cutbacks in a weakening Europe. Chief
Executive Officer Ton Buechner is returning to his job after
sick leave for fatigue, to continue working on his strategic
plan that was to mark his debut year. During his three-month
absence, Valspar won a contract to supply tinting machines at
U.K. home improvement chain B&Q, replacing Akzo’s.  Akzo’s focus in the Middle East will boost its range of
products sold through Yusuf. That will include woodcare
coatings, automotive refinish, protective and powder coatings,
as nations pour money into building a manufacturing base to
diversify economies away from oil and gas.  Closer to home, Buechner will have to fight attacks on
Akzo’s market share in  Europe . He plans to hold a conference
call with analysts on Dec. 14 to try to reassure investors that
the Amsterdam-based company remains on schedule to refocus on
efficiency and productivity in hard-hit areas. Akzo shares have
fallen about 5 percent in the past three months.  Symbolic Loss  While tinting machines, which allow customers to create
bespoke paint shades on a white base, represent only about 1
percent or 2 percent of Akzo’s sales in the U.K., its a symbolic
contract to lose in one of its more profitable markets in the
region, according to Fabian Smeets, an analyst at ING. B&Q
accounts for 20 percent of Akzo’s U.K. paint sales, he said.  The change at the British do-it-yourself chain also
highlights how formerly U.S.-centric paintmakers have enjoyed
more resilient sales in their home market, boosting confidence
to expand overseas.  “It doesn’t help and isn’t good for sentiment around
Akzo,” said Smeets. “Even though it is a small part, it could
accelerate the downturn, and really shows that Europe is a
difficult market. I think you could even see some pricing
pressure, something that is also rare for the paint markets.”  The Valspar B&Q contract was just small and limited to
paint machines and the chain remains an important customer,
spokesman Tim Van Der Zanden said. Akzo’s European sales of
decorative paint total 2.7 billion euros in 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Valspar spokespeople weren’t immediately available for
comment.  Spain and  Portugal  will again lead a drop in volumes of
decorative paint sales in southern Europe next year as
construction and renovation work continues to slump, according
to Materis Paints, owned by French buyout firm Wendel SA.
Volumes may decline 18 percent in the two countries in 2013,
following a 50 percent drop from 2008 to 2012, Bertrand Dumazy,
head of Europe’s third-largest maker of decorative paint, said
yesterday.  Akzo already had to write down the value of its decorative
paint business by 2.5 billion euros in October and the company
is deepening cost cuts to counter the slowdown. Akzo is rolling
out restructuring measures which includes reducing IT systems
and cutting back on the number of raw materials, to boost
earnings by 500 million euros by 2014.  ’’The near-term outlook for this region is far from
encouraging,’’ said HSBC analyst Sebastian Satz, who lowered his
recommendation on Akzo shares to underweight this week. “All in
all, it seems it will get worse before its gets better, for now
at least.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  