-- Albrecht Death May Create Six New German Billionaires
-- B y   D a v i d   d e   J o n g   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2012-12-07T12:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/albrecht-death-may-create-six-new-german-billionaires.html
The death of Berthold Albrecht, whose
inheritance of half of closely held supermarkets Aldi Nord and
Trader Joe’s from his father put him among the world’s 100
wealthiest people, may make his wife and children billionaires,
according to a lawyer who advises on German foundation law.  Albrecht was buried last month in a private ceremony
attended by close family and friends, according to a full-page
death notice from his wife Babette published in Handelsblatt
newspaper today. He was worth more than $10 billion, according
to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , and was father to five
children, including quadruplets -- three boys and a girl -- born
in 1990. Their names could not be confirmed.  “If you have a normal relationship to your family,
everyone gets something, your wife and your children,” said Dr.
Hedda Hoffmann-Steudner, the head of the legal department at
Berlin-based Bundesverband Deutscher Stiftungen, a non-profit
organization representing the interests of German foundations.
“There’s no standard way in  Germany  for the value being
inherited to the next generation. It depends on every person,
what he or she decides.”  Berthold Albrecht owned half of Aldi Nord and Trader Joe’s
through the Markus Stiftung, a family trust, of which he was
chairman. His brother, Theo Albrecht Jr., owns the other half.  Diana Johne, a spokeswoman for Aldi Nord, did not
immediately respond to a fax seeking comment on the Albrecht
estate.  ‘Exemplary Husband’  “Berthold Albrecht was a very loving and extremely
generous human being, an exemplary husband and father,” his
wife said in the notice, which did not mention the place or
cause of his death. He was a “fighter, never losing hope right
to the end.”  Berthold’s father Theo Albrecht Sr., who was one of
Germany’s richest men when he died two years ago, turned Aldi
into a global retailer, using a low-cost business model that
revolutionized the German market with his brother Karl. The
brothers split the company they founded in 1960 after a feud
over carrying cigarettes in Aldi stores.  Karl Albrecht , 92, is the richest person in Germany with a
net worth of $22.5 billion, according to the Bloomberg ranking.
Retail billionaire  Dieter Schwarz , 73, who controls the Lidl and
Kaufland supermarket chains, is worth $20.2 billion. He is the
country’s second-richest person. Lidl and Aldi are competitors.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York . The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David  De Jong  in New York at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  