-- Maldives Takes Over Male Airport From GMR After Winning Appeal
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-12-08T08:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/maldives-takes-over-male-airport-from-gmr-after-appeal-win-1-.html
The Maldives took control of Male
international airport from India’s  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  last
night after a court allowed the island-nation to take over the
facility following the cancellation of a contract.  The state-owned Maldives Airport Co. has taken over the
operations of the Ibrahim Nassir International Airport and the
transfer process has “gone smoothly,” Mohamed Ibrahim,
managing director of Maldives Airport said today by phone.  The airport operator will separately fight compensation
claims made by GMR in a Singapore court, the designated
arbitrator, Ibrahim said. Losing control of the Male facility is
a set back for billionaire G.M. Rao whose foray into airport
business about six years ago helped boost his company’s sales
eight-fold.  Maldives Airports is liable to pay GMR and its lenders more
than $700 million in compensation, Sidharath Kapur, chief
financial officer of airports business at the Bangalore-based
company, said Dec. 5.  GMR will facilitate a smooth takeover of the airport and
will take steps to work out the compensation receivable from the
Maldives government, the company said in a statement. It will
take a month for GMR staff to oversee the transfer, Ibrahim said
in a phone interview.  GMR dropped 3 percent to 19.20 rupees in Mumbai trading
yesterday. The stock has fallen 9 percent this year, compared
with a 31 percent gain in the S&P CNX 500 Index.  The Maldives government will conduct a forensic audit to
determine the financial involvement of GMR during the time it
was running the airport, President Mohamed Waheed said in an e-
mail interview with  India ’s Business Standard newspaper today.  A Singapore court on Thursday allowed Maldives to take over
the airport after a contract with GMR was canceled Nov. 27.
Maldives may have to compensate GMR in accordance with the
agreement between them, according to a decision handed out by
three judges led by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon.  25 Years  The Male facility accounts for 20 percent of GMR’s airport
business revenue, according to CFO Kapur. As many as 2.7 million
passengers used the facility in the year ended March 31,
according to the annual report of GMR, which had the contract to
operate the airfield for 25 years. The company and its partners
also run the Sabiha Gokcen International Airport in Istanbul.  The project was awarded to GMR, which also operates India’s
biggest airport in  New Delhi , and  Malaysia Airports (MAHB)  Holdings
Bhd. in 2010 by then-President Mohamed Nasheed, who was ousted
in February. Malaysia Airports held 23 percent of GMR Male
International Airport Pvt.  The contract never received the necessary approval from
parliament and was signed under “dubious circumstances,”
according to Masood Imad, a spokesman for PresidentWaheed, who
took power after Nasheed resigned.  The Maldives, a group of 1,190 coral islands with a
population of about 400,000 people, is located southwest of
India. About 198 of the islands, spread across 900 kilometers
559 miles), are inhabited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  