-- Allied Irish to Step Up Pace of Mortgage Write-Offs in 2013
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-12-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/allied-irish-to-step-up-pace-of-mortgage-write-offs-in-2013.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , recipient of
a 21 billion-euro ($27 billion) government bailout, will step up
the pace of mortgage write-offs next year before it tries to
attract private investors in 2014.  “We’re going to move through the  portfolio  at speed,”
Garry Stran, head of a team at the Dublin-based lender reviewing
mortgages in arrears, said in an interview. The bank will tackle
problem loans “in a more industrialized fashion than we’ve seen
before,” he said.  The lender has “appropriate” capital to allow it to
increase its home-loan restructurings, Jim O’Keeffe, head of the
bank’s home mortgage business, said in the interview.  After being battered by the collapse of the country’s  real-
estate  bubble, Irish banks are under pressure from regulators to
clean up their balance sheets by recognizing that some mortgages
extended in the boom years may never be repaid. The government
is urging lenders to avoid repossessions while at the same time
trying to return them to private ownership.  The government owns 99.8 percent of Allied Irish, and has
said it intends to reduce that stake, though it hasn’t given a
time frame. Last month, the bank sold its first bond to public
investors since 2010, when Ireland and its financial firms were
frozen out of global capital markets.  “The banks have got to get back to profitability, and
giving away houses to people is not how you make money,” said
John Fitzgerald, a research professor at the Economic & Social
Research Institute in Dublin. “They have got to maximize their
return on assets, which may be politically difficult.”  ‘Extend and Pretends’  Some  18.5 percent  of Allied Irish’s home loans by value
were at least three months in arrears at the end of June. Almost
13 percent of owner-occupiers and 37 percent of buy-to-let
borrowers were more than three months behind in payments at the
end of the first half, company filings show.  Lenders have so far relied on temporary measures, such as
switching borrowers to interest-only payments and lengthening
the term of loans, to avoid recognizing losses.  Fiona Muldoon, the central bank’s head supervisor for
lenders and insurers, criticized banks in October for “too many
‘extends and pretends’ masking as solutions.” While Irish banks
have made about 6.4 billion euros of provisions for bad loans,
actual write-offs in the 30 months through June totalled 250
million euros, according to Dublin-based Goodbody Stockbrokers.  That may change as the government introduces rules next
year letting some borrowers secure debt forgiveness in out-of-
court settlements. Regulators are also preparing for a fourth
round of stress tests next year to determine whether they have
enough capital to withstand further losses.  ‘Pushed Around’  “What we absolutely will not have in a year’s time is
people who haven’t paid us for a considerable number of years
being pushed around the machine again,” Stran said. “Writing
off debt where people are doing the very best they can is
absolutely appropriate,” he said, though he ruled out
“wholesale debt forgiveness.”  The bank may have to step up repossessions, even if the
bank’s strategy “is not possession-led,” Stran said. Any loan
restructurings will be based on a borrower’s ability to pay
while letting them keep to a “reasonable” living standard, he
added.  “Given the scale of the problem, do we really want to be
having emotive conversations with people” about satellite-TV
subscriptions, gym memberships and cigarette habits, he said.
“No, we don’t,” he said. “If someone’s a member of a country
club at 500 euros a month and in the scheme of their life that
looks to be completely unreasonable, then of course we’ll have a
conversation,” he said.  ‘More Capital’  Stran said that while more than 70 percent of borrowers
that have had their loans modified to date are meeting monthly
repayments, the rest are a “rump” whose loans need to be
restructured and may have part of their loans written off.  The lender “will need to have stabilized the situation by
the end of next year if the bank is to attract investors in
2014,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an banking analyst at Goodbody. “We
don’t think Allied or the other banks will need to raise more
capital as a result of the next set of stress tests, though
elevated mortgage losses over the medium-term will be a drag on
their profits and capital generation.”  The bank has earmarked 3.1 billion euros for a  worst-case
scenario  of mortgage losses over three years, equal to 9.9
percent of its portfolio, and a further 1.4 billion euros for
EBS, a business it was ordered to acquire by the state,
accounting for 8.7 percent of its home-loan book. In addition,
the group was directed to hold 3.1 billion euros of so-called
buffer capital to absorb further unexpected losses.  Some 18 percent of Ireland’s 144 billion-euro mortgage
market, including buy-to-let loans, were at least three months
in arrears at the end of June,  central bank data  show, with a
further 6.3 percent of portfolios modified and not in arrears.  “The only place we can resolve this for customers on a
long-term basis is frankly -- where they’re doing their best --
to share the pain with them, and restructure in some sort of
commercially sensible way,” Stran said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  