-- Alliance Boots Extends Loans Facilitating Takeover by Walgreen
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-12-07T17:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/alliance-boots-extends-loans-facilitating-takeover-by-walgreen.html
Alliance Boots Holdings Ltd., the
U.K. drugstore chain part-owned by  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , extended the
maturity of more than 5 billion pounds ($8 billion) of loans by
two to three years, paving the way for the U.S. firm to acquire
the entire company.  Lenders representing more than 80 percent of Alliance
Boots’ facility agreed to push out the debt 2016 and beyond and
amend the terms to facilitate a full combination, according to
an e-mailed statement from the Zug, Switzerland-based company.
The financing can now stay in place if Walgreen exercises its
option to acquire the remaining 55 percent of Alliance Boots,
which expires August 2015.  Walgreen bought its stake from KKR & Co. for $6.7 billion
of cash and stock in June to expand abroad as the largest U.S.
drugstore company loses prescription business at home. As part
of the proposed second phase of the tie-up Walgreen said it will
assume its target’s entire debt, which was about 7 billion
pounds as of Mar. 31, according to an earnings statement from
May 16.  “Our diverse lender group have been hugely supportive,
enabling us to extend loans at attractive rates more than two
and a half years before the majority mature,” Group Finance
Director George Fairweather said in the e-mailed statement.  The extended debt will mature from 2016 on a staggered
basis, the company said. Deutsche Bank AG,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and KKR
Capital Markets Ltd. arranged the amendment.  Prices Surge  Investors are betting Alliance Boots’ term loans will be
paid off by its U.S. owner before they mature, bidding up the
price of the loans to 98 pence on the pound today from 92.6
pence on June 18 before the deal was announced.  Senior lenders were offered a 50 basis point fee in return
for the amendments, two people with knowledge of the proposed
changes said Nov. 20. The so-called early-bird deadline was at
the end of November and the final day for responses was
yesterday.  As Alliance Boot’s largest shareholder, Walgreen will
control more than 11,000 stores in 12 countries and 370
distribution centers to pharmacies, doctors and hospitals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  