-- Hamas Chief Mashaal Makes First Gaza Trip After Strikes
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n ,   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-12-07T13:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/hamas-chief-mashaal-makes-first-gaza-trip-after-israel-strikes.html
Hamas political chief Khaled Mashaal
made his first visit to the  Gaza Strip  today, after Palestinians
there fought  Israel  in an eight-day conflict last month.  “Gaza was deep in my heart,” Mashaal told reporters after
arriving from  Egypt  at the Rafah border crossing to be met by
Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh. He is due to visit the
homes of people killed by Israeli airstrikes, including Hamas
military chief Ahmed Jabari and its spiritual leader, Sheik Ahmed Yassin. Hamas will hold a rally tomorrow to mark its 25th
anniversary.  The bloodshed between Israel and Hamas, considered a
terrorist group by the U.S. and the European Union, was halted
on Nov. 21 with a cease-fire brokered by Egypt and the U.S. The
following week, the  United Nations General Assembly  voted to
recognize  Palestine  as a non-member observer state, approving a
bid by Mahmoud Abbas’s  Palestinian Authority , Hamas’s rival. The
two groups have pledged to seek reconciliation.  “We want this visit to be a message of unity and of
turning the page of division,” said Sami Abu Zuhri, Hamas’s
spokesman.  ‘Preposterous Accusation’  “Without all of you, I wouldn’t be here. I owe you and all
the militants,” Mashaal said, addressing crowds. “Today is
Gaza, it will be followed by Ramallah and Jerusalem.”  Ramallah is the capital of the West Bank, controlled by
Abbas. Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as the capital of their
state while Israel says the city is indivisible. Israeli plans
to build new homes in and around  Jerusalem  on land
internationally recognized as Palestinian drew condemnation this
week from the U.S. and several other countries.  Hamas militants, in black masks and olive-green military
uniforms, carried light and heavy weapons as they deployed along
the main road between Rafah and Gaza City. Hamas police and
security forces fanned out in main streets.  More than 160 Palestinians and six Israelis were killed
during last month’s conflict, as Israel pounded Gaza with air
bombardment and naval artillery, and Palestinian militants fired
rockets and mortars.  “It doesn’t matter who they are, Hamas still stands for
violence, bloodshed, extremism and racism,” Yigal Palmor, a
spokesman for Israel’s Foreign Ministry, said today by phone. He
said Mashaal’s visit “belies the preposterous accusation of a
siege on Gaza.”  Hamas has controlled Gaza since ousting forces loyal to
Abbas’s Fatah faction in 2007, having won elections the previous
year.  Mashaal has led Hamas’s political bureau since 1996. He was
born in the  West Bank  in 1956 and has lived in Kuwait and
Jordan, where his involvement with Hamas began. He was based in
Damascus until this year, and has said he won’t seek re-election
as the group’s political leader.  Israel and Egypt sealed Gaza’s borders in June 2007 after
Hamas broke off its power-sharing agreement with the Palestinian
Authority. Restrictions have eased in recent years, and Hamas
says further loosening is one of the elements of last month’s
cease-fire accord.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 