-- AMR Creditor Lawyer Said to Warn Pilots on Contract Vote
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/amr-creditor-lawyer-said-to-warn-pilots-on-contract-vote.html
The lawyer for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s unsecured
creditors committee warned American Airlines pilots of the risks
of rejecting a tentative contract that would allow the carrier’s
post-bankruptcy plan to be weighed against a  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  merger, three people familiar with the matter said.  Jack Butler  of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
told members of the  Allied Pilots Association  in meetings in
three cities that pilots would lose a 13.5 percent stake in a
restructured AMR if the deal isn’t approved, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks were private.  A successful vote would help the creditors panel evaluate
AMR’s preferred strategy to leave bankruptcy on its own and  US
Airways ’ takeover push.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR needs a
contract with the pilots, the only union without a new accord,
to determine its future costs.  Voting by American’s 8,000 active pilots ends at noon local
time today. Since reaching the tentative agreement on Nov. 9,
the union has urged ratification in meetings in eight cities
that began Dec. 1, according to the APA’s website.  The sessions to which Butler was invited included a forum
Dec. 5 near the airline’s headquarters, the APA said in a
message to members on its website.  “I hope every member in good standing takes the
opportunity to cast a vote in this critically important contract
ratification,” APA President  Keith Wilson  said yesterday in a
message posted on the site. “The stakes are too high for anyone
to remain on the sidelines.”  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for American, said the company had
no comment about the union meetings.  Creditors Committee  The APA has a seat on AMR’s nine-member unsecured creditors
committee, as do two other unions -- one representing flight
attendants, and the other mechanics and ground workers. Union
members’ stake is part of the tentative contract now out for a
vote.  Negotiations have ground on since 2006 without a final
agreement, even as AMR warned of bankruptcy before filing for
court protection on Nov. 29, 2011. A tentative accord calling
for union concessions failed in August when 61 percent of pilots
voted it down, prompting American to throw out their existing
contract and begin imposing terms to lower costs.  Labor Agreements  The APA joined other American unions in April in accepting
tentative contract terms with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways. A
combination of American, the third-largest U.S. airline, with
No. 5 US Airways would pass  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  as
the world’s biggest airline by passenger traffic.  American has said it prefers to emerge from bankruptcy on
its own and then assess potential mergers.  The airline blamed industry-leading labor costs for helping
push it into court protection. American sought to cut expenses
17 percent for each work group, including $315 million a year
from pilots. It is doing away with 10,000 positions, with all
but 1,800 eliminated through steps such as buyouts and
attrition.  Pilots’ pending six-year agreement provides a 4 percent pay
raise when it’s signed, followed by annual increases of 2
percent except in the third year, when pay is to be adjusted to
the industry average.  It establishes “pay bands” linked to the size of aircraft
flown, requires pilots to fly more hours each month, freezes
their pension and reduces company contributions to health care.
The contract allows larger aircraft to be flown by regional
partners and permits marketing agreements known as code-sharing
on domestic routes.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  