-- AMR Pilots Back Contract as Boost Seen in Merger Process
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/amr-gets-bankruptcy-boost-as-pilots-ratify-contract.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  pilots approved
their first new contract since 2003, securing the labor savings
sought by parent AMR Corp. and giving a possible boost to  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ’s push for a merger.  The accord was approved by 74 percent of those voting, the
 Allied Pilots Association  said yesterday. The six-year contract
will give pilots a 13.5 percent stake in the post-bankruptcy
company and annual pay raises while freezing their pension and
requiring longer work hours.  Pilots became the last work group to accept pay, benefit
and work-rule changes as  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR crafts a
reorganization plan. Creditors have sought a resolution on labor
expenses so they can weigh AMR’s strategy to exit bankruptcy as
an independent carrier against a  US Airways  takeover bid.  “Ratification helps ease the way towards a potential
merger,”  Jamie Baker , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in  New
York , said in a note to investors. “A failure to ratify would
have essentially stopped the clock, in our view, further
dragging out an already complex process.”  US Airways rose 1.3 percent to $12.77 yesterday, extending
a  rally  that has more than doubled the stock price this year on
speculation that Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker would
succeed with an AMR takeover. Baker has an  overweight  rating on
the shares.  Combination Studied  “We have been evaluating the merits of a combination under
a non-disclosure agreement with US Airways,” AMR CEO  Tom Horton 
said in a letter to employees. “While we are confident the new
American will be very strong, we are evaluating whether such a
combination could create value for our owners and a positive
outcome for our people and our customers. We expect to have a
conclusion on this soon.”  The Wall Street Journal reported that US Airways sent AMR a
merger proposal in mid-November that called for creditors to
receive a 70 percent stake in a combined airline.  Andy Backover ,
an AMR spokesman, and Ed Stewart, a US Airways spokesman, told
 Bloomberg News  they had no comment on the report, which cited
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  AMR and US Airways are working to resolve differences in
how each company values a combined airline and any financial
gains, a person familiar with the matter said. That step must be
finished before a merger could be considered, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  No Confidence  American’s pilots union reiterated its backing for a tie-up
with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways, which would create the
world’s biggest carrier by passenger traffic, and distanced
itself from Horton.  “This ratified agreement should not in any way be viewed
as support for the American stand-alone plan or for this current
management team,” said Dennis Tajer, an APA spokesman. “We
continue to support an American-US Airways merger as the best
way to strengthen our airline.”  Combining with US Airways is AMR’s “best chance to achieve
competitive scale and any valuable merger synergy benefits under
a credible, proven management team that might boost revenue and
lower overhead costs,”  Vicki Bryan , a Gimme Credit LLC bond
analyst in Houston, said in a note to clients.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due
October 2014 rose 3.6 percent yesterday to 79 cents on the
dollar, the highest price this year, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The notes traded at 17.75 cents after AMR filed for
Chapter 11 protection on Nov. 29, 2011.  Creditors Committee  American’s three biggest unions are on the unsecured
creditors committee that has a voice in major decisions in AMR’s
bankruptcy.  Jack Butler , the panel’s attorney, met with pilots
before the vote, warning them of the risks of a contract
rejection, said three people familiar with the matter who asked
not to be identified because the sessions were private.  The airline said the new contract responds to the
priorities of the pilots union, which last agreed on a contract
more than nine years ago and had been in talks with American
since 2006.  “Ratification gives us the certainty we need for American
to successfully restructure, providing opportunity and growth
for all of our people and stakeholders,” said Denise Lynn,
American’s senior vice president-people.  American’s 8,000 pilots rejected a previous tentative
agreement with 61 percent of the vote in August, prompting the
third-largest U.S. carrier to throw out the existing contract
and begin imposing changes to trim spending.  Labor Costs  AMR said industry-leading labor costs helped push it into
bankruptcy. The company sought to pare expenses 17 percent for
each work group, including $315 million a year from pilots in
pursuit of $1.06 billion in labor savings. The company is
eliminating 10,000 positions, with all but 1,800 of the cuts
coming through early-out programs and attrition.  APA and American’s other unions agreed in April to contract
terms with US Airways, contingent upon a merger. American
retains the exclusive right to file a reorganization plan until
Jan. 28. A request for an extension to March 11 is pending
before the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  