-- Marchionne Takes VW Rivalry to U.S. With Special Rebates
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-12-07T14:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/marchionne-takes-vw-rivalry-to-u-s-with-special-rebates.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne , who was re-elected today to head Europe’s
main carmaking lobby group, is taking his rivalry with
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in their home region overseas.  Marchionne, who also runs Chrysler Group LLC, is offering
$1,000 rebates to current VW owners in the U.S., where VW is
much smaller, to buy a Fiat or Chrysler vehicle.  Marchionne has been in a war of words with VW over auto
pricing in Europe, where VW commands 25 percent of the market,
suggesting in July that the German automaker was creating a
“bloodbath” in the region. Stephan Gruehsem, VW’s chief
spokesman, responded that Marchionne wasn’t qualified to lead
the ACEA lobby group.  The dispute, which included VW and Turin, Italy-based Fiat
each threatening to quit the ACEA, highlighted a growing
financial gap between German  manufacturers  with premium brands
and their unprofitable, volume-oriented French and Italian
counterparts, which are losing sales with low-margin, mid-range
models.  Marchionne and VW CEO Martin Winterkorn faced off at an
ACEA meeting at the Paris Motor Show on Sept. 28, a day after VW
reiterated its call for the Italian to step down as the
organization’s head. The executives emerged from the session
shaking hands, with Winterkorn saying that the “good friends”
had “settled things” and Marchionne saying ACEA members
decided to address overcapacity on their own.  Marchionne today was chosen for a second one-year term as
president of the 16-member  European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association , the Brussels-based organization said in a statement
today. The post rotates yearly, with the position assigned by
country for a two-year period.  Conflicting Interests  Marchionne has used his term at the ACEA to call for
cooperation among the region’s carmakers, and backing from the
EU, to close factories as the vehicle market shrinks for a fifth
consecutive year. Wolfsburg-based VW, which controls the Audi
and Porsche luxury brands, has been among German carmakers
resisting the strategy.  “One of the highest priorities for ACEA next year will be
to continue to push for a meaningful and supportive” European
Union industrial policy, the lobbying association said.  Volkswagen is  Europe ’s largest carmaker, with its group 10-
month market share rising 1.5 percentage points to 24.8 percent.
That compares with a 0.7-point decline to 6.4 percent for Fiat.
The ACEA is forecasting that European car sales this year will
drop to the lowest level since 1995.  The two automakers are among the top performers in the U.S.
market this year. Combined sales of VW, Audi, Bentley and
Lamborghini brands rose 31 percent in the first 11 months,
boosting VW’s group market share to 4 percent from 3.5 percent,
according to Autodata. Chrysler Group sales rose 22 percent,
lifting its share to 11.4 percent from 10.5 percent.  The U.S. rebate offer is only for buyers who currently own
or lease a VW vehicle, according to Chrysler’s website.
Customers don’t even have to give up their VW to qualify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Brussels via 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  