-- Army Rejects Plea to Boost Water for Mississippi Barges
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-12-07T19:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/army-rejects-plea-to-boost-missouri-flow-for-mississippi-barges.html
The  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
rejected shippers’ requests to increase the flow from a major
 Mississippi  River tributary, which a barge company said is
needed to keep open the nation’s busiest waterway.  The Corps found there would be “significant negative
effects” on the Missouri River system by increasing the flow,
including depleting drinking water supplies, loss of marine-
wildlife habitat and higher bills for hydropower users, Jo-Ellen Darcy, the Army’s assistant secretary for civil works, said in a
Dec. 6 letter to Senator Richard Durbin, released today. Durbin,
an  Illinois  Democrat, was among lawmakers seeking a study to
help make the case for additional water flow.  “The letter basically tells me we need to continue to pray
for rain,” Martin Hettel, senior manager of bulk sales for AEP
River Operations LLC, said in an interview aboard a tow boat on
the Mississippi River just south of Chester, Illinois.  Barges carrying grain, soybeans, coal, oil and other
commodities on the Mississippi River have started to reduce
their loads to navigate waters shrunk by the worst  drought  in 50
years. By the end of this month, rock structures in the river
near southern Illinois threaten to curtail traffic as the river
recedes, according to a Dec. 5 forecast from the National
Weather Service.  Companies that rely on the river to transport goods,
including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and  American Electric Power
Co. (AEP) , may see a decline in their cargo shipments.  More Options  “I thought it was a reach to get water off the Missouri,”
AEP’s Hettel said. “Industry knows what they’re facing and we
were just looking for more options.”  The Army Corps of Engineers is expediting work to remove
rock pinnacles that threaten Mississippi navigation between St.
Louis and Cairo, Illinois. That work, originally scheduled for
February, might begin this month, according to Darcy’s letter.  The Corps has selected two contractors, from the Chicago
area and  Iowa , to begin blasting work by the end of the month,
according to a Dec. 6 newsletter from AEP River Operations of
Chesterfield,  Missouri , near St. Louis, a unit of Columbus,
Ohio-based American Electric Power.  The company is part of a river-industry group that has held
weekly conference calls with the Corps. While the drilling and
blasting will cause the channel to close intermittently, the
full schedule isn’t yet known, the newsletter said.  1940 Levels  “It’s going to take 40 to 60 days to remove the
obstructions,” Hettel said. Without rain, the river at St.
Louis is forecast to reach its lowest level since 1940 by the
first of the year.  Barge traffic starts being impeded when the river channel
falls below a depth of about 9 feet, according to the Corps. The
level at St. Louis won’t reach that point until Dec. 26,
according to the National Weather Service.  A weather system may bring rain to the Northern Plains and
Upper Mississippi River valley this weekend, with rain possible
in the Ohio River valley, according to the service’s
Hydrometeorological Prediction Center.  The rain now forecast, expedited removal of the rocks and
limited flows authorized from upstream “are expected to be
sufficient to sustain navigation” on the middle Mississippi
River, without additional releases from the Missouri, Darcy said
in her letter to Durbin. She sent identical responses to nine
other senators, including Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat, and Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican.  Lawmaker Challenges  The Corps’ determination will make it difficult for
lawmakers to push President  Barack Obama  for an emergency
declaration for releasing Missouri water, Durbin said today in a
telephone interview.  Durbin said he plans to call for another meeting next week
with Darcy, barge operators and representatives from the coal,
chemical and farming industries to discuss water issues.  “I want her to spell out why she believes that we can
avoid any navigation crisis on the Mississippi,” he said. He
said it’s encouraging that the Corps expects rainfall and
expedited rock blasting to keep the river navigable.  Shippers and carriers are urging immediate action because
any water released from the Missouri River takes about two weeks
to raise the level of the Mississippi, according to the
Waterways Council Inc., based in Arlington, Virginia. The
industry group estimates about $7 billion in commodities travel
on the river each December and January. A halt in traffic may
affect more than 20,000 jobs, including dockworkers and coal
miners, the council said in a joint statement with the American
Waterways Operators trade group.  Not Sufficient  The shippers group said removing rock obstructions without
adding “a modest amount” of water from the Missouri isn’t
enough to maintain a 9-foot channel that will support
navigation.  “There is the real chance that navigation could at best be
severely impaired, and at worst effectively shut down, for an
extended period of time if necessary actions are not taken
immediately,” American Waterways Operators President Tom
Allegretti said a in a statement. A closing would imperil farm
exports and fertilizer shipments needed by February for spring
planting, he said.  The request from Midwestern lawmakers and industry groups
including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for additional water
triggered a clash with officials from states that rely on the
Missouri River for their livelihood.  The Corps doesn’t have the legal authority to release water
from Missouri River reservoirs and such a “shortsighted”
effort would exacerbate the effect of the drought along that
tributary, lawmakers and governors from Kansas and  Montana  and
North and South Dakota said in a Nov. 30  letter  toObama and to
Darcy.  The Corps is taking “all measures within its authority and
available resources that are necessary” to keep the Mississippi
open for navigation, Darcy said in her letter to Durbin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  