-- Asian Currencies Retreat on U.S. Fiscal Cliff, Europe Slowdown
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-12-08T00:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/asian-currencies-retreat-on-u-s-fiscal-cliff-rupee-rallies.html
Asian currencies  retreated from a 15-
month high this week as U.S. lawmakers struggled to agree on
budget revisions needed to avert $607 billion of automatic
spending cuts and tax increases in the world’s biggest economy.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, having gained in
each of the last six months, halted its advance as Malaysia’s
ringgit had its worst week since August. President  Barack Obama 
said Dec. 5 that the global economy remains “soft” and the
deadlock in  Washington  over taxes and spending, the so-called
fiscal cliff, is holding the U.S. back from leading a strong
recovery. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the
euro-area’s economy will shrink more than predicted this year,
while Germany’s central bank slashed its 2013 growth estimate.  “As we head into year-end, the discussions on the fiscal
cliff become more intense, so that would probably prompt some
flight to safety,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore . “Inevitably, the
external headwinds will hit Asian growth.”  The ringgit slid 0.6 percent this week to 3.0578 per dollar
in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.7 percent to 9,658, the Philippine
peso declined 0.1 percent to 40.933 and  India ’s rupee fell 0.4
percent to 54.4750. The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.1
percent. It reached 118.26 on Nov. 30, the highest since
September 2011.  Draghi Forecast  A few dozen Republicans joined a bipartisan push to break
an impasse between Obama and House Speaker John Boehner over
taxes for the highest-earning Americans. Draghi said the euro-
area’s economy will shrink 0.5 percent this year, while the
Bundesbank yesterday lowered its 2013 growth forecast for
 Germany  to 0.4 percent from 1.6 percent predicted in June.  “Draghi’s words mean the recovery will be slower than
previously expected, damping exports to  Europe ,” said Wee-Khoon
Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong. “More
regional central banks are getting a bit more aggressive in
intervening in the market to protect the recovery in exports.”  The Philippine central bank said on Dec. 3 capital controls
may be part of steps to deal with inflows. South Korea’s market
regulators are reviewing more curbs after tightening limits on
currency forwards in November, Kim Seok Dong, chairman of the
Financial Services Commission, said last week.  Rupee Optimism  The ringgit fell the most since the five days ended Aug. 31.
A government report yesterday showed exports shrank 3.2 percent
in October from a year earlier, following a 2.6 percent increase
in September.  India’s rupee erased gains, after reaching a one-month high
of 54.045 per dollar on Dec. 6. Lawmakers this week voted in
favor of a government decision to open the retailing sector to
the likes of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Tesco Plc.  “This currency continues to outperform on reform hopes,”
 Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy at Credit
Agricole CIB, said in a note to clients yesterday. “The passage
was encouraging. Further gains in the rupee are seen over coming
sessions.”  Elsewhere,  China ’s  yuan  was little changed this week at
6.2301 per dollar. Thailand’s baht and Taiwan’s dollar were
steady at 30.68 and NT$29.125, respectively. South Korea’s won
strengthened 0.1 percent to 1,081.55.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  