-- Aussie Set for Weekly Gain Before Chinese Production, Sales Data
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-12-07T06:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/aussie-set-for-weekly-gain-before-chinese-production-sales-data.html
Australia ’s dollar was set for a
five-day advance before Chinese data next week that may show the
world’s second-largest economy is picking up.  The so-called Aussie was near a two-month high after a
private report showed the nation’s construction industry
contracted at a slower pace. Demand for the currency was also
supported after data showed Australia’s trade deficit widened by
less than economists predicted as exports withstood a slower
global economy and capital goods purchases increased.  “Chinese economic data are improving after concern about a
slowdown,” said Teppei Ino, a Tokyo-based analyst at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest financial
group by market value. “That’s providing some support for the
Australian and  New Zealand  dollars.”  Australia’s currency traded at $1.0478 as of 5:07 p.m. in
Sydney. Yesterday it rose 0.3 percent to $1.0486 in  New York 
after touching $1.0516, the highest since Sept. 21. The New
Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, bought 83.19 U.S. cents from
83.27. The Aussie has risen 0.5 percent this week, while the
kiwi has advanced 1.4 percent.  China’s  industrial production  probably rose 9.8 percent in
November from a year earlier, the fastest pace since March,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . Retail sales are forecast to have increased 14.6
percent last month, compared with a 14.5 percent gain in
October. The National Bureau of Statistics is due to release the
figures on Dec. 9.  Aussie Outlook  “Stabilization in expectations for  Asia  is likely to prove
supportive for China-linked FX and asset markets,”  Todd Elmer ,
head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy for Asia excluding
Japan at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore, wrote in a research note
yesterday. The Australian dollar may rise above $1.11, he wrote.  Australia’s  construction performance index  rose to 37 last
month, the highest since January, from 35.8 in October, a report
from the Australian Industry Group and the Housing Industry
Association showed today. A reading below 50 represents
contraction.  The nation’s imports exceeded exports by A$2.09 billion
($2.19 billion) in October, government figures showed today.
Economists had forecast a  trade shortfall  of A$2.2 billion in a
Bloomberg News poll.  The country’s official foreign exchange reserves fell to
the equivalent of $48.17 billion in November from $51.24 billion
in October, according to figures published today by the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia. It was the first decrease in reserves since
August.  The Aussie was near a one-month low versus its New Zealand
counterpart amid speculation Australia’s central bank will
reduce borrowing costs to help protect the nation’s economy.  RBA Outlook  Traders see a more than 50 percent chance that the RBA will
cut its overnight cash-rate target to 2.75 percent in February,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg on overnight-index
swaps. The RBA lowered the rate on Dec. 4 by a quarter
percentage point to 3 percent.  “More cuts are priced into the RBA cash rate,” said
 Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based currency strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender.
Because of the difference in monetary policy prospects for the
two countries, the Aussie-kiwi  exchange rate  is more likely to
fall, he said.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  said yesterday after a
policy meeting that the nation’s growth is expected to quicken
over the next two years. It left rates at 2.5 percent.  Australia’s currency was little changed at NZ$1.2594. It
touched NZ$1.2580 yesterday, the weakest since Nov. 6.  The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark three-year government
note was unchanged at 2.60 percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap
rate reached 2.7 percent, the highest since Nov. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  