-- Australia Trade Deficit Widens as Capital-Goods Imports Increase
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-07T00:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/australia-trade-deficit-widens-as-capital-goods-imports-increase.html
Australia ’s trade deficit widened
less than economists predicted in October as exports withstood a
slower global economy and capital goods purchases increased.  Imports outpaced exports by A$2.09 billion ($2.2 billion),
compared with a revised A$1.42 billion deficit in September, the
Bureau of Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists was
for a deficit of A$2.2 billion.  Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  has reduced  interest
rates  four times this year to 3 percent as prices of the
nation’s biggest commodity exports ease. Policy makers are
trying to revive demand outside of a resource boom that may
crest in the first half of next year at a lower level than
previously expected.  “The price declines in iron ore and coal earlier in the
year have weighed heavily on Australia’s exports,”  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief economist in Australia who
predicted a A$1.6 billion shortfall, said in research report
before the release. “The resources boom still requires large
amounts of machinery and equipment for building and
construction, which are mostly sourced from offshore and will
keep Australia’s demand for imports elevated.”  Exports were little changed at A$24.4 billion, as a 6
percent drop in coal was partly offset by a 3 percent rise in
metal ores and minerals, today’s report showed. Imports advanced
3 percent to A$26.5 billion on a 13 percent increase in capital
goods purchases, the report showed. Fuels and lubricants imports
rose 5 percent.  Trade Windfall  “Key commodity prices for Australia remain significantly
lower than earlier in the year, though trends have been more
mixed over the past few months,” Stevens said in a statement
after cutting rates to 3 percent this week. “The terms of trade
have declined by about 15 percent since the peak, to a level
that is still historically high.”  Prices of the nation’s key export,  iron ore , have rebounded
since reaching a three-year low on Sept. 5 after  China  announced
spending on new subways and roads.  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0482 at
11:43 a.m. in Sydney, compared with $1.0481 before the data were
released.  Australia’s economy has been driven by a resource bonanza
for iron ore, coal and natural gas that is bringing record
investment in projects. The nation’s unemployment rate, at 5.2
percent in November, is lower than 7.9 percent in the U.S. and
11.7 percent in the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  