-- Austrian Communes’ Finances Require More Oversight, Nowotny Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-12-07T16:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/austrian-communes-finances-require-more-oversight-nowotny-says.html
Austrian municipalities need more
budgetary oversight and should team up with the country’s debt
office to manage their finances and avoid more losses on
investments, central bank Governor Ewald Nowotny said today.  The province of Salzburg joined other Austrian towns,
cities, provinces and public bodies yesterday when it disclosed
as much as 340 million euros ($440 million) of potential losses
caused by swaps. A civil servant in the region’s finance
department had invested in the securities since 2001 and hid the
losses from her superiors, auditors and banks advising the
province, according to Salzburg’s finance head David Brenner.  “We have learned that certain things need much more
oversight and some should be banned completely,” Nowotny told
journalists today, declining to comment on the Salzburg case in
particular. The Austrian Federal Financing Agency could help
smaller towns and cities to better manage their debt, he said.
“More common action and more centralization in this area would
be very welcome because it would mean professionalization.”  The cities of Linz and St. Poelten and the Austrian state
railway OeBB were among Austrian bodies that lost money with
swaps in recent years. Similar cases have emerged in Germany,
France and  Italy  since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008.  The losses are a legacy of the era that preceded the Lehman
collapse, Nowotny said. “There was huge optimism at the time
and municipalities and provinces almost competed about who was
using what innovative product,” he said. “It never happened
out of ill will, it was always driven by the idea to reduce
interest payments and help public finances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  