-- Taxes, Money-Market Rules, Insider Trading: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-12-07T12:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/taxes-money-market-rules-insider-trading-compliance.html
Failure by Congress to act on the
alternative minimum tax by year’s end will lead to
“significant” delays in tax filing and a strain on taxpayers,
said Steven Miller, the Internal Revenue Service’s acting
commissioner.  The alternative minimum tax, or AMT, is part of the current
fiscal negotiations in Congress. Leaving it untouched would
immediately affect taxpayers, because its reach would be
expanded for returns for tax year 2012.  Without action by Congress, the parallel tax system would
affect 32.4 million households in 2013, up from 4 million in
2010, according to the Congressional Research Service. It would
increase tax collections by $92 billion, shrinking or erasing
many taxpayers’ expected refunds.  “Taxpayers and the IRS need to know what the tax
provisions are for 2012, so that you know what you owe and we
know how to process your return in January,” Miller said at a
tax conference yesterday in Washington.  Also, the IRS’ computer systems have been programmed
assuming that Congress will act this year to prevent the AMT’s
expansion, leading to a delay in the agency’s ability to accept
tax returns if lawmakers do nothing.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC Study Says Money Fund Overhaul Wouldn’t Hurt Debt Issuers  The mutual fund industry’s argument that new money-market
fund rules would hurt companies, states and cities that sell
short-term debt has been contradicted in a new Securities and
Exchange Commission study.  Should new rules shrink money funds, non-financial
companies wouldn’t be significantly affected because they don’t
lean heavily on the funds, while banks are well suited to find
alternative funding, according to the  report  prepared by SEC
staff for three commissioners. The report also said a reduction
in demand by money funds wouldn’t necessarily cause a drop in
demand for short-term debt.  “Given the supply of very short-term securities is likely
to be limited to the same securities in which money funds
currently invest, shifts in investor capital are likely to
increase demand for these same assets, reducing the net effect
on the short-term funding market,” the report said.  The SEC report, made public Dec. 5, undermines the case put
forth by fund companies that a planned overhaul of money funds
would hurt the U.S. economy by disrupting markets for short-term
debt. Fund executives have been fighting efforts by regulators
to impose changes the companies believe would destroy the
attraction of the products that manage about $2.6 trillion and
represent the largest collective buyer of commercial paper in
the U.S.  Ianthe Zabel, a Washington-based spokeswoman for the
Investment Company Institute, a trade association that has
fought the proposed rules, declined to comment.  “These changes would destroy money-market funds, at great
cost to investors, state and local governments and the
economy,” ICI President Paul Schott Stevens said in written
testimony before the Senate Banking Committee on June 21.  For more, click here.  EU to Consider Changes to Merger Rules to Prevent Tax Evasion  The European Commission will seek to review merger rules in
2013 in search of changes that could reduce tax evasion and
fraud, according to an action plan released yesterday.  The Brussels-based commission also will urge nations to
adopt common anti-abuse standards to prevent companies from
using an “artificial arrangement” to avoid taxes. Other
recommendations call for new efforts to identify tax havens and
to urge other nations to meet EU standards.  “Around one trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) is lost to tax
evasion and avoidance every year in the EU,” EU Tax
Commissioner Algirdas Semeta said yesterday. The action plan,
which will be presented to national finance ministers and the
European Parliament, calls for “ways to address legal
technicalities and loopholes which some companies exploit to
avoid paying their fair share.”  Corporations including  Starbucks Corp., (SBUX)   Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  have come under attack from British lawmakers and
protesters for using complex accounting methods to minimize tax
liabilities in the U.K. while running large operations in the
country.  Starbucks, the world’s biggest coffee-shop operator, has
pledged to build public trust in the U.K. after lawmakers
criticized the firm for not paying any corporation tax for the
past three years. The firm is in talks with the U.K. Treasury
over its tax affairs and will release details of the discussions
this week, Starbucks said on Dec. 2 in an e-mailed statement.  EU Readies Law to Help Price-Fixing Victims Sue for Damages  European Union regulators may make it easier for cartel
victims to sue the perpetrators under proposals to be unveiled
in “the coming months,” Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said yesterday.  The proposals will seek to “set up an EU-wide procedure
for these compensation actions,” Almunia told a conference in
Brussels.  Private damages lawsuits are rare in national courts across
Europe. The European Commission, which yesterday levied record
cartel fines of 1.47 billion euros ($1.9 billion) on producers
of cathode-ray tubes for TVs and computer monitors, has
championed such lawsuits as a way to compensate victims of
illegal monopolies and cartels.  The damages legislation will also include rules on what
documents claimants can obtain from EU regulators to bolster
compensation lawsuits against cartel members, Almunia said.  Cartel victims taking legal action in national courts have
asked for documents “that should have been protected because
otherwise our leniency programs would not work,” Almunia said.  Possible rules on group lawsuits, or collective redress,
“will come later,” he said.  Compliance Action  SEC Urged to Update Fair Disclosure Rules After Warning Netflix  U.S. regulators, probing comments posted by  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings on Facebook Inc.’s site,
are being urged to reconsider disclosure rules created years
before the advent of social media.  Netflix said it they may face a Securities and Exchange
Commission civil suit after Hastings told Facebook followers in
July that Netflix customers watched more than 1 billion hours of
videos in June, according to a filing by Netflix yesterday. The
company said that it didn’t issue an accompanying press release
or make a filing with regulators.  Companies and executives are increasingly relying on sites
such as Facebook and Twitter Inc. -- alongside news wires and
other more traditional outlets -- to communicate with the
public. It’s time for the SEC to update its policies to account
for the widening role played by social media in helping
companies be more transparent, said Stephen Diamond,  associate
professor of law  at Santa Clara University.  The SEC adopted its fair disclosure regulations, known as
 Reg FD , in 2000 to inhibit companies from sharing sensitive
information in a selective manner.  “The SEC staff believes that I gave you all ‘material’
investor information in my post and that we needed to instead
release the June viewing fact ‘publicly,’” through a press
release or a regulatory filing, Hastings wrote, addressing his
customers, in yesterday’s SEC filing.  Jonathan Friedland, a spokesman for Los Gatos, California-
based Netflix, said the company had no additional comment.
Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Big Lots Gets Subpoena From U.S. Attorney in CEO Stock Probe  Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  said that Chief Executive Officer Steven
Fishman is under investigation by the Justice Department over
stock trades he made and that it received a grand jury subpoena
from the  Manhattan  U.S. attorney requesting documents relating
to the trades.  “We are fully cooperating with the U.S. attorney in
connection with the subpoena,” the Columbus, Ohio-based
discount retailer said Dec. 5 in a regulatory filing.  Big Lots said the Securities and Exchange Commission is
also conducting an inquiry into the matter. While the company
hasn’t received a document request from the SEC, it expects one,
Charles Haubiel, Big Lots’ chief administrative officer, said in
an interview. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara asked for
information on Fishman’s trades over the past couple years, he
said.  The inquiries come after the company, which has more than
1,400 U.S. stores, announced Dec. 4 that the 61-year-old
Fishman, who took over in July 2005, would retire as soon as a
replacement is found.  “Unequivocally, his retirement had nothing to do with
this,” Haubiel said.  Ellen Davis , a spokesman for Bharara, declined to comment
on the investigation.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC,
declined to comment on whether the commission was investigating
Fishman.  For more, click here.  Diamondback Capital to Shut as Investors Pull $520 Million  Diamondback Capital Management LLC, among the hedge funds
raided by the FBI two years ago in the U.S. investigation of
insider trading on Wall Street, is liquidating after an exodus
of clients.  The fund received requests from investors to withdraw about
$520 million, or 26 percent of its assets, for the end of the
year, co-founders Richard Schimel and Lawrence Sapanski said
yesterday in a client letter. The  Stamford , Connecticut-based
firm, which has 133 employees, plans to return most of clients’
cash next month.  The redemptions left Diamondback with $1.5 billion in
assets, down from $5.8 billion in November 2010, when its
offices were searched by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Three other hedge funds that were also raided at the time,
including Level Global Investors LP, have shuttered. Former
Diamondback portfolio manager Todd Newman is on trial in
Manhattan on charges that he was part of a “criminal club” of
friends and co-workers who made trades based on illegal tips.  “It’s difficult for anyone to survive once they’re
connected with the insider-trading probe,” said Ronen
Schwartzman, founder of Ten Capital Advisors LLC, a New York-
based firm that advises clients on investing in hedge funds.  Steve Bruce, a spokesman for Diamondback, declined to
comment beyond the letter.  Diamondback, which has 22 investment teams, agreed this
year to pay more than $9 million to resolve a Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit over trades made in 2008 and 2009 by
Newman and Jesse Tortora, a former analyst who worked with
Newman. Tortora has pleaded guilty to securities fraud and is
cooperating with the government.  The office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara agreed
not to prosecute Diamondback for the actions of Newman and
Tortora and said the co-founders weren’t aware of their
misconduct.  A third Diamondback employee, portfolio manager Anthony
Scolaro, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud in
November 2010. His cooperation with the government’s insider-
trading probe led to the raid on Diamondback.  For more, click here.  Stanford’s Antiguan, U.S. Receivers Reach Cooperation Accord  R. Allen Stanford’s Antiguan liquidators have agreed to
cooperate with his U.S. receiver and federal prosecutors to
jointly control the convicted financier’s remaining assets, the
liquidators said.  The receiver and liquidators have been battling for control
of Stanford’s assets since his companies were seized by U.S.
regulators in February 2009.  The agreement announced Dec. 5 by liquidators Hugh Dickson
and Marcus Wide, and independently confirmed by Kevin Sadler, a
lawyer for the court-appointed U.S. receiver, clears one of the
last obstacles to compensating victims of Stanford’s $7 billion
investment fraud scheme.  An estimated 20,000 investors were defrauded of more than
$7 billion through a Ponzi scheme Stanford created around bogus
certificates of deposit sold by Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd.  Stanford, 63, was convicted in March of leading the fraud
and stealing more than $2 billion to finance a lavish personal
lifestyle and an array of money-losing private ventures ranging
from Caribbean resort developments to cricket tournaments.  He’s serving a 110-year sentence in a federal prison in
 Florida  as he appeals his conviction and sentence.  Ralph Janvey was appointed receiver by a federal judge in
 Dallas  to marshal Stanford’s assets and wind down his companies
in the U.S. and abroad, while London-based Wide & Dickson were
appointed by an Antiguan court to do the same.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas). The criminal case is U.S.
v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Texas (Houston).  In the Courts  Level Global Co-Founder, SAC Fund Manager Ruled Co-Conspirators  Level Global Investors LP co-founder David Ganek and SAC
Capital Advisors LP fund manager Michael Steinberg were ruled to
be co-conspirators in an insider-trading scheme involving fund
managers Anthony Chiasson and Todd Newman.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who is presiding over
the criminal trial of Chiasson, who co-founded Level Global with
Ganek, and Newman, a former portfolio manager at Diamondback
Capital Management LLC, made the rulings yesterday in Manhattan
federal court. The decision means prosecutors can present the
jury with evidence involving both Ganek and Steinberg, neither
of whom has been charged with a crime.  “I’m going to allow the Ganek evidence in,” Sullivan told
Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson, who had argued it
shouldn’t be presented to the jury. He also allowed e-mails
involving Steinberg, over objections from Newman’s attorney,
Steve Fishbein.  The U.S. says Chiasson and Newman made trades in stocks
including  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Nvidia Corp. based on illegal tips from
company insiders which were provided to the fund managers by
analysts who worked for the defendants. They have pleaded not
guilty to securities fraud and conspiracy. Six men have pleaded
guilty to roles in the scheme.  Ganek started Level Global in 2003 with Chiasson, an
analyst he met at SAC Capital.  Steinberg, 40, who was put on leave in September after it
emerged he was an unindicted co-conspirator, has worked at SAC
Capital for 15 years, the longest tenure of the six people who
have been tied to the insider-trading probe while employed at
the $14 billion hedge fund.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-
based SAC, declined to comment on yesterday’s ruling.  Ganek’s lawyer, John Carroll, said in a statement that
there’s no evidence Ganek knew about any inside information.  Barry Berke, a lawyer for Steinberg, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment about the judge’s finding.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Facebook IPO Judge Orders Consolidation of Investor Suits  A judge overseeing investor litigation over  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
initial public offering in May ordered three groups of suits
consolidated and named lead counsel to represent the plaintiffs.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet yesterday ordered
consolidation of suits claiming Facebook and its officers and
directors violated securities laws, and of those claiming  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  violated securities laws and mishandled the first
day of public trading in Facebook shares.  Sweet named the law firms Bernstein Litowitz Berger &
Grossman LLP and Labaton Sucharow LLP as co-lead counsel
representing investors in the Facebook securities actions.
 Entwistle & Cappucci LLP  was appointed lead counsel for cases
claiming securities violations against  Nasdaq . Sweet named
Finkelstein Thompson LLP and Lovell Stewart Halebian Jacobson
LLP to lead the suits alleging negligence against Nasdaq.  Sweet said he will decide whether to consolidate a separate
group of derivative suits by Facebook shareholders on behalf of
the company after a hearing on Dec. 12.  Investors sued Facebook, the operator of the world’s
largest social network, after its stock dropped in the wake of
the IPO.  The investors claim the Menlo Park, California-based
company failed to disclose discussions it had with underwriters’
analysts about advertising revenue.  Suits against Nasdaq claim it caused technical and other
trading-related errors that created market uncertainty and
caused investor losses.  The case is In Re: Facebook Inc. IPO Securities and
Derivative Litigation, MDL 2389, U.S. Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation (Washington).  Rajat Gupta Insider Appeal to Be Heard as Early as April 1  Rajat Gupta’s appeal of his conviction for passing inside
tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam will be
heard as soon as April 1, according to the court that’s
considering the case.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan yesterday said it
will expedite Gupta’s appeal, ordering that briefs be filed by
March 29 and setting oral arguments for as soon as the first
week of April.  In a hearing Dec. 4, a two-judge panel of the appeals court
ruled that Gupta, 64, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director, can remain free on $10 million bond while it considers
the case. The decision overruled an order by U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff that Gupta surrender to begin serving his two-year
prison sentence on Jan. 8.  Gupta was convicted by a jury in June of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of securities fraud. He was accused
of passing illegal information about New York-based Goldman
Sachs to Rajaratnam, his friend and business partner.  In yesterday’s order, U.S. Circuit Judges Jose Cabranes and
Reena Raggi, who allowed Gupta to remain free pending appeal
three days ago, directed that any issues about his release be
directed to them.  U.S. Circuit Judge Susan L. Carney, who was also assigned
to the panel, removed herself from consideration of the case,
according to yesterday’s order, which didn’t provide a reason.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Money-Laundering Reporting Requirement Doesn’t Violate Rights  Requiring lawyers to report suspicions that clients may be
involved in money laundering doesn’t violate human rights
standards, a European court said.  A French lawyer lost his appeal yesterday against the
national rule as the European Court of Human Rights found the
requirement doesn’t infringe lawyer-client confidentiality.  The requirement was adopted in 2007 to ensure French
lawyers comply with European Union anti-money-laundering
directives. The rule has safeguards such as requiring the report
to be filed to a bar association and restricting the obligation
to certain services, including property transactions.  The rule doesn’t “represent a disproportionate
interference with lawyers’ professional privilege,” the
Strasbourg, France-based court found, according to a statement
on the decision.  Toll Officials Settle Investor Lawsuits for $16.2 Million  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  officials agreed to a $16.2 million
settlement of claims that they misled shareholders about the
company’s prospects while selling stock worth about $615
million, according to court filings.  The accord resolves investor claims that executives of the
largest U.S. luxury-home builder wrongfully issued bullish
 forecasts  in the face of falling demand in fiscal 2006 and 2007,
according to a filing yesterday in  Delaware  Chancery Court. The
investors also alleged company directors, including co-founders
Bruce Toll and Robert Toll, sold shares at inflated prices
because of the forecasts, according to a 2008 complaint.  Insurers covering Toll Brothers directors will pay $9.8
million of the settlement while the remaining $6.4 million will
be paid personally by individual defendants, according to the
filing. The money will be returned to Toll Brothers’ coffers
rather than paid out to shareholders.  The settlement “confers substantial benefits upon Toll
Brothers and its current stockholders,” the investors’ lawyers
said in the filing.  Kira Sterling, a spokeswoman for the Horsham, Pennsylvania-
based builder, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment on the
settlement.  The settlement resolves three cases--one in state court in
Delaware and two in federal court in Philadelphia--according to
the Delaware filing.  Toll Brothers officials said in the filing outlining the
settlement that board members weren’t admitting to any
wrongdoing as part of the accord.  The defendants agreed to the settlement to “permit the
operation of Toll Brothers without further distraction and
diversion of its directors and executive personnel” by the
litigation, according to the filing.  The Delaware case is Pfeiffer v. Toll, 4140, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Conferences and Interviews  Quantitative Models Require More Discipline, SEC’s Kurtas Says  Investment and trading firms must impose more discipline
developing quantitative models to avoid mishaps that can harm
investors, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission
official.  Reliance on mathematical models to make trading decisions
requires firms to ensure that automated systems operate as
planned and are properly tested, Erozan Kurtas, an assistant
director in the quantitative analytics unit within the SEC’s
Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, said at a
conference about high-frequency trading Dec. 5.  The SEC is emphasizing the responsibilities of firms using
automated strategies to invest or trade in the wake of events
such as  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s technology mistake that cost
the firm more than $450 million in August, and a coding flaw
that led to $217 million in client losses at a unit of Axa SA a
few years earlier. The Axa case was the first targeting an error
in a quantitative investment model, according to the commission.  “If we don’t sort this out, we’re going to have lots of
Axas or Knights,” Kurtas said.  The OCIE unit, formed earlier this year, uses quantitative
analytics to understand how companies manage risks posed by
technology and mathematical models, Kurtas said.  OCIE 
administers the SEC’s national examination program of companies
such as investment advisers, brokers and exchanges.  For more, click here.  Denmark’s FSA Tells Banks to Ignore Basel Liquidity Rules  Denmark ’s financial regulator is telling banks to ignore
global standards set by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision and give mortgage bonds the top liquidity
designation reserved for sovereign assets.  The Financial Supervisory Authority is disregarding Basel’s
definition of easy-to-sell assets even as it requires banks to
show they comply with liquidity coverage standards envisaged by
the regulator. The Copenhagen-based watchdog will expand the
pool of reporting banks “in the near future” from Denmark’s
five largest lenders to include institutions with working
capital that exceeds 12 billion kroner ($2 billion).  “We think, based on objective criteria, that a large part
of Danish covered bonds are as liquid as government bonds,”
Kristian Vie Madsen, deputy director at the Copenhagen-based
agency, said in an interview.  The FSA has backed Denmark’s banks in lobbying the European
Commission for equal treatment of mortgage bonds after the Basel
Committee proposed limiting the asset class to 40 percent of
easy-to-sell holdings. Regulators want lenders to hold more
liquid assets to help them withstand market disruptions.  Denmark has fought Basel’s definition of liquid assets as
Europe’s debt crisis tests assumptions that sovereign bonds are
safer than other securities. The government in Copenhagen, the
central bank and commercial lenders have argued that Basel’s
liquidity rules would lay the Danish market to waste. Denmark’s
public debt is less than a third the size of its $495 billion
mortgage market, meaning there aren’t enough sovereign bonds to
satisfy banks’ liquidity needs.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  