-- Maze Wins St. Moritz, Extends Overall Lead Over Vonn
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-07T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/maze-wins-st-moritz-extends-overall-lead-over-vonn.html
Tina Maze  of Slovenia extended her
lead in World Cup skiing’s overall standings as defending
champion  Lindsey Vonn  of the U.S. slipped to fourth place.  Maze, 29, got her third victory of the season with a win in
yesterday’s super-combined race in St. Moritz,  Switzerland ,
where the women have a Super-G today and a giant slalom
tomorrow.  Maze leads the overall standings with 497 points, 128 ahead
of Olympic slalom champion Maria Hoefl-Riesch of  Germany .
Austria’s Kathrin Zettel moved into third place with 320 points,
while Vonn is fourth with 310.  “I came to St. Moritz to win all three races and I don’t
care if the others think I’m arrogant,” Maze, who was runner-up
to Vonn in last season’s overall standings, told reporters. “I
can’t wait for tomorrow’s race.”  Maze also won giant slaloms in October in Soelden,  Austria ,
and in November in Aspen, Colorado.  Maze finished first in both legs yesterday, winning in a
combined time of 2 minutes, 1.76 seconds in the event, which
features separate runs in the Super-G and slalom. Nicole Hosp of
Austria was second, 0.88 seconds behind, while Zettel took third
1.08 seconds back.  Vonn, 28, a four-time winner of the overall title, missed a
turn on the top section of the slalom leg and was disqualified.
She won overall titles in 2008-2010, was second in 2011 by three
points to Hoefl-Riesch and won again in 2012.  Vonn, the reigning Olympic downhill champion, had her start
to the season hampered by a stomach infection that hospitalized
her for two days in mid-November in  Colorado . Last weekend, she
won three World Cup events in Lake Louise,  Canada , for the
second straight season.  Vonn, who won 12 events last season, is six victories shy
of tying Austrian record holder Annemarie Moser-Proell as the
most successful female skier in World Cup history.  The men are in the French resort of Val d’Isere, where a
slalom race is scheduled for today and a giant slalom tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  