-- Barnes & Noble Investor Calls for Spinoff Nook Division
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-12-07T21:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/barnes-noble-investor-calls-for-spinoff-nook-division.html
Another  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  investor
called for the largest U.S. bookstore chain to spin off its Nook
digital unit into a public company to boost  shareholder value .  Investing the cash generated by the company’s stores in the
Nook unit over the past three years has been “disastrous” for
shareholders, Rick Schottenfeld, chief executive officer of New
York-based Schottenfeld Group Holdings, said in a letter to
Barnes & Noble founder and Chairman  Leonard Riggio  dated Dec. 5.
The cash should be returned to investors with share repurchases
and dividends, Schottenfeld said.  Barnes & Noble has been losing money as it develops and
markets the Nook unit to take advantage of a growing preference
for digital books. That shift has put more pressure on its
retail operations, which posted a drop in sales last quarter.  In February, G Asset Management LLC also called for the
Nook unit to be separated. Barnes & Noble has said it has an
ongoing strategic review of options to increase shareholder
value that includes separating the Nook. It created a subsidiary
this year with a $300 million investment from Microsoft Corp.
that includes the digital and college bookstore units.  Barnes & Noble  rose  less than 1 percent to $14.71 at the
close in New York. The shares have gained 1.6 percent this year.  Separating the Nook business isn’t happening “fast
enough,” Schottenfeld, whose stake in the company is less than
$10 million, said in an interview. “The only way they are going
to get the proper valuation is by separating these two
companies.”  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment.  Selling Off Stores  Schottenfeld, who met with Barnes & Noble management about
a month ago, said he’s also worried the company will sell off
the retail business at a cheap valuation.  “There is a meaningful upside in the book business if they
keep buying back stock and shrinking the float and taking that
cash and returning it to shareholders,” Schottenfeld said.
“Shareholders should get the benefit of this  cash flow  for a
little while.”  Sales at its retail unit, which includes its Website, fell
2.9 percent in the quarter ended Oct. 27. Meanwhile, revenue
from the Nook unit rose 5.6 percent to $160.3 million. Those
results show the Nook unit is ready to stand on its own,
Schottenfeld said. Having a mature retail business and a mobile-
device maker in the same company is hard for investors to value,
he said.  “I’m not bearish on either business,” Schottenfeld said.
“I’m just bearish on them living together.”  While Schottenfeld isn’t currently planning to file a
shareholder proxy to push for changes, he said that may change
over time.  “For now, I wanted to see what other shareholders think,
and get them to start pushing management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  