-- Beauty Queen Nefertiti in Spotlight, Berlin Denies Tricks
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/beauty-queen-nefertiti-in-spotlight-berlin-denies-tricks.html
Nefertiti is reigning supreme in
Berlin, where an exhibition marks the 100th anniversary of the
discovery of her bust and explains why  Egypt  won’t get her back.  The  Neues Museum  on Berlin’s Museum Island, the queen’s
palatial home since it was rebuilt from rubble and reopened in
2009, is hosting “In the Light of Amarna.” The show puts
Nefertiti -- one of the most famous figures of the ancient
world, thanks to her bust -- in the context of her era.  The German archaeologist Ludwig Borchardt knew it was his
“lucky day” when his team dug up the painted limestone in
December 1912.  “Colors look freshly painted,” he wrote shortly after the
discovery. “Really wonderful work. No use describing it, you
have to see it.”  He could not have known then that the queen, with her
graceful neck, chiseled cheekbones, long aristocratic nose,
missing left iris and perfect bow-shaped mouth would become a
symbol for both Berlin and Egypt. Nor that the two would wrangle
over who owns her for a century afterwards.  A small section in the basement of the Neues Museum
addresses the excavation and Egyptian accusations that Borchardt
tricked the French chief of the Egyptian archaeology authority
into letting the bust return to Berlin.  No Tricks  The German position is clear.  “The bust is without doubt rightfully in the ownership of
the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation,” Culture Minister
Bernd Neumann said at a press conference to open the exhibition.
“There can be no talk of deception.”  He conceded that many transactions agreed 100 years ago
“would be decided differently today.” Yet it’s impossible to
renege on them, he said.  “Who does Nefertiti belong to?” he asked. “All of us.
She is a part of world heritage.”  In 1912, Egypt was under British administration. The
antiquities authority was run by the French. Agreements with the
excavation teams working in the country foresaw the 50-50
division of spoils. Gustave Lefebvre, the head inspector,
allowed the “painted queen” to leave for Berlin along with a
list of other items, according to the Neues Museum.  When she was first exhibited in Berlin in 1924, Nefertiti
shot to stardom, and the demands for her return followed soon
after from the French. Reichsmarschall Hermann Goering,  Adolf Hitler ’s right-hand man, also negotiated her return with Egypt’s
King Fuad I after the Nazis took power in 1933. Yet Hitler
intervened to keep Nefertiti in Berlin.  Mona Lisa  The most recent demands for her return to Egypt came in
2011 from  Zahi Hawass , who was at the time secretary general of
the country’s Supreme Council of Antiquities.  Berlin is not inclined to hand her back. Neumann compared
Nefertiti’s association with the Neues Museum to the  Mona Lisa ’s
link to the Louvre and Botticelli’s Venus to the Uffizi. A
symbol of timeless beauty, she has -- in common with her
Parisian and Florentine counterparts -- been depicted on
ashtrays, keyrings, t-shirts, tea-towels and more.  She is even portrayed in Lego and as a relative of  Donald
Duck  at the Berlin show.  Yet the queen herself is almost as mysterious as the Mona
Lisa. The ancient city of Akhetaten (Amarna) was only populated
for a short time. Built by Nefertiti’s husband, Pharaoh
Akhenaten, as a center for worship of one sole god -- Aten, the
light -- it was populated around 1346 B.C. The religion didn’t
survive under Akhenaten’s successor Tutankhamun, and Akhetaten
was abandoned in about 1331 B.C.  ‘Beautiful One’  Nefertiti’s name means “The Beautiful One Has Arrived.”
She was probably the daughter of wealthy Egyptian bourgeoisie,
and her marriage to Akhenaten was her second. She is portrayed
as almost her husband’s equal in religious and state art. A
limestone statue of the queen shows her later in life than the
famous bust: She has lines around the eyes and mouth.  Some speculate that she ruled alone after her husband’s
death, though there is no proof of that. Recent excavations have
unearthed texts revealing that Nefertiti was still queen in year
16 of Akhenaten’s rule, where previously it was thought she may
have died or vanished earlier.  Beautiful blue-painted ceramic vases, faience jewelry and
intricate glass decor testify to the fine aesthetic senses of
Amarna’s inhabitants. A patch of palace floor shows birds in
flight over blue and green rushes and flowers.  The show leaves the impression that Nefertiti -- whoever
she was -- lived in enlightened surroundings during a
flourishing, peaceful era, even if Amarna was not to last.  “In the Light of Amarna. 100 Years of the Nefertiti
Discovery” is on show at Berlin’s Neues Museum through April
13, 2013. Information:  http://www.imlichtvonamarna.de   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on theater,  Lewis
Lapham  on history and  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 