-- Berlusconi’s Deputy Seeks Orderly End to Monti Cabinet
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-12-07T15:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/berlusconi-s-deputy-pushes-for-orderly-end-to-monti-government.html
Billionaire Silvio Berlusconi’s top
political deputy called for an “orderly end” to Prime Minister
Mario Monti’s government, saying the administration failed to
develop a strategy to halt the  recession .  The speech in parliament by Angelino Alfano, general
secretary of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, increases
pressure on the government and sets the stage for his party’s
election campaign message. Former Premier Berlusconi threatened
the government yesterday by partially withdrawing the People of
Liberty’s parliamentary support in two confidence votes.  “The experience of Monti’s government has concluded in our
estimation,” Alfano said in the speech. People of Liberty,
Monti’s biggest backer in parliament, didn’t fully withdraw its
support yesterday because “we don’t want the country and the
institutions to go to the dogs.”  Alfano disowned his past support for Monti’s 13-month-old
government, saying People of Liberty, or PDL, voted for the
premier’s tax increases and liberalization measures out of a
sense of duty. Monti’s policies were criticized by Alfano as
failing to foster economic growth and hewing too closely to the
interests of PDL’s coalition partner,  Italy ’s Democratic Party.  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond fell 1 basis
point to 4.56 percent after rising 13 points yesterday. The
difference with comparable German bunds narrowed 1 basis point
to 327 basis points. Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB stock index
slipped 1.3 percent after falling 0.8 percent yesterday.  Ending Cooperation  PDL and the Democratic Party, or PD, are putting an end to
their collaboration and squaring off in the race to succeed
Monti. PD leader Pier Luigi Bersani, who spoke before Alfano,
reiterated his support for Monti’s government.  “The events of the last 24 hours underscore that Italian
politics is highly fractious and volatile,”  Wolfango Piccoli ,
Eurasia Group practice head for  Europe , said in a research note
today. “Snap elections remain the most likely outcome of the
ongoing political crisis.”  Berlusconi’s insurgency puts the remaining items on Monti’s
agenda at risk. The premier, whose term expires by May, has
called on President Giorgio Napolitano to mediate the dispute,
with bills to overhaul electoral law and regional government
supervision hanging in the balance. Alfano reiterated that PDL
would support Monti’s budget measure.  Berlusconi, 76, is seeking to halt PDL’s slide in opinion
polls and reassert his control in the party after his October
conviction of fraud by a Milan court. A new link today on PDL’s
website took supporters to a page called “The Berlusconi
Governments,” dedicated to his achievements in office.  Support for PDL slipped to 18.2 percent from 23.5 percent
in March, according to a Demos & Pi poll published in newspaper
La Repubblica today. PD saw its backing rise to 37.8 percent,
the highest since its founding in 2007, the poll showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  