-- Billionaire German Aldi Heir Berthold Albrecht Dies, Aged 58
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n   a n d   D a v i d   D e   J o n g
-- 2012-12-07T09:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/billionaire-german-aldi-heir-berthold-albrecht-dies-aged-58.html
Berthold Albrecht, whose inheritance
of half of closely held supermarkets Aldi Nord and Trader Joe’s
from his father put him among the world’s 100 wealthiest people,
has died. He was 58.  Albrecht was buried last month in a private ceremony
attended by close family and friends, according to a full-page
death notice from his wife Babette published in Handelsblatt
newspaper today. There was no mention of the place or cause of
his death.  “Berthold Albrecht was a very loving and extremely
generous human being, an exemplary husband and father,” his
wife said in the notice. He was a “fighter, never losing hope
right to the end.”  Albrecht, whose fortune is estimated at $10.7 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , was father to
five children, including quadruplets, three boys and a girl born
in 1990. His father Theo Albrecht Sr.,  Germany ’s third-richest
man when he died two years ago, turned Aldi into a global
retailer, using a low-cost business model that revolutionized
the German market, with his brother Karl.  As the chairman of a family foundation that owns Aldi Nord,
Berthold Albrecht sat on the board of the company. Aldi’s share
of the 171 billion-euro ($221 billion) German grocery market has
stagnated over the past five years, trailing gains by
competitors such as Rewe Group. While its U.K. stores have
become a thorn in the side of  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and its Trader Joe’s
chain is mounting a challenge to  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  in the
U.S., the no-labels discounter is under pressure at home as
affluent Germans shop for better quality.  North-South Split  “This isn’t going to change a lot at Aldi Nord,”
Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Frankfurt-based Bankhaus
Metzler, said by telephone. “His brother Theo was closer to
managing the business. Berthold had been sick for a while.”  Building on a Ruhr Valley store opened by their mother in
1913, Theo Sr. and Karl guided an expansion that has increased
annual retail sales to $67.1 billion at Aldi, making it the
world’s 10th biggest retailer, according to Deloitte LLP.  They split the company they founded in 1960 into North and
South along the Ruhr River after a feud over carrying cigarettes
in Aldi stores.  Theo Sr. died in 2010 and is survived by Karl, who at 92 is
the world’s 21st richest person, worth $22.5 billion, according
to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
David  De Jong  in  New York  at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  