-- Bins Bulge With Grain as Low Water Threatens Mississippi Traffic
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-12-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/bins-bulge-with-grain-as-low-water-threatens-mississippi-traffic.html
In typical times, corn delivered to
 St. Louis  is loaded onto barges, flowing south down the
Mississippi River. With drought-starved river levels near
historic lows, these aren’t typical times.  This year, part of the Midwest’s crop is heading the
opposite direction, packed onto trucks for a 100-mile trip north
to a grain elevator in Waverly,  Illinois , where it moves to
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  trains for delivery to cattle
producers in Hereford,  Texas .  “You don’t usually see a lot of corn from St. Louis coming
up here,” said Garry Niemeyer, an Auburn, Illinois, farmer and
chairman of the  National Corn Growers Association . “That’s
where we are.”  The Mississippi at St. Louis may drop to the level at which
barge traffic is  restricted  as early as Dec. 26, according to
the  National Weather Service . If the river is closed for any
length of time, shipments will back up from  Missouri  to
 Minnesota , Niemeyer said.  Already suffering aftershocks from the worst drought in 50
years, farmers are improvising, searching for alternative ways
to move and sell corn, soybeans and other grains. It’s too
expensive to use rail cars or trucks to ship grain more than 600
miles from St. Louis to export terminals in  New Orleans .  They’re looking for local buyers or seeking to sell to
ethanol plants. Farmers along the Kaskaskia River in southern
Illinois may drive hundreds of miles south to Cairo, where the
Ohio River empties into the Mississippi and barges are moving
normally.  Many farmers may get another blow if fertilizer can’t move
north by barge in time for spring planting.  Mississippi Bottleneck  If the river at St. Louis closes, the bottleneck affects
everything north of the city, said Richard Calhoun, president of
Cargo Carriers, the logistics subsidiary of Minneapolis-based
 Cargill  Inc.  Ohio River facilities in Louisville and Cincinnati --
theoretically accessible by rail or truck -- won’t really take
much because they don’t have the equipment to move grain from
rail cars to barges, Calhoun said. No one in those locations has
invested in it, because it’s rarely needed, he said.  Cargill, a 147-year-old company with 140,000 employees in
65 countries, is expecting restrictions on future sales to
worldwide markets, Calhoun said. Employees will be working with
customers as best they can to find alternative markets.  “At some point we’re going to have to say, we can’t do
that,” Calhoun said. “This is the time of the year where we
are typically the supplier of the world.”  Few Options  There aren’t a lot of options other than the river for most
farmers in the region. Rail is more expensive with limited
capacity to move more grain. About 96,000 rail cars of grain
move from St. Louis each year, Niemeyer said. An additional
80,000 would be needed to move all the grain that now goes by
barge, he said.  Trucking offers even less of an alternative, with a just-
in-time delivery structure that doesn’t leave a lot of slack.  After the 2008 U.S. recession, investors demanded
efficiency from trucking and rail companies, so there’s not a
lot of extra capacity for farmers who may need it now, said
Shorty Whittington, president of Grammer Industries Inc. a
transportation-services company in Grammer,  Indiana .  ‘Humongous Problem’  “When you start slowing down inputs coming up the river,
you stop that funnel going for the exports, and you stop certain
segments, you change the price of the product drastically.”
Whittington said. “It’s a humongous problem.”  Trucking companies aren’t going to invest in new capacity
during a  Mississippi River  closing because some timely rain
could eliminate the problem, Whittington said.  “Who’s going to come out of the woodwork for a short time
period?” said Whittington, a former chairman of the American
Trucking Associations. “Who’s going to make an investment to
take care of the problem that might not be there?”  Corn and soybeans are already piling up at the Gateway FS
grain elevator in Evansville, Illinois, said Steve Walter, the
facility’s manager. When the elevators are full, farmers will
have to find other options, he said.  Gateway, a farmer-owned cooperative with grain elevators
and barge-loading facilities serving five Illinois counties,
buys from local farms and sells grain to Bloomington, Illinois-
based Growmark Inc. for export.  On the  Kaskaskia River , where Walter loads shipments that
will head down to the  Mississippi  and New Orleans, river levels
are normal. Still, Gateway is already loading barges for 8-foot
draughts instead of 9 feet. That means they’re shipping 44,000
bushels at a time instead of 53,000 or 54,000.  “Every five barges you damn near lost one,” Walter said.  ‘Pretty Ugly’  Farmers who haven’t really begun to focus on how to respond
to river restrictions will have to start doing so very soon,
Walter said. If the Mississippi closes, he said things will
start to get “pretty ugly” in two or three weeks.  A lot of farmers will have bills and taxes due around the
first of the year, and won’t have a lot of options, Walter said.
They may truck grain to St. Louis, about an hour away, and hope
to sell to Cargill and other companies in that area, although
they’ll make less money that way, he said. Some farmers will
store crops on their farms and take loans against their value.  Gateway FS is trying to set up a limited local market
selling corn to hog producers, Walter said, which may move
20,000 to 30,000 bushels a day -- compared with 150,000 bushels
a day by barge. There’s no local market for soybeans.  If a river closing lasts long enough, Gateway FS will look
into moving soybeans by truck to Cairo, about 100 miles south.
That will be expensive and time-consuming, with farmers or their
employees carrying grain on farm-owned tractor-trailers.  Next Year  Greg Guenther, a Belleville, Illinois, family farmer, said
his corn yields this year are the lowest in 35 years -- about 90
bushels an acre, or half his average. Guenther expects he’ll be
trucking his crop to ethanol plants if Cargill and  Bunge Ltd. (BG) 
terminals in St. Louis stop accepting local grain.  “This is typical ag -- things go up, things go down,”
Guenther said. “You figure it out.”  If barge traffic is curtailed longer, Guenther may drive
his own tractor-trailer to Cairo, a 300-mile round trip. Doing
that it will take a whole day to deliver two loads, compared
with five a day to St. Louis, he said. The bigger worry is
getting the nitrogen he’ll need to plant corn in the spring,
because the fertilizer price can spike.  And unless there’s a lot of snow this winter and rain next
spring -- a big if -- next year’s river levels may make this
year’s difficulties seem tame, Guenther said.  “We’ll get through this,” Guenther said. “Next year,
it’s a whole different ballgame.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  