-- BofA, U.S. Bancorp Must Face Mortgage Trustee Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-12-07T23:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/bofa-u-s-bancorp-must-face-mortgage-trustee-lawsuit.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  U.S.
Bancorp (USB)  must face some claims in a lawsuit brought by a pension
fund that contends the banks failed in their responsibilities to
protect mortgage-bond investors.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in  Manhattan  ruled
today that the Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of the City
of  Chicago  can pursue some of the allegations made in its suit
while she dismissed other claims against the banks.  The pension fund sued the banks over their role as trustees
for pools of  mortgage loans  bundled into securities and sold to
investors, arguing they caused investors to incur millions of
dollars in losses.  The banks disregarded their job of ensuring there were no
missing or defective documents for the mortgages, and that
defective loans were removed from the mortgage pools, the
pension fund said in its complaint.  Forrest said the fund could pursue allegations on behalf of
investors in five of the 41 trusts at issue in the complaint.
The judge dismissed breach of contract claims related to
reviewing mortgage files and pursuing loan repurchase rights.
Those related to providing notice of deficient files can
proceed, she said.  Original Trustee  Tom Joyce, a spokesman for Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp,
said the bank wasn’t the original trustee for the trusts
involved in the case and was not the trustee at the time the
pension fund held any interest in the trusts. Forrest said in
her decision that it’s plausible the bank assumed liabilities
when it became trustee.  “We have no liability as successor trustee and intend to
promptly seek dismissal of all remaining claims,” Joyce said in
a statement.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
ruling.  Max Schwartz , an attorney for the pension fund, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of the
City of Chicago v. Bank of America NA, 12-02865, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  