-- BOJ Has Done Too Little, Says Potential Contender for Governor
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p ,   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-12-07T00:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/boj-has-done-too-little-says-potential-contender-for-governor.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  has failed to end
more than a decade of deflation by being too cautious, said
Takatoshi Ito, a former finance ministry official who is a
contender to become the central bank’s next governor.  The bank’s board under Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, who
steps down in April, has done “too little, too late,” Ito,
dean of Tokyo University’s Graduate School of Public Policy,
said yesterday in an interview in Tokyo. The BOJ should have
started its asset-purchase program earlier and has been
“extremely passive in building inflation expectations,” he
said.  Ito’s criticism of the central bank echoes that of
opposition leader Shinzo Abe, whose  Liberal Democratic Party  is
leading in polls to win a national election on Dec. 16. Abe’s
call for unlimited easing and an inflation target of 2 percent
sent the yen to a seven-month low last month.  “Inflation targeting will become a very important
element” to stamp out deflation, Ito, 62, said. “It’s worth
trying in order to pull  Japan  out of a deflationary spiral that
has lasted 15 years.”  The yen has weakened around 1.4 percent against the dollar
since Abe’s remarks in November, the most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, a reaction that Ito said was
positive. As of 9:09 a.m. in Tokyo, the currency was at 82.47.  Ito was nominated for BOJ deputy governor in 2008 by the
LDP when the party was last in power. He was rejected by the
opposition-controlled upper house of parliament along with two
candidates for governor who, like Ito, had been finance ministry
officials. Ito was deputy vice-finance minister from 1999 to
2001.  Inflation Goal  The BOJ’s fund to buy government assets and other
securities, its main policy tool amid near-zero  interest rates ,
should have started in 2008 instead of 2010 to help deal with
the global financial crisis, Ito said. The BOJ increased the
size of the fund by 11 trillion yen ($133 billion) to 66
trillion yen on Oct. 30, its second monetary easing in two
months.  The central bank set a price goal of 1 percent in February
and has pledged “aggressive” easing until the target is in
sight.  The government and Bank of Japan should establish a written
inflation target, Ito said. “There’s no need to revise the
law” to do it, he said.  The LDP proposed in its campaign manifesto establishing a
joint BOJ, Ministry of Finance and private sector fund to buy
foreign bonds in a bid to defeat deflation and weaken the yen,
without giving further details.  Foreign Bonds  “The BOJ can and should buy foreign bonds,” Ito said.
This is possible if the finance minister publicly declares
support for such purchases, he said, advocating the bank buy
debt from issuers such as the European Financial Stability
Facility.  Shirakawa’s term ends in April next year and his deputies
Hirohide Yamaguchi and Kiyohiko Nishimura exit in March.  With two former private-sector economists, Takehiro Sato
and Takahide Kiuchi, on the nine-member board showing signs of
favoring more stimulus, a new government has the chance to
install a pro-easing majority on the central bank board.  Ito has been mentioned as a potential candidate for
governor by economists including Koichi Hamada, a retired Yale
University economics professor who taught Shirakawa at  Tokyo 
University, and Masamichi Adachi, a senior economist at JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co. in Tokyo and a former central bank
official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  