-- Bovespa Rises to One-Month High as Stimulus Bets Boost Gafisa
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-12-07T21:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/bovespa-index-futures-advance-amid-brazil-stimulus-speculation.html
The Bovespa index rose to a one-month
high on speculation policy makers will take further steps to
shore up growth even after a report showed inflation
unexpectedly accelerated in November.  Homebuilder  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  led gains by companies that sell in
the local market, and the MSCI  Brazil /Consumer Discretionary
Index had the biggest weekly advance among 10 industry groups.
Vale SA and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA followed  iron-ore 
prices higher.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge added 1.4 percent to
58,487.32 at the close of trading in Sao Paulo, bringing this
week’s rally to 1.8 percent. Fifty-two stocks rose on the gauge
today while 14 fell. Annual inflation as measured by the IPCA
index accelerated to 5.53 percent in November from 5.45 percent
in the prior month, the statistics agency reported. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 5.42
percent pace.  “The government has already announced some initiatives
this week and will probably follow with more if signs of
disappointing growth keep coming,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner
at Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica Investimentos, said
by phone. “We see inflation under pressure, but the central
bank seems to be comfortable as long as it keeps floating around
5.5 percent.”  The real appreciated 0.1 percent to 2.0751 per  U.S. dollar .  Lower Taxes  Brazil lowered taxes this week for the real estate sector,
exempted exporters from a 6 percent tax on some loans and
announced measures to increase private investment in its port
system to revive growth after a Nov. 30 report from the national
statistics agency showed third-quarter gross domestic product
expanded at half the pace forecast by economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  “Third-quarter growth was disappointing, but if the
government acts soon enough, the economy may post a stronger
recovery in 2013,” Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at consulting
firm Empiricus Research, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Gafisa rose 6.6 percent to 4.88 reais. PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes advanced 4.4 percent to 3.31
reais, extending this week’s gain to 10 percent, the most in
three months.  Vale rose 0.9 percent to 36.92 reais. MMX gained 4.6
percent to 3.85 reais. Iron ore for immediate delivery jumped
2.2 percent to $121 a dry ton, according to a  price index 
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  U.S. Jobs  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index extended gains after a U.S. report showed
employers added more jobs in November than forecast and the
jobless rate fell to 7.7 percent.  Faster growth in Brazil and in the U.S. will probably help
the Bovespa index rise to 66,000 in 2013, Amstalden said.  The Bovespa has climbed 11 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as stimulus from central banks around the world eased
economic concern and borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil
boosted equity demand. The index  trades  at 10.9 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 11
times for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 5.68 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.2 billion reais this year
through Dec. 5, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  