-- Boxer’s Dream Dies in ‘Golden’; Abe’s Christmas: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/boxer-s-dream-dies-in-golden-abe-s-christmas-review.html
The scenery wouldn’t budge at
Wednesday night’s performance of “Golden Boy” just before the
big Act III finale, leeching the last bit of dramatic tension
from an evening that had none to spare.  Clifford Odets’s art-versus-commerce drama opened 75 years
ago in the same beautiful Belasco Theatre where  Lincoln Center
Theater ’s revival has just opened (why the nonprofit company
chose to rent a Broadway house when its Beaumont home base is
about to go dark is a question worth asking).  More than the scenery is creaky in Bartlett Sher’s good-
looking but oddly cast and unengaging production.  The conscience of the rabble-rousing Group Theater, with
plays including “Waiting for Lefty” and “Awake and Sing,”
Odets had gone Hollywood, in theory to earn enough money to
support the work at home.  That’s the subject of “Golden Boy.” Joe Bonaparte, a
gifted young violinist and the apple of his immigrant Italian
father’s eye, has secretly been learning how to box.  The play opens with Joe seeing an opportunity to make his
pro debut in the ring, and he goes for it, launching a lucrative
career he knows will destroy his ability to play.  Joe’s rise through the ranks to contender changes him from
sensitive naif to power-hungry striver. He lets a gangster buy a
piece of him, falls for his manager’s mistress and grows
increasingly brutal in the ring.  Snazzy Clothes  Occasionally, Dad shows up to mourn the artist son he’s
lost to the bright lights, snazzy clothes and sycophants who
push him to his limit.  Michael Yeargan’s grubby sets and Donald Holder’s hazy
yellow lighting capture the essence of the Bonapartes’ working
class apartment, manager Tom Moody’s sketchy office and the
grim, gray gyms. Catherine Zuber’s costumes tie it all together
as well, from the double-breasted suits for the thugs to the
house dresses draping the voluptuous curves of Joe’s married
sister and the slinkier get-ups for the girlfriend Lorna.  But “Golden Boy” is dated, the plot contrived and
unbelievable (Joe has been training to be a boxer and no one in
the family noticed?). It’s a world in which Joe’s sister Anna
tells their father that her husband can slap her round as much
as he wants. Joe’s handlers constantly tell Lorna to butt out of
mens’ business.  The show feels alive when Tony Shalhoub is onstage. As a
father crushed by disappointment, he barely raises his voice
above a whisper, even when withholding the blessing Joe begs
for.  Love Interest  The rest of the cast is good to less-than, with Seth
Numrich’s title performance and Danny Burstein as Joe’s trainer
in the former category; Anthony Crivello and Yvonne Strahovski
as the gangster and the love interest in the latter.  This “Golden Boy” lacks the memorable unity of Sher’s
earlier Odets foray, “Awake and Sing!” He’s gotten many of the
details right, but the big picture here is out of focus.  Through Jan. 20, 2013, at the Belasco Theatre, 111 W. 46th
St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: **1/2  Lincoln’s Christmas  The city hardly lacks for musical accompaniments to the
holiday season, but “A Civil War Christmas” is special. Paula
Vogel’s sprawling work set in 1864 on the eve of Lincoln’s
second inauguration opens with the loveliest choral singing
you’ll hear anywhere.  Some of the tunes are familiar, among them, the underground
railroad spiritual “Follow the Drinking Gourd,” and “Silent
Night.” Others borrow from the classical repertory as the
company of 11, under the galvanic musical direction of Andrew
Resnick, fill the New York Theater Workshop with gorgeous sound.  Vogel’s play -- more a pageant, really -- interweaves
several stories, among them: the President heads on horseback to
retrieve a gift for his wife left at their cottage, as Mary Todd
tries to buy that trendy new must-have from  Germany , a Christmas
tree.  In a boarding house, John Wilkes Booth and some cronies
plan to kidnap Abe. And somewhere in the cold night along the
Potomac, a free black woman and her daughter make their way to
the District of Columbia while dodging bounty hunters.  The stories all come together on Christmas in a way
reminiscent of “Ragtime,” though the conclusion is sentimental
and restorative, more Dickens than Doctorow, in keeping with the
holiday spirit.  Tina Landau capably directs in story theater fashion --
actors play people, animals and things; there’s little scenery
to speak of. The standouts among a fine cast include Sean Allan
Krill as Booth, Bob Stillman as Lincoln and Amber Iman as the
mother of the little girl.  Through Dec. 30 at New York Theatre Workshop, 79 E. 4th St.
Information: +1-212-460-5475;  http://www.nytw.org . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include New York  weekend  and  Lewis Lapham 
on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 