-- BP to Spend $350 Million to Expand Brazil Ethanol Plant
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-12-07T16:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/bp-to-spend-350-million-to-expand-brazil-ethanol-plant.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the second-biggest European
 oil company , will spend $350 million to double the capacity of
its Tropical ethanol project in Brazil as other producers hold
off on investments.  The company will develop 35,000 hectares (86,487 acres) of
plantations and a new mill capable of crushing 2.5 million tons
of sugar cane a year into sugar and ethanol at the site in
Edeia, Mario Lindenhayn, chief executive officer of London-based
BP’s Brazil biofuel unit, said today in a phone interview.  “BP is in it for the long-run,” Lindenhayn said. “Our
decisions are long-term.”  Brazil is the largest producer of ethanol after the U.S.,
according to the Energy Information Administration. Brazil’s
sugar-cane industry has been reluctant to invest in new mills
since 2010 because of low margins on ethanol sales, said Salim Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. High sugar
prices and a bad harvest caused Brazilian ethanol production to
drop about 20 percent last year.  BP  announced  when it took full ownership of the Tropical
project last year that it would expand the facility.  “Here’s a company confirming it’s investing in new
capacity and that’s something we haven’t seen in some time,”
Morsy said in a phone interview today.  The investment announced today will double the facility’s
capacity to 5 million tons by the end of 2014 or early 2015.  BP bought three mills in the states of Goias and  Minas
Gerais  last year, including the Tropical plant, and has since
invested 400 million reais ($192 million) in expanding
plantations and boosting efficiency at the projects, Lindenhayn
said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is the largest European oil company
by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  