-- Brazil Nov. Inflation Surprises Every Economist Surveyed
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-12-07T13:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/brazil-nov-inflation-surprises-every-economist-surveyed.html
Brazil ’s  inflation  unexpectedly
accelerated as central bank President Alexandre Tombini
reiterated his plan to hold interest rates at their current
level, while investors bet on more cuts next year.  Prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA index rose 0.6
percent in November, the national statistics agency said today
in  Rio de Janeiro , more than any economist forecast in a survey
by Bloomberg. Swap rates jumped.  Tombini told reporters yesterday that the bank is standing
by its monetary policy strategy after traders rocked markets
with bets he will resume cutting borrowing costs. The bank
yesterday released its minutes to last week’s monetary policy
meeting and pledged to keep the Selic rate at a record low 7.25
percent for a prolonged period.  “The adequate strategy to bring inflation back to target
is to keep the stability of the monetary conditions for a
sufficiently prolonged period,” Tombini said in Brasilia,
repeating language used in the statement from the Nov. 28
meeting. “The minutes couldn’t be more up to date.”  Brazil last week announced that the economy grew in the
third quarter by 0.6 percent from the previous period,  half  the
expansion forecast by economists. President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
government has enacted stimulus measures over the past year to
boost demand, including tax cuts for consumer and industrial
goods, pressuring banks to lower lending spreads and the biggest
cut in its benchmark  rate  among Group of 20 nations. Lower
growth has not succeeded in taming inflation.  The highest estimate from the 39 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 0.56 percent price increase in November, and
the median call was for a  gain  of 0.5 percent. Annual inflation
accelerated to 5.53 percent from 5.45 percent the previous
month.  Food Shock  “Food prices were a little bit higher than we expected,
but we’ve been seeing a seasonal trend for those prices since
the shock in the middle of the year,”  Roberto Padovani , chief
economist at Votorantim CTVM, said in a phone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “The most important point is really services inflation,
which is running close to 8 percent and will keep running at
close to 8 percent for the coming year.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 6.99 percent as of 10:42 a.m. local time,
after earlier jumping as high as 7.04 percent. The real weakened
0.1 percent to 2.0798 per  U.S. dollar .  More Cuts  The disappointing third quarter led some economists, such
as Ilan Goldfajn, chief economist for  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,
and Marcelo Salomon, co-head for Latin America economics at
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , to forecast more rate cuts next year, even as
price increases run faster than the central bank’s target. The
bank aims for inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  The bank will make two 50 basis-point cuts in the first
half of 2013, Goldfajn and Salomon said in separate notes this
week. Goldfajn reduced his projection for economic growth next
year to 3.2 percent from 4 percent.  “The bottom line is that you recalibrate the optimal level
of  interest rates ,” Salomon said in a telephone interview from
 New York  yesterday. “Inflation will be hovering around 5.5
percent with the risk of being stronger, but still below the
upper bound of the target.”  Food Prices  In November, food and beverage prices rose 0.79 percent,
compared with 1.36 percent in October. Prices excluding food and
beverages climbed 0.54 percent, up from 0.35 percent in October.
Brazil’s wholesale price index, IGP-M, fell in November for the
first time since February, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said on
its website Nov. 29.  “Current data indicate that the slowdown in food prices
and the decline in agricultural prices have run their course,”
Itau’s Goldfajn wrote in his note.  Other economists say rate cuts would not help. Lower rates
would merely feed higher inflation with little positive impact
on growth,  Tony Volpon , head of research for the Americas at
Nomura Securities Co. Ltd, said in a note to clients yesterday.  “If the Brazilian central bank does rush into more rate
cuts early next year, where growth will likely still not be
impressive, we think it will just add to the mess it will
ultimately have to clean up later on in the year,” Volpon
wrote.  Darker Outlook  While the third-quarter results darken the outlook for
2012, the perspective is still positive given the government
measures that will come to bear, Votorantim’s Padovani said.  “We see the economy moving above capacity by the end of
next year,” he said. “As a consequence we see a rate hike in
2013. I don’t buy what everyone was talking about yesterday that
we can have new cuts in Brazil because third-quarter GDP was
weak.”  Brazil will grow 3.7 percent in 2013, following 1.27
percent growth this year, according to the latest central bank
survey of about 100 economists. The economists are expecting
inflation of 5.4 percent next year. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  forecasts growth of 4 percent next year.  “Whoever bets against Brazil is making a bad bet,”
Finance Minister Guido Mantega said in an interview on Dec. 4.
“We are in a transition period.”  Since last week’s disappointing growth report, the
government has stepped up efforts to revive the economy. Among
other measures it reduced interest rates charged by the state
development bank, launched a program to attract private
investment to the nation’s overextended ports and extended
payroll tax cuts to ailing industries.  Rousseff’s government in 2013 will also reduce electricity
rates, which will have a deflationary impact of 35 to 50 basis
points, Padovani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  