-- Bundesbank Slashes 2013 German Growth Forecast to 0.4% on
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-12-07T12:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/bundesbank-slashes-2013-german-growth-forecast-to-0-4-on.html
The Bundesbank sliced more than 1
percentage point off its  forecast  for economic expansion in
Germany next year after the sovereign debt crisis pushed the
euro area into recession and global growth slowed.  The Bundesbank cut its 2013 projection to 0.4 percent from
the 1.6 percent predicted in June and said the economy,  Europe ’s
largest, will grow 0.7 percent this year, down from its previous
forecast of 1 percent. Separately, the German Economy Ministry
said industrial output fell 2.6 percent in October as investment
goods production and construction activity slumped.  “With today’s industrial production data, a contraction of
the economy in the fourth quarter has almost become
inevitable,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “Even a technical recession of two consecutive
quarters cannot be excluded entirely. However, the German
economy should be able to pick up speed relatively quickly.”  The 17-nation euro area, Germany’s largest export market,
succumbed to recession in the third quarter as countries from
 Greece  to Spain cut spending to rein in excessive deficits.
Still, German business confidence unexpectedly rose in November
and factory orders, an indicator for future production, surged
in October on strong demand from outside the euro area.  The euro fell more than half a cent after the reports to
$1.1921 at 12:43 p.m. in Frankfurt. Germany’s benchmark  DAX
index (DAX)  dropped 0.2 percent to 7517.27. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
also eased 0.2 percent to 278.30 ahead of a U.S. payrolls report
later today.  ‘Big Impact’  Germany’s economy will shrink in the current quarter and
stagnate in the first three months of next year, the Frankfurt-
based Bundesbank said. It predicted growth of 1.9 percent in
2014.  “The Bundesbank isn’t as negative as the 2013 growth
forecast suggests,” said Alexander Koch, an economist at
Unicredit Group in Munich. “The predicted contraction in the
fourth quarter has a big impact on next year’s growth rate. In
fact, the forecasts suggest the Bundesbank expects a recovery
from spring leading to relatively strong growth in 2014.”  “Economic prospects have clouded” as a result of “a
severe adjustment recession in parts of the euro region and the
slowdown of the global economy,” the Bundesbank said, adding
that its forecasts are subject to a “high degree of
uncertainty” and downside risks predominate. “However, there’s
reasonable hope that the phase of economic weakness won’t last
too long and  Germany  will return to growth.”  ‘Economic Weakness’  In the U.K., manufacturing production fell more than
economists forecast in October, indicating weakness in the
economy at the start of the fourth quarter.  Factory output dropped 1.3 percent from September, the most
in four months, the Office for National Statistics said today.
Economists predicted a 0.2 percent decline. Total industrial
output unexpectedly fell 0.8 percent, a third consecutive
decrease.  In the U.S., the Labor Department will today say nonfarm
payrolls rose by 85,000 workers last month, the smallest gain
since June, and that the jobless rate held at 7.9 percent,
according to the median estimates in Bloomberg News surveys.  In Asia,  Malaysia ’s overseas sales fell for the third time
in four months in October, while  Taiwan ’s exports in November
rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier, trailing the median
economist estimate for a 7.8 percent increase.  Slower Inflation  “Germany is still digesting the weakness in Asia” and
“the second-round effects from the euro-area sovereign debt
crisis hitting the peripheral economies,”  Elga Bartsch , chief
European economist at Morgan Stanley, told  Maryam Nemazee  on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” The country’s “phase of
economic weakness could last well into next year,” she said.  The Bundesbank revised down its 2013 inflation forecast for
Germany to 1.5 percent from 1.6 percent and predicted annual
consumer-price gains will average 1.6 percent in 2014.  That may help to alleviate German inflation concerns and
open the door for further interest-rate cuts by the European
Central Bank. ECB President Mario Draghi said yesterday the euro
area won’t be able to shake off its slump until the second half
of next year.  It “appears probable that the economic situation in the
euro area will stabilize over the course of the coming year, and
that a nascent recovery will follow, if only hesitantly at
first,” the Bundesbank said. “The precondition for this is
that the sovereign debt and banking crises in the euro area do
not further intensify and that consolidation and reform efforts
continue.”  Economic Recovery  The ECB yesterday cut its economic forecasts for the euro
region, predicting contractions of 0.5 percent this year and 0.3
percent in 2013 before growth of 1.2 percent in 2014.  “It is quite conceivable that the euro area will recover
sooner and the world economy will accelerate faster than assumed
in this projection,” the Bundesbank said. “In this case, the
German economy, in view of its sound underlying health, may be
expected to utilize the additional growth opportunities that
arise.”  On the other hand, “should global economic growth remain
below expectations or the sovereign debt crisis escalate further
in some countries, it is probable that the German economy may
follow a weaker course than the one assumed in the baseline
scenario,” it said.  While Germany’s economic slowdown won’t significantly boost
joblessness, employment growth can’t be expected to continue at
the pace of the previous years, the Bundesbank said. It predicts
the unemployment rate will rise from 6.8 percent this year to
7.2 percent in 2013 before declining again to 7 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  