-- Cameron Backs Same-Sex Marriages in U.K. Places of Worship
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-12-07T17:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/cameron-backs-same-sex-marriages-in-u-k-places-of-worship-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said gay couples would be allowed to marry in places of worship
under legislation to be introduced next week.  Cameron said he will vote for the change in the law,
although he will not force his Conservative Party lawmakers to
do the same. U.K. governments sometimes allow so-called free
votes on matters of conscience.  “I’m a massive supporter of marriage and I don’t want gay
people to be excluded from a great institution,” Cameron said
in a broadcast interview today. “This is a free vote for
members of Parliament, but personally I will be supporting it.”  The bill, which is backed by  Quakers , Unitarians and some
branches of Liberal Judaism, would allow places of worship to
opt to hold ceremonies, Cameron said. Those that choose not to
will be protected by law.  “Let me be absolutely 100 percent clear,” Cameron said.
“If there is any church or any synagogue or any mosque that
doesn’t want to have a gay marriage, it will not, absolutely
must not, be forced to hold it.”  The government opened a consultation on same-sex marriage
on March 15 that attracted 280,000 responses, a record for any
such consultation. It is due to give its response next week.  The Church of England said Cameron will require an
“overwhelming mandate” to justify going ahead with the plan,
given the government has never made it a key policy objective.  ‘Fundamental Complementarity’  “We believe that redefining marriage to include same-sex
relationships will entail a dilution in the meaning of marriage
for everyone by excluding the fundamental complementarity of men
and women from the social and legal definition of marriage,” it
said in a statement.  Conservative lawmakers have raised concerns that places of
worship that decide not to hold same-sex marriages could be
challenged in the courts.  “I am concerned, and constituents and local clergy have
also expressed the concern that, by redefining marriage, we may
expose churches and other religious institutions to legal
challenge and force them to marry gay couples under the Human
Rights Act 1998 and the Equality Act 2010,” Tory lawmaker
Dominic Raab told the House of Commons on April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  