-- Canada Third Quarter Labor Productivity Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-12-07T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/canada-third-quarter-labor-productivity-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s business sector labor productivity report for
the third quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  The labour productivity of Canadian businesses fell 0.5% in
the third quarter, following a 0.6% decline the previous quarter.
It was the second consecutive decrease after three quarterly
gains.  The decline in productivity in the third quarter took place
in a context where business output remained at the same level as
in the previous quarter, while hours worked continued to grow,
though at a slower pace than in the previous quarter.  The real gross domestic product of Canadian business was
unchanged in the third quarter, following four quarters of
growth. Higher production in service-producing businesses was
offset by a decline in the output of goods-producing businesses.  At the same time, hours worked in the business sector
increased 0.4%, after rising 1.1% the previous quarter. All
 service industries  were up, except retail trade and the
information and cultural industries. Employment in businesses
edged down 0.1% in the third quarter, while average hours rose
0.5%.  For a second consecutive quarter, productivity declined in
both goods-producing and service-producing businesses.  Goods-producing businesses saw a 0.2% decrease in
productivity in the third quarter. A decline in productivity for
mining and oil and gas extraction (-3.1%) more than offset
productivity gains in construction (+1.0%) and manufacturing
(+0.5%).  In the service-producing sector, productivity decreased
0.4% in the third quarter, a decline similar to the one observed
in the previous quarter. With the exception of retail trade
(+0.4%) and the information and cultural industries (+1.9%),
productivity was down in every service-producing industry during
the quarter. A 1.8% decline in wholesale trade was the main
contributor to the sector’s downward movement.  In the  United States , productivity growth in American
businesses reached 0.6% in the third quarter, after advancing
0.4% the previous quarter.  In Canadian businesses, the growth rate of labour costs per
unit of production accelerated to 1.3% in the third quarter.
This was the highest quarterly growth rate since the first
quarter of 2009 when it reached 1.4%.  The increase in the unit labour cost in the third quarter
was attributable to the decrease in productivity combined with a
faster rate of growth in average compensation per hour worked,
which rose from 0.1% in the second quarter to 0.9% in the third
quarter. This was the fourth straight quarter in which hourly
compensation in  Canada  grew faster than productivity.  The unit labour costs of Canadian businesses in US dollars
rose 2.9% after edging down 0.1% in the previous quarter. It was
the second increase in five quarters. The advance was partly
because of an average 1.5% increase in the value of the Canadian
dollar relative to the US dollar during the quarter.  In comparison, American businesses saw their unit labour
costs decline 0.4%, after edging down 0.1% in the second quarter
and growing 1.5% in the first quarter.  Note to readers  With this release, data were revised back to the first
quarter of 2012 at the aggregate level and to the first quarter
of 2011 at the industry level.  The term ‘productivity’ in this release refers to labour
productivity. For the purposes of this analysis, labour
productivity and related variables cover the business sector
only. Labour productivity is a measure of real gross domestic
product (GDP) per hour worked. Unit labour cost is defined as
the cost of workers’ wages and benefits per unit of real GDP.  All the growth rates reported in this release are rounded
to one decimal place. They are calculated with index numbers
rounded to three decimal places, which are now available on
CANSIM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  