-- Chavez Returns From Cuba Cancer Therapy After 21-Day Silence
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-12-07T13:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/cancer-stricken-chavez-returns-from-cuba-after-21-day-silence.html
Venezuela’s President  Hugo Chavez 
returned to Caracas today after nine days of treatment for
cancer in Cuba that had led investors to speculate his health is
worse than he’s letting on.  State-run Venezolana de Television broadcast images of
Chavez waving and smiling as he came off a plane that it said
arrived at 2:30 a.m. local time today at Caracas airport. Chavez
can be seen laughing with Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  and
other allies, discussing the books he read and interactions with
 Fidel Castro  during his stay in Cuba.  “I’m very happy to be arriving here again,” he said,
while discussing with his advisers the campaign for
gubernatorial elections scheduled for Dec. 16. “I’m very
excited.”  Chavez, a self-proclaimed socialist who has seized
companies and imposed currency and price controls during his 14
years in office, has been in Cuba to help recover from an
unspecified form of cancer and had not been seen in public for
21 days.  He didn’t say whether he’d attend a Mercosur summit in
Brasilia today in what will be  Venezuela ’s first such meeting
since South America’s largest oil producer was accepted into the
trade group consisting of  Brazil ,  Argentina  and Uruguay. Nor did
he say whether he’d be present at a military procession in
Caracas scheduled for today to mark 14 years since he first
gained power in a 1998 election.  Venezuelan bonds surged yesterday the most in two years on
speculation that Chavez is too sick to complete a third, six-
year term after saying he was “totally free” of cancer while
campaigning ahead of the Oct. 7 election.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent securities
due in 2027 rose 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
9.22 percent at 8:41 p.m. in Caracas, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Yields have plunged 1.66 percentage points since
mid-November. The bond’s price fell 0.42 cents today to 100.18
cents on the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 