-- Chaplin, Porn Stars Drown Broadway in Sea of Red Ink
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/chaplin-porn-stars-drown-broadway-in-sea-of-red-ink.html
Needy porn stars, a jailed radical, a
silent film icon and an early evangelical celebrity are all
casualties of Broadway’s fall season, along with about $30
million advanced from investors.  David Mamet’s “The Anarchist” -- starring  Patti LuPone  as
a former activist and Debra Winger as her parole officer -- will
close Dec. 16, two weeks after opening to dismal reviews. The
show will likely lose its entire capitalization, which is about
$2.6 million, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission
filing.  “Scandalous” will close this weekend, at an estimated
loss of at least $10 million. “ Chaplin ,” a $10 million musical
about the Hollywood legend, closes Jan. 6.  “The Performers” ($3 million), about porn stars competing
for Oscar-like awards, closed Nov. 18 after just seven regular
performances.  Melinda and Robert Rich Jr. of Rich Products Corp., a
closely held frozen foods manufacturer based in Buffalo, N.Y.,
earned their first lead producer credit on “Chaplin.”  ‘So Disappointed’  “We are so disappointed to close this show,” Melinda
“Mindy” Rich said in a release. John Caudwell, a billionaire
U.K. phone titan, was also on the team. Rich declined further
comment through a production spokeswoman, Susanne Tighe.  Billionaires Betsy DeVos and her husband, Richard, the
former president of the direct-sales company Amway Corp., are
the first-time producers of “Scandalous.” Kathie Lee Gifford
co-wrote the musical, about the early 20th-century evangelist
Aimee Semple McPherson.  Then there’s “Rebecca,” the $12 million show about spooky
Manderley that was scheduled but never opened, despite a dubious
assist from Mark Hotton, the former Oppenheimer & Co. broker who
prosecutors said concocted fictional investors in order to
pocket commissions. He’s now in jail in Queens. Lead producer
Ben Sprecher has said he’s committed to bringing “Rebecca” to
Broadway, but no plans have been announced.  While unloved by most critics, the flops were further
hampered by  Hurricane Sandy , producer Debbie Bisno said.  “It was a ricochet effect that sent the city to
paralysis,” said Bisno, the lead producer of “ Grace ” with
 Paul Rudd . “People who were out of town were asking whether  New
York  was up and running.”  Tourists purchased 63 percent of all Broadway tickets last
season, up from 62 percent the season before, according to a
demographic study out this week by the  Broadway League . The
study also found that Broadway theatergoers had an average
annual household income of about $194,000.  It’s not all doom and gloom for producers in the Theater
District. Two weeks after “Chaplin” closes, Barry Manilow is
to begin a seventeen-performance engagement at the St. James
Theatre, with tickets topping out at $708 from the primary
online outlet, Telecharge.  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg Evans 
and  Craig Seligman  on  movies .  To contact the reporter of this story: Philip Boroff in New York
at   pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 