-- Chicken-Feet Exports Help Savannah Lead U.S. Port Growth
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/chicken-feet-exports-help-savannah-lead-u-s-port-growth.html
Asia ’s burgeoning middle class can’t
get enough chicken feet, and that demand is helping make
Georgia’s  Port of Savannah  the fastest growing in the U.S.  Feet and chicken leg quarters have pushed Savannah to an
annual growth rate of 11 percent in the past decade, double that
of Houston, the second-quickest. Savannah has ranked third  in
container shipments , trailing only Los Angeles/Long Beach and
 New York / New Jersey , since 2007 after not even cracking the top
10-list 15 years ago.  “Savannah has been a sneaker under the radar, and it has a
really good niche,” said K.C. Conway, executive managing
director at consultant Colliers International in Atlanta.
“Poultry is the ideal protein export in so many ways because
it’s grown and harvested so quickly, with slaughtering and
processing quality standards here that Asia doesn’t quite
have.”  Chickens are part of an export flow setting Savannah apart
from other U.S. ports. While outbound goods make up about 30
percent of the tonnage at most U.S. ports, that share is 54
percent for Savannah, said Page Siplon, executive director of
the Georgia Center of Innovation for Logistics.  That means shipping lines like  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  can
fill outbound vessels, making it less costly for importers such
as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  to use Savannah,
Siplon said.  “At ports in  California , New York and New Jersey, ships
come in and dump the containers, but there’s not a lot going
out,” Siplon said. That’s helped container traffic at Savannah
more than double in the past decade, according to data from the
 American Association  of Port Authorities.  Dredging Project  The port is now bracing for a  $652 million dredging project 
to handle the larger ships able to use a widened Panama Canal
starting in 2015. That should pave the way for 5 percent annual
growth in container shipments over the next decade, Georgia
Ports Authority Executive Director Curtis Foltz said.  One-eighth of all U.S. exports by weight already go through
Savannah, trailing only  Los Angeles , according to data compiled
by the U.S. Commerce Department. Weekly shipments averaging
57,300 containers a week include as many as 1,200 refrigerated
export containers, with about 30 percent of them carrying
chicken feet -- known abroad as paws -- bound for Hong Kong or
 China , Foltz said.  “It’s typically dark meat, amazingly high volumes of
chicken feet, and a lot of it’s going to feed this growing
middle class in China,” Foltz said. “As they have more
discretionary income, their protein intake increases and poultry
is a great protein additive.”  The feet are “a little rubbery, but good,” he said.  Export Gain  Chicken feet and leg-quarter exports rose 5.6 percent this
year through September to 2.72 million metric tons, according to
the U.S.A. Poultry & Egg Export Council.  Georgia Dock whole-bird
prices , a proxy for what retailers pay processors, climbed 8.6
percent in the 12 months ended Dec. 5 to 97.5 cents a pound.  The beneficiaries include closely held poultry producers
AJC International Inc. and  Intervision Foods LLC  and railroads
 CSX Corp. (CSX)  and  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , which both serve Savannah.  Asia-bound poultry exports share Savannah with imports
headed to retailers including Wal-Mart, Home Depot and  Target
Corp. (TGT)  Wal-Mart has more than 3 million square feet of warehouse
space near the port, while Home Depot and Target each have about
2 million square feet, Foltz said.  Savannah’s other main exports are wood pulp and paper
products and kaolin clay, a binding material used in cosmetics
and hundreds of other products such as glossy magazine pages.  Canal Expansion  The port won approval from the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers
in October for a four-year project to deepen the harbor by 5
feet (1.5 meters), to 47 feet, to accommodate more of the large
ships that will be able to use the Panama Canal after its $5.25
billion expansion.  Savannah’s rise was fueled by competitors’ misfortune when
a 2002 West Coast dock strike -- more sweeping than the just-
ended walkout at Los Angeles/ Long Beach  -- spurred customers to
divert traffic to other eastern ports. Savannah’s volume surged
32 percent in 2003.  “Economists anticipated it would drop off after the West
Coast reopened, but the next year it grew even more,” Siplon
said. “Here was this sleepy little port, and shippers realized
they got all their boxes through. It was a big testing point for
Savannah and they passed and haven’t looked back.”  Exporting Feet  The export market for chicken feet began taking shape at
about the same time.  Until the mid-2000s, feet were considered a castaway item
and were removed at processing plants before even reaching U.S.
Agriculture Department inspection stations, said Toby Moore, a
spokesman for the Stone Mountain, Georgia-based poultry and egg
export group.  “We threw them away,” Moore said. “It was like feathers
or eviscera that were sent to a rendering plant where protein is
extracted.”  Buyers in  Hong Kong  expressed interest in chicken paws, and
a new category of poultry exports was born, Moore said. Shoppers
across China are becoming richer, with sales of discretionary
goods projected to rise at a compounded annual rate of 13.4
percent from 2010 to 2020, McKinsey & Co. said in a report in
March.  This year, poultry has been a bright spot while other meat
exports have declined due to higher grain prices and drought-cut
output. Beef exports were down 12 percent in the first nine
months, and lamb fell a third, according to the U.S. Meat Export
Federation.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture forecasts  poultry
exports  will rise 3.3 percent this year, while the poultry trade
group’s data show China’s consumption of U.S.-produced chicken
feet has quadrupled.  Consumers buy the paws to make soup or for a quick snack,
sometimes fried and seasoned with local spices, said Moore, the
poultry trade-group spokesman.  “There’s very little meat, but they’re very tasty,” Moore
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  