-- Chinatrust Chairman Jeffrey Koo Dies in New York City at Age 79
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2012-12-07T16:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/chinatrust-chairman-jeffrey-koo-dies-in-new-york-city-at-age-79.html
Jeffrey Koo, chairman of Chinatrust
Financial Holding Co., who brought credit cards to  Taiwan  and
who served as a presidential adviser, has died. He was 79.  Koo passed away Dec. 6 at the  Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center  in  New York City , according to a statement from
the Taipei-based company, which didn’t specify the cause of
death. Hsueh Hsiang-Chuan, a board director, has been appointed
acting chairman, the company said in the statement.  Jeffrey Koo introduced credit cards to Taiwan in 1974 and
became chairman of Chinatrust in 1988, leading the company to
become the island’s  largest  credit card issuer with 17 percent
of the market. With a fortune of $1.1 billion, Koo was Taiwan’s
28th richest person last year, according to Forbes magazine.  Koo’s personal holdings included  4.7 percent  of Chinatrust
Financial as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company reported net income of NT$15.5 billion
($533 million) for the first nine months of 2012.  Koo used his wealth to help promote Taiwan’s international
presence, organizing social events with dignitaries during
meetings of the  World Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund ,
according to “The Rich and Powerful Families in Taiwan - the
Koos of the Koos’ Group,” by Sima Xiaoqing, published in 1998.  Jeffrey Koo also served as adviser to three Taiwan
presidents -- Lee Teng-hui, Chen Shui-bian and  Ma Ying-jeou  --
advocating for closer economic cooperation with  China . He was a
board member of Taiwan’s Straits Exchange Foundation, according
to a 2011 government publication.  Taiwan’s  High Court  last month allowed his son, Jeffrey Koo
Jr., to leave the country to visit his father after he posted a
NT$1 billion bond, according to a statement posted on the
court’s website.  The younger Koo is appealing a nine-year prison sentence
imposed by the Taipei District Court after he was convicted of
share manipulation during an attempted takeover. He resigned as
vice chairman in November 2006, disrupting succession plans.  Rachael Kao, a spokeswoman for Chinatrust, said the company
has yet to schedule a board meeting to elect a new chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  