-- Chinese Group Said in Talks to Buy AIG’s Plane Lessor
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-12-07T15:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/chinese-group-said-in-talks-to-buy-aig-s-aircraft-leasing-unit.html
A group led by New  China  Trust Co.
and its chairman Weng Xianding is in talks to buy a controlling
stake in  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s aircraft-leasing
unit, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The group, which includes China Aviation Industry Fund and
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd ., is bidding for
International Lease Finance Corp. together with ILFC’s
management, the people said, asking not to be identified because
the talks are confidential. A deal may value ILFC at about $5.5
billion, one of the people said.  Based on that valuation, a transaction could mark the
biggest Chinese acquisition in the U.S., potentially beating
China Investment Corp.’s $3 billion purchase of a stake in
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “ILFC by its nature is a business that requires financial
 leverage , and AIG is a company that would like to reduce its
leverage,” said Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, who has a buy rating on the insurer. “Getting ILFC
off of AIG’s balance sheet, I think would be viewed favorably
and make the stock go up.”  AIG rose 2.4 percent to $34.07 at 10:36 a.m. in  New York .
The company has rallied 47 percent this year.  ILFC, based in  Los Angeles , is the largest aircraft lessor
in China, with a 30 percent market share and more than  175
aircraft  leased to 16 airlines in the Greater China region,
according to the company. It had 918 aircraft in its leased
fleet as of September, with a book value of $34.9 billion,
according to the most recent quarterly report.  Past Attempt  Jon Diat, a New York-based spokesman for AIG, declined to
comment. Phone calls to Xu Chunqi and Liu Liwei, listed as
officials in charge of information disclosure in New China
Trust’s 2011 annual report, went unanswered. Officials at China
Aviation Industry Fund weren’t reachable. ICBC spokesman Wang
Zhenning declined to comment.  AIG, which considered selling ILFC in 2009 as it sought to
repay a $182.3 billion government bailout, last year said in an
S-1 filing that it planned an initial public offering of the
unit. The IPO may take place next year if financial markets
stabilize, ILFC Chief Executive Officer Henri Courpron said in
early November.  “From just the simple fact that they’ve had this S-1 out
there for so long, it suggests that they’ve had trouble finding
either a price for an IPO or a buyer who would want to take it
off their hands,” Newsome said.  Narrowed Focus  Under terms of the deal being discussed, AIG would retain a
minority stake in ILFC, the people said. AIG has narrowed its
focus since its near collapse in 2008, divesting more than $60
billion in assets to help repay its bailout. The company has
sold non-U.S. life insurers, consumer-finance operations and
former headquarters buildings in New York and  Tokyo .  AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche  is concentrating on global
property-casualty coverage and U.S. life insurance and
retirement products. The company had 57,000  employees  at the end
of December, down from 116,000 three years earlier.  AIG acquired ILFC in 1990 for $1.16 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The unit has more than 200 aircraft on firm
order, including Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner and Airbus SAS’s
new A320neo.  Aircraft delivery financing will rise to $104 billion in
2013 from $95 billion this year, Kostya Zolotusky, managing
director at Boeing Capital Markets, the Chicago-based
planemaker’s finance arm, said in an interview this week. The
figure will rise to $132 billion in 2017, he said. Most lessors
trade below book value, indicating aircraft assets may be
overvalued, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Leasing Rivals  Airbus, which has an A320 assembly plant in China, won an
order for 50 planes from the leasing arm of state-controlled
ICBC in August. Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of Communications
Co. also have aircraft leasing arms.  A group led by  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  agreed
in January to buy Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s aviation
division for about $7.3 billion in the world’s biggest
acquisition of a leasing business.  New China Trust, 19.5 percent owned by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , was
the country’s 18th biggest trust company by assets under
management in 2009, according the latest ranking on China
Trustee Association’s website. Net income jumped 43 percent in
2011 to 496 million  yuan  ($80 million), the company’s website
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  