-- China Money Rate Set for Biggest Weekly Decline in Five Weeks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-07T09:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/china-money-rate-set-for-biggest-weekly-decline-in-five-weeks.html
China ’s money-market rate dropped
this week as the central bank added capital to the financial
market for the first time in five weeks.  The People’s Bank of China injected a net 11 billion  yuan 
($1.8 billion), compared with a withdrawal of 40 billion yuan
last week,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. A government report
on Dec. 9 may show  consumer prices  climbed 2.1 percent in
November from a year earlier, the fastest pace in five months,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
35 economists.  “The injection in open-market operations has helped bring
down the seven-day repurchase rate,” said Wang Huane, a bond
analyst at Qilu Bank Co. in Jinan, capital of eastern Shandong
province. “There is also speculation that foreign capital is
flowing into the nation, which also increases money supply.”  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, declined 34 basis points this week to 3.04 percent
as of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , the biggest decline since the five
days through Nov. 2, according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. It rose 15 basis points
today.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.41
percent this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contracts climbed two basis points today.  The yield on the 2.95 percent government bond due August
2017 gained nine basis points this week to 3.27 percent,
according to the Interbank Funding Center. The yield was
unchanged today.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Simon Harvey, Anil Varma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 