-- Cisco’s Chambers Affirms Revenue Target Amid Expansion
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-12-07T21:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/cisco-s-chambers-affirms-revenue-target-amid-expansion.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Chambers  affirmed the company’s long-term revenue
growth target of 5 percent to 7 percent as he expands software
and services to lessen reliance on routers and switches.  Cisco, the world’s largest maker of computer networking
equipment, is looking for new markets amid intensifying
competition from rivals such as  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) ,  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Arista Networks Inc. A central part of that
effort has been the  acquisition  of software and services
companies with strong recurring sales and profit margins.  Services will become a bigger part of Cisco’s  revenue ,
reaching 25 percent of sales, Chambers said today at a financial
analysts’ conference in New York. That business  accounted  for 21
percent of Cisco’s $46.1 billion in revenue in the last fiscal
year. Cisco still intends to double its software revenue as
well, Chambers said, reaffirming an earlier target.  “We’ve gone too long without any major M&A,” Chambers
said. “We got too slow. You’re going to see us be quicker.”  Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS) , which announced a “significant
expansion” of its partnership with Cisco in October, rose as
much as 4.1 percent, the biggest intraday rise in a month, after
Chambers spoke.  Citrix, which makes virtualization software, is a possible
acquisition target for Cisco, as are data-storage specialist
 NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  and information-technology management software maker
 ServiceNow Inc. (NOW) ,  Brian Marshall , an analyst with ISI Group,
wrote in an e-mail.  Strategy Overhaul  Cisco announced on Nov. 18 it agreed to pay $1.2 billion
for Meraki Inc., which makes tools to manage Wi-Fi networks and
security. In July, Cisco acquired NDS Group Ltd., which makes
software for cable set-top boxes, for about $5 billion.  Both companies give Cisco technologies for making networks
more intelligent, whether they’re detecting fraud and protecting
video content, or giving corporate technology managers an easier
way to configure their systems.  Cisco’s expansion comes as the company is recovering from
an earlier foray into consumer technologies that backfired.
Market-share erosion and falling profit margins led to cuts.
Chambers is pushing for faster decision-making, and has
eliminated 7,800 jobs over the past year and a half, while
closing businesses such as the Flip video-camera unit.  Analysts predict sales growth of about 6 percent in 2013,
2014 and 2015, according to  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Cisco cut its own long-term sales-growth target last year to 5
to 7 percent, from an earlier projection of 12 to 17 percent.
The company said today it would stick with the revised target.  San Jose, California-based Cisco rose less than 1 percent
to $19.34 at the close in New York. The stock is up 6.9 percent
so far this year. Citrix shares fell 3.3 percent to $62.03.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  