-- Clarin Wins Argentine Media Law Stay in Feud With Fernandez
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-07T14:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/clarin-wins-argentine-media-law-stay-in-feud-with-fernandez-1-.html
Grupo Clarin SA (GCLA)  won a last-minute
court ruling to postpone implementation of an antitrust law that
would’ve broken up  Argentina ’s largest media group.  A Buenos Aires-based court suspended today’s deadline for
Clarin to present a plan to sell assets without setting a new
date until a separate court determines the constitutionality of
the law, according to the  ruling  yesterday.  The decision is a reversal for President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who orchestrated a media campaign and public rally
to celebrate the deadline set by the Supreme Court back in May
for Clarin to present its divestment plan. The government
intends to appeal the ruling, and is vowing to continue its
four-year showdown with the media group, who Fernandez regularly
taunts in public and considers a “monopoly.”  “It can’t be possible that democracy is subjugated to
corporations,” Gustavo Lopez, a presidential under-secretary,
said in an interview with CN23 television network yesterday.
“Sooner or later we will win.”  The government today asked the  Supreme Court  to revoke
yesterday’s ruling, according to the presidential  website .  Clarin’s shares  surged  7.9 percent to 8.9 pesos as of 11:06
a.m in   Buenos Aires , after jumping 10 percent jump yesterday,
the biggest gain since Oct. 28, 2010, on speculation the group
would obtain a favorable ruling.  Fernandez, 59, and her government have clashed frequently
with Clarin and its owners since 2008, when the government
accused the newspaper of biased coverage during a four-month
protest by farmers opposing plans to increase export taxes.  Targeting the media group, she pushed through Congress in
2009 an overhaul of the country’s media landscape that set
limits on media ownership that would break up what the
government calls monopolies.  On Oct. 24, Argentine media regulator Martin Sabbatella
threatened to auction some of Clarin’s assets that exceed limits
stipulated in the media law if the group failed to present a
divestment plan by today.  License Breakdown  To comply with new limits, Clarin’s cable operator
Cablevision SA, which has 168 licenses throughout the country,
would have to reduce that number to a maximum of 24 while paring
its market share to 35 percent from 47 percent, according to the
company.  Clarin also owns 10  radio stations , four broadcast TV
channels, 240 cable TV operators and  Internet providers . The
company posted third-quarter revenue of 2.9 billion pesos ($600
million), a 23 percent increase from a year earlier.  On Dec. 5, Sabbatella said that hedge fund Fintech Advisory
Inc., which owns 40 percent of Cablevision, submitted a letter
to the regulator expressing its willingness to divest in
accordance with the law. Fintech Managing Partner David Martinez
didn’t reply to an e-mail and a telephone call seeking comment.  Public Rally  The long-running feud had been building toward a climax
today.  During the airing of the state-sponsored “Soccer for
Everyone” sports program on Sept. 22, the government broadcast
a four-minute video saying some Clarin assets will be auctioned
starting Dec. 7. The clip referred to the date as “7D for
diversity and democracy.”  Clarin responded with its own video before the latest
ruling saying the injunction may be extended, and that the
courts have another year to rule on the legislation. The Buenos
Aires-based company said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday
that it will continue to respect the constitution, law and court
rulings.  The government had organized a Dec. 9 concert at the Plaza
de Mayo square in front of the presidential palace to celebrate
the media bill.  “The government thinks that with this new bill it will be
able to control news and information released to the public,”
opposition lawmaker Patricia Bullrich, who voted against the
bill in 2009, said in a telephone interview in Buenos Aires.
“Those lawmakers who supported the proposal now must regret
this because they now see it has become a guillotine for freedom
of speech.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  