-- Colbun Is Open to Selling Patagonian Power Project Stake
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-12-07T15:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/colbun-is-open-to-selling-patagonian-power-project-stake.html
Colbun SA (COLBUN) , a partner in what would be
Chile’s biggest power plant, said it would be prepared to sell a
stake in the Patagonian hydroelectric project after delaying
development plans amid environmental opposition.  Colbun, a 49 percent shareholder in  HidroAysen , doesn’t
plan to restart work on the 2,750-megawatt project until it sees
greater consensus among lawmakers, Chief Executive Officer
Ignacio Cruz said in an interview yesterday.  “You really don’t have a project until you have a solid
base of social support,” Cruz said from his offices in
Santiago. Selling a stake to a third party “could be a good
alternative,” if it helps make the project viable, he said.  Colbun announced in May that it wanted to indefinitely
suspend plans to seek environmental permissions for the
project’s transmission lines. Environmental opposition also
stalled projects being developed in Chile by  Brazil ’s  MPX
Energia SA (MPXE3)  and  GDF Suez. (GSZ)   The lack of consensus over Chile’s power crunch may stunt
economic growth in the coming decade as copper mining projects
are delayed because of a lack of cheap energy, Cruz said.  HidroAysen involves building a 1,900-kilometer (1,180-mile)
transmission line to Chile’s capital Santiago. Empresa Nacional
de Electricidad SA, known as Endesa, owns the remaining 51
percent of the project.  Price Volatility  Endesa may also face delays to its recently-approved Punta
Alcalde coal-fired power project in northern Chile as
environmentalists seek an injunction against the project, Cruz
said. While opponents have the right to take their case to
court, Punta Alcalde meets the highest environmental standards,
Endesa Chairman Jorge Rosenblut said in an interview published
today in Diario Financiero.  Chile  will suffer “high and volatile” power prices for a
“long time,” Cruz said. A reduction in reservoir levels will
lower hydroelectric power generation in the first half of 2013
and increase the cost of electricity as energy companies burn
more diesel to supply the grid, he said.  Colbun expects to consolidate its investment grade credit
rating as it generates cash at similar levels to the third
quarter when earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization totaled $114 million, Cruz said.  The company’s shares, little changed in Santiago trading
today, have gained 3.3 percent in the past year compared with
the Chilean benchmark index’s 0.6 percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  