-- Colombia Cites Financial Risk Concern for Surprise Rate Cut
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-12-07T16:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/colombia-cites-financial-risk-concern-for-surprise-rate-cut-2-.html
Colombia ’s central bank cited a high
perception of risk in local financial markets and a greater-
than-expected slowdown in economic activity for its unexpected
decision to cut interest rates last month.  “While  inflation  and inflation expectations remain close
to their long-term target, indicators of industry, imports of
capital goods and sales of  consumer durables  suggest that the
economy is slowing more than expected,” the bank said in the
minutes of its November policy meeting published on its website
today. “Additionally, although reductions in interest rates
seem to be transmitting adequately to the market, the risk
perception of some local agents remains high.”  The central bank’s board voted 4-3 last month to cut the
 benchmark interest rate  to its lowest level in a year,
surprising 31 of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, after the
nation’s biggest brokerage collapsed and industry contracted for
a second month. Colombia has lowered interest rates three times
since July, the only major economy in the Americas apart from
 Brazil  that has reduced borrowing costs in the past six months.  It is “relatively clear” that mention of risk perceptions
was a reference to the implosion of  Interbolsa SA (INTBOL) ’s brokerage
last month, said Daniel Velandia, the head of research at
Correval SA brokerage in Bogota.  “From the macroeconomic point of view, there wasn’t much
reason to lower rates,” Velandia said in a telephone interview
from Bogota.  Slowing Down  The quarter-point cut in the policy rate, to 4.5 percent,
came after the central bank opened a so-called liquidity window
for brokerages in an effort to avoid disruptions in financial
markets following the brokerage’s collapse.  Annual inflation slowed to 2.77 percent in November, the
lowest rate since 2010, on cheaper food and transport costs. The
central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Industrial output shrank 1.3 percent in September from a
year earlier, its second consecutive year-on-year fall. Gross
domestic product grew 4.9 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, the third-fastest expansion among  Latin America ’s
seven biggest economies after Peru and  Chile .  The biggest risks to Colombian growth next year are a
“significant” recession in  Europe  and the so-called fiscal
cliff in the U.S., policy makers said.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent bonds due in July
2024 rose five basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 5.88
percent, at 11.30 a.m. in Bogota. The peso was virtually
unchanged at 1798.6 per dollar.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said Nov. 7 that
regulators would liquidate Interbolsa’s brokerage after it had
failed to meet a loan payment a week earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 