-- Company Bonds Returning Less in 2013 Points Scots Fund to Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-12-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/company-bonds-returning-less-in-2013-points-scots-fund-to-brazil.html
Expectations for declining returns
from corporate bonds worldwide are leading Scottish fund company
Baillie Gifford & Co. to invest more in Brazilian credit.  Company bonds will make less money in 2013 after four years
of annualized gains of at least 15 percent for Robert Baltzer, a
 money manager  at the Edinburgh-based firm, which oversees 81
billion pounds ($130 billion) and lists some of the largest U.S.
retirement funds among its clients. He bought securities sold by
Virgolino de Oliveira SA, sugar and ethanol producer in  Brazil ,
and Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
biggest producer of oil in deep waters.  “It would take a very bizarre combination of events to
have the same returns,” Baltzer, 34, said in a telephone
interview in the Scottish capital. “You are not going to enjoy
the same returns as we have this year.”  Corporate bonds soared in the wake of the global financial
crisis as governments around the world took the axe to  interest
rates  to try to revive their economies and investors shunned
stocks. Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Corporate & High Yield Index has risen 44 percent.  Baltzer has run Baillie Gifford’s  Investment Grade Long
Bond fund  since July 2004 and has co-managed the  Baillie Gifford
High Yield Bond fund  with Donald Phillips since 2010. After four
years of gains “we have found it easier to find sell ideas than
buy ideas,” he said on Nov. 30. “We play a relative game, we
are not trying to provide absolute returns.”  Calpers, Vanguard  Baillie Gifford manages money for nine of the world’s
largest 20 pension funds, according to its website. They include
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the largest
U.S. retirement plan. Other clients include Vanguard Group Inc.,
the world’s largest mutual fund company.  For the investment-grade fund, Baltzer bought the 5.375
percent sterling-denominated bond maturing in 2029 by Petrobras
because “it is the linchpin of the Brazilian economy.” The
yield on the bond was 4.89 percent yesterday.  For the High Yield Fund, he bought 11.75 percent dollar
bonds maturing in 2022 issued this year by Virgolino, which is
part of a co-operative group that is the world’s largest sugar
cane producer. The yield has fallen 322 basis points, or 3.22
percentage points, during the past six months, to 12.13 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Compelling’  Another Brazilian holding in the fund is an index-linked
government bond maturing in 2045 paying an annual coupon of 6
percent. It is the only index-linked bond in the fund and has
been held since 2006. It is also owned across several other
Baillie Gifford funds, he said.  “It is one of the most compelling opportunities we have
found worldwide,” Baltzer said.  The Investment Grade Long Bond Fund, which is only
available to institutional investors and has assets of about 260
million pounds, had a total return of 13.2 percent over the past
three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It ranked second
among 90 similar European-domiciled funds behind the Allianz
Pimco Corporate fund, which returned 15.4 percent.  The High Yield fund is the best performer of 28 similar
European-domiciled funds over three years with an annualized
total return of 12.4 percent, the figures show.  Elsewhere, Baltzer also bought bonds issued by  Delhaize
Group SA (DELB)  and Heathrow Airport Ltd., the owner of  Europe ’s
busiest airport. He recently sold a holding in  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-biggest bank.  “We have become more nervous and the market has become
less nervous,” he said.  Peripheral Europe  Bonds of companies in peripheral European markets have come
back into favor, he said. That prompted the fund to sell
holdings in Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, Italy’s third-largest
wireless operator, and  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization
SA (OTE) ,  Greece ’s largest phone company, Baltzer said.  During the financial crisis the high-yield fund bought
investment-grade bonds issued by banks and insurers. The 295
million-pound fund continues to have about 20 percent of its
assets in non-junk bonds, he said.  “We have cooled our interest in the banking sector, we
have not owned as little as we do for quite some time,” Baltzer
said. “We still see a significant amount of systemic risk in
European banks. There is a limit to how much we want to bear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  