-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast in October
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-12-07T21:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-october.html
Consumer credit  in the U.S. increased
more than forecast in October, led by another jump in borrowing
for student loans and autos.  The $14.2 billion gain followed a revised $12.2 billion
advance in September, Federal Reserve figures showed today in
Washington. The median  forecast  of 36 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a $10 billion October rise.  A rebound in the housing market and gradual improvement in
reducing joblessness may bolster household spending as consumers
take on more debt for purchases that make up about 70 percent of
the economy. A jump in auto sales last month indicates cheaper
borrowing costs continue to lure Americans.  “Uncertainty regarding the fiscal cliff may be inhibiting
businesses from making bold investment decisions, but consumers
have not exhibited the same degree of caution,”  Dana Saporta ,
an economist at Credit Suisse in New York, said in a research
note.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for consumer credit
ranged from gains of $5 billion to $16.5 billion. The September
increase was previously reported as $11.4 billion.  The report doesn’t track debt secured by real estate, such
as home equity lines of credit and home mortgages.  Non-revolving debt , such as that for college tuition or
auto purchases, climbed $10.8 billion in October after surging
$14.4 billion in September.  Auto Sales  Automobile demand continues to add to economic growth. Cars
and light trucks  sold  at a 15.5 million annual rate in November,
the most in almost five years and up from a 14.2 million pace
the prior month, according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
educational loans, increased by $6.9 billion in October before
adjusting for seasonal variations, today’s report showed.
President  Barack Obama  signed into law on July 1 a bill that
kept student-loan interest rates from doubling.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, rose by $3.38
billion in October after a $2.19 billion decrease the prior
month. Revolving credit has declined in three of the five months
through October.  Labor market gains may be boosting Americans’ willingness
to borrow. Payrolls rose more than projected and the jobless
rate fell to an almost four-year low in November, Labor
Department data showed today. The economy added 146,000 jobs in
November following a 138,000 gain a month earlier, and
unemployment fell to 7.7 percent from 7.9 percent in October.  Nonetheless, confidence took a hit this month as lawmakers
fail to reach agreement on averting tax increases and government
spending cuts slated to take effect next year. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary consumer sentiment
index decreased to 74.5, the weakest in four months, from 82.7
in November, another report showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  