-- Credit Suisse Said to Scrap $1 Billion Fund With Sberbank
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-12-07T12:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/credit-suisse-sberbank-said-to-scrap-1-billion-buyout-fund.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and OAO
Sberbank canceled plans to create a $1 billion private-equity
fund in  Russia  because of lack of interest from investors, two
people familiar with the decision said.  Credit Suisse is also scaling back operations globally and
Sberbank doesn’t have the expertise of its own, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the decision is confidential.
Monika Sasse, a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse, and Anastasia Vakhlamova, spokeswoman for Sberbank, declined comment.  Credit Suisse, the second-biggest Swiss bank, and state-run
Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, planned to contribute about
$100 million each to the fund and raise the rest from investors,
Sberbank Chief Executive Officer Herman Gref said in an
interview last year. Credit Suisse said in October it would cut
a further 1 billion francs ($1.07 billion) in annual costs by
the end of 2015 to help deal with the impact of the global
economic downturn on its margins.  The Zurich-based bank, which has operated in Moscow since
1991, is moving its Russian capital-markets and advisory
businesses to  London  as part of the cost reductions, two people
with knowledge of the matter said this week. Russian equities,
fixed income and private banking will remain in Moscow, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
hasn’t been made public.  “Credit Suisse remains committed to its clients in
Russia,” the company said in an e-mailed statement on Dec. 5.
“This involves realigning resources to growth areas and
adjusting capacity to meet client needs and to manage costs.”  Russian Growth  Russian lenders are seeking to attract foreign private-
equity capital and expertise from abroad to help boost their
profits and spending power.  Last year, VTB Capital, a unit of Russia’s second-biggest
bank  VTB Bank OJSC (VTBR) , partnered with Texas-based TPG Capital to
buy supermarket chain Lenta LLC for $1.1 billion. Baring Vostok,
the Russian private-equity firm co-founded by former Salomon
Brothers oil banker Michael Calvey, in October raised $1.5
billion, the largest amount amassed for deals in Russia.  Andreas Boesenberg, deputy global head of private equity at
VTB Capital, said his bank is considering setting up its first
private-equity fund.  “At some point in 2013 we will get active in fund-
raising,” Boesenberg said by telephone from Moscow today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  