-- Czech GDP Falls for Third Quarter as Austerity Fuels Slump
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-12-07T12:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/czech-gdp-falls-for-third-quarter-as-austerity-fuels-slump-2-.html
The Czech economy shrank for a third
consecutive three-month period from July to September, one
quarter short of matching the longest decline on record as
government austerity measures damped domestic demand.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.3 percent from March-June,
compared with a revised 0.4 percent decline in the previous
three months, the Statistics Office in  Prague  said in a
statement on its website today. GDP contracted 1.3 percent from
a year earlier, also a third straight decline and the worst
reading since the end of 2009.  The economy is suffering from weak domestic demand as
households and businesses cut spending due to government
austerity programs and the euro-area debt crisis. With the risk
of a  recession  stretching into the longest ever, Premier Petr
Necas wants to ease the pace of austerity after next year to
avoid the fate of European leaders who were ousted as they
pushed measures that stunted economies from  Romania  to  Spain .  “The key message is that domestic demand remains weak,
particularly household consumption,” Radomir Jac, chief
economist at Generali PPF Asset Management in Prague, said in an
e-mail. “The Czech economy is operating well below its
potential and the development is thus generating disinflationary
pressure.”  Domestic Demand  Household spending fell 0.4 percent in the third quarter
compared with the previous three months, and was down 2.4
percent from a year ago, the data showed. Gross capital
formation fell 5 percent from the previous quarter and declined
9.4 percent from a year ago.  Both quarterly and annual GDP numbers were 0.5 percentage
points below the central bank forecast, mainly due to stronger-
than-expected imports which curbed the positive contribution of
foreign trade, the Ceska Narodni Banka said in a statement on
its  website .  “For the current CNB forecast, the new GDP data represent
a risk toward a deeper decline in economic activity,” the bank
said. It forecast full-year GDP to fall 0.9 percent in 2012.  The koruna weakened 0.1 percent to 25.200 against the euro
as of 1:31 p.m. in Prague, the fifth-worse performance today
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The statistics office also published revisions of GDP.
According to the latest figures, the economy contracted in all
three quarters this year on a quarterly basis, after stagnating
in the final three months of 2011.  Underperforms Neighbors  The  Czech Republic  is underperforming its neighbors in
central  Europe .  Poland ’s economy, the biggest among the post-
communist EU members, expanded 1.4 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, while GDP in smaller  Slovakia  rose 2.1
percent.  A lack of household spending is taming inflation, which
pushed the Czech central bank to cut rates to effectively zero
and prompted talk of weakening the currency should the economy
require more policy easing.  Since taking power in 2010, the Cabinet has cut investment,
raised the  sales tax  and curbed spending on public wages. The
budget  shortfall  narrowed to 3.3 percent of GDP last year from
4.8 percent in 2010. The  Finance Ministry  estimates it at 5
percent this year, due to a one-time inclusion of future
payments for a settlement with churches. The target is 2.9
percent of GDP in 2013.  Trade Surplus  The  trade balance  remains in  surplus , mitigating part of
the effect of domestic demand on the performance of the economy.
Separate statistics published today showed October exports rose
7.5 percent from a year earlier, although the statistics were
affected by a larger number of working days. Data adjusted for
the calendar impact showed exports declined in October,
according to Jac.  Foreign demand will remain the sole positive contributor to
Czech economic performance in the next two quarters,  Martin
Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna AS, a unit of Erste
Group Bank AG, said.  “Since fiscal restriction continues and since uncertainty
won’t disappear, household demand will remain weak,” Lobotka
said. “Firms will also have little incentive to invest as
uncertainty remains high and capacities are underutilized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  