-- Czech Koruna Halts Three-Day Gain on Economic Data: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-12-07T15:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/czech-koruna-halts-three-day-gain-on-economic-data-prague-mover.html
The Czech koruna halted a three-day
advance as worse-than-expected data for foreign trade spurred
concern the country’s recession will drag on, prompting the
central bank to help exporters by weakening the currency.  The koruna depreciated as much as 0.3 percent today, after
gaining 0.3 percent in the previous three days. It later
recouped losses and traded little changed at 25.196 per euro by
4:12 p.m. in  Prague , after better-than-forecast U.S. jobs data.  The Czech  trade surplus  rose to 33 billion koruna ($1.7
billion) in October from 30.8 billion koruna a month earlier,
the Czech statistics office said today, missing the 38 billion-
koruna median estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
More monetary easing may be needed in 2013 and the  exchange rate 
would be the next tool, Czech National Bank Governor Miroslav
Singer said on Nov. 15.  “The Czech economy operates well below its potential and
the development is thus generating disinflationary pressure in
the domestic economy,” Radomir Jac, chief analyst at Generali
PPF Asset Management AS, wrote in a report today. “The central
bank is ready to push the koruna weaker, if further easing of
monetary conditions in the Czech economy is needed.”  Gross domestic product contracted 0.3 percent in July to
September, a third straight quarterly drop, the statistics
office said today. That matched its estimate released on Nov.
15. Exports adjusted for the number of working days shrank 2.4
percent from a year earlier, it said.  The CNB cut its benchmark  interest rate  to 0.05 percent on
Nov. 1, the second-lowest in the European Union after  Denmark .  The five-year koruna  yield  increased one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 0.77 percent. The rate reached a
record-low 0.70 percent four weeks ago, according to generic
indexes compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  