-- DeMint Exits Senate as Conservative Brand Weakens
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-12-07T18:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/demint-exits-senate-as-conservative-brand-weakens.html
Republican U.S. Senator  Jim DeMint  of
 South Carolina , a champion of fiscal conservatives in Congress
who has clashed with his party’s leaders, said he will leave in
the middle of his term to lead the  Heritage Foundation .  At the Republican-leaning policy group in  Washington ,
DeMint will be “much freer to roar” than if he stays in the
Senate, Republican political consultant Craig Shirley said
yesterday in a telephone interview. Democrats widened their
majority in the chamber by two seats in last month’s election.  “He will have a higher platform, greater authority in that
position and thus more influence over the direction of the party
and the conservative movement,” Shirley said.  The job change would help bolster the personal finances of
DeMint, 61. He reported a maximum net worth of $65,000 on his
2010 financial disclosure forms, the fourth-lowest of U.S.
senators, according to the Center for Responsive Politics in
Washington. Edwin J. Feulner, who will step down as Heritage
Foundation president in April, was paid more than $1 million in
2010, according to the group’s tax documents.  DeMint, whose Senate Conservatives Fund backed several
Senate candidates in the 2010 and 2012 Republican primaries
against hopefuls supported by the party’s establishment, is
“one of a handful of people responsible” for the influx of Tea
Party-backed lawmakers in 2010, said  Senator Lindsey Graham , a
fellow South Carolina Republican.  ‘Good Legacy’  “And that’s a pretty damn good legacy,” Graham said.
“Say what you like about the  Tea Party , but without the Tea
Party none of us would be talking about fiscal issues like we
are today.”  DeMint, who is finishing two years of his second six-year
term, said in a statement that he was “not leaving the fight.”
He said the “conservative movement needs strong leadership in
the battle of ideas.”  Republican strategist Ron Bonjean said DeMint, who will
pass up a spot as the top Republican on the Commerce Committee,
probably decided to leave the Senate in part because the
Republicans didn’t gain a majority in the chamber in the Nov. 6
election.  “It would be the same thing for the next two years that
he’s experienced before,” Bonjean said. “Clearly, he’s looking
for new opportunities to express his conservative views.”  DeMint stepped aside earlier this year as head of the
Republican Steering Committee, a senators’ group that develops
small-government policy options. From that post, DeMint helped
engineer strategies to thwart legislation put forth by the
Senate’s Democratic majority.  Earmark Ban  DeMint has also been at odds with leaders of his own party.
He fought for and eventually won a ban on congressionally
directed spending known as earmarks that was opposed by Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  McConnell yesterday in a statement thanked DeMint “for his
uncompromising service to South Carolina and to our country” in
the Senate. McConnell said DeMint “helped provide a powerful
voice for conservative ideals.”  In 2008, DeMint forced a weekend vote on legislation to
expand President  George W. Bush ’s program to combat AIDS in
 Africa . He was criticized by members of both parties when he
skipped the vote.  First elected to the Senate in 2004, DeMint was re-elected
two years ago. Earlier, he served three terms in the U.S. House
of Representatives. The Club for Growth, a small-government
group based in Washington, has given his voting record a 100
percent rating.  Potential Successors  South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, a Republican, under
state law will appoint a replacement until a special election is
held in 2014 to fill the remainder of DeMint’s term.  Haley in a statement today ruled out appointing herself,
and her spokesman Rob Godfrey said she won’t run for the Senate
seat in 2014.  “She loves the job she has,” Godfrey said.  Freshman Representatives  Tim Scott  and Jeff Duncan, Trey Gowdy and former state attorney general Henry McMaster are
potential contenders to replace DeMint.  Mark Tompkins, a political science professor at the
University of South Carolina, said Haley must decide whether she
wants to appoint a “caretaker” to hold the seat until 2014 or
someone who is interested in serving longer.  Senate Democrats  South Carolina-based Republican political consultant Wesley
Donehue said DeMint’s decision “has everything to do with the
inability of anyone to get everything done.”  DeMint’s departure from Congress follows an election in
which the Senate’s Democratic caucus increased its majority by
two seats to 55-45.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who came to the
chamber the same year as DeMint, said DeMint has been “an
anchor for conservative principles” and his departure would
leave “a big void.”  Coburn said he and DeMint learned together “how to use
your rights in an appropriate way and have them respected.”  DeMint’s announcement coincides with efforts in the House
to crack down on the Tea Party wing of the  Republican Party .
Earlier this week, four Republicans who opposed House Speaker
 John Boehner  on spending and budget issues were removed from
their committee assignments.  Tea Party  Three of them were elected in 2010 with support of the Tea
Party movement, and their reassignments drew a protest from
 FreedomWorks , an umbrella group for the Tea Party movement.  DeMint “was the point person for the no-compromise
conservative wing” of the Republican Party, said Stu Rothenberg, publisher of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political
Report.  Whether the Tea Party is losing its clout in Congress “is
absolutely the right thing to ask,” Rothenberg said. “The
question is whether Boehner has flexed his muscles and some
conservatives now understand their place in the pecking order or
whether we’re going to see an outright split in the party.”  DeMint’s Senate Conservatives Fund helped elect three
Republicans to the Senate on Nov. 6 -- Nebraska’s Deb Fischer,
Arizona’s Jeff Flake and  Texas ’s  Ted Cruz . Other DeMint-backed
candidates, including Republicans Todd Akin in  Missouri  and
 Richard Mourdock  in  Indiana , lost to Democrats after divisive
primaries.  Akin Endorsement  DeMint endorsed Akin after the six-term congressman drew
fire from Republican party leaders -- some of whom called on him
to leave the race against Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill  --
for saying in an Aug. 19 television interview that “legitimate
rape” rarely results in pregnancy.  DeMint “changed the complexion of the Republican caucus,”
said Kentucky Senator Rand Paul, one of five Republicans
DeMint’s fund helped elect in 2010. “There really is a
libertarian conservative nucleus among some members in the
Republican caucus now.”  Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican backed by DeMint
in 2010, said the South Carolinian’s efforts “created the
opportunity for principled but underfunded candidates to have a
chance.”  Rubio, viewed as a potential 2016 presidential candidate,
added, “Think about four years ago compared to today and the
folks who are part of this body now as a result of Jim DeMint’s
efforts and how different the Republican conference looks as a
result of his work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  