-- Deutsche Halts Almost Half Its Japanese Equities Coverage
-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2012-12-07T08:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/deutsche-halts-nearly-half-its-japanese-equities-coverage.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  stopped equity
coverage on 11 out of 27 Japanese industries, the brokerage said
in a note to clients today, citing “organizational changes.”  According to the note obtained by  Bloomberg News , coverage
has been suspended for the following sectors: communications,
precision machinery, health care, information technology
services, semiconductors, food, toiletries, trading houses, oil,
chemicals and textiles. Aston Bridgman, a Tokyo-based spokesman
for the bank, declined to comment.  “It’s a sign of the times,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-
based head of strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
about $130 billion in assets under management. “The Japanese
share market has had problems for the last 20 years, so it’s not
very surprising. With the trading volumes so low, it’s hard for
brokerages to support keeping people on.”  Deutsche Bank cut at least 20 jobs in  Japan  this week as
part of its plans to reduce more than 1,900 positions worldwide,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter who
requested anonymity as the matter is private. The latest
reductions come three months after Deutsche Bank pared about 45
equities positions in Tokyo.  Takato Watabe, an analyst for the chemicals industry at
Deutsche Bank according to Bloomberg data, covers companies
including Mitsui Chemicals Inc. and  Kuraray Co. (3405)  Watabe was
ranked Japan’s No. 1 analyst by  Nikkei Veritas  magazine this
year. He joined Deutsche Bank in 2003 from Merrill Lynch Japan
Securities Co., Bloomberg data show.  Yoshio Ando, who joined Deutsche Bank from Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in 2009, dropped coverage of communications companies
including Internet social networking site Mixi Inc. and mobile
carrier  Softbank Corp. (9984)  on Dec. 6, Bloomberg data show.  Yoshikazu Higurashi, ranked the nation’s No. 5 analyst by
Nikkei Veritas this year, dropped coverage of electronics makers
such as  Canon Inc. (7751)  and Olympus Corp. on Dec. 6, Bloomberg data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  