-- Deutsche Telekom Dividend in Stock May Help Its Funds
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-12-07T15:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/deutsche-telekom-dividend-in-stock-may-help-its-funds.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  may receive help
from the German state as  Germany ’s largest phone company boosts
investment to upgrade its Internet network.  Germany’s government and state-owned lender KfW will decide
whether to leave cash in the Bonn-based company by opting for
dividend payments in shares, Finance Ministry spokesman Martin
Chaudhuri said in an e-mail.  “With the ability to choose between different payment
modalities for its dividend, Deutsche Telekom has unveiled an
innovative instrument, which is relatively new in Germany but
already well known in several other European countries,” he
said. “If or to what extent the Bund or KfW will participate in
choosing one or the other alternative will be decided after the
 shareholders’ meeting ” in May 2013 at the earliest, he said.  Germany and KfW together hold  32 percent  of the former
phone monopoly and received a total dividend of almost 1 billion
euros ($1.29 billion) this year on the investment, according to
Bloomberg calculations. Deutsche Telekom yesterday announced
plans to invest almost 30 billion euros over the next three
years, including spending to speed up networks in its home
market and the U.S.  A “major shareholder” requested the option of a share
dividend instead of cash, Deutsche Telekom Chief Financial
Officer Timotheus Hoettges told investors in Bonn today. He
declined to name the shareholder.  Germany has set  targets  for  Internet providers  to cover 75
percent of households with connection speeds of at least 50
megabits per second by 2014.  Deutsche Telekom last month announced plans to deliver
faster Internet connections to 24 million customers in Germany
in the next four years to better compete with cable operators
including  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  and  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ’s
Unitymedia KabelBW.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  