-- Draghi’s Go-to ECB Seen Risking Credibility Through Overload
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/draghi-s-go-to-ecb-seen-risking-credibility-through-overload.html
Mario Draghi  isn’t just battling to
save  Europe ’s monetary union, he’s being asked to run it.  The European Central Bank president is taking on more and
more responsibility to keep the currency bloc afloat, from
propping up bond markets to monitoring fiscal policies and
assuming supervision of the region’s 6,000 banks. Economists,
academics and officials past and present say the ECB is at risk
of becoming overloaded, which could erode the credibility it
needs to achieve its primary goal of  price stability .  “The ECB saved the euro,” says  Andrew Bosomworth ,
managing director at Pacific Investment Management Co. in
Munich. “But the extra responsibilities, in particular its
supervisory role, put additional burdens and risks onto its
mandate.”  The ECB has been the euro area’s go-to institution during
the sovereign debt crisis, filling the void as governments
procrastinate and squabble over how to fight the turmoil.
Unencumbered by the need to win votes, the ECB’s ability to act
quickly has seen it steadily accrue new roles and made its
president at least as powerful as Europe’s elected leaders.  Draghi yesterday left  interest rates  at a record low and
said the ECB stands ready to intervene in bond markets if
governments sign up to fiscal and economic reforms.  International Praise  Draghi won international praise -- from  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  to U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
-- after his promise of unlimited bond purchases reassured
investors that the euro has a future.  Earlier this year, bond yields in countries like  Spain  and
Italy soared amid fears of a euro breakup, driving up borrowing
costs for those governments in spite of the ECB’s historically
low rates.  Yields plunged after Draghi first hinted at his bond-buying
plan in late July. The rates on Spanish and Italian 10-year debt
have fallen by more than 200 basis points, and Greece’s has
almost halved to 15 percent.  Under Draghi, the ECB has recognized that “keeping the
euro zone intact is part of its mandate,” French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said last month. “The ECB is doing
what is needed to fill its role.”  Keeping Faith  Still, the ECB’s primary role is to keep prices stable, and
it knows that its credibility is key to achieving that.  While inflation expectations, as measured in the ECB’s
survey of professional forecasters, on average remain consistent
with the central bank’s 2 percent target over the medium term,
skepticism has risen consistently since the outbreak of the
global financial crisis in 2007.  In the latest ECB survey, economists assessed the
probability of inflation being over 3 percent in the medium term
at 8.8 percent. That’s up from 3.4 percent five years ago.  “The ECB is generally seen as a good institution that is
credible and professional,” says  Nick Kounis , head of macro
research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “If the new duties are not
carried out properly though, that credibility is put at risk.”  The next job for the ECB is supervision of all 6,071 banks
in the euro area. The single supervisor is a key pillar of the
banking union proposed by European Union leaders in June and a
precondition for Europe’s bailout fund to start recapitalizing
ailing lenders in countries like Spain. The reasoning is that
joint liability has to be matched by joint supervision.  Accountability  The ECB expects to gradually assume its new role over the
course of next year, with full implementation by the start of
2014. The move may give it the power to withdraw banking
licenses, approve or reject mergers, fire bankers and set their
bonuses, draft documents show.  European finance ministers face an end-of-year deadline to
have the legal framework finished, with  Germany  suggesting it
may try to limit ECB oversight to only the biggest lenders.
Ministers, who failed to reach agreement this week, will hold an
emergency meeting Dec. 12 before a leaders’ summit the next day.  “I’m very confident we’ll reach an agreement,” Draghi
said yesterday. “The benefits of having one single supervisor
for the euro area are not disputed.”  Even as governments wrangle over the exact configuration of
the ECB’s role, some politicians are asking whether there are
enough mechanisms in place to hold the independent central bank
to account.  The European Parliament’s Committee on Economic and
Monetary Affairs, which questions the ECB president four times a
year, may need to be given more teeth, says chairwoman  Sharon Bowles .  ‘Fine Line’  “It is a fine line,” says Bowles. “You want central
banks actually to be free from political interference, but when
you start taking on additional powers and you are going beyond
price stability, then maybe there is a question -- does the same
independence cover you?”  Further complicating the issue, the supervisory role could
create a conflict of interest for the ECB that compromises its
ability to fight inflation.  Policy makers risk having their monetary policy judgment
clouded by supervisory concerns, such as whether raising
borrowing costs could endanger the health of an individual bank,
says  Klaus Baader , the former co-chief European economist for
 Societe Generale  in London who now covers the Asia-Pacific
region.  For that reason, Draghi has said the roles must be strictly
separated. Yet the EU treaty states that the Governing Council
is the central bank’s primary decision-making body, meaning it
may be impossible to fully split the two in the current
framework.  German Criticism  The dilemma illustrates the kind of pressure the ECB is
under as the monetary union is forced to rapidly evolve to
prevent the debt crisis from tearing it apart.  “It completely overburdens the central bank,” says
 Juergen Stark , who quit the ECB’s Executive Board last year.
“What’s worse is the ECB is actively helping to make itself
into the scapegoat for governments if something goes wrong.”  Draghi’s so-called Outright Monetary Transactions program
is another example of the risks posed by ECB activism. While the
plan has again hauled Europe back from the brink, it has also
fueled inflation fears in Germany, Europe’s largest economy.  The Bundesbank, whose iron grip on prices after World War
II helped to soothe German memories of 1920s hyperinflation, was
the only national central bank in the euro area to vote against
the latest bond-buying plan, saying it is tantamount to printing
money to finance governments.  ‘Out of Mandate’  Stark, a former Bundesbank vice president, calls Draghi’s
OMTs “Out-of-Mandate Transactions.”  According to a Stern magazine survey published Sept. 6,
only 18 percent of the German public view Draghi favorably.  Draghi has countered German concerns with the argument that
the ECB has to regain control of  interest rates  to maintain
price stability and fulfill its primary mandate. The OMT program
also commits governments to making reforms and the ECB says it
will stop purchases if the conditions are not met.  “The design of the OMT is so cleverly done,” says former
ECB board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo. “I understand the
concerns, but the ECB has shown it will stop when it makes no
sense to continue. The ECB is very responsible.”  The risks inherent in the ECB’s growing power may not have
escaped Draghi, who has stepped up his communication efforts and
sought to limit the central bank’s involvement in fiscal
matters.  ‘Natural Scapegoats’  He explicitly backed German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s call for a beefed-up EU economic and monetary
affairs commissioner who could reject national budgets if
they’re judged to be too lax. He also wants the  International
Monetary Fund  to police whether a government is meeting the
conditions it agrees to in return for bond purchases.  At the same time, Draghi has pointed out that the ECB is
probably the only European institution immediately capable of
solving some of the region’s problems. In a speech in  Frankfurt 
on Nov. 23, he confronted concerns about overloading the ECB
with supervision duties head-on.  While those concerns “must be taken seriously,” building
a single supervisor around the ECB “is the only pragmatic”
option “in the present circumstances,” Draghi said.  At the end of the day, there will always be unease about
the enormous power of a central bank, says Gonzalez-Paramo.  “This is always the debate that surrounds independent
institutions,” he says. “Legitimacy means a central bank is
faithful to its mandate. Central banks are natural scapegoats,
and this is part of the job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  