-- Hedge Funds Rise as Cohen Posts Gains; Paulson Declines
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-12-07T23:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/hedge-funds-rose-last-month-as-cohen-s-sac-winton-gained.html
Hedge funds climbed 0.2 percent in
November after posting declines during the two previous months,
as markets reversed losses following the U.S. elections.  The gain lifted this year’s return for the $2.19 trillion
industry to 1.4 percent, trailing global stocks. Long-short and
event-driven funds rallied, while  macro (BBHFMCRO)  and multistrategy
managers slumped. Fund runs by Steven A. Cohen’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP and Ken Griffin’s Citadel LLC rose, while John
Paulson posted losses in most of his funds.  Stock markets fell following the re-election of U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and the prospect of automatic spending
cuts and tax increases set to be triggered in January. They
reversed losses amid reports showing the housing market is
improving. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  rose 1.3 percent
last month and the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (BBHFUNDS)  of big U.S.
stocks advanced 0.6 percent, besting hedge funds.  “As a result of the fiscal cliff situation, people got
short,” said Peter Rup, chief investment officer at  New York- 
based Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC, which oversees $570 million
for high-net-worth families. “They got hurt when the market
reversed itself.”  The Bloomberg Hedge Funds Aggregate Index is down 11
percent from its July 2007 peak. The main Bloomberg hedge fund
index is weighted by market capitalization and tracks 2,768
funds, 1,257 of which have reported returns for November.  Paulson Declines  Event-driven (BBHFMERG)  merger arbitrage funds, or those that try to
predict triggers for stocks and bonds such as corporate
restructurings, acquisitions, management changes and share
sales, climbed 0.4 percent last month and 2 percent this year.  Macro funds, which make investment decisions based on their
reading of economic and political events, fell 0.5 percent last
month and 1.4 percent in this year’s first 11 months.  Paulson’s $19 billion Paulson & Co. posted losses in the
Advantage, Recovery and Gold funds, while credit and merger-
arbitrage strategies gained. Advantage Plus declined 6.5 percent
in November, bringing losses this year to 22 percent, and the
Gold fund fell 12 percent to bring declines for the year to 21
percent, according to a person briefed on the return who asked
not to be named.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co., declined to
comment on the returns.  Cohen Gains  Moore Capital Management LLC, the $13.5 billion fund in  New
York  run by Louis Moore Bacon, fell 0.1 percent in November in
its Moore Global Investments fund, paring gains this year to 4.1
percent, according to a person briefed on the returns. The
firm’s Moore Macro Managers fund rose 1.3 percent last month and
5.2 percent this year, the person said. Patrick Clifford, a
spokesman for Moore, declined to comment on the returns.  Long-short equity funds , whose managers can bet on and
against stocks, advanced 0.2 percent for the month and 2.9
percent in 2012. Multistrategy funds fell 1 percent in November
and 5.7 percent in 2012.  Cohen’s SAC Capital International rose 1.1 percent in
November and 9.6 percent this year, according to a person
familiar with the matter. The fund is run by SAC Capital
Advisors, the $14 billion  Stamford , Connecticut-based hedge fund
that was notified last month by the Securities and Exchange
Commission that it may be sued for insider-trading fraud.
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to comment on
the returns.  Kensington Funds  Cohen told investors on a conference call last week that he
acted appropriately when trading shares of Elan Corp. and Wyeth
LLC, according to a person on the call.  Citadel, the $13 billion Chicago-based firm founded by Ken Griffin, rose 2 percent in November and 21 percent in 2012 in
its main Kensington and Wellington funds, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Katie Spring , a spokeswoman for
Citadel, declined to comment on the returns.  Managed futures  funds, which can use derivatives contracts
in their trading strategy, lost 0.2 percent last month and 4.6
percent this year.  Winton Capital Management LLC, the $26.2 billion London-
based managed futures hedge fund started by David Winton Harding, advanced 0.7 percent last month through Nov. 28 in its
$10 billion Winton Futures fund, paring yearly losses to 5.1
percent, according to a person familiar with the matter. The
firm’s $100 million Evolution fund fell 2.8 percent last month
and 9.8 percent in 2012, the person said. Robin Eggar, a
spokesman for Winton, declined to comment on the returns.  Pershing Square Capital Management LP fell 1.2 percent in
November in its $6 billion Pershing Square International Ltd.
fund, trimming yearly gains to 6.2 percent, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Pershing Square is the $10.8
billion New York-based firm run by  Bill Ackman , who is known for
investing in companies to press for changes and who declined to
comment on the returns.  Hedge fund assets grew 3.6 percent to a record $2.19
trillion in the third quarter, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. Investors deposited $10.6 billion during the
period, the firm said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  