-- Eisai’s Breast Cancer Drug Failed to Show Advantage Over Xeloda
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-12-07T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/eisai-s-breast-cancer-drug-failed-to-show-advantage-over-xeloda.html
Eisai Co. (4523) ’s  breast cancer  drug
Halaven failed to show an advantage over Roche Holdings Inc.’s
Xeloda in women whose disease had spread to other parts of the
body, a study found.  Women with advanced breast cancer who were given Halaven
after at least two prior chemotherapy regimens lived a median
15.9 months compared with 14.5 months for those given the Roche
treatment, according to research presented today at  the San
Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium . The results weren’t
statistically significant.  The study was designed to see whether Halaven, or
eribulin, would be effective if given earlier to women with
metastatic breast cancer. While the results failed to show an
advantage over Xeloda, they suggest the medicine may be helpful
in earlier treatment, said  Peter Kaufman  at Dartmouth-Hitchcock
Norris Cotton Cancer Center in Lebanon,  New Hampshire. (NHTB)   “This is still the first study demonstrating the activity
of eribulin in earlier lines of treatment of metastatic breast
cancer,” Kaufman said. The findings suggest possible benefits
of eribulin in specific patients and are sufficient to warrant
more study, the researchers concluded.  Eisai, based in  Tokyo , funded the study. The company is
seeking regulatory approval for earlier use of Halaven in
patients with breast cancer than now indicated, which might help
bolster sales.  Halaven Sales  Halaven  generated  10.8 billion yen ($130 million) in sales
for the six months ended Sept. 30. Roche’s Xeloda, approved for
breast and colorectal cancer in markets such as Japan,  Europe 
and the U.S., made  $1.53 billion  for the Basel, Switzerland-
based company.  The study involved 1,102 patients with locally advanced or
metastatic breast cancer previously treated with chemotherapy
anathracyclines and taxanes. A second analysis showed that women
given Halaven lived a median 4.1 months without their disease
worsening compared with 4.2 months for those taking Xeloda.  Breast cancer is expected to strike about 226,879 women in
the U.S. this year and cause almost 40,000 deaths, according to
 National Cancer Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  