-- Telefonica Czech Hits 8-Year Low on Profit Concern: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-12-07T15:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/telefonica-czech-hits-8-year-low-on-profit-concern-prague-mover.html
Telefonica Czech Republic AS (SPTT)  tumbled
to its lowest in eight years on speculation the arrival of new
competitors will dent future earnings.  The country’s biggest phone company dropped 3.1 percent to
323.50 koruna at its Prague close, the lowest since October
2004. It was the worst performer in the PX index, which declined
0.6 percent today.  Investors are awaiting the results of a frequencies auction
to be announced this month, in which Telefonica Czech Republic
is competing against local branches of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and T-
Mobile, and a potential fourth operator, PPF Mobile Services.
New regulations have cut mobile-termination rates and prompted
the unit of Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  to open its network to a
virtual operator Bleskmobil last month.  “There is a strong concern that Telefonica Czech Republic
will lose a significant part of its market share and new
competition will cut calling rates and hence profits,”  Josef Nemy , an analyst at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , said in an e-mail today.
“Investors are bracing themselves for a declining dividend.”  Nemy said he expects the payout to drop to 35 koruna next
year and 30 koruna in 2014 from 40 koruna shareholders received
this year. He has a hold recommendation for the stock, with a
12-month price estimate of 370 koruna.  Target Price  “I didn’t expect these risks to price in so quickly,”
Nemy said in response to questions from  Bloomberg News . “If
profits really start declining because of new operators, I’ll
probably reduce our target price.”  The stock has lost 18 percent since the end of September,
headed for its worst quarter in a decade and cutting the 14-day
relative strength index to 17 today. Readings below 30 suggest
in technical analysis that the asset may be oversold and poised
for a rebound.  “The decline is overdone,” Tomas Mencik, an analyst at
Cyrrus brokerage in Brno,  Czech Republic , said by phone today.
Mencik has an accumulate recommendation for the stock, with a
price estimate of 417 koruna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  