-- EON Loses as RWE’s Coal Plants Win Germany’s Green Shift: Energy
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-12-07T17:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/eon-loses-as-rwe-s-coal-plants-win-germany-s-green-shift-energy.html
Germany’s largest power generator is
emerging as the biggest loser in the country’s shift to
renewable energy.  EON SE, the  worst-performing stock  in Germany’s benchmark
 DAX index (DAX)  for the first year since the company was formed in
2000, has ripped up earnings forecasts as a surfeit of
electricity from  wind turbines  and solar panels makes its fleet
of gas-fired plants unprofitable. In contrast,  RWE AG (RWE)  has gained
16 percent because EON’s closest rival has more cheap-to-run
coal stations better able to compete with renewables.  The divergence shows the challenges for traditional power
generators posed by German energy policy, designed to cut  carbon
emissions  while phasing out nuclear power. Wholesale power
prices have dropped 11 percent this year as wind parks and solar
farms join the grid. The difference between fuel prices means
generators lose about 13 euros ($16.80) for each megawatt-hour
they produce from gas, while making 10 euros from coal.  “Gas-fired power stations have become inefficient because
the wholesale prices for electricity decreased so much,” said
Thomas Deser, a portfolio manager at Union Investment GmbH,
which owns shares of both Dusseldorf-based EON and RWE. “The
utilities lose market share due to the preferred feeding into
the grid of renewables.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is shifting Germany away from
nuclear power in favor of renewable sources such as solar and
wind following the meltdown in  Japan  last year. Her government
intends to raise the share of renewables to about 40 percent by
the end of the decade, up from 26 percent in the first nine
months of this year, and to 80 percent by 2050. The plan may
cost 200 billion euros, according to the DIW economic institute
in Berlin.  Wind’s Share  German windmills produced 35 billion kilowatt-hours in the
first nine months of the year, up from 32.5 billion kilowatt-
hours a year earlier, according to the BDEW utility lobby. At
the same time the share of wind power in German power generation
rose to 8.6 percent from 8 percent.  The difference between  Germany ’s largest utilities is their
generation mix. Essen-based RWE benefits from generating 63
percent of its energy from coal in the first nine months of the
year, about twice EON’s share.  “There’s not much that EON can do except shut down
unprofitable gas-fired plants,” said Ingo Becker, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets. “Gas-fired plants are pushed out of the
market through massive expansion of renewables.”  The German clean-dark spread, a measure of profit that
utilities can earn from selling coal-generated power after
accounting for the cost of carbon-emission permits, is about 10
euros a megawatt-hour for the year ahead, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Pushed Out  RWE generated 18 percent of its energy from gas, about two-
thirds of EON’s share. Utilities are set to lose about 13 euros
a megawatt-hour from burning gas for the year ahead in Germany,
according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  Generating from gas “is very problematic not only in
Germany, but in the whole of northwestern  Europe ,” RWE’s Chief
Financial Officer-designate Bernhard Guenther said last month.  EON Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen acknowledged
the difficulty last month when he said the company wouldn’t meet
next year’s earnings forecasts because of the challenges for the
company’s gas-fired fleet.  “We face huge challenges, particularly in our generation
business,” he said.  Air Polluter  EON shares have dropped 17 percent this year, twice as much
as  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the second-worst performer in the DAX index
of Germany’s 30 leading companies. The company and its
predecessors have never been the worst performer in the index,
based on data going back to 1993.  Gas utilities face challenges across Europe.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA
yesterday declined the most in four years in Paris trading after
Europe’s largest utility by market value forecast lower earnings
next year and weakness in 2014.  EON shares today closed down 0.6 percent to 13.90 euros in
 Frankfurt . RWE dropped 0.8 percent to 31.54 euros.  RWE, Europe’s biggest air polluter, started to operate a
new 2,200-megawatt coal-fired power plant near Cologne in
August. One of EON’s newest gas-fired power plants, Irsching 5
in Bavaria, has operated for less than 1,600 hours so far this
year, compared with 4,000 hours a year earlier, according to
EON, and may be temporarily closed. Irsching’s older unit 3 has
only operated for 87 hours.  That has consequences not only for Germany’s two biggest
utilities but also for the environment.  “Germany is currently switching from nuclear to coal, and
from gas to coal -- about the worst thing that could be done
from a climate change perspective,” Dieter Helm, an  energy
policy  professor at the University of Oxford, said by e-mail.
“Its current energy policy is not going to reduce its real
emissions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  