-- Let’s All Jump Off the Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   B r a d l e y   B e l t ,   J a r e d   B e r n s t e i n ,   W i l l i a m   G a l e ,   P h i l l i p   S w a g e l
-- 2012-12-07T00:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/let-s-all-jump-off-the-fiscal-cliff.html
With less than four weeks left,
reaching an  agreement  to avoid the negative short-term economic
impact of the so-called fiscal cliff might be beyond the ability
of the strained U.S. political system.  Just  kicking the can  down the road, averting the more than
$600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to take effect in January, requires one side to give
ground on a core belief: either for Democrats to allow an
extension of lower tax rates on top earners or for Republicans
to accept a return to higher rates for those taxpayers. It is
time to consider a backup plan.  Both parties agree that any deal will include  increased
revenue.  They disagree over the form of that revenue.  Republicans look to limit deductions that mainly benefit
people with high incomes, while extending the current 35 percent
top income-tax rate. This could raise about $800 billion over 10
years if the deduction cap is broadly applied, but considerably
less if  tax breaks  such as for charitable giving are left
untouched or if the cap is phased in gradually to avoid a huge
penalty for couples crossing the $250,000 income threshold.  President  Barack Obama ’s plan raises twice that much
through higher tax rates and limits on deductions for households
with the top 2 percent of incomes. He would  extend  current tax
rates for lower-income groups.  Democrats and Republicans know that the U.S. fiscal
position is unsustainable and that reforms are needed of the tax
code and entitlements, yet there is no consensus on which
programs should be on the table.  Two Tracks  Our view is that fiscal policy must operate on two time
tracks: providing near-term support for the still-fragile
recovery, while driving the political system to  address  the
long-term imbalance. We propose to let all tax cuts expire and
temporarily offset the negative economic impact.  The changes involved are unsatisfactory to all. Increased
revenue comes mainly from higher tax rates rather than from a
broader tax base; the higher rates affect all income levels; the
alternative-minimum tax hits millions it was never intended to
reach; and spending cuts are focused on discretionary programs
rather than the entitlements that drive the long-term fiscal
imbalance.  To avoid a  recession , we propose temporary tax and spending
measures to boost near-term demand without making choices
between the agendas of the two parties. We see this last point
as essential. Getting past the cliff with the least damage to
the economy requires not making choices about fundamental long-
term issues in a lame-duck setting. This means that our proposal
doesn’t separate upper-income tax brackets from other tax rates
as sought by President Obama, but neither does it extend all
rate cuts as sought by Republicans. Instead, all tax rates go
up.  Our proposals are explicitly temporary. We propose a one-
year, $200 billion  tax refund  to support household spending,
with rebate checks of about $1,200 for a couple and an
additional $600 a child sent out in the first half of 2013. As
with a similar measure enacted with bipartisan support in 2008,
the  tax rebates  would phase out for higher-income households,
focusing the cash on low- and middle-income households.  We would add $50 billion for spending to rebuild roads,
repair and modernize public schools, and fund scientific
research. We see a need for a sustained increase in
infrastructure spending, even in the face of the long-term
fiscal adjustment. This amount is meant as a start, and in
recognition that only so many high-quality projects can be
initiated in 2013.  Keep Patches  An additional $50 billion would go to fiscal relief for
states. This would offset some of the economic drag from their
cuts but not erase all budget gaps or remove state governments’
incentives to reach sustainable levels of spending and revenue.  Finally, we propose to extend the legislative patch that
prevents the  alternative-minimum tax  from hitting tens of
millions of households and the Medicare “doc fix” that averts
sharp cuts in payments to doctors serving senior citizens. We
also advocate turning off the sequester put in place in August
2011 that means some $100 billion in automatic spending cuts.  The AMT patch and the  doc fix  both will be extended under
any future fiscal package and aren’t entangled in political
conflicts. The spending sequester likewise is opposed by all
sides. We think it can be turned off without taking a position
on the disagreement over tax rates.  All of these proposals together reduce the contraction from
the cliff by $300 billion and add $300 billion to offset the
rest of the fiscal tightening and provide the economy with a
near-term stimulus. We look to support the recovery and to
provide time for a grand bargain to be negotiated on taxes and
spending to ensure long-term fiscal sustainability.  At the same time, this isn’t a “least common denominator”
approach; the fiscal cliff isn’t avoided, as tax rates rise and
expenditures decrease in ways that are painful for people of all
political persuasions.  This is an outcome preferred by none. Yet it is better than
a stalemate that threatens recession.  (Bradley Belt is senior managing director at the  Milken
Institute  and former director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp. under President  George W. Bush ;  Jared Bernstein  is
economic policy fellow at the institute and former economic
adviser to Vice President  Joe Biden ; William Gale is the Arjay
and Frances Miller Chair at the  Brookings Institution ; Phillip Swagel is a senior fellow at the Milken Institute and professor
at the  University of Maryland , and was an assistant secretary of
the Treasury under President George W. Bush. Read more about
their plan  here . The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   Kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 