-- EU Agrees Rules on Emission Permits as UN Envoys Eye Kyoto Deal
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-12-07T14:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/eu-agrees-rules-on-emission-permits-as-un-envoys-eye-kyoto-deal.html
European Union governments agreed to
seek full banking of unused United Nations emission rights for
after 2012 and a limit on their sale in a bid to facilitate a
global deal on extending the Kyoto Protocol.  The 27-nation bloc is pushing for acceptance of its
position at the UN climate summit in Doha, where negotiators
from more than 190 countries are due to conclude two weeks of
talks today. Their aims include adopting a second commitment
period of the Kyoto treaty, whose greenhouse-gas reduction
targets for industrialized nations expire this year.  The internal EU agreement was accompanied by declarations
from the bloc’s member states and five other nations that they
won’t buy surplus permits from the current five-year phase,
known as the first commitment period, according to an EU
official. That would limit the risk of trading excess Amount
Assigned Units, which environment lobbies including Greenpeace
dubbed “hot air.”  “ Europe  has accommodated the wishes of the least ambitious
European governments,” Greenpeace’s Aida Vila Rovira said in
Doha. “European negotiators will have a tough job explaining
the position to the developing countries, which are asking for a
more robust solution tackling the Kyoto surplus problem.”  The AAUs, handed out to 38 developed nations under the 1997
Kyoto Protocol, represent a cap on those countries’ emissions in
the five years through 2012, known as the first Kyoto commitment
period. Countries that exceed their pollution limits may buy
AAUs from those that enact deeper emission cuts to cover
discharges.  The EU position allows selling unused AAUs while limiting
purchases to 2.5 percent. Unused greenhouse-gas emission permits
from the first period won’t have buyers in the second phase,
officials from the European Union and the United Nations said
earlier this week.  Supply of surplus AAUs comes mainly from  Russia , Ukraine
and eastern EU member states, where economic transformation and
a slump in industrial output following the fall of communism led
to a decline in emissions. The biggest source of demand is set
to dry up as  Japan  said it is not planning to adopt a new target
under the Kyoto treaty from 2013. New Zealand, which had an
emissions target under the protocol in the first period, also
said it won’t extend it.  Those two countries along with the EU’s 27 member states,
Australia, Switzerland and Norway declared they won’t buy
surplus AAUs, said the EU official, who asked not to be named,
citing policy.  The issue of whether to cancel or transfer AAUs after 2020,
when the EU wants the second Kyoto period to end, was left
unresolved, according to the official. It is set to return to
the spotlight within the next three years as climate envoys will
need to decide how to handle unused permits in a new global deal
they want to iron out by 2015.  Should the unused AAUs from all countries with targets
under the first Kyoto period be allowed for use in a post-2020
regime without any restrictions, the surplus could risk
inflating new caps by as much as 16.6 billion metric tons of
carbon-dioxide equivalent, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance estimates. That’s approximately equal to the total
emissions from Russia,  Australia  and Japan from 2008 through
2012, according to BNEF.  Russia may have 8.9 billion tons of surplus AAUs, the most
among countries with binding targets for the first commitment
period, according to BNEF.Ukraine ranks second with a surplus of
2.8 billion AAUs and  Poland  third with 0.9 billion by the end of
this year. The deadline for compliance for the first Kyoto
period expires in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Doha at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  