-- EU Dismisses Czech Republic’s Threat to Block ESM Bailout Fund
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-12-07T13:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/eu-dismisses-czech-republic-s-threat-to-block-esm-bailout-fund.html
The European Union dismissed threats
from Czech Republic President Vaclav Klaus to block the euro
area’s permanent bailout fund, saying he does not have a veto
over the move.  Klaus’s refusal to sign an amendment to the bloc’s treaties
linked to the establishment of the European Stability Mechanism
will have “no consequences for the functioning of the ESM,”
Simon O’Connor, spokesman for EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn , told reporters today in Brussels.  The treaty amendment “was conceived to clarify the legal
base in the EU treaties for the ESM,” O’Connor said. “However,
this is not a requirement for the ESM treaty to enter into
force. It has entered into force and is fully operational.”  EU leaders approved the amendment in March 2011 as part of
their efforts to overhaul governance of monetary union and equip
the euro area with the institutions and policies necessary to
tackle the fiscal crisis. The change must be ratified by all 27
EU nations to take effect.  The draft amendment states that euro-area nations “may
establish a stability mechanism to be activated if indispensable
to safeguard the stability of the euro area as a whole.”  The existing treaties already give the euro area the
necessary legal authorizations to set up the ESM, O’Connor said.  The need for the amendment has been reduced by rulings from
 Germany ’s constitutional court and the  European Court  of Justice
that make it clear the ESM is legal under the bloc’s current
treaties, said an EU official.  Klaus today told the CTK new service that he won’t sign the
amendment to  Europe ’s Lisbon treaty because he opposes the ESM.  “I consider these mechanisms to be monstrous, meaningless
and absurd,” CTK quoted Klaus as saying when asked about the
ESM rescue fund at a business seminar in  Prague  today. “I will
certainly not sign them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  