-- EU to Boost Investor Power Over Executive Pay in Governance Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-07T17:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/eu-to-boost-investor-power-over-executive-pay-in-governance-plan.html
The European Commission will seek to
give shareholders more power to control executive pay as part of
measures to boost investors’ involvement in corporate
governance.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, will call next week for mandatory votes on compensation
by shareholders at listed companies on pay policies, according
to a document obtained by  Bloomberg News . The commission will
also seek to make institutional investors give more information
on their voting records.  “Not all member states give shareholders the right to vote
on remuneration policy,” according to the document. Also, pay
information “disclosed by companies in different member states
is not easily comparable.” The commission will present a draft
law in 2013, according to the document.  Barnier’s push for more shareholder power over pay packages
adds an additional front to an EU debate over curbs that should
be placed on banker bonuses. Talks on a draft law to overhaul
the 27-nation bloc’s bank capital rules have bogged down over
demands from European Parliament legislators for a ban on
bonuses that are larger than fixed pay. Barnier has said that
increasing investor responsibilities could form part of a
compromise deal.  Barnier’s pay proposals, to be unveiled on Dec. 12, form
part of a broader plan to update the bloc’s corporate governance
rules. Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for Barnier, declined to
comment.  The commission is seeking to boost information listed
companies must publish on their major shareholders, including
data on business deals firms conduct with directors or
controlling shareholders, according to the document.  The EU will also weigh a simplification of rules for cross-
border mergers.  The plans will “modernize” EU law, the commission said
today in a statement on its  website . The measures “are
fundamental to putting in place up to date legislation for
sustainable and competitive companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  