-- European Stocks Rally for Third Week on China, U.S. Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/european-stocks-rally-for-third-week-on-china-u-s-talks.html
European stocks  rallied for a third
week, climbing to an 18-month high, amid increasing optimism
that  China’s economy  will sustain its recovery and U.S.
lawmakers will reach a compromise to avoid a fiscal deadlock.  Rio Tinto Group led commodity shares higher.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
gained 14 percent after winning a deal to sell its flagship
smartphone in China. European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
jumped 15 percent after announcing a new shareholder structure
and unveiling a share buyback.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA slid to a record low
after saying earnings will decline next year.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 1.2 percent
to 279.17 this week, the highest since May 2011. The gauge has
rallied 19 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as the
 European Central Bank  and the  Federal Reserve  expanded bond
purchases and U.S. economic data beat estimates.  “Markets are hopeful that a sensible conclusion can be
reached on the U.S. fiscal cliff,” Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head
of research at Charles Stanley Group Plc in London, said in a
telephone interview. “There is a sense of investors adding to
risk, but only mildly.”  Republican defectors joined Democrats in signing a letter
that called upon President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John
Boehner  to explore “all options” to end an impasse over taxes
on top earners. Congress must strike a budget deal before the
New Year to prevent $607 billion of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts from coming into effect.  Obama said he is willing to make concessions in the talks
if Republicans agree to consider taxes on the rich. “We have
the potential of getting a deal done,” he said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television on Dec. 4.  China Policy  In China, the government under the new leader Xi Jinping
will keep macroeconomic policies stable, making adjustments as
needed to deal with difficulties, according to a statement from
the Communist Party’s Politburo.  The world’s second-largest economy will expand domestic
demand, actively promote urbanization, strengthen real-estate
controls and support small business, Xinhua reported on Dec. 4,
citing the statement issued after a meeting of the ruling
party’s top leaders.  Separately, the China Insurance Regulatory Commission
abolished a rule limiting insurance companies’ investments in
commercial banks, while a report showed  manufacturing  expanded
last month in the world’s second-largest economy.  In the euro area, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hinted at
the possibility that her country will eventually accept a write-
off of Greek debt. Greece made a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion)
offer to buy back bonds.  Rio, Kazakhmys  A gauge of mining companies posted the biggest gain on the
Stoxx 600. Rio Tinto climbed 5.3 percent after Credit Suisse
Group AG added the world’s second-largest mining company to its
“Europe Focus” list. Kazakhmys Plc rose 4.5 percent after
saying it will start the development of the Aktogay copper
project in Kazakhstan in early 2013.  Nokia rallied 14 percent after winning a deal with China
Mobile Ltd. to carry the Finnish mobile-phone maker’s flagship
smartphone, Lumia 920T.  EADS jumped 15 percent after the company changed its
 ownership structure  to allow Germany and France to each hold a
12 percent stake. EADS also said it will buy back as much as 15
percent of outstanding shares.  Stagecoach Earnings  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) , which owns 49 percent of Virgin
Trains, advanced 5.9 percent. The company reported first-half
pretax profit of 124 million pounds ($200 million), exceeding
the average analyst estimate for 114 million pounds.  Mediaset SpA (MS)  added 7.3 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
reiterated its overweight recommendation, a rating similar to
buy, on the broadcaster controlled by former Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  Wincor Nixdorf AG, Europe’s biggest maker of automated
teller machines, increased 6.8 percent. The company said it
expects earnings before interest, taxes and amortization in 2014
to be higher than in 2013.  GDF Suez declined 12 percent -- to the lowest price since
it sold shares to the public in July 2005 -- after Europe’s
largest utility by market value forecast lower earnings next
year and weakness in 2014. A gauge of utilities was one of the
only two industry groups in the Stoxx 600 to decline this week.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  slumped 9.6 percent after failing to make a
commercial find at the Zaedyus-2 well off French Guiana in South
America.  United Internet AG (UTDI)  tumbled 6.2 percent as UBS AG placed
11.9 million shares in the German phone company on behalf of
Warburg Pincus LLC, the third-largest shareholder. UBS offered
the stake at 16 euros to 16.50 euros apiece, according to terms
of the deal obtained by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  