-- Expedia Declares Special Dividend Ahead of Possible Tax Increase
-- B y   T o m   G i l e s   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-12-07T21:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/expedia-declares-special-dividend-ahead-of-possible-tax-increase.html
Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , an online travel
services provider, will pay a special dividend of 52 cents a
share, joining a growing list of companies planning payouts
ahead of a possible increase in U.S. taxes in the coming year.  The dividend will be paid on Dec. 28 to shareholders of
record on Dec. 17, Bellevue, Washington-based Expedia said today
in a statement.  Expedia follows more than three dozen other companies that
have announced plans to pay special dividends before a potential
rise in taxes next year related to what’s known as the fiscal
cliff. Oracle Corp., Costco Wholesale Corp., Las Vegas Sands
Corp., and Brown-Forman Corp. -- the maker of Jack Daniel’s
whiskey and Finlandia vodka -- have said recently that they’ll
pay special or accelerated dividends.  Washington Post Co. (WPO)  also announced plans today for an
accelerated dividend. The Washington-based owner of the namesake
newspaper will pay an accelerated dividend of $9.80 a share in
lieu of the quarterly dividends it would have paid in 2013. The
annual dividend will be unchanged from the rate in 2012, the
company said in a statement.  Expedia plans to pay a regular quarterly cash dividend of
13 cents a share today for shareholders of record on Nov. 16.  Payouts this year are subject to a 15 percent U.S. levy
that may rise to as high as 43.4 percent if lawmakers allow $600
billion of scheduled tax increases and spending cuts to take
effect in 2013. Rates may also rise if Congress amends the  tax
code  to avoid the cliff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  