-- Patrizia Saves Robert; Bodyguard, Caesar: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-12-07T11:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/female-caesar-funny-robert-bodyguard-u-k-theater.html
Rumor says that a curse clings to
Meyerbeer’s supernatural opera “Robert le diable” (Robert the
devil, 1831). Looks like it’s more than a rumor.  Soprano Marina Poplavskaya abandoned the  Royal Opera’s  new
production, then Diana Damrau (in another leading role) pulled
out at a late stage because of pregnancy. The opera hadn’t been
staged at Covent Garden since 1890, so finding replacements
under the age of 150 was tricky.  Poplavskaya returned to rehearsals after a few days, and
young American Jennifer Rowley replaced Damrau. She struggled,
and was ditched at the last moment. The next replacement,
 Patrizia Ciofi , bravely stepped in for opening night without a
rehearsal. In opera, that’s about as scary as it gets.  The curse was lifted. Ciofi did a wonderful job as
Isabelle, and deserved her applause and shouts. Whirling
roulades of dizzy coloratura flew out of her, and her top notes
seemed to get higher and higher. She was charming in her role as
a medieval princess who tries to reform her dissolute lover.  If there were a few problems with the projection of her
lower notes, no-one cared. She’d saved the day.  And what of the rest of the opera? Was there a good reason
it hadn’t been seen in 122 years?  Devil Dad  I must confess a secret fondness for this long piece about
Robert, a flighty young duke who discovers that his father is
the devil. There are terrific arias, a great final good-vs.-evil
trio, and a ballet of scary dead nuns. There are also stretches
of uninspired rum-ti-tum during its four-and-a-half hours.  Director Laurent Pelly doesn’t quite overcome the
difficulties. The sets, using a mix of medieval and 19th-century
imagery, don’t achieve the necessary grandeur. Some of the
colors are garish. A lively jousting tournament is presented as
a static scene, which seems silly.  The ballet sequence is better. The cropped-haired zombie
nuns in shrouds, squirming and panting with desire, create an
amusing gothic frisson.  Tenor Bryan Hymel (Robert) has a gorgeous, clarinet-like
sound. Bass-baritone John Relyea is an entertainingly boomy
devil. If Marina Poplavskaya (Alice) wobbles in her long phrases
occasionally, she also has a haunting intensity in the big
moments. Daniel Oren keeps it beautifully focused in the pit.  Opera buffs who don’t fancy waiting 122 years for the next
production should certainly try to catch it. Rating: ***.  Female Caesar  All-male versions of “Twelfth Night” and “Richard III”
are playing in  London . The Royal Shakespeare Company recently
staged an all-black “Julius Caesar.” So why shouldn’t we have
an all-female “Julius Caesar”?  Phyllida Lloyd sets her Donmar production in a women’s
prison. Caesar (Frances Barber) is the loutish top dog who
bullies the other prisoners.  Brutus (Dame Harriet Walter with her hair slicked back) is
the friend who turns against her with the help of Cassius (Jenny Jules). They kill Caesar by making her drink bleach.  Walter, dressed in gray prison sweatpants with a trench
coat on top, is a superb Brutus. Jenny Jules is a memorable
Cassius too, hotheaded and flighty.  Lloyd’s staging does its best to hinder things. The prison
setting makes for a limiting concept which has less and less to
do with these Romans and their concerns.  A newly written opening scene, in which Caesar reads her
horoscope from a cheap magazine and cracks jokes about her love
life, is pretty grisly too. Frances Barber doesn’t transcend the
difficulties of the concept, and gives a shouty, unfocused
performance as Caesar.  When Brutus, Cassius and Mark Antony (a powerful turn from
Cush Jumbo) deliver their heart-stirring speeches, it still
manages to fire up. For a moment, ancient  Rome , via Elizabethan
 England , comes to life once more. Rating: ****.  ‘The Bodyguard’  A bodyguard selflessly takes a bullet for his superstar
client. Nobody is likely to do the same for any potshots aimed
at the musical “The Bodyguard.”  The new stage show, based on the 1992 movie starring
Whitney Houston, is going to need all the bullet-proof
protection it can get. The plot, performances and direction have
holes enough in them already.  When pop diva Rachel Marron (Heather Headley) starts
receiving threatening letters from a stalker, her team hires
tough security guard Frank Farmer (Lloyd Owen). She snarls at
him, like the puffed-up diva that she is. He’s the strong silent
type, and grunts back at her in manly monosyllables.  Giggly Lover  Within minutes, they’ve fallen in love. Rachel instantly
stops being a harridan and goes all giggly and gooey. He still
doesn’t say much. You’d get more passion by putting wigs on two
broom handles and jiggling them about.  Rachel’s sister (Debbie Kurup) is a wannabe chanteuse, and
her character gets the bulk of the numbers not delivered by her
superstar diva sibling. The titular bodyguard merely croons a
short and deliberately flat version of “I Will Always Love
You” in a karaoke bar, then gets back to his flinty silence.  Even the stalker (Mark Letheren) gets more to sing -- which
doesn’t seem very fair.  Thea Sharrock’s direction doesn’t help. The musical numbers
enter with a clunking change of dramatic gear.  The one redeeming feature is Heather Headley’s big flexible
voice. She doesn’t try to imitate Whitney Houston, and makes her
own mark with the ballads and disco numbers. Rating: **.  “Robert le diable” is in repertoire at the Royal Opera.
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000  “Julius Caesar” is at the Donmar Warehouse.
 http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or +44-844-8717624  “The Bodyguard” is at the Adelphi Theatre.
 http://www.thebodyguardmusical.com  or +44-844-579-0094  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Zinta
Lundborg’s   New York  weekend.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 