-- FIFA’s Blatter Says Platini Succeeded Where Qaddafi Failed
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-12-07T15:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/fifa-s-blatter-says-platini-succeeded-where-qaddafi-failed.html
World Soccer governing body President
 Sepp Blatter  congratulated his European counterpart on
succeeding where deposed Libyan dictator Muammar Qadaffi failed.  A plan by UEFA President  Michel Platini  to split the 2020
European Championship across several nations was accepted
yesterday by the Nyon, Switzerland-based organization’s board.
Qadaffi failed in his attempt to get the  Africa  Nations Cup
played throughout the continent. Qaddafi was killed by rebels
after being deposed in an uprising last year.  “I got congratulations from the president of FIFA he said
it is a marvelous idea,” Platini told reporters of Blatter’s
reaction to the revamp of the 24-team European Championship.
“He said somebody wanted to do it in Africa a few years ago and
it was Qaddafi.”  The shakeup of the Euros is the biggest change in the
tournament’s 52-year history. Poland and Ukraine co-hosted the
quadrennial event earlier this year when 16 teams competed for a
title won retained by  Spain . The African championship was
scheduled to be held in  Libya  in January before being moved to
2010 World Cup host  South Africa  because of security concerns.  “This is also an idea Mr. Qaddafi had some time ago,
opening the Africa Cup of Nations to all of Africa,” Platini
said at UEFA’s headquarters.  Old Format  The tournament will probably revert to its old format after
the 2020 finals, he said. The change is to mark the
competition’s 60th anniversary and reduce the burden on a host
country to shoulder all the costs of stadiums and transport
links at a time of crisis in many European economies, he said.  Platini said the new format would mean fans experience
better travel conditions than last time, when only “50 French
and 70 Spanish” traveled. UEFA has consulted fans groups about
the change, Platini said.  “We have some decisions to make now -- some political,
some geographical -- for example we cannot have an English fan
going to Lisbon, Kazakhstan and  Sweden ,” Platini said. “We
will have an intelligent solution -- not chasing the fans all
over  Europe . The Euros are coming to the fans and taking matches
to quite a number of countries.”  A decision on the host cities will be made in early 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Nyon, Switzerland, via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  