-- Financial Times Deutschland Folds After 12 Years of Losses
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-12-07T07:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/financial-times-deutschland-folds-after-12-years-of-losses-1-.html
Financial Times Deutschland , the
unprofitable pink newspaper that was spun off from the U.K.
title, was shuttered today, the latest victim of contracting
circulation and advertising revenues as readers go online.  The German-language title, owned by Bertelsmann AG’s Gruner
& Jahr unit, published its final edition after failing to make
money in 12 years of existence. The broadsheet isn’t alone.
 Frankfurter Rundschau  became insolvent last month, while news
agency DAPD, including the former German service of the
 Associated Press , filed for bankruptcy in October.  European newspapers, long-viewed as more resilient than
collapsing U.S. peers, are being forced to find ways to make
money from content. As readers migrate to mobile phones and
tablets, advertisers are pulling print ads, which still
typically account for about half of a newspaper’s revenue.  “Times are tough and it’s not a trade secret that some
newspapers are hitting the bottom,” said Nick Thomas, an
analyst at Informa Media & Telecoms in  London . “The transition
to digital has been slow and revenue from online isn’t there.”  Financial Times Deutschland began in 2000 as a joint
venture with FT publisher  Pearson Plc (PSON) , which exited the business
in 2008. The newspaper had a third-quarter average daily
circulation of 102,000, according to Gruner & Jahr’s website,
and the closing will affect more than 300 employees.  ‘Black, Finally’  From its inception, the FTD often used unidentified
insiders to report stories and reduce reliance on official
government and company announcements. That helped spur local
media, including Handelsblatt and the business sections of
newspapers such as  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  and  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung , to use that sourcing method more often.  “Black, Finally,” reads the front page of the today’s
edition, which recounts FTD’s best scoops including the
departure of  SAP AG (SAP)  founder Hasso Plattner as CEO in 2003, the
financial difficulties of lender Hypo Real Estate in 2008 and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s plans to take over Porsche SE the following
year. It also includes a collage of portraits of its 309 staff.  “We have no need to explain ourselves or defend our
decisions,” wrote  Andrew Gowers , the newspaper’s first editor-
in-chief. “The product, and the position it secured in the
minds and hearts of a highly intelligent, modern-minded premium
readership, spoke for itself and continued to do so until this
final edition.”  Spain , U.K.  The woes aren’t limited to Germany. Spain’s largest
newspaper,  El Pais , said in October it would cut staff by a
third, while French tabloid France Soir closed last year. In the
U.K., the owner of the  London Evening Standard  and  The
Independent  newspapers,  Alexander Lebedev , is seeking an
investor to help prop up the titles. Website
newspaperdeathwatch.com chronicles the recent closure of U.S.
titles like the “Cincinnati Post,” Colorado’s “Rocky Mountain
News” and the “Honolulu Advertiser.”  Worldwide newspaper revenues declined 4.5 percent this year
because of fewer readers, weaker demand and cheaper digital
offerings, researcher MagnaGlobal said this week.  In response, publications must seek new ways to make money
from their content. In the U.S., a number of newspapers have
switched to online-only formats, including the Christian Science
Monitor and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.  ‘Doesn’t Work’  The FTD’s closure “is a loss that shows Anglo-Saxon
attempts to make the economy a general-news topic doesn’t work
here,” said Norbert Bolz, head of media research at the
Technical University of Berlin. “People here are proud to
profess that they are clueless about business and the economy,
something that comes from a general anti-capitalist mindset.”  In Germany,  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  has combined the editorial
staff of its Die Welt newspaper with that of  Hamburger
Abendblatt . Die Welt will also limit the number of articles
readers can view for free, while Springer plans to introduce a
pay model for Bild-Zeitung, Germany’s largest newspaper.  “The challenge here is long-term and the structural
adjustment of both paid and ad spending out of print news is
difficult,” said Adrian Drury, an analyst at Ovum in London.  One online format is the paywall, popularized by the FT and
copied by others including The Wall Street Journal and The  New
York  Times. The model typically allows a user to read a number
of articles for free each month before they pay.  “We’re in a really crucial time of transition in an
industry where publishers are investing heavily in digital but
without an immediate certainty of return,” said Francine
Cunningham, head of the European Newspaper Publishers’
Association.  Norway Thrives  An estimated 2.5 billion people read a newspaper regularly,
according to the World Association of Newspapers and News
Publishers. Newspaper circulation rose 1.1 percent last year and
4.2 percent between 2007 and 2011, with growth in  Asia 
countering losses elsewhere. While digital formats are on the
rise, their audiences don’t yet command sufficient revenue, the
association said.  Informa Media & Telecoms’ Thomas cites  Norway  as a rare
example of a market that’s thriving. “They have an incredibly
high penetration of newspapers that are also at the forefront of
new business like online classifieds.”  Schibsted ASA (SCH) , which owns dailies VG and Aftenposten,
created an online classified business that’s expanded worldwide
and has helped counter slipping revenue at the titles. Oslo-
based Schibsted is now among the world’s top operators of online
classified sites.  Britain’s  Daily Mail  newspaper has become the world’s most
visited newspaper site with 6.6 million viewers a day by
capturing readers primarily interested in gossip and news on
celebrities. The digital version is radically different than the
print copy, which serves as a traditional newspaper title.  “This is about brands reinventing themselves on different
platforms and in the case of the  Daily Mail  it’s found a huge
audience interested in celebrity culture,” said Thomas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  