-- Brokers Must Disclose Bonuses to Clients in Finra Proposal
-- B y   D a n a   W i l k i e   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-12-07T22:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/finra-said-to-vote-to-make-brokers-disclose-recruiting-bonuses.html
Brokers who switch firms would be
compelled to tell customers about any recruiting bonuses and
other incentives received under rules proposed by industry
regulators to protect clients from conflicts of interest.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s 20-member
board of governors voted yesterday to put the proposal out for
comment, according to a  memo  from Chairman  Richard Ketchum 
posted on the group’s website. Conflicts may arise if the new
firm’s payments encourage brokers to push products to clients
that aren’t needed or suitable.  The self-regulatory trade group is reviewing conflicts at
14 of the largest U.S. brokerages, focusing on compensation and
recruiting, Finra said in July. Finra didn’t name the firms
whose compensation plans are under review. The new rules won’t
persuade many clients to drop their advisers, said David Sobel,
chairman of the National Association of Independent
Broker/Dealers.  “If your doctor’s doing a good job, do you care how much
he’s making a year?” said Sobel, whose group counts 5,000
members. “If a broker is doing a good job for a client, the
client’s going to go with them.”  Higher Demands  Michelle Ong, a Finra spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the board’s action.  Public disclosure may make brokers seek higher bonuses
since they’ll know what their rivals got, Sobel said. “That’s
going to be bad for small firms that can’t compete with that
kind of bonus money,” he said.  Brokerages typically recruit financial advisers with
“forgivable” loans -- a kind of bonus that must be repaid if a
broker leaves the firm before a specified number of years.  In practice, the rule would apply only to larger brokerages
that can afford to pay new employees up-front bonuses, said a
person with knowledge of Finra’s plan, who asked for anonymity
because the voting wasn’t public.  Marc Dobin, founder of Florida-based Dobin Law Group PA,
which represents brokers, brokerage firms and investors, said
asking brokers to tell about bonuses could lead to rules
affecting other compensation and perks.  “Where does the line get drawn?” he asked. “What about a
broker who reaches a ‘club’ level because of commission
productions? Or a corner office and an exclusive sales
assistant? Or the trips, dinners and business expense accounts
that come with higher levels of production? If Finra wants
disclosure, maybe everything gets disclosed.”  U.S. Approval  Following the comment period, which typically lasts one to
two months, Finra’s plan would need approval from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “We would anticipate commenting during the comment
period,” said Christine Jockle, a spokeswoman for  New York- 
based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which employs the most financial advisers.  Susan McCabe, a spokeswoman for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
which owns Merrill Lynch, declined to comment, as did  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for UBS.  “Financial advisers are honorable people,” said Richard Lipstein, managing director of New York-based recruiting firm
Gilbert Tweed International. “Only a small percentage of
advisers are going to look at their clients as cannon fodder”
and sell them poor investments to get incentive pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana Wilkie in Washington at 
 dwilkie2@bloomberg.net 
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  