-- FirstRand Seeks Nigerian Acquisition to Fund RMB Lending
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-12-07T11:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/firstrand-seeks-nigerian-acquisition-to-fund-rmb-lending-1-.html
FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , South Africa’s
second-largest bank, needs to buy a retail and commercial lender
in Nigeria to support its investment bank and win access to
consumer deposits for corporate funding, said Alan Pullinger,
the unit’s chief executive officer.  “In Nigeria, you want a funding bank,” Pullinger, who
heads FirstRand’s Rand Merchant Bank, said in an interview in
Johannesburg yesterday. The investment bank, which won final
approval for Nigerian license last month, “has legs for a while
and we can carry it through the short term, but long term we
want to get into retail and commercial banking,” he said.  FirstRand said on Aug. 22 that it agreed to buy a 75
percent stake in Merchant Bank  Ghana  Ltd. for 746.2 million rand
($86 million) to strengthen its position in Africa after earlier
this year ending talks to purchase Lagos-based Sterling Bank
Plc. The investment-banking unit has 12 people in its Nigerian
office and plans to expand its workforce in Africa’s largest oil
producer to about 20, Pullinger said. To continue lending to
companies, it needs to have access to deposits, he said.  “We are exploring various options in Nigeria, including
the assets which form part of the Asset Management Corp. of
Nigeria,” said Sam Moss, a director of FirstRand, commenting on
an agency set up to buy bad debt from the nation’s banks. In
Ghana, the central bank still needs to give its approval for the
Merchant Bank deal, she said.  FirstRand, which is the best-performing stock among South
 Africa ’s four largest banks this year, dropped 1.6 percent at
1:41 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  