-- Fisker Hires Evercore to Look for Partners or Investors
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-12-07T21:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/fisker-hires-evercore-to-look-for-partners-or-investors.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., the
California-based maker of rechargeable cars, said it hired
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to help find potential investors or
partners as the automaker looks to raise more money.  “We’re looking for either a strategic partner or
alliance,” Roger Ormisher, a Fisker spokesman, said today in a
telephone interview. Evercore was hired in the first half of the
year, he said. “It’s not true to say in any way that Fisker has
any sort of wind-down, sale or bankruptcy plans.”  Fisker’s goal of becoming a profitable automaker from
selling its $103,000 Karma sedan has been challenged by the
bankruptcy filing in October of its sole battery supplier,  A123
Systems Inc. (AONEQ)  That development halted Karma assembly, Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Posawatz  said last month at the Los
Angeles Auto Show.  The carmaker, based in Anaheim, California, has raised more
than $1.2 billion in private money and will raise more, said
Posawatz, who took over as CEO in August after retiring from
 General Motors Co. (GM)  as vehicle line director for the plug-in
Chevrolet Volt.  Fisker suspended work in February at its Wilmington,
Delaware, factory, where it wants to produce its second car, the
lower-priced Atlantic. The project stalled after a portion of
$529 million in U.S. loans it received was cut off last year
when it failed to meet sales and production goals for the Karma.  “The fundraising process never really ends,” Posawatz
said, without elaborating.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported the Evercore
hiring.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  