-- Focus Media Slides on Report CDH Out of Buyout
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-07T21:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/focus-slides-most-since-july-on-report-cdh-out-of-buyout.html
Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , the Chinese
advertising company subject to a $3.5 billion buyout offer, sank
the most since September after a report that one of the private
equity firms involved in the bid has dropped out.  Shares of Focus Media slipped 2.5 percent to $24.12 in New
York, the steepest slide since Sept. 24. Trading volumes were
more than four times the daily average over the past three
months and the stock was among the 10 biggest decliners on the
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in New York.  CDH Investments Fund Management Co., based in Beijing, has
withdrawn from the August bid to take Focus Media private, Dow
Jones Newswires said, citing a person with knowledge of the deal
that it didn’t identify. CDH and Jing Lu, responsible for Focus
Media’s investor and media relations, didn’t immediately reply
to e-mails sent after business hours in the Chinese capital. The
buyer consortium includes Washington-based  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,
whose spokesman  Chris Ullman  declined to comment on the report.  “The market was already kind-of skeptical of this take-
private” deal,  Sachin Shah , a special-situations and merger-
arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc, said by phone from
 Jersey City , New Jersey. “With that backdrop, you basically
have one of the investors saying, ‘We don’t think it may be
attractive.’ Not only has it scared investors, this is what the
shorts and skeptics are looking for.”  CDH was to invest about $200 million in the buyout and
dropped out because it felt returns on the investment weren’t
sufficient, according to the Dow Jones report. Focus Media
shares have lost 8.1 percent since the offer was  announced  Aug.
13. The consortium also includes Chinese firms FountainVest
Partners, Citic Capital Partners and  China Everbright Ltd. (165)   Focus Media has been targeted by short seller Muddy Waters
LLP, which said last November that the Shanghai-based company
exaggerated its advertising network. Focus Media said the
allegations lacked merit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  