-- Forint Falls to 3-Week Low as Draghi Sides With Simor on Rates
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-12-07T16:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/forint-falls-to-3-week-low-as-draghi-sides-with-simor-on-rates.html
The forint weakened to its lowest in
three weeks as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
in Budapest indebted countries that reduce  interest rates  risk
 currency depreciation .  The Hungarian currency fell 0.2 percent to 283.72 per euro
by 4:48 p.m. in Budapest, after earlier sliding as much as 0.3
percent to its weakest intraday level since Nov. 19. The forint
has lost 0.9 percent this week, the most among major emerging-
market peers tracked by Bloomberg.  Draghi defended policies championed by  Andras Simor , the
Hungarian central bank chief battling monetary easing driven by
the majority of his rate-setting panel. Hungary is the most
indebted formerly communist European Union member where policy
makers have cut interest rates in each of the last four months.  “In these circumstances, lowering the policy rate to
stimulate the economy may risk sparking depreciation pressures
on the domestic currency at some point in time,” Draghi said at
a conference today, without naming Hungary specifically.
“Depreciation of the currency may in turn further fuel
inflation and offset the impact of economic stimuli through
negative balance sheet effects on consumption and investment.”  The yield on 10-year forint-denominated bonds fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.73 percent, the
least since Oct. 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its benchmark two-week deposit
rate to 6 percent in November and indicated more potential
reductions as a deepening recession outweighed concern for the
EU’s fastest inflation and as the forint has stabilized. Simor
and his deputies were against the easing, which was pushed
through by panelists appointed by ruling-party lawmakers.  Hungarian industrial output unexpectedly slumped in October
in a sign the nation’s recession may extend into the fourth
quarter.  Factory output adjusted for the number of workdays dropped
3.8 percent from a year earlier, the steepest decline in almost
three years, the statistics office in Budapest said today.
Economists had predicted a 0.6 percent gain, according to the
median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “Industrial production surprised on the downside,”  Daniel Hewitt , a London-based senior economist for  emerging markets  at
 Barclays Capital , wrote in an e-mail to clients today. “No
signs of recovery yet.”  Hungary is battling its second recession in four years as
trade and banking links with a contracting euro region hurt
growth. Gross domestic product shrank for a third consecutive
quarter, final data showed today, as measures to cut the  budget
deficit  to avoid a freeze of European Union funding damped
consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  