-- Gafisa Rallies as Payroll Tax Breaks Support Housing Industry
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-12-07T21:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/gafisa-rallies-as-payroll-tax-breaks-support-housing-industry.html
Gafisa SA rose the most among
Brazil’s  homebuilders  as the government extended payroll tax
breaks this week to the construction industry and analysts
forecast the central bank will cut borrowing costs further.  Shares (GFSA3)  of Brazil’s fourth-biggest homebuilder rallied 6.6
percent to 4.88 reais. Gafisa extended its advance since Nov. 30
to 16 percent, the biggest weekly increase since the week ended
Aug. 10. The  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index (IMOBBV)  jumped 4.3 percent
this week.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega said Dec. 4 that
construction companies will pay a 2 percent tax on sales revenue
instead of a 20 percent payroll levy, amounting to savings of
2.85 billion reais ($1.4 billion) for the industry.  Itau
Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  and  Banco Santander Brasil SA (BSBR)  said yesterday
that the central bank will make further cuts in the target
lending rate after the economy grew in third quarter at half the
pace forecast by economists.  “Lower interest rates attract more consumers interested in
buying a house or apartment,” said  Pedro Galdi , the chief
strategist at Sao Paulo-based SLW Corretora, said in a phone
interview. “And payroll tax breaks should also help
homebuilders to improve their results.”  Itau forecasts policy makers will reduce the benchmark
Selic one percentage point in 2013. Santander gave a similar
outlook, abandoning an earlier view that the target rate would
rise to 8.50 percent in 2014.  Gafisa has gained 18 percent this year, compared with 23
percent for the Brazilian real-estate index during the same
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  