-- Gain Capital May Buy GFT Forex’s Japanese Retail Accounts
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-12-07T15:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/gain-capital-may-acquire-gft-forex-s-japanese-retail-accounts.html
Gain Capital Holdings Inc. (GCAP) , after
announcing yesterday that it will acquire the U.S. individual
accounts of GFT Forex, said it’s in talks to purchase the rival
online-trading company’s retail business in Japan.  GFT Forex said Dec. 3 that it was closing its U.S. retail
foreign-exchange business. The cost of the approximately 8,600
U.S.-listed foreign-exchange accounts from  Grand Rapids ,
Michigan-based GFT is dependent on future cooperation, which may
come in less than a month, Gain Capital Chief Executive Officer
Glenn Stevens said in an interview yesterday.  Bedminster, New Jersey-based Gain Capital, which purchased
Deutsche Bank AG’s retail currency trading business last year,
will move customer accounts held at the GFT’s U.S. regulated
subsidiary, Gain said in a statement yesterday. The transfer is
an opt-out process and Stevens expects a more than 90 percent
customer retention rate, he said.  “It’s future consideration because of other cooperation’s
to work together in other areas as well, like other geographies
and other products,” Stevens said by telephone.  The business that GFT would be in talks to sell would be
its Japanese retail accounts, said Gary Tilkin, president and
CEO of GFT Forex.  “It’s a possibility,” Tilkin said by telephone yesterday.
“We don’t have any signed agreement, we don’t have any
clearance by the regulators in  Japan  to do anything yet.”  ‘Significant Uptick’  The accounts, which are scheduled to be transferred today,
will mean “a significant uptick for our U.S. customers in terms
of number of customers and assets,” according to Stevens. The
company has a total of $450 million in customer accounts of
which $325 million is foreign-exchange, Stevens said.  Gain was one of multiple parties interested in acquisition,
Stevens said. GFT plans to focus on institutional clients.  Shares of Gain  rose  3 cents to $4.50 at 10:24 a.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange trading. The stock has dropped 31 percent
this year.  This is its second acquisition this year after purchasing
Open E Cry from  Charles Schwab ’s Option’s Express in June. The
company also bought the currency retail businesses of Capital
Market Services LLC and MG Financial LLC in the second half of
2010 and a controlling stake in Japan’s Fortune Capital Co. in
March 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  