-- Heating Oil Falls to Four-Month Low as Consumer Confidence Slips
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-12-07T20:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/gasoline-advances-as-u-s-payrolls-rise-and-jobless-rate-falls.html
Heating oil slid to a four-month low
after U.S.  consumer confidence  dropped to the weakest level in
four months and U.S. House Speaker John Boehner said there was
no progress in budget talks with the White House.  Futures fell as the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary consumer sentiment index sank to 74.5 from 82.7 in
November. Boehner said there was “no progress to report” in
negotiations between House Republican leaders and the White
House on how to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, $607 billion
of automatic tax increases and spending cuts set for January.  “The consumer confidence number took away some of the
momentum,” said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “The fiscal cliff has been the dark
cloud hanging over the market and the market has been begging
for a resolution.”  January-delivery heating oil declined 2.79 cents, or 1
percent, to $2.9153 a gallon on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest settlement since Aug. 2. Prices fell 4.1
percent this week, the largest weekly drop since the seven days
ended Nov. 2.  Boehner, a Republican, told reporters in  Washington  that
this has been a “wasted week” in the talks.  Obama, a Democrat, and Republican congressional leaders are
at loggerheads in negotiations. Obama has said there won’t be a
deal without an increase in taxes on upper-income taxpayers.
Republicans want to cut spending on entitlements and other
programs while keeping current tax rates in place.  Market Waiting  “The market is waiting to see what, if anything, is
negotiated before the end of the year,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Heating oil also fell as the National Weather Service’s
Climate Prediction Center said temperatures would be higher than
normal on the East Coast from Dec. 12 to Dec. 20.  “There’s really no cold weather on the horizon,” said
Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in New
York.  Gasoline was little changed after gaining as much as 1.1
percent earlier today on speculation that an improving job
market will buoy fuel demand.  November employment climbed by 146,000, higher than the
85,000 jobs projected in a Bloomberg survey. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 7.7 percent, the lowest since December 2008, as the
size of the labor force shrank. Today’s price gain breaks the
longest streak of declines since Oct. 24.  Fiscal Cliff  “Given how good the headline numbers were, I’m surprised
we’re not higher, said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . ‘‘The
fiscal cliff has the potential to be more of a negative than a
positive.”  Gasoline for January delivery rose 0.05 cent to settle at
$2.5974 a gallon on the exchange.  Prices dropped 5.9 percent this week, the first decline in
five weeks, after the Energy Department reported Dec. 5 that
inventories of the motor fuel  climbed  the most last week since
the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York and
demand slipped 0.9 percent.  “We did see a big build in gasoline and demand fell off,”
Rigolini said.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  fell 0.8
cent to a $3.371 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. That’s
the lowest level since July 5. The pump price reached a 2012
high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Marino in New York at 
 dmarino4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  