-- Generic Drug Accords Face Review by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/generic-drug-accords-face-review-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
A multibillion-dollar fight between
the  drug industry  and antitrust enforcers is poised to get U.S.
Supreme Court review in a case that may determine how quickly
low-price generic medicines reach the market.  The justices will say as early as today whether they’ll
scrutinize “pay for delay” agreements that the Federal Trade
Commission says cost customers $3.5 billion each year. Under the
accords, brand-name drugmakers pay other companies to hold off
selling generic versions. The pharmaceutical industry says the
accords are legitimate settlements of patent disputes.  Companies have struck more than 100 such deals since 2005.
Medicines made by  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ,  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  have been the focus of court cases, as FTC
Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  seeks to crack down on the practice.  “This case could determine how an entire industry does
business because it would dramatically affect the economics of
each decision to introduce a generic drug,” said Ralph Neas,
president and chief executive officer of the Generic
Pharmaceutical Association, a Washington-based trade group.  With federal appeals courts divided on the propriety of the
settlements, also known as reverse payments, drug companies and
antitrust enforcers alike are urging the Supreme Court to set a
nationwide standard. The court often intervenes when lower
courts are split on a legal issue. A decision to take up the
issue would mean a ruling by June.  Abbott Case  The FTC, backed by the  Justice Department , is appealing a
ruling that rejected its suit against Solvay Pharmaceuticals
Inc., now owned by  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , and three generic-drug
manufacturers over Androgel, a treatment for low testosterone in
men.  The FTC says the price for the drug was poised to fall at
least 75 percent in 2007, after the  Food and Drug Administration 
had given its approval to generic versions. Faced with the
prospect of losing $125 million in annual profits, Solvay
instead paid the three generic-drug producers, including Watson,
as much as $42 million a year to delay their competing versions
until 2015, the FTC says.  “The agreements made economic sense only as a mechanism
for Solvay to pay its nascent generic competitors to delay
competing with it,” the FTC said in court  papers .  The companies say FDA approval was no guarantee of imminent
generic competition because Solvay had a patent that, if backed
by the courts, would have protected the drug until 2020. Solvay
says it gave up the last five years of that patent protection as
part of the agreement.  Merck Appeal  “Solvay agreed to less exclusion than it lawfully and
realistically might have obtained in the exercise of its
constitutionally protected right to assert its patent
reasonably,” the Abbott unit argued in court papers.  The companies say the payments were compensation for
services to be provided by the generic-drug manufacturers,
including Watson’s marketing of Androgel to urologists.  The high court is also weighing drug company appeals in a
similar clash over K-Dur, Merck’s treatment for potassium
deficiency. In that case, a federal appeals court ruled that
drug purchasers could press ahead with claims that Schering-
Plough, now part of Merck, violated federal antitrust laws in
1997 by paying Upsher-Smith Laboratories Inc. $60 million to
delay introduction of a generic version of K-Dur.  Supreme Court  review would test the intersection of
antitrust principles, which encourage competition, and  patent
law , which gives innovators a monopoly over their products. That
tension is complicated in the drug context because of a federal
law that aims to bring generic versions to market quickly.  Baseless Claims  Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the company that files the
first FDA application to sell a generic drug gets the right to
market it exclusively for six months if it is approved. The FDA
filing typically triggers a lawsuit by the brand-name company
claiming its patent is being infringed.  The FTC and its allies, including 31 states, say those
infringement claims are often baseless, making the settlements
similarly dubious. The agency says generic-drug makers have won
about 75 percent of the patent suits that have been litigated to
final judgment.  The FTC says it has less concern about settlements that set
a date for generic entry without involving a payment, accords
the agency says may simply reflect the prospects of success in
the infringement case. A reverse payment, by contrast, “is most
naturally understood as consideration for the generic
manufacturer’s agreement to delay market entry,” the FTC said.  Prices for generics typically are 20 percent to 30 percent
less than the name-brand counterparts, and in some cases are as
much as 90 percent cheaper, according to the FTC.  Enhancing Competition  Drug companies say the settlements enhance competition and
encourage innovation. The  Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America , which represents brand-name
drugmakers, told the justices that companies spend an average of
$1.3 billion to create a drug, counting the cost of failed
products.  Without strong patent protection -- and broad power to
settle cases -- companies would be less willing to make that
investment, the trade group said in court papers criticizing the
ruling in the Merck case by the Philadelphia-based 3rd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals.  “By restricting the ability of innovator companies to
manage risk and avoid the costs and uncertainty of litigation,
the 3rd Circuit’s rule dramatically diminishes incentives for
innovation and product development,” the Washington-based trade
group argued.  Presumed Anticompetitive  In letting the suit against Merck go forward, the 3rd
Circuit said courts should start with the presumption that
reverse payments are anticompetitive. Accords are permissible
only if manufacturers can show the payments serve a purpose
other than delayed entry or offer some pro-competitive benefit,
the appeals court said.  Three other federal appeals courts have taken a less
skeptical approach toward reverse payments. In the Androgel
case, the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit ruled that, unless the
patent litigation is a sham, reverse payment agreements are
immune from antitrust attack so long as they stay “within the
scope of the exclusionary power of the patent.”  The Supreme Court refused to hear an FTC appeal in a
reverse payment case involving K-Dur in 2006.  At the time, the
Justice Department under President  George W. Bush  was at odds
with the FTC on the issue and urged the Supreme Court not to
hear the appeal. The Justice Department switched its stance on
the issue after President  Barack Obama  was elected.  Leibowitz Issue  Reverse payment accords have been a signature issue for
Leibowitz as FTC chairman. He has pursued a two-pronged
strategy, pressing cases in court while urging Congress to pass
a law that would limit the deals.  A victory at the Supreme Court “would be very good for
reduced pharma prices,” said Herb Hovenkamp, a professor at the
University of Iowa College of Law who supports Leibowitz’s
efforts. Should the FTC lose, “that might be a way of getting
Congress into the game.”  The cases are Federal Trade Commission v. Watson
Pharmaceuticals, 12-416; Merck v. Louisiana Wholesale Drug,
12-245; and Upsher-Smith Laboratories v. Louisiana Wholesale
Drug, 12-265.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  