-- Genting Singapore May Expand in Japan on Legislation Outlook
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-12-07T06:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/genting-singapore-may-expand-in-japan-on-legislation-outlook.html
Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest casino operator, said it may expand in  Japan  as
it expects the country to pass its gaming law in the next 12 to
18 months.  The company, which owns one of Singapore’s two casino
resorts, is monitoring Japan’s legislative process and said the
market offers “good potential.” It said it explores every
acquisition opportunity and Japan will probably be the company’s
next investment.  “I’m more optimistic on something happening in Japan,”
Chairman Lim Kok Thay said at a press conference in Singapore.
“It’s all about the legislation. The group wouldn’t do anything
until there’s clarity on gaming regulation.”  Gaming operators from billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  to Caesars Entertainment Corp. have said they
are interested in building casino resorts in Japan, and the
country’s casinos could emerge as a 3.4 trillion yen ($41
billion) industry, according to a 2009 study by Ryosaku Sawa, an
economics professor at Osaka University of Commerce.  The expansion would also help diversify Genting’s earnings
as its main casino operation at Resorts World in Singapore
posted a 20 percent drop in gaming revenue in the third quarter.
Las Vegas Sands, which operates the city state’s other casino
resort, said its gaming revenue in Singapore slumped 28 percent.  Shares of Genting have  fallen  17 percent in Singapore
trading this year, compared with the 17 percent gain in the
benchmark Straits Times Index. The stock rose 0.8 percent to
S$1.25 as of 2:12 p.m. today.  Genting, which is holding its so-called grand opening for
its casino resort in the southern island of Sentosa, said the
property is running at close to full capacity. Lim said he’s
confident Resorts World, which includes a Universal Studios
theme park, will attract 17 million visitors next year. That
compares with a projected 16 million visitors this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  