-- German Notes Rise Fourth Day on ECB Rate Bets, Production Slump
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-12-07T16:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/german-bunds-are-little-changed-before-industrial-production.html
German government notes advanced for
a fourth day amid speculation the European Central Bank will cut
interest rates and after a report showed the country’s
industrial production unexpectedly declined in October.  Finnish and  Dutch two-year  yields fell below zero and
 Germany ’s approached a record low as three officials with
knowledge of ECB deliberations said a majority of policy makers
were open to a rate cut. Greece’s bond yields fell to the least
since the nation’s debt was restructured in March on the last
day of trading before holders submit offers for a state buyback
of the securities. German 10-year bund yields rose from a  four-
month low  after a U.S. labor market report.  “The outlook the ECB gave yesterday scared some market
participants, and we’ve seen another leg lower in bund yields,”
said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “Yields could stay low for the next
few weeks.”  German two-year note yields dropped three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to minus 0.077 percent as of 4:29 p.m.
London time. The zero percent security maturing in December 2014
rose 0.06, or 60 euro cents per 1,000-euro ($1,294) face amount,
to 100.155. The rate fell to minus 0.085 percent, the  least 
since Aug. 2, when it reached an all-time low of minus 0.097
percent. A negative yield means investors who hold the security
until it matures will receive less than they paid to buy it.  German 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.30 percent
after falling to 1.28 percent, the lowest since Aug. 3. U.S.
payrolls rose more than analysts estimated in November and the
jobless rate fell, reports today showed.  German Output  Production in  Europe ’s largest economy fell 2.6 percent
from September, when it declined 1.3 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast that output
would remain unchanged, according to the median of 42 estimates
in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Germany’s central bank sliced more than 1 percentage point
off its  forecast  for economic expansion in Europe’s largest
economy next year after the sovereign debt crisis pushed the
euro area into recession and global growth slowed.  The Bundesbank cut its 2013 projection to 0.4 percent from
the 1.6 percent predicted in June and said the economy, Europe’s
largest, will grow 0.7 percent this year, down from its previous
forecast of 1 percent. The economy will contract in the fourth
quarter and stagnate in the first, the Frankfurt-based central
bank said. It will recover to expand 1.9 percent in 2014,
according to the new forecasts.  Growth Forecasts  The ECB lowered growth forecasts for the euro area
yesterday at a meeting where policy makers kept the  main
refinancing rate  at a record-low 0.75 percent. The decision was
in line with the median estimate of 61 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Rates were kept on hold because of concern that a cut might
send a negative signal in conjunction with downward revisions to
the ECB’s growth and inflation forecasts, the three officials
said on condition of anonymity. Lowering rates will be
considered again next month, one of the officials said.  The yields on Dutch two-year notes dropped four basis
points to minus 0.022 percent, the lowest since Aug. 10.
Finland’s two-year yield plunged as much as four basis points to
a record-low minus 0.064 percent.  Bond Volatility  Volatility on Irish bonds was the highest in euro-region
markets, followed by those of France and  Greece , according to
measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread
between two- and 10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  Irish bonds maturing in 2020 fell for a fourth day, with
the yield climbing five basis points to 4.57 percent.  The yield on Greek 10-year bonds dropped 54 basis points to
14.42 percent, with the price at 39.97 percent of face value.  Italian bonds were set for their first weekly decline in
four after former Premier Silvio Berlusconi threatened yesterday
to withdraw his party’s support for Prime Minister Mario Monti’s
coalition government.  Monti said he plans to keep his government intact as
Berlusconi cultivates an anti-austerity message before the
general election due next year.  Italy ’s 10-year yields have dropped from a euro-era record
7.48 percent on Nov. 9, 2011. The rate slid three basis points
today to 4.54 percent, leaving it four basis points higher since
Nov. 30.  German bonds returned 4.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
debt gained 4.7 percent and Italy’s bonds earned 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  