-- Ghana Votes as Leaders Pledge Oil-Led Development Plans
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-12-07T08:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/ghana-votes-as-leaders-pledge-oil-led-development-plans.html
Ghanaians vote today to decide
whether President John Dramani Mahama’s party has done enough to
spread oil-led wealth in West  Africa ’s second-biggest economy or
hand power to opposition leader Nana Akufo-Addo.  Voting, which was meant to start at 7 a.m., was delayed at
some polling stations in Accra, the capital, because of slow
delivery of election materials, Christian Owusu-Pare, a
spokesman for the  Electoral Commission , said by phone. Polls
close at 5 p.m. and results may be known within 48 hours,
according to the commission. Ballots were being cast in areas
outside the city, including in Central and Volta regions,
according to broadcasters Joy FM and Metro TV.  “The people are on their way, distributing the voting
materials, they may encounter some traffic, they will surely get
to the various stations soon,” Owusu-Pare said.  The winner will face mounting calls from Ghanaians to
spread wealth from oil production that began in 2010. Spending
promises made during the campaign may be hindered by a widening
budget deficit and slowing economic growth in a nation where 18
percent of the population has formal employment.  “We know that it’s a very close election, it’s very
competitive,” Ahmed Issack Hassan, chairman of  Kenya ’s
Independence and Electoral Boundaries Commission and head of an
observation group from the Electoral Institute for Sustainable
Democracy in Africa, told reporters in Accra yesterday. “Africa
is watching  Ghana  to live up to the expectation of a truly
matured democracy.”  Manifesto Promises  Both Mahama, 54, and Akufo-Addo, 68, pledged to build
schools, roads and housing, and use money from oil exports to
boost the country’s manufacturing industries and create jobs,
according to their manifestos.  After expanding 14.4 percent in 2011, the fastest pace in
Africa, Ghana’s economy is projected to grow 8.2 percent this
year and 7.8 percent in 2013, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . In the nine months through September, the fiscal
gap widened to 7.3 percent of gross domestic product from 1.9
percent a year earlier, according to the  Bank of Ghana .  “With growing expectations for improvements in standards
of living, a growing proportion of the population is likely to
feel disenfranchised from the benefits of oil revenues,” Ben
Payton, an analyst with Bath, U.K.-based Maplecroft, a risk-
analysis group, said in an e-mailed note Dec. 3. “The sectors
that are most associated with increased economic growth,
particularly oil and gold, have not generated substantial
employment.”  Jubilee Crude  Mahama, a former communications minister with the National
Democratic Congress, came to office in July following the death
of John Atta Mills. Akufo-Addo, leader of the New Patriotic
Party and ex-foreign minister and attorney general, lost to
Mills by less than 1 percentage point in a run-off election in
2008.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  started pumping crude at the Jubilee field
in December 2010. Production slowed to an average of 63,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day in the first half of this year,
according to the central bank. Production is expected to
increase to 90,000 barrels by the end of this year from 78,200
barrels in 2011, according to London-based Tullow.  Tullow, Anadarko Petroleum Ltd. and Eni SpA are developing
more wells, while AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. and Newmont Mining
Corp. are expanding their  gold mines  after prices for the metal
rose 8.1 percent this year.  Accept Results  Cocoa production, which reached a record 1 million metric
tons in the 2010-11 season, may slow to 800,000 tons from the
harvest that started in October, according to the Ghana Cocoa
Board. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., Barry Callebaut AG and
Cargill Inc. process cocoa in Ghana, the world’s second-biggest
grower.  “Under our leadership we’re going to turn our back on the
old economy, the raw material-exporting economy, and build a
new, industrial, value-adding economy in our country that will
bring jobs,” Akufo-Addo said at his final campaign event on
Dec. 3.  Mahama said at his last rally that his party “has a solid
program that goes beyond education, that includes creation of
jobs, energy, agriculture, health, tourism, you name it.”  Ghana’s currency, the cedi, which has weakened 13 percent
this year, eased 0.1 percent to 1.893 a dollar by 5:37 p.m. in
 Accra  yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on the $750 million Eurobonds due in 2017 declined to the
lowest in more than three weeks, easing 3.1 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 4.96 percent.  “Our people are very much concerned about how competitive
this particular election is turning out to be,” Jerry Rawlings,
who led Ghana’s military administration in the 1980s and won
elections in 1992 and 1996, told reporters yesterday after
meeting with Kenya’s Hassan. “If the situation can be monitored
to ensure that the elections remain free and fair then I think
the results will be accepted by all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  