-- Glencore’s Viterra Takeover Gets Chinese Regulatory Nod
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-12-07T23:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/glencore-s-viterra-takeover-gets-chinese-regulatory-nod.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s C$6.1
billion ($6.2 billion) takeover of  Viterra Inc. (VT) , Canada’s
largest grain handler, received Chinese regulatory approval nine
months after the deal was announced.  Approval from  China ’s Ministry of Commerce will allow for
the takeover to be completed by Dec. 17 with funds paid out to
shareholders that day, Regina, Saskatchewan-based Viterra said
yesterday in a statement. Glencore agreed to buy Viterra for
C$16.25 a share.  The agreement of the ministry was the deal’s final
regulatory hurdle. Viterra said March 20, when the takeover was
announced, that the transaction was expected to close by the end
of July. The company pushed back the deadline that month, and
again in August and September, while it awaited the ministry’s
decision. Glencore said in July it received Canadian approval.  Buying Viterra is part of Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore’s efforts to expand its agricultural unit and extend
its geographical reach. Grain handling and marketing made up 68
percent of Viterra’s  sales  in the year through Oct. 31, with
agricultural products accounting for 19 percent and food
processing 13 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
trader, dropped 0.1 percent to close at 345.20 pence in  London 
yesterday. Viterra gained 2.1 percent to close at C$16.20
yesterday in Toronto.  Xstrata Deal  Glencore is also awaiting Chinese approval for its planned
20.5 billion-pound ($33 billion) acquisition of Swiss mining
company  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , which would be the largest takeover this
year. A Glencore spokesman declined to comment on the timing of
that decision.  The Xstrata deal also requires approval from South Africa’s
regulator. The country’s state-owned power supplier, Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd., has voiced concerns that coal supplies may be
affected by the combination. Eskom supplies 95 percent of South
Africa’s electricity.  “Eskom is concerned about the effects that the proposed
merger would have on Eskom’s ability to obtain a timely,
sufficient and competitively priced source of coal,” it said
yesterday in a statement. “Eskom does not seek an outright
prohibition of the merger, but has proposed certain conditions
which the tribunal could impose to support security of domestic
coal supply.”  A public hearing on the Xstrata takeover is scheduled for
Dec. 10 to 14. Glencore has said it’s seeking to complete the
deal by the end of the year.  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said yesterday he
approved Beijing-based Cnooc Ltd.’s $15.1 billion takeover of
Calgary-based Nexen Inc. He also approved Petroliam Nasional
Bhd.’s C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion) acquisition of  Canada ’s
Progress Energy Resources Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  