-- Global Warming ‘Damages’ Spur Rift at UN Climate Treaty Talks
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2012-12-07T18:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/global-warming-damages-spur-rift-at-un-climate-treaty-talks.html
The world’s richest and poorest
countries are divided over whether to create a new fund to help
vulnerable nations such as Bangladesh,  Kenya  and the Philippines
cope with loss and damage caused by climate changes.  Developing nations at United Nations climate treaty talks
in Doha are seeking aid through a mechanism that would insure
against conditions the countries say they can’t adapt to,
including extreme storms, erosion, floods and drought. The U.S.
says there are already initiatives in place to deal with such
issues, including a recently created UN adaptation committee.  “The issue with the big guys is whether there should be a
new mechanism at all or we use existing mechanisms,” said Tony
de Brum, head of the delegation of the  Marshall Islands  and
representative of the  Alliance of Small Island States , or AOSIS,
a bloc of 43 island nations pushing for a loss-and-damage fund.  The proposal is among the contentious issues threatening to
slow negotiations for a new climate agreement by 2015. Envoys
from islands and other developing nations say the matter
wouldn’t be so urgent if wealthy economies lived up to their
previous promises to provide aid.  It also goes to the “emotional equities that countries
bring to this table and the very real example of the typhoon in
the  Philippines , making it so in their face,” Jennifer Haverkamp, director of the international climate program at the
Environmental Defense Fund in Washington, said in an interview
in Doha.  Asian Storm  Storm Bopha killed at least 327 people and left 380 missing
this week in the Philippines in the most devastating cyclone to
hit the nation this year. The typhoon also marks the country’s
16th extreme weather event this year, according to Ronald
Jameau, climate envoy for Seychelles and AOSIS representative.  “We are right now into the era of loss and damage,”
Jameau said in Doha on Dec. 5. “What’s next after that?
Destruction, disappearance of some of our islands.”  Malia Talakai of Nauru, lead treaty negotiator for AOSIS,
has said the loss and damage fund ultimately would have to be
“much more” than the $100 billion a year in climate aid
promised by developed countries by 2020.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  says talks on the
topic aren’t yet “mature.” The U.S. doesn’t approve of any
“liability-based structure,” said  Jonathan Pershing , a U.S.
negotiator.  At a minimum, the islands want the UN talks to keep
studying how a loss-and-damage mechanism might be established.  De Brum, speaking to day in an interview in Doha, says he’s
open to the idea of having loss and damage dealt with for now in
the existing adaptation committee.  “That might be a solution that’s readily available,” he
said. “If that’s what we need to accept to get loss and damage
off the ground that’s what we accept.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in  Washington  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  