-- Goldman in Mediation With CIFG to Settle Mortgage Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-07T18:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/goldman-in-mediation-with-cifg-to-settle-mortgage-suit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and CIFG
Assurance North America Inc. retained a mediator as the two
companies seek to settle a lawsuit in  New York  state court in
 Manhattan , according to a filing.  The insurer sued Goldman Sachs in New York State Supreme
Court in August 2011, accusing the New York-based investment
bank of making misrepresentations in connection with the
securitization of a portfolio of 6,204  mortgage loans .  The two sides have participated in one mediation session
and have scheduled another for Dec. 19, according to a document
filed in court yesterday.  Justice O. Peter Sherwood in May granted Goldman Sachs’s
motion to dismiss three counts in the lawsuit, including one for
fraudulent inducement, while refusing to throw out three claims
for breach of contract. He also granted a motion by Buffalo, New
York-based M&T Bank Corp. to remove it as a defendant  CIFG and Goldman Sachs appealed Sherwood’s decision, and
the judge in July ordered the two sides to engage in mediation,
according to court filings.  CIFG filed another lawsuit against Goldman Sachs in the
same court this week, accusing the bank of fraudulently inducing
the insurer to provide a policy on a credit default swap
guaranteeing $325 million of notes in a collateralized debt
obligation called Fortius II Funding Ltd.  No Comment  In a phone interview today,  Michael DuVally , a spokesman
for Goldman Sachs, declined to comment on yesterday’s filing or
the CIFG suit filed this week. Attorneys for CIFG didn’t
immediately return voice-mail messages and e-mails seeking
comment.  CIFG, based in New York, has taken similar actions in the
same court during the past three years, including a $277 million
suit against GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc. filed in October
and a $150 million suit against  Bank of America Corp.  filed last
month.  The case is CIFG Assurance North America Inc. v. Goldman,
Sachs & Co., 652286/2011, New York Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  