-- IBM Draws Flak for Changes to 401(k) Savings Plan
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-12-07T21:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/ibm-draws-flak-for-change-to-401-k-plan.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the largest computer-services provider, drew fire from a
worker organization for a change to its 401(k) retirement plan
that cuts the frequency of company contributions to once a year.  The company will switch from matching employee
contributions to their 401(k) plans twice a month to every Dec.
15, a move that “shortchanges IBM employees,” Alliance@IBM
said on its  website . While the amount that employees receive
isn’t changing, workers who leave or are fired before Dec. 15
won’t get their payment for the year.  IBM said the change was made to help keep the company
competitive. The move may set a precedent for companies looking
for savings in employee benefits, said Dan Kravitz, president of
Kravitz Inc., which administers about 1,000 retirement plans.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if other employers started to
look at this for their plan,” Kravitz said in an interview.
“Requiring employees to stay through the end of the year to get
a match would be pretty significant cost savings for such a
large employer.”  U.S. workers have increasingly relied on 401(k) plans since
the 1980s, when defined-benefit plans became less common. The
name refers to a section of Internal Revenue Code enacted in
1978 that lets workers contribute to their retirement accounts
on a tax-deferred basis. Americans held $3.3 trillion in 401(k)
plans as of June 30,  according  to the Washington-based
Investment Company Institute, a trade group for the mutual fund
industry.  IBM will match employee contributions to their plans
dollar-for-dollar as much as 6 percent of pay for those hired
before Jan. 1, 2005, and as much as 5 percent for those hired
after, IBM said in a statement e-mailed by Doug Shelton, a
spokesman.  Less Common  While IBM isn’t the first company to move to matching
contributions once a year, the practice is less common than
including 401(k) deposits with each pay period, Kravitz said.
The company doesn’t disclose how many U.S. employees it has.
Alliance@IBM estimates there are 84,500, out of a total of more
than 400,000 worldwide.  Alliance@IBM, which is affiliated with the Communications
Workers of America, has asked IBM management to reinstate the
semi-monthly plan. The group is trying to organize workers at
the company with the goal of forcing IBM to engage in collective
bargaining.  “This change reflects our continuing commitment to invest
in our employee 401(k) plans while maintaining business
competitiveness in a challenging economic environment,” IBM
said in the statement.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, gained 1.2 percent to
$191.95 at the close in New York. The shares have climbed 4.4
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  