-- IBM China Bribe Deal Awaits Court Approval After Months
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-08T05:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/ibm-china-bribe-deal-awaits-court-nod-two-years-later.html
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
said in March 2011 it had settled with U.S. regulators over
allegations it bribed Chinese and South Korean officials to win
at least $54 million in government contracts.  The deal still hasn’t been approved by a federal judge in
Washington. Of 33 foreign bribery settlements with companies
reached by the SEC since 2010, only one other failed to win
judicial sign-off in less than three months.  The cause of the delay isn’t publicly evident. U.S.
District Judge Richard Leon, in a set of unusual moves, has held
off-the-record hearings and phone conferences with the parties.
Even a request for more time to respond to comments Leon made
during a nonpublic hearing on Nov. 15 wasn’t placed on the
record. Only the order granting the request appears on the court
docket.  Neither the SEC nor the company will discuss the matter.  “That’s certainly a long time,” Stephen Crimmins, a
former SEC official now at K&L Gates LLP in  Washington , said in
an interview. “It’s possible Judge Leon is weighing the
underlying factual record to see if the proposed settlement is
in the public’s interest.”  The first hint of what’s causing the holdup may come Dec.
10 when the parties are required to submit papers responding to
what Leon said in the Nov. 15 hearing, according to the court’s
docket.  Leon declined to comment through Jenna Gatski, a court
spokeswoman.  No Admission  The company, without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
agreed in 2011 to pay $10 million in disgorgement and penalties
to settle alleged violations of the books-and-records and
internal-control provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, or FCPA.  The alleged payments, which occurred from 1998 through
2009, were made by employees at three subsidiaries of Armonk,
New York-based IBM, as well as LG IBM PC Co., a joint venture
with LG Electronics Inc., according to the SEC’s lawsuit.  The SEC said cash payments to South Korean officials from
1998 to 2003 totaled $207,000 and were connected to contracts
worth almost $54 million. Some of the money was delivered in
shopping bags.  ‘Slush Funds’  In  China , the IBM employees created “slush funds” at
local travel agencies that were used to pay for overseas
excursions by government officials, the SEC said. IBM employees
also gave gifts, such as cameras and  laptop computers , to
Chinese officials, according to the complaint.  The SEC didn’t say what IBM received in return from those
officials.  The misconduct in China “involved several key IBM-China
employees and more than 100 IBM China employees overall,” the
agency said.  The complaint and agreement were filed on March 18, 2011,
and the first hearing was held two weeks later. The SEC then
submitted a revised version of the consent and final judgment to
Leon that removed reference to a section of the law capping some
penalties at $10,000.  While the SEC’s complaint detailed allegations of bribery,
it cited only books-and-records violations, raising the question
of whether the agency could seek $5.3 million in disgorgement,
Mike Koehler, a Butler University professor, said on his FCPA
blog on March 24, 2011.  ‘Disgorgement Remedy’  “It is difficult to see how mis-recording of a payment (a
payment the SEC does not allege violated the FCPA’s anti-bribery
provisions) can properly give rise to a disgorgement remedy,”
Koehler wrote.  Since the case was filed, Leon hasn’t held a single hearing
in public and until last month hadn’t asked for any additional
filings from either side. At least three private meetings with
the parties took place in his chambers without a court reporter
present, according the case file and court stenographers.  IBM’s lawyer, Evan Chesler of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
in  New York , and a company spokesman,  Doug Shelton , didn’t
respond to e-mail and telephone messages seeking comment on the
settlement.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, had no immediate
comment.  Since January 2010, the SEC has filed 33 proposed civil
enforcement settlements in federal courts against companies
citing FCPA violations, according to the commission’s website.
Of those, all but five were approved within 30 days.  Oracle Settlement  A $2 million settlement with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  filed in  San
Francisco  on Aug. 16 received judicial approval 11 days later.
The SEC’s portion of a $60.2 million agreement with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
in August was approved 21 days after it was filed in Washington.  The IBM case is one of five filed by the SEC since 2010
that didn’t include criminal charges brought by the  Justice
Department .  The only other SEC settlement awaiting approval is its
$13.1 million deal with  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  that was filed
in Washington on Sept. 24. Leon is overseeing that case, too.  In 2000, IBM settled with the SEC over alleged bribes in
 Argentina . An IBM subsidiary in the country was accused of
making payments through a subcontractor in 1994 and 1995 to win
a $250 million contract.  Without admitting or denying the allegations, IBM paid
$300,000 to settle the matter.  The SEC ordered that the company “cease and desist” from
“committing or causing any future violation” of the books-and-
records provision of the Securities Exchange Act.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 