-- Michigan Consumer Sentiment Declines More Than Forecast
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-07T16:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-decreased-to-74-5-in-december.html
Confidence among consumers fell more
than forecast in December, reaching a four-month low as
Americans grew concerned about the possibility of higher taxes
next year.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment index decreased to 74.5 this month from 82.7
in November. Economists projected a preliminary reading of 82
for December, according to the median of 67 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  The group’s gauge of consumer expectations dropped to a
one-year low as households fretted that lawmakers will fail to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff of higher taxes and government
spending cutbacks set for 2013. At the same time, job growth,
rising home values, lower  gas prices  and stock market gains may
keep spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy, from faltering.  “The fiscal cliff is going to bum people out,”  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said before the report. “The consumer had held up
pretty well into the summer and early part of the fall and in
particular consumer attitudes had been super strong. My fear is
that’s going to fade a little.”  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 80 to 88
according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 64.2
during the last recession and 89 in the five years leading up to
the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.  Stocks erased gains after the figures, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index falling less than 0.1 percent to 1,413.57 at
11:24 a.m. in  New York .  November Employment  In a separate report today from the Labor Department,
employment climbed by 146,000 in November and the  jobless rate 
declined to an almost four-year low of 7.7 percent. The gain in
payrolls exceeded the highest estimate in a Bloomberg survey in
which the median projection called for an 85,000 advance.  The Michigan index of consumer  expectations  six months from
now, which more closely projects the direction of  consumer
spending , decreased to a one-year low of 64.6 from 77.6 in
October. Americans were more pessimistic about the outlook for
their finances, the economy and the labor market, the report
said.  “One in four consumers spontaneously mentioned hearing
about prospects for higher taxes when asked to identify what
economic news they heard,”  Richard Curtin , chief economist for
the consumer sentiment survey, said in a statement. “The only
other survey during the past half century that recorded such
heightened concerns about fiscal policy was during the
disastrous debt ceiling debate in 2011.”  Current Conditions  The gauge of  current conditions , which reflects Americans’
perceptions of their financial situation and whether it is a
good time to buy big-ticket items like cars, eased to 89.9 from
90.7 the prior month.  The figures contrast with Bloomberg’s Consumer Comfort
Index, which held close to a seven-month high last week as
holiday discounting put Americans in the mood to spend. The
index measured minus 33.8 in the period ended Dec. 2, close to
the minus 33 reading in the prior week that was a seven-month
high. The gauge has been above minus 40, a point associated with
recessions and their aftermath, for 11 straight weeks.  Advances in confidence may be needed to further bolster
purchases. During the four-day Thanksgiving weekend, spending in
stores and online rose 13 percent to $59.1 billion, according to
the  National Retail Federation . Last year, sales climbed 16
percent during the holiday weekend.  Online holiday sales climbed 14 percent from Nov. 1 through
Dec. 2 from the same period last year, according to comScore.
The gain was propelled by Cyber Monday, which was the biggest
online shopping day on record.  Consumers expect an inflation rate of 3.3 percent over the
next 12 months, compared with 3.1 percent in the prior survey.
Over the next five years, Americans expect a 2.9 percent rate of
inflation, compared with 2.8 percent in the previous report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  