-- Miles Driven Seen as Fair Way to Pay for Highways: Taxes
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-12-07T14:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/miles-driven-seen-as-fair-way-to-pay-for-highways-taxes.html
The idea of a U.S. tax based on miles
driven went from untouchable to a matter for serious debate with
a single quote.  By telling reporters such a tax is “a fair way” to pay
for highway improvements, incoming House transportation Chairman
Bill Shuster last week revived a concept his own committee this
year blocked from even being studied. President  Barack Obama ’s
spokesman in 2009 rebuked the transportation secretary for
discussing it.  Shuster is trying to build support for raising revenue for
transportation and looking toward 2014, when Congress must
consider its next highway funding legislation, said Mort Downey,
a Democratic former deputy transportation secretary. The current
ways of financing U.S. road and transit projects, most
importantly the gasoline tax, can’t raise enough money because
people are driving less and cars are more fuel efficient, he
said.  “He wants to put forth a robust bill,” said Downey, now a
senior adviser to engineering firm Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc.
“And he knows that unless the world turns upside down, he’s got
to find a way to pay for it.”  Jeff Shane, a partner at Hogan Lovells LLP and a Republican
former transportation undersecretary, called Shuster’s talk and
muted reaction to it “both significant and encouraging.”  “The fact that we didn’t see an immediate, negative, knee-
jerk reaction bodes well for the future of the debate,” Shane
said in an interview.  1.8 Cents  Replacing the $54.5 billion  raised  for highway and transit
projects from fuel taxes and other sources would require an
average vehicle-miles tax rate of about 1.8 cents a mile,
according to  data  compiled by the  Federal Highway
Administration . That’s based on the 2.97 trillion miles (4.77
trillion kilometers) driven in 2010.  Miles driven in the U.S. peaked at 3.03 trillion in 2007
before declining during the economic downturn, according to the
agency.  A motorist driving 12,000 miles a year, at that rate, would
pay about $220 a year. Tax rates may be lower than 1.8 cents a
mile on cars if the levy varies by vehicle size as highway tolls
do. Under the current taxing system, a driver operating a
vehicle getting the new-car average of 24.1 miles a gallon for
the same number of miles pays about $92 a year.  Supporters of a vehicle-miles levy will need to convince a
public wary of government intrusion, new forms of taxes and the
cost of collecting them.  “To the general public, it smacks of  Big Brother , which of
course goes back to Orwellian books,” said Pete Rahn, a
Republican former state transportation director in  Missouri  and
 New Mexico  and now leader of the transportation practice at
Kansas City-based HNTB Holdings Ltd., an engineering firm.  Falling Short  The U.S. Highway  Trust Fund , designed to pay for U.S. road
and transit projects, is about 90 percent financed by per-gallon
taxes of 18.4 cents on purchases of gasoline and 24.4 cents on
 diesel fuel .  The amounts haven’t risen since 1993 and aren’t indexed to
inflation. Because of that and the improved fuel efficiency of
vehicles, the collection of taxes has fallen below the amount of
spending.  The fund hasn’t covered transportation spending since 2009,
according to a 2011 Bloomberg Government study. Congress has
bailed it out four times since then with general-fund money. A
surface transportation bill passed in June included $18.8
billion in general-fund money over two years.  ‘Huge Issues’  The  Congressional Budget Office , in a May report, said the
amount of money available to the trust fund may decline as much
as 13 percent from 2012 to 2022, with automakers required to
increase the average fuel economy of their fleets to 54.5 miles
per gallon by 2025.  Replacing the gasoline tax with a VMT fee couldn’t be done
for years, Jack Schenendorf, a former Republican staff member
for the committee Shuster is set to lead, said this week at a
panel at the  National Press Club  in  Washington .  “There are huge issues to overcome, many of them
political,” said Schenendorf, a Covington & Burling LLP lawyer
who was vice chairman of a commission that in 2008 suggested
raising fuel taxes as much as 40 cents a gallon.  The chief barrier may be what Richard “Trey” Baker, a
researcher at Texas A&M University’s Transportation Institute,
called “the big privacy issue.”  A VMT system would require some way of measuring travel,
creating the specter of the government tracking movements of
every car and truck. Baker, who’s studied public opinion of a
VMT tax for five years, said motorists are also concerned how
secure data about their driving habits would be.  Collection Costs  Even if presented as an alternative to the gasoline levy, a
VMT is perceived as a new tax, Baker said, citing his own
research.  “It faces a very steep uphill battle on that alone,” he
said.  Shuster, like most Republicans in Congress, signed activist
 Grover Norquist ’s pledge not to raise taxes.  The American Trucking Associations, whose members include
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , opposes switching to
a VMT tax because of the costs of creating, running and
enforcing a new system, said Darrin Roth, the group’s director
of highway operations.  “We see costs anywhere from 20 to 50 percent of revenue
just depending on what type of system is implemented,” he said
in an interview.  Rahn said the tax wouldn’t have to be that complicated.  “I believe it can be as simple as collecting a vehicle
miles traveled tax as part of your vehicle registration system.
Annually, when you get your tag, there’s a fee based on how many
miles you drove,” Rahn said.  Grocery Shopping  States including Iowa and  Oregon  have done VMT tax testing
with volunteer drivers. In Oregon’s second test, started last
month, drivers can report the number of miles driven or give
more information about where they drove. A system based on the
latter could save motorists money by allowing an exclusion for
miles driven outside the state.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican, declined to comment about a VMT tax, saying
he hasn’t talked with Shuster.  Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, wrote to
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood last year opposing a VMT.  Rural Drivers  “A vehicle miles traveled tax would particularly hurt
drivers in rural areas who must travel long distances to work,
school, and to tend to everyday needs like grocery shopping,”
she said.  McCaskill isn’t the only Democrat that LaHood, a former
Republican House member from  Illinois , has heard from. After he
suggested in 2009 that a VMT tax should be an option, then-White
House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said such a system “will not
be the policy of the Obama administration.”  Matt Lehrich, a White House spokesman, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on whether that position has changed.  “Transportation has its own fiscal cliff,” Schenendorf
said, referring to negotiations between Obama and Congress on
heading off tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect
in January. “The gas tax is not going to be viable long-term.
And we need to be moving aggressively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  