-- IMF Overemphasized Reserve Buildup Risks, Audit Report Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-12-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/imf-overemphasized-reserve-build-up-risks-audit-report-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
overemphasized the risks posed by countries amassing reserve
assets, the fund’s internal auditor said in a report that may
embolden economies such as  China  and South Korea that are
accumulating foreign currencies.  “The IMF has not presented a persuasive analysis of why
excessive reserves constitute a major problem for the
international monetary system,” according to the report by the
fund’s Independent Evaluation Office obtained by  Bloomberg News .  China, which has the world’s largest stockpile of reserves
amounting to $3.29 trillion as of Sept. 30, has been accused by
the U.S. of keeping its currency weak to promote exports.
Developing nations buffeted by the financial turmoil of the late
1990s have defended their accumulation of reserves as buffers
that helped them weather the global crisis of 2008.  “Emerging markets are going to find a lot to like in this
report,”  Eswar Prasad , a former head of the China division at
the Washington-based lender and a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington , said in a telephone interview. “It
will give them a tool to push back against IMF criticism of
reserve-building.”  IMF spokesman  William Murray  declined to comment on the
report, which he said would be discussed at a meeting of the
fund’s executive board today. He said the report will be
released after the meeting, along with responses by IMF
management and staff.  ‘Not Helpful’  The IMF’s focus on reserves “was not helpful in that it
stressed the symptom of problems rather than the underlying
causes, and it did not appear to be different from the longer-
standing concerns about risks from global imbalances,”
according to the report, entitled “International Reserves: IMF
Concerns and Country Perspectives.”  The report dates the increased focus on reserves to 2009, a
time when the IMF also started promoting a new precautionary
loan with no conditions for countries with sound economies.
Then-Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  suggested that
member nations could borrow from the IMF rather than build up
reserves.  Two years later, the fund staff developed a new reserve
adequacy metric to use during its regular assessment of
countries’ economies. The metric defined upper and lower bounds
for the appropriate level of reserves.  Reserve Adequacy  “Many authorities were uneasy about potentially
prescriptive assessments of reserve adequacy based on this
indicator, especially at a time of heightened uncertainty in the
global economy,” according to the report. It found discussions
on reserves during these evaluations didn’t take enough into
account countries’ specific circumstances and recommends that
indicators be applied more flexibly.  In its assessment of the South Korean economy in September,
for example, the IMF staff wrote that “there is no need for
further reserve accumulation beyond what would be needed to keep
pace with rising foreign liabilities over time.”  South Korea ’s
reserves were $326 billion as of November, the fourth-largest in
 Asia .  An IMF  report  on  Brazil ’s economy suggested diverging views
between the staff and Brazilian authorities on whether the
country should accumulate more reserves.  “Staff noted that reserves were now at the top end of a
range of adequacy metrics and that sterilization was
particularly costly in Brazil,” according to the report dated
June 22. “The authorities considered that given continued
elevated global risks, there remained a premium for some further
reserve accumulation.”  Flexibility  The report to be released after the executive-board meeting
recommends that reserve adequacy indicators be applied flexibly.
It doesn’t criticize the IMF’s assessment of member countries’
exchange rates, questioning instead the use of reserve
accumulation as a focus in itself.  People interviewed for the report “considered that the
views of influential shareholders regarding the IMF’s inability
to influence China’s exchange rate policy in the last decade
were an important factor explaining why concerns about the
stability of the international monetary system were expressed in
terms of excessive reserve accumulation,” it said.  The report said IMF discussions with China, for instance,
rightly concentrated on the country’s current-account surplus
and exchange-rate development. For Japan and  Switzerland , two
countries that boosted reserves, the talks centered on the
reasons leading to that policy, it said.  In an echo of frequent criticism by  emerging markets  such
as Brazil that the impact of rich nations’ policies on the rest
of the world is not given enough attention, the report called on
the fund to make an analysis of all the risks threatening the
international monetary system before looking at reserves.  “In some ways this is a bit unfair to the IMF,” Prasad
said. “It’s not like they’re not already doing some of the
stuff that’s in the recommendations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  