-- Industry Canada to Make Announcement Ahead of Nexen
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-07T21:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/industry-canada-to-make-announcement-as-nexen-deadline-nears.html
Canada’s Industry Department will
make an “important” announcement at 5 p.m. Ottawa time as the
deadline approaches for a decision on  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s bid for  Nexen
Inc. (NXY)  Nexen had its biggest decline in 15 months.  According to an  advisory  posted on the Government of Canada
news center website, media will be invited to a briefing lock-up
at about 4 p.m. in Ottawa.  Industry Canada  is responsible for
foreign investment reviews.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has set a deadline
of Dec. 10 to review the $15.1 billion bid by China’s Cnooc for
Nexen of Calgary, in what would be the largest foreign takeover
by a Chinese company. Canada is also reviewing a C$5.2 billion
($5.2 billion) bid by Petroliam Nasional Bhd of Malaysia for
 Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  Harper will speak to reporters
at 5:15 p.m.  The deals must show a “net benefit” to Canada, holder of
the world’s third-largest oil reserves. Canada’s rejection of
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s bid for the nation’s biggest potash producer
and an adverse ruling on Petronas’s offer in October led
investors to mark down the chances of them succeeding.  Nexen plunged 6.4 percent to C$23.29 in 4 p.m. trading in
Toronto, after earlier declining as much as 16 percent. The drop
was the biggest since Aug. 8 2011.  Cnooc bid $27.50 a share for
Nexen. Progress fell 4.9 percent to C$19.26, short of the C$22
bid from Petronas.  Harper has said his government will release a
new “policy framework” on foreign investment around the time
of the Nexen decision.  Asian Expansion  Asian companies are seeking assets in North America after
the continent last year reported the world’s biggest increase in
oil and gas production after the  Middle East . A surge in gas
produced by cracking open shale rocks in the U.S. made it the
world’s biggest producer of the fuel in 2009. Canada requires
almost C$650 billion of investments over the next decade to
develop its biggest resource projects.  Many Canadians are uneasy about deals such as Cnooc’s.
Fifty-eight percent of Canadians believe the Nexen bid should be
blocked, an online Angus Reid Public Opinion survey of 1,000
people conducted from Oct. 10 to Oct. 11 showed. The  New
Democratic Party , Harper’s main rival in Parliament, has opposed
the bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  