-- Intel Leads Decline in Bond Sales From Highest Since September
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-12-07T17:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/intel-leads-decline-in-bond-sales-from-highest-since-september.html
Corporate bond sales in the U.S.
declined from the highest level since September this week as
relative yields tightened.  Intel Corp., the world’s largest semiconductor maker,
issued $6 billion of debt in the largest dollar-denominated sale
in about a month and Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. (T)  raised $4 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance fell almost 25
percent to $36.6 billion from $48.5 billion in the period ended
Nov. 30, the most since the five days ended Sept. 21.  While sales stayed above the 2012 average of $28.8 billion
as borrowers took advantage of record-low interest rates,
investors remain cautious as lawmakers seek an accord to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff of $600 billion of spending cuts and
tax increases set to begin in January. The economy may slip into
recession if an agreement isn’t reached, the Congressional
Budget Office has said.  “Everybody’s executing now because 2013 is so uncertain,”
Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview.
“Companies see this time as a good opportunity to enter the
market.”  Yields fell to an unprecedented 3.569 percent yesterday
from 3.613 percent at the end of last week, surpassing the
previous record of 3.578 on Oct. 19, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master index.  The extra yield investors demand to own bonds from the
riskiest to the most creditworthy borrowers rather than
government debentures decreased 4 basis points this week to 237
basis points.  Investment Grade  Investment-grade bond sales reached $27.7 billion in the
U.S., while high-yield offerings totaled $8.9 billion, Bloomberg
data show.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker based
in Santa Clara,  California , sold $6 billion of bonds in the
largest dollar-denominated sale since Abbott Laboratories raised
$14.7 billion on Nov. 5, Bloomberg data show.  AT&T Inc., the second-largest U.S. telephone company after
Verizon Communications Inc., issued $4 billion of bonds in a
three-part offering to help add long-term evolution technology,
a network that promises to offer connections three times as fast
as the previous standard.  Six Flags Entertainment Corp. (SIX) , a theme-park operator, is
planning a $600 million bond sale next week as it prepares to
lower the interest rate on one of its term loans.  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM) , the world’s largest family-history
website being purchased by Permira Advisers LLP, is planning to
issue $300 million of bonds to help fund the buyout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 