-- Investindustrial to Purchase 37.5% Stake in Aston Martin
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-12-07T11:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/investindustrial-to-purchase-37-5-stake-in-aston-martin.html
Aston Martin , the British maker of
 sports cars  featured in  James Bond movies , will sell a 37.5
percent stake to Investindustrial to shore up its finances.  The European private equity fund, which is based in  London ,
will buy the stake for 190 million euros ($246 million) via a
capital increase, the companies said in a statement today. The
agreement implies an enterprise value of 940 million euros for
the Gaydon, England-based automaker.  “Investindustrial’s new investment reflects and sustains
the unique position of Aston Martin within the industry,” Aston
Martin Chairman David Richards said in the statement.  The deal gives Aston Martin a much needed cash infusion to
invest in automotive resources to compete with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Bentley and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari. Investment Dar Co., which led a
group of investors that bought Aston Martin from  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
in 2007 for 503 million pounds, will remain a major shareholder.  Investindustrial has a track record of turning around high-
end vehicle manufacturers after selling Italian motorcycle maker
Ducati, which it acquired in 2006, to VW’s Audi this year for
860 million euros.  The investment fund plans to “achieve a similar
transformation and rejuvenation that we achieved with Ducati, by
expanding the model range and strengthening the dealership
network,”  Andrea Bonomi , Investindustrial’s chairman, said in
the statement.  Needing Funds  Investment Dar hasn’t had funds to spare for Aston Martin.
The Kuwaiti company agreed in February last year to reorganize
1.37 billion dinars ($4.9 billion) of its own debt after missing
payment on an Islamic bond in May 2009. The restructuring is
being implemented under  Kuwait ’s Financial Stability Law,
enacted by the government in April 2009 to bolster financial
institutions hurt by the credit crisis.  Aston Martin is the only global luxury-car brand that’s not
part of a larger auto group and its independence could be a
handicap with the  auto industry  under pressure to develop
technologies to improve  fuel efficiency . Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG is investing more than 1 billion euros this year on
making engines more efficient and developing electric vehicles.
That sum exceeds Aston Martin’s 2011 revenue of 507 million
pounds.  “The problem at Aston Martin is that they have no major
company behind them,” Hanover-based Norddeutsche Landesbank
analyst  Frank Schwope  said by telephone. “For Bentley at
Volkswagen, which also sells a few thousand cars, and Rolls
Royce at BMW, they can reach back to the parent for
technology.”  Profit Drop  The British carmaker’s adjusted earnings before interest
taxes, depreciation and amortization last year fell 18 percent
to 76.2 million pounds, with deliveries steady at about 4,200
vehicles.  The bulk of Aston Martin’s lineup consists of two-door
coupes like the DB9, Vanquish and Vantage. It also offers the
Cygnet city car, which is based on  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s iQ.
Aston Martin vehicles have been featured in 11 James Bond
movies, including the vintage silver DB5 in the latest one,
“Skyfall.”  Moody’s Investors Services highlighted the British elite
brand’s deteriorating finances when it put the company on review
for a downgrade on Nov. 30. Aston Martin had negative free cash
flow of 27 million pounds in the third quarter, reducing its
liquidity to 24.8 million pounds as of Sept. 30, Moody’s said.  Sales Tumble  The carmaker’s sales tumbled 20 percent to 2,520 vehicles
in the first nine months of 2012. Declining deliveries and
weaker demand for cars with 12-cylinder engines led to an
operating loss of 3.6 million pounds, Moody’s said, citing data
released to bond investors on Nov. 28.  Moody’s rates Aston Martin’s debt with a non-investment
grade B3 rating, which is defined as having “high credit
risk.” The ratings company said an agreement on a new investor
would have a “material positive” effect on Aston Martin’s
finances.  Large carmakers can help niche manufacturers stay
competitive by spreading development costs across brands and
models. Fiat owns Maserati and  Alfa Romeo  as well as Ferrari. VW
completed the purchase of the Porsche car brand this year,
adding the maker of the 911 alongside Audi, Bentley, Lamborghini
and Bugatti.  VW uses the same platform to underpin the Lamborghini
Gallardo and Audi’s R8, while the Bentley Continental Flying
Spur and GT models share components with the VW Phaeton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  