-- Iran Oil Export Delays Seen Worsening as Sanctions Hinder Trade
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-12-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/iran-oil-export-delays-seen-worsening-as-sanctions-hinder-trade.html
Iranian  oil tankers  are contending
with longer delays in shipments and some are idled amid
increasing pressure on buyers to curb purchases from what was
once OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  NITC, the Tehran-based tanker owner, has 42 crude oil
carriers and 13 were delayed in transit since Oct. 21, according
to data compiled by Richard Hurley, a senior maritime consultant
at IHS Fairplay in  London  who has tracked vessel movements for
two decades. Four NITC ships with cargoes are idling while they
await orders and four others have switched off their signals and
are presumed to be anchored, the data show.  Iran  is reliant on NITC ships because EU sanctions imposed
in July barred about 95 percent of the global tanker fleet from
carrying the nation’s crude. NITC has renamed vessels, switched
their flag states and signaled inaccurate information about
where they are registered, according to the data from IHS, which
maintains the  United Nations ’ shipping database.  “Iran is finding it harder to place cargoes,” Hurley
wrote in an e-mail. “ China , while still a major purchaser,
seems unwilling to take all the cargoes which are being sent to
her and has been letting some ships wait at anchor for several
weeks.  India , while still a purchaser, is not taking much.”  Two phone calls and e-mails over two days to Habib-ullah
Seyedan, NITC’s commercial director, weren’t answered.  Nuclear Program  Oil exports from Iran slumped 46 percent this year compared
with 2011, according to data from  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
largest shipbroker. No NITC vessels delivered cargoes to  Turkey 
since Nov. 22 or to India since Nov. 12, according to data from
IHS Fairplay, a unit of Englewood, Colorado-based  IHS Inc. (IHS)  Banks
in countries that fail to cut imports risk losing access to
dollars under a U.S. law that took effect June 28. China and
India have waivers that expire this month.  The U.S. and 27-nation EU want to curb Iran’s nuclear
activities, which they say are aimed at producing weapons, a
charge the government in Tehran has denied. The sanctions are
costing Iran about $98.9 million a day in lost oil sales, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The exports once provided about half
of government revenue.  Signals from 31 NITC tankers show they are registered in
Tanzania-Zanzibar, according to IHS data. A Zanzibar government
official said in October that no Iranian ships were registered
in the east African territory and the country’s ship registry
confirmed the vessels aren’t entitled to fly the flag.  Satellite Signals  The Baikal, an NITC vessel that called at the Greek island
of Syros last week, was flying the Tanzanian flag, according to
Panayiotis Karamitsos, the local harbor master. It left without
unloading or refueling. The Majestic, another NITC vessel, was
sighted by an IHS employee near  Singapore  on Nov. 24 with its
stern painted to show it was flagged in Zanzibar, Hurley said.  “I can’t remember an occasion when there was a fleet with
so many ships apparently broadcasting out-of-date
registrations,” Hurley said. IHS captures data from 54,000
vessels updating their positions every three minutes via signals
to satellites and shore-based antennae.  The Tular, Leadership, Baikal and Blackstone are loaded and
idling while they await orders, according to IHS Fairplay. Four
others have switched off their transponders, an indication they
are anchored, Hurley said.  NITC tankers are also signaling that they are classified by
the Korean Register of Shipping,  Germany ’s Germanischer Lloyd or
 France ’s Bureau Veritas, according to IHS data. The three so-
called classification societies, which verify compliance with
international safety and security rules, have said they are no
longer providing services to Iranian vessels or intend to end
the relationship. One NITC ship isn’t signaling a known
classification society.  The  International Monetary Fund  said in October it expected
Iran’s economy to contract 0.9 percent this year. The forecast
was based on data from before the slump in the country’s rial,
which “will likely have a further negative impact on economic
outcomes in the coming year,”  Masood Ahmed , head of the IMF’s
Middle East and Central Asia department, said in an interview in
Dubai on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net  