-- Italy’s Democratic Party Gains in Polls as Government Teeters
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-12-07T12:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/italy-s-democratic-party-gains-in-polls-as-government-teeters.html
Italy’s Democratic Party widened its
lead over former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of
Liberty as Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government teeters,
increasing the chances of early elections.  The Democratic Party, led by Pier Luigi Bersani, increased
its support to 30.3 percent in a poll by SWG Institute from 30
percent in their Nov. 30 survey. Berlusconi’s PDL slipped to
13.8 percent from 14.3 percent, to trail both the PD and the
anti-austerity Five Star Movement, which gained to 19.7 percent
from 19.5 percent, SWG said.  The poll was released a day after Berlusconi’s PDL said it
was shifting from supporting the government to a position of
abstention, making it difficult for Monti to finish out a term
due to end in May. The PDL is pushing for early elections to
coincide with regional voting due in the coming months.  In a second poll today by Demos & Pi published in newspaper
La Repubblica, the  Democratic Party ’s support rose to 37.8
percent, the highest since it was founded in 2007, from 27
percent in September. Berlusconi’s PDL fell to 18.2 percent from
19.8 percent in the previous survey. Grillo’s party was little
changed at 15 percent, the poll said.  Neither of the polls indicated how many seats in Parliament
those support levels would yield. The current election law makes
it difficult for a party or coalition to win a stable majority
of both houses.  President Giorgio Napolitano has called on the political
parties to negotiate a new election law before he would agree to
call a vote. The PDL holding out their support for Monti, makes
it more likely that Italians will go to the polls using the old
rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  