-- Lithuanian President Approves Incomplete Butkevicius Cabinet
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-12-07T14:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/lithuanian-president-approves-incomplete-butkevicius-cabinet-1-.html
Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite approved 12 of the 14 Cabinet members proposed by
Premier-designate Algirdas Butkevicius, saying the country
needed a new government to take office without further delay.  “Important work and decisions are waiting,” Grybauskaite
said today in a statement e-mailed by her office in Vilnius, the
capital. “That’s why I signed the decree to approve the
government whose composition is incomplete.”  The decision ends a six-week post-election stalemate
between the president and a coalition of four parties with a
majority in parliament, led by Butkevicius’s  Social Democrats .
Grybauskaite rejected two of the Labor Party’s four candidates
for Cabinet posts, leaving the education and social security
portfolios empty.  Butkevicius plans to present the government and its policy
program to parliament on Dec. 11, expecting to win lawmakers’
approval and take office two days later, according to his
spokeswoman, Evelina Butkute. The 141-member legislature, in
which three seats are unoccupied, authorized him to form a
government on Nov. 22 by a vote of 90 to 40 with 4 abstentions.  “The government can work perfectly well without two
ministers” until Labor proposes new candidates, Butkute said by
telephone today.  Market Reaction  Lithuania’s dollar bond due 2022 rose today, pushing the
yield down to a record 3.093 percent at 2:30 p.m. in Vilnius
from 3.290 yesterday.  “Investor concerns eased following both the appointment of
Prime Minister Butkevicius and today’s approval of the new
Cabinet,” Mohammed Kazmi, an  emerging markets  strategist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland  in  London , said by e-mail today. “The
focus will turn to the 2013 budget bill, which will be a key
indicator of the extent to which the government intends to
loosen fiscal policy to boost growth.”  Butkevicius, 54, served as finance minister in 2004-2005
and as transportation minister in 2006-2008. Speaking in
parliament last month, he quoted U.S. President  Abraham Lincoln ,
saying his government would seek to be “for the people” by
focusing less on fiscal discipline and more on economic
stimulus.  As per a coalition agreement, the Social Democrats
delegated seven ministers, in addition to Butkevicius, to head
the departments of finance, economy, foreign affairs, defense,
transportation, health care and justice.  ‘Key Negative’  The Ministry of Finance will go to Rimantas Sadzius, 52,
who held the same post in a previous government from May 2007 to
December 2008.  The draft 2013 budget sent to parliament by the outgoing
government reduces the fiscal deficit to 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product from this year’s planned 3 percent. Butkevicius
has pledged to revise the draft budget to allow for an increase
in the minimum wage without increasing the deficit.
“Abandoning fiscal consolidation efforts would be a key
negative for the credit,” said Kazmi at RBS. “It would alter
the country’s image of tightly managed public finances that
enabled Lithuania to maintain access to international markets
throughout the global financial crisis.”  Labor Dispute  Grybauskaite initially opposed allowing any members of the
 Labor Party  to serve in the Cabinet as the party and its leaders
are suspected of fraud and election violations.  She today approved Labor delegates to be the ministers of
agriculture and culture, and said new Labor candidates to lead
the education and social security ministries would be judged
based on their record and competence.  The General Prosecutor’s Office has asked parliament to
remove the immunity from prosecution of three Labor members in
the chamber: party and faction head Viktor Uspaskich, first
deputy speaker Vytautas Gapsys, and Vitalija Vonzutaite of the
Budget and Finance Committee.  Lawmakers’ approval is needed to continue a trial in a
Vilnius court where they are charged with accounting fraud on
behalf of the party. The three deny any wrongdoing and are
fighting the charges. A special parliamentary commission is due
to issue recommendations on the matter next week.  Among other coalition partners, impeached ex-President
Rolandas Paksas’s Order & Justice party delegated ministers of
environment and internal affairs, and Lithuanian Polish Election
Action, which represents the country’s Polish minority, proposed
the new energy minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  