-- Ivory Coast Gold Miners May Halt Sites on Tax, Group Says
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2012-12-07T09:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/ivory-coast-gold-miners-may-halt-sites-on-tax-group-says.html
Gold-producing companies in  Ivory
Coast  may have to shut down operations in the West African
nation if parliament approves a proposed tax on profit,
according to Nouho Kone, head of a miners’ group.  A tax of 9 percent to 19 percent on profit “is not
reassuring,” Kone, head of the Professional Group of Miners in
Ivory Coast, said in a phone interview today from Abidjan, the
commercial capital. “The worst-case scenario would be to see
companies shut down their mines in the short term.”  Kone is country manager for  Endeavour Mining Corp. (EDV)   Newcrest (NCM) 
Mining Ltd. and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  also operate gold mines
in Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa producer. The country
is looking to earn more from gold after prices rose 8.6 percent
this year amid continued economic uncertainty in  Europe  and a
slower-than-expected recovery in the U.S. Spot prices were
little changed, gained less than 0.1 percent to $1,700.15 an
ounce by 9:02 a.m. in London.  The plan was adopted by the parliamentary Economic and
Financial Affairs Commission last week and lawmakers will vote
on the tariff this month. Gold miners want the text modified
before adoption, Kone said.  The tax will be collected on gold-mining profit above an
average production cost calculated at $615 an ounce in the first
quarter of this year, according to Moussa Toure, a spokesman for
National Assembly President  Guillaume Soro .  Cost Debate  This doesn’t reflect actual production costs, which are
currently between $1,000 and $1,200 an ounce, Kone said.  “This cost is largely debatable,” he said. “We think it
is normal that the government wants to earn more from gold, but
our costs of production have also risen.”  Melbourne-based Newcrest, which owns the Bonikro mine in
Ivory Coast, has also expressed concern to the government over
the profit tax, spokeswoman Kerrina Watson said by phone today.
The company has no plans to shut down its operations, she said.  The government will earn 44.3 billion  CFA francs  ($87
million) in revenue from gold mining this year, more than double
an earlier forecast of 21 billion francs, according to a
document e-mailed by government spokesman Bruno Kone in
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  