-- JinkoSolar Soars With $1 Billion in Backing From China
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-12-07T21:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/jinkosolar-gets-up-to-1-billion-in-china-development-funds-1-.html
JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  climbed to a
six-month high after it won as much as $1 billion in financing
from  China  Development Bank Corp., a sign that the Chinese
government is placing bets on specific manufacturers.  JinkoSolar’s American depositary receipts jumped 14 percent
to $4.68 at the close in New York, the highest since May 17.  Solar manufacturers are contending with a global oversupply
that’s driven  prices  down 19 percent in the past year. The
agreement is part of the Chinese government’s effort to provide
support for selected manufacturers as it picks the companies
most likely to survive the current slump, said JinkoSolar
Chairman Li Xiande.  “We believe they chose Jinko because we have a healthy
balance sheet and strong business development management in the
downstream sector,” Li said at a media briefing in Zug,
Switzerland. “The survivors will be the players who have the
advantage in terms of technology, cost and branding. The biggest
may not survive.”  JinkoSolar, the eighth-largest panel maker by volume
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, plans to use the
funding to develop and build solar farms, mostly in Germany,
Italy and Spain, Li said. The funds will go to JinkoSolar’s
Swiss subsidiary over a five-year period, according to a
statement today.  Picking ‘Winners’  “Today’s announcement could demonstrate a significant
signal that the Chinese government is starting to choose the
winners from the solar industry,” Philip Shen, an analyst at
Roth Capital Partners in Newport Beach,  California , said in a
note to clients. He has the equivalent of a hold rating on
JinkoSolar.  The state bank funding may represent a new focus “to
create downstream demand” for JinkoSolar’s panels, Shen said.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s biggest maker of thin-film
panels and solar power plants, has received similar financing
from the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. The Tempe, Arizona-based
company has won more than $583 million in loan guarantees from
the bank for projects in  Canada  and  India . The Washington-based
lender last year more than doubled its funding for U.S.
renewable-energy exports to $720 million.  “Access to financing along with cheap modules will make
the Chinese a force to be reckoned with in emerging market
project development,” said Ben Schuman, an analyst at Pacific-
Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon . “If CDB does expand this
type of activity I think it would be bad for First Solar.”  Chinese solar manufacturers gained on the sign of China’s
support for JinkoSolar.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  climbed 9.9 percent to
$3.10 and LDK Solar Co. rose 11 percent to $1. The financing
helped  lift  the Bloomberg Industries Large Solar Energy Index of
17 companies to its highest in a month. The volume of
JinkoSolar’s ADRs, each worth four ordinary shares, was 10 times
more than the 3-month average daily.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  