-- Johanns Signals Openness on Taxes Tied to U.S. Cuts
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-12-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/johanns-signals-openness-on-tax-rates-with-spending-cuts.html
Republican Senator Mike Johanns, a
participant in bipartisan budget talks, signaled that he is open
to higher revenue if paired with significant changes in spending
on entitlement programs.  Johanns is willing to “lean forward” on revenue if
Democrats will do the same on spending cuts, he said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “There is an opportunity there,” said Johanns, 62, of
 Nebraska . “Work with me on what’s driving the higher spending
that literally we’re struggling with as a nation, our
entitlements, and I will work with you on revenue.”  He said the “probabilities are still good” that lawmakers
will reach a deal to prevent the so-called fiscal cliff.  What won’t be part of a year-end deal, Johanns said, is an
agreement to increase the $16.4 trillion debt ceiling. President
 Barack Obama  has proposing removing the requirement that
Congress take affirmative votes to raise the limit. Democrats
want that issue dealt with as soon as possible, and Republicans
see it as leverage to get spending cuts in 2013.  “It is hard for me to imagine that you address all of that
in the next three weeks, and he doesn’t need it in the next
three weeks,” Johanns said. “We have time on that one, not a
huge amount of time, but we can face that after the first of the
year.”  Deficit Reduction  Johanns, a member of the so-called Gang of Eight group of
senators working on a  deficit-reduction  deal, spoke less than a
month before more than $600 billion of automatic spending cuts
and tax increases are scheduled to take effect.  Johanns’s work in that bipartisan group has been based in
part on the fiscal plan outlined by Democrat  Erskine Bowles  and
Republican  Alan Simpson , the co-chairmen of Obama’s 2010 deficit
commission. That plan called for lower tax rates and more
revenue than Obama’s budget does.  A year-end agreement, Johanns said, would include a “down
payment” from each side that would lock in spending cuts and
tax increases.  For spending, he suggested switching to an alternate
measure of inflation that would reduce future increases in
Social Security benefits. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, has rejected that idea as equivalent to a cut
in benefits.  ‘Ingredients are There’  “The ingredients are there,” said Johanns, who was
Nebraska governor and then agriculture secretary for President
 George W. Bush . “We just need to see the talks continue.”  On taxes, Johanns said House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
proposal for $800 billion in higher  tax revenue  over the next
decade, without raising tax rates, marked a significant step for
Republicans.  “The important thing here is if you read between the
lines, Speaker Boehner’s proposal involved revenue,” said
Johanns, who was first elected to the Senate in 2008. “That’s a
huge step. Don’t minimize the importance of that step.”  As he talks to constituents, Johanns said, he has been
preparing them for the difficult choices in overhauling the  tax
code  and pointing out the tradeoff between tax rates and breaks
for mortgage interest and charitable contributions.  “It’s the popular stuff,” he said. “It’s the stuff that
the average citizen loves.”  ‘Giant Step’  A $4 trillion  deficit-reduction  package, not including
budgetary gimmicks, would mark a “giant step in the right
direction” that would give confidence to businesses and
investors, Johanns said.  “If we could just find the key to unlock this door to a
budget agreement, I just think it unleashes economic opportunity
for everybody,” he said.  Johanns warned against “gimmicky” approaches such as
assuming $800 billion in savings from winding down the wars in
Iraq and  Afghanistan . That is likely to occur anyway and can be
counted by congressional scorekeepers.  Both Obama’s framework and Boehner’s outline would require
relying on those war savings to achieve more than $4 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  