-- Keep Internet Free From Public and Private Meddling
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-12-07T16:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/keep-web-free-from-public-and-private-meddling-susan-crawford.html
Should countries be encouraged to set
up online tollgates that would allow them to monitor and charge
for the content of communications crossing their borders?  In the U.S., thank goodness, both political parties reject
the idea. But some other governments -- chiefly Russia and  China 
-- advocate expanding the authority of the International
Telecommunications Union, an agency of the  United Nations , to
push forward such an approach. A global  conference  of more than
150 countries convened this week in Dubai to consider it.  The idea also has some support from telecommunications
companies, notably the European Telecommunications Network
Operators’ Association, that  would like  to assess fees on
content providers -- online video companies, for instance. They
would like, in other words, to be able to make money not only
from their subscribers, but also from any business hoping to use
their wires to reach those subscribers.  In an age when global networks are used increasingly for
important purposes such as electronic health record-keeping and
long-distance education, it is essential that ITU governments
continue to say no to tollgates and monitoring of all kinds --
and preserve the open Internet we have had since its inception.  The World Conference on International Telecommunications is
being held in Dubai this week and next to update the treaty that
governs how communications networks connect to one another
around the world -- regulations that have existed since the 19th
century but haven’t been revised since 1988, before the Internet
became what it is today.  Profit Motive  The government representatives attending the conference
hold their discussions behind closed doors. Still, it is easy
enough to understand the commercial interest being generated --
simply by following the money.  Once upon a time, telecommunications operators earned their
money chiefly from people using telephones. These profits have
been undermined by the popularity of less expensive online
communications services such as VoIP (Voice over  Internet
Protocol ), and now the companies are looking for new sources of
revenue. They can’t charge fees to content providers, however,
unless they know what content is crossing their lines. The
Internet-control strategy that some governments want would give
them the capacity to sniff out that content.  Just before the Dubai conference began, the standards arm
of the ITU quietly endorsed a new “deep packet inspection”
policy that would have standard Internet technology include
mechanisms for examining the content of Internet communications.
(A copy of the proposed standard, which was distributed to
member countries but not the public, has been leaked.) Thus,
governments could monitor political messages, and
telecommunications companies could find out whether users employ
applications, such as online telephone services, that might
compete with the companies’ businesses.  At the Dubai meeting,  Russia  and a number of Middle Eastern
countries have called to make this standard mandatory for all
Internet technology companies and network operators’ equipment.  The  Center for Democracy & Technology , a nonprofit
organization in  Washington  that promotes Internet freedom,  says 
that the technical standard could “give governments and
companies the ability to sift through all of an Internet user’s
traffic -- including emails, banking transactions and voice
calls -- without adequate privacy safeguards.”  Surveillance  This kind of wholesale surveillance would enable profit-
maximizing network operators to charge special fees for
particular uses of the Internet. Under the draft standard,
Internet users wouldn’t have the ability to cloak traffic in
virtual envelopes that would keep it private. Needless to say,
no consideration has been made for the security risks posed by
adding such sniffing capabilities to a network.  The outcome of the Dubai meeting, standing alone, is not
likely to change the Internet used by people in the  U.S.
Congress  would have to adopt any treaty amendments before they
could be effective in the U.S. There is little danger of that
happening. For good measure, on Dec. 5, the  House of
Representatives  passed a  unanimous resolution  opposing
centralized UN control of the Internet.  What’s at stake, however, is the free global Internet
pathway. If any one country erected a toll system by itself, it
would probably lose its connection to the rest of the Web and
become an unpopular and isolated island. But if a large group of
countries collectively agreed that such toll-taking makes sense,
the decision could change the architecture and generative nature
of the Internet for everyone.  (Susan P. Crawford, a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School , is the author of the forthcoming book
“Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in
the New Gilded Age.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or @scrawford on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 