-- Korean Won Weakens on Global Growth Concern; Bonds Steady
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-12-07T06:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/korean-won-weakens-on-global-growth-concern-bonds-steady.html
South Korean  government bonds  gained
as central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo said monetary policy
should stay “flexible” after data showed the economy grew less
than projected in the third quarter. The won strengthened.  Kim also said authorities will try to ease volatility in
the won if its movements are one-sided, according to the text of
a speech delivered today in Seoul. Gross domestic product
increased 0.1 percent in the three months through September from
the previous quarter, compared with an October estimate of 0.2
percent, official data showed yesterday.  “Some investors combined the weak third-quarter GDP data
with the governor’s comments, thinking ‘flexible monetary
policy’ may mean another rate cut,” said Moon Hong Cheol, a
fixed-income analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. in Seoul. “It
looks like the comments offered some reason for investors who
were waiting to buy bonds.”  The yield on the 2.75 percent notes due September 2017 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.93 percent at
the close in Seoul,  Korea  Exchange Inc. prices show. The rate
rose two basis points this week. The one-year  interest-rate  swap
slipped two basis points today to 2.76 percent.  The  Bank of Korea  will leave its benchmark interest  rate  at
2.75 percent on Dec. 13, after cutting twice this year,
according to seven of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
One predicts a 25 basis point reduction.  The Kospi index of shares closed at the highest level since
Oct. 18 as overseas investors  bought  more of the nation’s stocks
than they sold for a seventh day. The won appreciated as foreign
funds sold the dollar to buy local equities, according to Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc.  The currency advanced 0.1 percent today and for the week to
1,081.55 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in
exchange rates used to price options, declined 15 basis points
today to 4.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  