-- New York City’s Bike-Share to Begin in May After Sandy’s Damage
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-12-07T18:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/new-york-city-s-bike-share-to-begin-in-may-after-sandy-s-damage.html
New York City’s bike-share program
will begin in May, two months later than anticipated, after
 Hurricane Sandy  damaged equipment.  At least 5,500 so-called Citi Bikes sponsored by  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  will be available from almost 300 docking stations in the
densest parts of Manhattan south of 59th Street and in sections
of  Brooklyn , the city’s Transportation Department said today in
a news release. Electrical components must be refurbished or
replaced after Sandy’s surge flooded the Brooklyn Navy Yard on
the  East River , where about two-thirds of the system’s equipment
had been stored. Frames and hardware weren’t significantly
harmed.  “DOT has worked around the clock to restore vital
transportation links following the storm and that includes
putting Citi Bike on the road to recovery,” Transportation
Commissioner Janette Sadik-Khan said in a statement.  Sandy, which hit Oct. 29 and killed more than 40 people in
the city, was the latest setback for the program, which was
originally set to start in July. In August, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said faulty software would delay the opening until
March, and officials saw little point in starting the program in
fall or winter.  More than three years in the making, New York’s bike share,
which the release said will grow to 10,000 cycles, will become
the biggest in the U.S. and join similar programs in more than
200 cities from Boston to Barcelona.  The revised timeline won’t affect the $41 million in
funding from Citigroup, the New York-based bank that’s the chief
sponsor and namesake of the program, according to the statement.
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  is behind the $6.5 million payment system, and
profits are to be split with the city.  Since 2007,  New York  has added more than 290 miles (467
kilometers) to the now more than 700-mile bike-lane system, part
of Bloomberg’s efforts to tackle two of the city’s most
persistent challenges: congested roads and ever-widening
waistlines.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  