-- Nordea Needs 10% Staff Cuts to Meet Stricter Rules, CEO Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-12-07T18:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/nordea-needs-10-workforce-cut-to-meet-stricter-rules-ceo-says.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s largest
lender, is cutting its workforce by 10 percent and will close
branches to mitigate the impact of stricter regulatory
requirements, Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said.  The Stockholm-based bank, which in August last year said it
will eliminate 2,000 jobs by the end of 2012, needs to make even
deeper cuts “over a few years,” Clausen said yesterday in an
interview in Copenhagen. Job cuts to date are equivalent to 7
percent of the bank’s workforce, it said today in a statement to
the stock exchange.  Nordea is slimming down as it adapts to stricter regulatory
rules in  Sweden  than those set elsewhere. Finance Minister
 Anders Borg  has told the nation’s four biggest banks to set
aside 10 percent in core Tier 1 capital from January, and will
raise the requirement to 12 percent of risk-weighted assets from
2015. More onerous regulatory standards leave banks with few
alternatives besides cutting back, said Clausen, who is also the
president of the European Banking Federation.  “It comes from operating costs, to become more
efficient,” Clausen said. “To have fewer people, fewer
branches, lots of things on operating costs. We’re taking that
down significantly. We’re reducing staff over a few years by at
least 10 percent.”  The bank is planning to send half of the costs created by
tougher capital standards on to its clients, Clausen said.  Not Compatible  Nordea currently employs about 34,000 people in the Nordic
region, the Baltic states, Russia and  Poland , according to its
website. The lender achieved a return on equity of 12 percent at
the end of September, though the ratio trails a target of 15
percent that the bank set itself in 2011.  Clausen, in his capacity as EBF president, has argued
against stricter regulatory standards for European banks, which
he says are undermining economic growth. Requiring banks to
deleverage isn’t compatible with the goal of aiding a recovery,
he said.  “Politicians should understand, we should and everybody
should understand, that in this environment this regulation is
not a huge growth driver,”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  