-- Northern Ireland Police Find Bomb Ahead of Hillary Clinton Visit
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-12-07T09:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/northern-ireland-police-find-bomb-ahead-of-hillary-clinton-visit.html
Four men were arrested in  Northern
Ireland  last night after police found a bomb in a car that was
stopped in the city of Derry, as the U.K. region prepares for
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s visit today.  The bomb was made safe by the British Army and the men, all
in their 40s, are being questioned, a spokeswoman for the Police
Service of Northern Ireland said today.  The discovery comes after a week of protests in the U.K.
region by loyalists, which has left almost 20 police officers
injured. More than 1,500 loyalists protested on Dec. 3 in
central Belfast at a decision by lawmakers to stop flying the
British flag at the city hall every day. The crowd used bricks,
bottles and iron bars to attack police.  First Minister  Peter Robinson , leader of the pro-U.K.
Democratic Unionist Party, last night called on loyalists to
“suspend” their protests, after the demonstrations spread
across Belfast and into towns such as Ballymena. Loyalists
rioted on Dec. 5 in Carrickfergus, a town about 10 miles north
of Belfast.  Clinton is scheduled to meet Robinson and Deputy First
Minister  Martin McGuinness  today, the British Broadcasting Corp.
reported. During the early phases of Northern Ireland’s peace
process in the 1990s, former U.S. President  Bill Clinton 
visited the region and assisted negotiations that led to the
1998 peace deal.  Dissident republicans, who killed a prison officer last
month and who want a united Ireland, are trying to reignite the
conflict. About 3,500 people were killed during Northern
Ireland’s “Troubles”, which spanned three decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in  Belfast  at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  