-- NYC Debt Advances Most in Five Years After Sandy: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/nyc-debt-advances-most-in-five-years-after-sandy-muni-credit.html
New York , which is borrowing $850
million as soon as next week, has seen its bonds rally the most
in five years on bets that federal aid and better-than-projected
 Wall Street  earnings will help the most-populous U.S. city
absorb  Hurricane Sandy ’s recovery costs.  Almost six weeks after the biggest Atlantic storm in
history swamped coastal neighborhoods and caused $19 billion in
damage in the city, there’s no letup in demand for New York
bonds as municipal yields reach  47-year lows . The interest-rate
penalty on the city’s issuers reached the  smallest  since 2007
this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The metropolitan area’s $1.3 trillion economy, larger than
 Mexico ’s, will shield it against the impact from the deadly
storm, which officials expect to create construction jobs and
business as residents replace destroyed vehicles and appliances.
At the same time, Wall Street, which accounts for 7 percent of
city tax revenue, is poised to earn more than $20 billion in
2012, twice the amount the city anticipated, state Comptroller
 Thomas DiNapoli  said this week.  “We often see pretty robust economic growth post some of
these natural disasters,” said  Peter Hayes , head of muni debt
at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which oversees about $105
billion of munis. “The expectation is going to be similar
here.”  Obama Request  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , 70, said Nov. 30 that he didn’t
see a need to lower the city’s estimate for tax revenue
following the storm. Last month he ordered $1.6 billion of cuts
after a $635 million hole opened in this year’s $69 billion
budget when a judge stopped the city from selling 2,000 new taxi
medallions. He still has to close a $1.2 billion deficit for the
year that starts July 1.  President  Barack Obama  may seek as much as $60 billion of
aid from Congress to help states with recovery costs, Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said this week.
The storm hit Oct. 29 with winds as strong as 100 miles (160
kilometers) an hour, killing more than 40 people in New York’s
five boroughs. A tidal surge flooded the  subway system  and
underground utilities and left thousands homeless.  “The effects of Sandy, while devastating certainly on a
personal basis for a lot folks in the city, at the city’s
financial level it’s a bump in the road,” said Blake Miller,
portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman Group LLC in New York,
which oversees $10 billion of munis.  2007 Levels  Miller said he didn’t expect a lasting impact on the city’s
personal-income tax collections or financial-industry revenue.  Investors demand  0.17 percentage point  of extra yield to
buy 10-year debt sold by New York City issuers compared with
benchmark munis, the smallest gap since mid-2007, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The city is benefiting from a  rally  in the $3.7 trillion
muni market as investors anticipate that tax rates will rise.
Yields on 20-year tax-exempts fell to  3.27 percent  last week,
the lowest since 1965, a Bond Buyer index shows.  New York City bonds sell frequently in the marketplace, a
benefit to investors, said Hayes, who also praised the
metropolis’s debt management.  The city plans to sell tax-exempt general obligations as
soon as next week to refund debt, according to the Office of
Management and Budget. Moody’s Investors Service rates New York
City Aa2, its third-highest grade.  City Driver  The mayor last week met congressional leaders in  Washington 
to request $9.8 billion of aid to help repair infrastructure and
recover economic losses. Reimbursements from the  Federal
Emergency Management Agency  and private insurance would cover
only $9.2 billion of the $19 billion in total public and private
loses, Bloomberg said in a  letter  to state Congress members.  While power losses and damaged buildings hurt city commerce
and reduced wages and sales- tax revenue , “the good news is that
in the third quarter Wall Street did better than expected and
that’s a big driver of our economy,” the mayor said Nov. 30 on
WOR radio.  New York Stock Exchange members’ broker-dealer operations
had third-quarter profits totaling more than $7 billion,
contributing to the third-best performance on record for the
first nine months of a year, DiNapoli said this week.  Job Pressures  Financial companies still face pressure to cut costs,
contributing to lift the city’s jobless rate above the national
level. New York-based Citigroup Inc. this week said it will
eliminate 11,000 positions globally to reduce expenses.  The city’s 9.3 percent seasonally adjusted unemployment
rate for October was down from 9.5 percent in September, yet
higher than the 7.9 percent U.S. average.  “If anything can be viewed as a silver lining, it is that
thousands of jobs will be created as we rebuild,” city
Comptroller  John Liu  said yesterday at a breakfast forum. He
said at least 25,000 jobs would be spurred by the infusion of
federal emergency aid and the use of $500 million in funds from
municipal bonds to repair schools and hospitals.  His office has approved $728 million in spending to repair
homes and boardwalks, and fix escalators and elevators in
 Manhattan ’s Staten Island ferry terminal, he said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Following are pending municipal sales:  TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE AND TUNNEL AUTHORITY, part of New York’s
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority , is set to sell $904
million of tax-exempt revenue debt as soon as next week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. (Added Dec. 7)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  