-- Obama Seeks $60.4 Billion to Assist Sandy Recovery
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/obama-said-to-seek-60-4-billion-for-sandy-recovery.html
President  Barack Obama  asked Congress
for $60.4 billion to pay for damage caused by superstorm Sandy,
putting the disaster relief request from northeastern states
into the middle of a debate over the federal deficit.  While the amount is less than the $83 billion in assistance
that regional officials sought, governors  Chris Christie  of New
Jersey and  Andrew Cuomo  of  New York  welcomed the accord with the
White House yesterday on the funding package.  Obama’s request “will enable our states to recover,
repair, and rebuild better and stronger than before,” Christie,
a Republican, and Cuomo, a Democrat, said in a joint statement.
At a briefing in  Manhattan , Cuomo said the aid would give states
flexibility in how the money is spent and help cover the cost of
efforts to protect infrastructure from future storms.  “This is the first good news New York has had in a
while,” Cuomo said. “This is a very big deal for New York.”  The supplemental spending request follows weeks of lobbying
by officials from the states hardest hit by the storm and comes
as Obama and Republicans in Congress are locked in negotiations
over how to avoid more than $600 billion in higher taxes and
spending cuts set to begin in January. The goal is to agree on a
plan to shrink the federal deficit, which has exceeded $1
trillion in each of the past four years.  Rebuilding Needs  The Northeast is still working to rebuild since Sandy, the
biggest Atlantic storm on record, pounded the region Oct. 29
with winds reaching 100 miles (160 kilometers) an hour. The
storm flooded seaside communities from  New Jersey  to  Rhode
Island , damaged tens of thousands of homes, and crippled subways
and electric utility systems.  In a letter outlining the funding plan, Office of
Management and Budget Acting Director Jeffrey Zients said the
money would be used to repair damage to homes and infrastructure
and help prepare for future storms.  “Our nation has an obligation to assist those who suffered
losses and who lack adequate resources to rebuild their lives,”
Zients wrote.  The funding includes $17 billion to help homeowners, along
with $6.2 billion to repair the public transportation
infrastructure in the New York City area.  Housing, Mitigation  The request includes $11.5 billion in disaster relief
funding and $15 billion for block grants to assist homeowners
and businesses in covering rebuilding and repair costs not
underwritten by the  Federal Emergency Management Agency , private
insurance or Small Business Administration loans.  Restoration projects that would be paid for range from $2
million for roof repairs of Smithsonian Institution buildings in
Washington, Virginia and  Maryland , to $6 million to restock food
banks and soup kitchens drained by demand from Sandy victims.  Almost $13 billion, or more than a fifth of the money
sought, would be used to mitigate future natural disasters,
including $5.5 billion to make public transportation systems
“more resilient” to wind and flooding. The request also seeks
to reduce flood risks with more than $3.8 billion for the  Army
Corps  of Engineers and $400 million for the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service, to enhance natural ecosystems.  New York Representatives  Nita Lowey , a Democrat, and  Peter King , a Republican, said more money will be needed later.  First Step  “This robust package is a major first step that we will
work to pass as quickly as possible in Congress to help
devastated communities, families and businesses,” they said in
a joint statement.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said it’s now up to
Congress to take swift action “in a bipartisan fashion.”  “We need a full recovery package to be voted on in this
session of Congress,” Bloomberg said in a statement. “Any
delay will impede our recovery.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  A spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner ,  Michael Steel ,
said the Ohio Republican has the request “and will review it.”  Christie, who met with Boehner while in Washington, said
he’ll “use every tool” to secure federal recovery funding. New
Jersey gets the worst return on its federal tax dollar of any
U.S. state and its residents have underwritten disaster
responses across the U.S., the governor said.  “These are not wants: These are needs,” Christie said.
“Speaker Boehner has told me that offsets isn’t the direction
in which the House Republican Conference will be moving,” he
said, referring to balancing new spending with cuts elsewhere.  The aid plan follows weeks of lobbying by New York and New
Jersey officials. Obama and Christie talked for about 30 minutes
Dec. 6 at the White House and the president spoke with Cuomo by
telephone.  If approved, the request would be less than the $110
billion directed to the  Gulf Coast  after Hurricanes Katrina and
Rita hit in 2005, according to the Government Accountability
Office, a nonpartisan research arm of Congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 