-- Obama Inaugural Panel to Take Unlimited Corporate Funds
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-12-07T21:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/obama-inaugural-panel-to-take-unlimited-corporate-funds.html
President  Barack Obama ’s inaugural
committee will accept unlimited donations from corporations and
individuals, reversing his stance of four years ago.  After a presidential campaign that cost more than $2
billion in spending by candidates, political parties and
political action committees, the inaugural committee is casting
a wider net for contributions.  “Our goal is to make sure that we will meet the
fundraising requirements for this civic event after the most
expensive presidential campaign in history,” Addie Whisenant,
spokeswoman for the Presidential Inaugural Committee, said in an
e-mail.  The identities of all donors will be posted regularly on
the committee’s website, she said. Lobbyists and political
action committees won’t be allowed to contribute. Corporations
with outstanding loans from the Troubled Asset Relief Program
also will be prohibited from making donations.  The contribution policy was reported earlier by Politico.  Donors contributed about $45 million to Obama’s 2009
inauguration. Obama banned corporate cash then, and accepted a
maximum of $50,000 per donor.  Democrats restricted corporate contributions for their
September national convention in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and
the host committee fell about $12.5 million short of its
fundraising target.  Scaled Down  The inaugural committee plans to scale down events for
Obama’s second inaugural. Actress Eva Longoria, who campaigned
for the president, and Matthew Barzun, the finance chairman of
the re-election bid, are two of the heads of the commitee.  Obama’s inaugural speech, and the evening balls will be
held on Jan. 21. Obama will officially take the oath of office
the day before, which is a Sunday. He will ask Americans to
volunteer on Jan. 19 in their communities as a national day of
service.  The inaugural committee hasn’t announced its budget for the
festivities. The panel’s executive director is Steve Kerrigan,
who held a similar role for the convention in Charlotte.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  