-- Loblaw Investors Back Move to REIT From Grocer: Corporate Canada
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-12-07T21:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/loblaw-investors-back-move-to-reit-from-grocer-corporate-canada.html
Loblaw Cos. (L)  may be a better landlord
than grocer. Investors signaled that yesterday by driving the
shares to the biggest gain in 25 years after the company
announced plans to spin off its real estate into one of Canada’s
largest investment trusts.  “It was an unloved stock before this announcement,” said
Jason Hornett, who manages C$384 million ($387 million) at
Bissett Investment Management, including shares of  George Weston
Ltd. (WN) , the majority owner of Canada’s biggest grocery chain.
“It’s a brilliant move for them to take this real estate and
issue this REIT where they can control the value of those
assets.”  Loblaw said yesterday the company would transfer about 35
million square feet (3.3 million square meters) of property with
a current value of more than C$7 billion to a real estate
investment trust it plans to take public next year. It would be
the second-largest retail REIT in  Canada , according to company
disclosures.  The Brampton, Ontario-based company is joining a booming
REIT market that has raised about $440 million in five initial
public offerings this year, more than any other industry in
Canada, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Capped REIT Index has jumped 9.6 percent this year,
compared with a 1.7 percent gain for the S&P/TSX Composite
Index. REITs invest in properties from seniors housing to
warehouses, and are paying returns two percentage points more
than the broad index.  Weston Surges  Loblaw, facing growing competition in its food business
from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Target Corp. (TGT) , soared on the
spinoff announcement, rising 14 percent to C$38.69 yesterday,
the biggest advance since October 1987, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Before the rally, Loblaw shares had
 climbed  4.9 percent over the last five years, compared with a 28
percent gain for the S&P/Consumer Staples Index in Canada.  The announcement follows Toronto-based KingSett Capital
Inc.’s unsolicited bid on Dec. 4 for  Primaris Retail Real Estate
Investment Trust (PMZ-U)  in a deal valued at C$4.4 billion to add
shopping malls in Canada.  The increase gave George Weston Ltd. a one-day gain of
about C$771.4 million from its 60 percent stake yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. George Weston, 63
percent owned by W.G. Galen Weston, rose 0.1 percent to C$67.79
at market close in Toronto today. Loblaw added 1.3 percent to
C$38.71.  W.G. Galen Weston, 72, chairman of George Weston, is
Canada’s second-richest person with a net worth of about C$8
billion before the spinoff announcement, according to the
Canadian Business 2011 list of the country’s wealthiest.  U.S. Competition  Loblaw will have an 80 percent interest in the REIT, Chief
Financial Officer Sarah Davis said on a conference call
yesterday. The company won’t “sit on its hands” with the extra
cash from the IPO, which will be priced midway through next
year, she said.  Loblaw faces increased competition from U.S. chains,
including Target, which is opening in Canada next year, Hornett
at Bissett said. The REIT deal could translate into C$2 billion
in extra revenue by the end of next year, he said.  The IPO will bring a cash windfall of C$670 million to the
company which will be used to repay debt maturing in 2013,
Michael Van Aelst, consumer analyst at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  in
 Montreal , said in a note to clients today.  Van Aelst  raised  his rating on the stock to buy from hold
and his price target to C$46 from $37. He is one of three
analysts who upgraded the shares since yesterday compared with
one analyst who downgraded.  RioCan is Canada’s largest REIT with 79 million square feet
of retail space. Its tenants include Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
Canadian Tire Corp., and Metro Inc. grocery stores according to
its latest quarterly  report .  Hidden Value  Canada had one REIT initial public offering last year, up
from none in 2009, according to Bloomberg data. Canada may see
an additional two REITs this month. Agellan Commercial REIT
plans to raise C$154 million in its IPO next week to buy
commercial properties in the U.S. and Canada. FAM Real Estate
Investment Trust filed documents with regulators on Nov. 14 to
do an IPO to buy Canadian commercial properties.  “If the company wants to free up their hidden value of
real estate, the timing is perfect because we’re hitting a high
watermark for real estate prices,” John Crombie, national
director of retail real estate at  Cushman & Wakefield , said in a
phone interview from Toronto. “At the end of the day, who
doesn’t like Loblaw?”  More Acquisitions  The company will do longer-term leases with favorable rates
for Loblaw and free up “a ton” of cash that they can put
towards upgrades, store developments and acquisitions, he said.
Loblaw  bought  T&T Supermarket, Canada’s largest Asian food
retailer, in 2009.  “Over time if this REIT diversifies, acquires other
properties, and generates more income that flows back to Loblaw,
that’s a positive,” Brian Yarbrough, an Edward Jones analyst,
said in a phone interview from  St. Louis .  Yarbrough rates the stock a buy.  “You do wonder if Loblaw is aiming to acquire another
retailer,” he said. “The extra  cash flow  can potentially buy a
retail chain in the middle of next year. They made it very clear
that they won’t be sitting on this new cash. that’s why people
are excited about this -- it’s positive across the board.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  