-- Logo-Laden Jewelry Challenges Tiffany This Holiday Season
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-12-07T21:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/logo-laden-jewlery-challenges-tiffany-this-holiday-season.html
In Christmases past, gentlemen headed
to their trusty local jewelry shop to buy generic gems for their
significant others -- strands of pearls, diamond-stud earrings.  This year more are visiting luxury department stores and
boutiques and dropping premiums on branded fine jewelry from
fashion houses including  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) , Gianni Versace SpA
and  Salvatore Ferragamo Italia SpA. (SFER)  Celebrity jewelers such as
glam-rock-inspired Stephen Webster are feeling the love, too.  Well-heeled consumers are developing a taste for precious
adornment that broadcasts its brand provenance either by
incorporating such well-known logos as Versace’s Medusa head or
using distinctive designs like David Yurman’s chunky carved
cable silverwork.  “Jewelry was the last luxury product sold largely
anonymously,” designer Webster said in an e-mail. “Brands
caught wind of that and, of course, brands cannot be
anonymous.”  Branded jewelry sales will double to 30 percent of the
$59.2 billion U.S. fine jewelry market in the next decade, said
Ken Gassman, president of the Jewelry Industry Research
Institute. The new entrants are competing with  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  --
which last month cut its annual profit forecast for the third
time this year -- and may further decimate the thinning ranks of
specialty jewelers. The U.S. had 22,330 specialty jewelers in
2011, down 28 percent from their 1987 peak, Gassman said.  “The fact that many top-tier luxury brands are targeting
jewelry creates intense competition, and squeezes Tiffany,”
said Milton Pedraza, chief executive officer of the Luxury
Institute, a New York-based luxury consulting firm.  Holiday Race  The race is on this month because the holiday period
generates 30 percent of jewelers’ annual sales, making them more
dependent on November and December than any other retail
segment, according to the  National Retail Federation , a
Washington, D.C.-based trade group. Most of the sales occur in
December and a quarter of them in the week before Christmas,
said  Michael McNamara , a vice president for Purchase,  New York- 
based MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse.  Jewelers are fighting for market share while facing weak
consumer demand for lower-priced baubles as well as higher raw-
product costs. Purchases of jewelry sold at the top 10 percent
of prices fell 3.2 percent in the retail fiscal year through
November, compared with a 13 percent jump a year earlier,
according to SpendingPulse figures for transactions in all
payment forms.  Tiffany Struggles  New York-based Tiffany said Nov. 29 that sales growth at
stores open at least a year in the Americas shrank to 1 percent
in the third quarter from 15 percent in the same period a year
earlier. The 54 percent premium that investors were willing to
pay for Tiffany shares over the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer
Discretionary Index in mid-2011 has all but vanished, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tiffany fell 0.3 percent to
$58.42 at the close in  New York .  Neiman Marcus Group Inc., which sells brands like Yurman
and Webster, saw “very strong” precious jewelry sales at the
Dallas-based luxury retailer in its last quarter, Chief
Executive Officer Karen Katz said on a Nov. 28 conference call.  Branding is good for the industry because converting
jewelry from an evergreen investment that you hand on to your
heirs into a fashion accessory that goes out of style drives
sales by spurring replacement purchases, Gassman said.  “Consumers have a romance with brands,” he said, “They
are a shortcut to status. ‘Oh! This is a David Yurman
necklace.’”  Colored Stones  The branding trend accelerated after the recession as
luxury goods companies sought new areas of growth to complement
their existing lines and keep attracting customers in the
increasingly mature U.S. and European markets, said Hana Ben-
Shabat, a New York-based partner in the retail practice at  A.T.
Kearney , a management consulting firm.  The recent popularity of
colored stones also has fueled the trend toward designer
jewelry, Ben-Shabat said.  “It gives more room to play with jewelry rather than just
deal with diamonds and gold,” she said.  As a result, the number of jewelry brands sold by luxury
department-store chains has exploded in recent years, Ben-Shabat
said. Go to the website of  Macy’s Inc.’s (M)  Bloomingdale’s chain
and you see more than 30.  “We’re very excited about the business,” Michael Gould,
chairman of Bloomingdale’s, said in a phone interview. “We’ve
added more space in all our stores to our fine jewelry
departments.” The retailer also has enhanced its in-store
shops, particularly those of designers Yurman,  John Hardy ,
Roberto Coin and Ippolita, which are doing very well, he said.  A challenge for designers is figuring out how to signal the
brand through the jewelry, Gassman said. “There are not nearly
the opportunities to broadcast the brand as there are in clothes
and handbags,” he said.  Medusa Head  Ferragamo, a recent entrant into the category with a $200
to $15,000 collection that arrived in stores in October, stamps
the letters of the Ferragamo name on a round diamond-pave
pendant, and evokes the Florence Italy-based shoemaker’s
“gancino” clasp in its rings. Versace uses its Medusa head
icon on some of the oversized rings that are part of the
“Atelier” line of jewelry it unveiled in the summer. Each
piece is unique and prices are not disclosed publicly.  The five fine jewelry collections that  Ralph Lauren  has
produced with  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  -- the world’s
largest luxury jewelry maker and owner of Cartier -- includes
pearl strands that incorporate designer Ralph Lauren’s monogram.  Silver Jewelry  Tiffany, No. 2 behind Richemont, has some easily
recognizable jewelry of its own, too, and has emblazoned its
name most obviously on its “Return to Tiffany” silver jewelry
collection. Mark Aaron, a spokesman, declined to comment for
this article.  The risks of producing branded gems are greater for jewelry
designers than for the luxury-brand giants because they are
starting from scratch, and must stand out in the highly crowded
market to succeed, Ben-Shabat said.  Webster, 53, founder and creative director of his namesake
London-based brand, made a mark by bringing what he describes as
“edge” to fine jewelry, and he has shown a modern savvy in
building up his brand. He has appeared as a guest judge on
Project Runway and produced brand videos that are posted on
YouTube. His jewelry inspirations range from thorny tattoos to
shark jaws.  “We have a certain type of jewelry and it is attractive to
people who want to sort of show off,” the rugged Webster says
in one of his videos. “The minute you see it, you kind of get
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  