-- Oil Caps Weekly Loss as Dollar Strengthens Against Euro
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-12-07T21:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/oil-rises-first-time-in-four-days-on-u-s-jobs-data.html
Oil capped the first weekly loss
since early November as the dollar rose against the euro after
the U.S. jobless rate fell and  Germany  cut its growth forecast.  Futures slid 0.4 percent as unemployment dropped to the
lowest level since 2008 and the Bundesbank sliced more than 1
percentage point off its 2013  forecast . The dollar climbed to a
two-week high. Saudi Arabia is content with current prices, Oil
Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said five days before an OPEC meeting.  “The stronger dollar is negative for commodities,” said
Tom Pawlicki, director of market research at Chicago-based
commodities trading firm EOXLive. “There is just some worry
about global demand for oil.”  Crude for January delivery decreased 33 cents to settle at
$85.93 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices
dropped 3.4 percent this week and are down 13 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement slipped 1 cent to end the
session at $107.02 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The dollar advanced as much as 0.7 percent to $1.2877 per
euro, the highest level since Nov. 23. A stronger dollar and
weaker common currency reduce oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  “The dollar is adding pressure to oil,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago .  Unemployment Rate  The jobless rate fell to 7.7 percent in November, the Labor
Department reported. It was forecast to stay at 7.9 percent amid
concern that  Hurricane Sandy  hindered growth, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The participation rate, which
indicates the share of working-age people in the labor force,
fell to 63.6 percent, from the prior month’s 63.8 percent.  “Today’s employment report was significantly better than
consensus expectations,” said Jason Schenker, president of
Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy
consultant, in e-mailed comments. “There were some negatives in
the report, however, including a drop in the labor force
participation rate.”  Employment in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming
country, climbed by 146,000, compared with a 85,000 median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That followed a
revised 138,000 gain in October that was less than initially
forecast.  “It’s a good report but there was continued fall in
participation rates and the previous numbers were revised
lower,” said Kyle Cooper, director of commodities research at
IAF Advisors in Houston.  Euro Declines  The euro also fell after the Bundesbank cut its 2013
projection for the German economy,  Europe ’s largest, to 0.4
percent from 1.6 percent predicted in June.  The European Central Bank reduced its euro-area growth
forecasts yesterday. A majority of ECB policy makers were open
to cutting the benchmark rate and there is a possibility of a
reduction early next year if the economy doesn’t pick up, three
officials with knowledge of the Governing Council’s
deliberations said.  The global oil market is well supplied, al-Naimi said in an
interview in Doha, where he attended an international conference
on climate change. Saudi Arabia is OPEC’s largest producer.  “The prices are fine and customers are happy,” he said.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
probably leave its group production quota unchanged when
ministers meet Dec. 12 in Vienna, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 18 analysts.  Fuel Demand  Crude prices may decline next week on concern that weaker
economic growth will reduce fuel demand and boost inventories, a
separate Bloomberg survey showed.  U.S. gasoline inventories gained the most in 11 years last
week as consumption of the fuel slid, the Energy Department said
on Dec. 5.  “Petroleum demand is still weak,” Cooper said.  Oil consumption in  China , the world’s second-largest crude
user after the U.S., may expand 3.4 percent next year amid an
economic recovery, refinery expansions and additions to
strategic reserves, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 427,220
contracts as of 4:54 p.m. Volume totaled 526,874 contracts
yesterday, 0.5 percent higher than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  