-- Oil Snaps Three Days of Losses on China Growth Outlook
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-12-07T08:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/oil-trades-near-three-week-low-as-ecb-cuts-europe-growth-outlook.html
(Corrects  China  diesel consumption growth figure in
seventh paragraph.)  Oil rose, snapping three days of
losses and trimming its weekly decline, amid speculation China’s
 industrial production  rose at the fastest pace since March,
boosting demand in the world’s second biggest crude user.  Futures advanced as much as 0.4 percent before a report
Dec. 9 that may show China’s output grew 9.8 percent in November
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The country’s retail
sales are forecast to have increased 14.6 percent last month,
compared with a 14.5 percent gain in October. Oil slid to the
the lowest price in three weeks yesterday after the European
Central Bank cut its forecast for euro-area economic growth.  “We’ve got a two out of three global scenario,” said
Michael McCarthy, a chief market strategist at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “The U.S. and China are both going ahead, but  Europe  is
going backwards. Recent data out of China show a stabilization
of growth rates, and we’ll get more data over the weekend, which
could introduce a note of caution in trading today.”  Crude for January delivery was at $86.54 a barrel, up 28
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:56 p.m. Singapore time. The contract slid $1.62 yesterday
to $86.26, the lowest close since Nov. 15. Prices are down 2.7
percent this week and 12 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement rose 24 cents to $107.27 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $20.73 to West
Texas Intermediate. It closed at $20.77 yesterday, the narrowest
gap since Oct. 19.  China Demand  China’s 2013 oil demand will increase by 3.4 percent, or
321,000 barrels a day, from this year amid an improvement in the
country’s economic growth, Deutsche Bank AG said.  China’s diesel consumption may rise as much as 3 percentage
points next year after rising 1 percent so far in 2012 as
industrial production expands, Soozhana Choi, the bank’s
Singapore-based chief oil strategist, said in a report dated
today. The country will account for 40 percent of global demand
growth in 2013, according to the note.  Oil is rebounding in New York after closing yesterday above
technical support along an upward-sloping trend line, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. This line, connecting the lows of
June and November, is around $85.50 a barrel today. Buy orders
tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  Price Outlook  Prices may decline next week on concern that weaker
economic growth will reduce fuel demand and boost inventories, a
Bloomberg survey showed. Thirteen of 29 analysts and traders, or
45 percent, forecast crude will decrease through Dec. 14. Nine
respondents, or 31 percent, predicted a gain. Seven forecast
little change. Last week, 33 percent projected an increase.  The euro area won’t start to shake off its slump until the
second half of 2013, ECB President Mario Draghi said at a press
conference yesterday in Frankfurt after policy makers left the
benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent. The European
Union accounted for 16 percent of the world’s oil consumption
last year, and the U.S. consumed 21 percent, according to  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  