-- Tombini Stands Firm as Bets on Lower Brazil Rates Rock Market
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-12-07T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/tombini-stands-firm-as-bets-on-lower-brazil-rates-rock-market.html
Brazil ’s central bank is standing by
its strategy of keeping the  key rate  stable for a prolonged
period, its President Alexandre Tombini said after traders
rocked markets with bets he will resume cutting borrowing costs.  Brazilian swap rates tumbled to a record yesterday after
the nation’s biggest bank forecast policy makers will inject
more monetary stimulus into the slumping economy early next
year. The report by Itau Unibanco Holding SA came out around the
same time as the minutes to last week’s policy meeting, in which
policy makers reiterated their pledge to keep the Selic rate at
a record low 7.25 percent for an extended period.  “The adequate strategy to bring inflation back to target
is to keep the stability of the monetary conditions for a
sufficiently prolonged period,” Tombini told reporters last
night in Brasilia, repeating language used in the statement from
the Nov. 28 meeting. “The minutes couldn’t be more up to
date.”  Latin America ’s largest economy grew 0.6 percent in the
third quarter, less than half the pace forecasted by the
government and economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of last
week’s report.  Slower growth hasn’t been enough to tame  inflation , which
has remained above the government’s 4.5 percent target for more
than two years. The pace of consumer price increases accelerated
to 5.45 percent in October from 5.28 percent the previous month.  Brazil’s decision last week to leave borrowing costs
unchanged ended more than a year of easing that drove down the
benchmark rate 5.25 percentage points since August 2011, the
most among the Group of 20 nations.  Stimulus Frenzy  Since last week’s disappointing growth report, the
government has stepped up efforts to revive the economy. Among
other measures it reduced interest rates charged by the state
development bank, launched a program to attract private
investment to the nation’s overextended ports and extended
payroll tax cuts to ailing industries.  While  Europe ’s debt crisis, a looming fiscal crisis in the
U.S. and a slowdown in  China  continue to weigh on the economy,
President  Dilma Rousseff  isn’t urging policy makers to lower
borrowing costs as she was doing earlier this year.  The government sees no need for additional rate cuts to
spur growth, a government official said yesterday. The current
level of  interest rate  is adequate given the cuts carried out
haven’t yet fully worked their way through the economy, said the
official, who discussed the issue this week with Rousseff though
asked not to be named because interest rate decisions are taken
by the central bank.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 plunged 23
basis points yesterday to 6.87 percent, the biggest drop since
May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  