-- OMV in Talks With RWE to Sell 17% Stake in Nabucco Gas Pipeline
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-12-07T12:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/omv-in-talks-with-rwe-to-sell-17-stake-in-nabucco-gas-pipeline.html
OMV AG (OMV) , central Europe’s biggest oil
company, is in talks about  RWE AG (RWE)  leaving the Nabucco natural
gas pipeline project.  Both companies today confirmed that they are in discussions
over RWE’s 17 percent stake in Nabucco. OMV remains committed to
the the project, which is intended to transport gas from the
Caspian Sea region to central Europe, the Vienna-based company’s
Chief Executive Officer Gerhard Roiss said today at a press
briefing in the Austrian capital.  “It is not an issue of control, it’s an issue of
investment,” Roiss said. “The shareholders of Nabucco at the
end will be the ones who have the gas.”  The Nabucco group of six companies originally wanted to
build a 3,900-kilometer (2,400-mile) pipeline traversing the
Caspian,  Middle East  and Europe. Construction goals have been
shortened to the so-called Nabucco West, a 1,315 kilometer line
that would carry natural gas from Azerbaijan into Austria.
Nabucco is currently negotiating with operators of the Central
Asian nation’s Shah Deniz II field over a stake in the project.  “We are in the process of discussing a transfer of our
share with OMV,” RWE spokeswoman Sabine Jeschke said by phone.
“The process is ongoing.”  The Nabucco West pipeline is competing with the Trans-
Adriatic Pipeline, known as TAP, to get gas from Shah Deniz. The
gas field’s operators, who include  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Statoil ASA (STL) , have
an option to take a 50 percent stake in TAP.  “Nabucco has to be commercially viable,” Roiss said.
“We’re not going to force any prestige projects. We’re too
small for that.”  OMV, which is searching for natural gas beneath the  Black
Sea  with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , would consider building its own
pipeline to Austria depending on what the companies discover,
Roiss said.  “You cannot develop a field without transport,” the CEO
said. “The value of Nabucco is in the intergovernmental
agreements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  