-- London Fund Managers Grow More Upbeat on Economy, Survey Shows
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-12-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/london-fund-managers-grow-more-upbeat-on-economy-survey-shows.html
London fund managers and analysts
grew more confident in the outlook for the  U.K. economy  this
quarter, reflecting optimism already seen in equity markets, a
survey found.  Sixty-nine percent of the 200 investors and market analysts
polled expect an improvement over the next 12 months, up from 44
percent in the third quarter, London-based Capital Spreads said
today. Sixty-one percent see a “marginal” improvement, with
just 8 percent forecasting a significant strengthening.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has surged 19 percent
from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks boosted stimulus
measures and as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
pledged to protect the single currency. The FTSE 100 Index has
gained 12 percent in that period.  “There’s clearly renewed confidence about the U.K.’s
economy,” said Angus Campbell, head of market analysis at
Capital. “However, as we’ve seen from the past, this can turn
on a sixpence, and if the markets start to head lower again we
can expect to see confidence take a dive, too.”  The increase in investor confidence contrasts with the
gloomy assessment by the Bank of England last month, when
Governor Mervyn King said previous BOE forecasts had been too
optimistic and the recovery would be “protracted.” The British
Chambers of Commerce and the  Office for Budget Responsibility 
both cut their projections for 2013 this week.  Of the respondents to the quarterly survey, 8 percent
forecast that the economy will weaken. The poll was conducted by
research company Populus from Oct. 15 to Oct. 22 for Capital
Spreads, the spread-betting unit of  London Capital Group
Holdings Plc. (LCG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  