-- More Officer Ethics Training Urged by Pentagon’s Dempsey
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-12-07T18:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/more-officer-ethics-training-urged-by-pentagon-s-dempsey.html
Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has recommended that U.S. military
officers get more frequent ethics training.  “While we have appropriate ethics training programs in
place for senior leaders, we need to start earlier and reinforce
that training more frequently in an officer’s career,” Pentagon
spokesman  George Little  told reporters today, citing preliminary
recommendations by Dempsey.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  asked Dempsey last month to
review ethics training after several senior military officers
were alleged to have engaged in misconduct and misuse of their
positions. Little has said the inquiry wasn’t related to the
extramarital affair that led to the resignation of David Petreaus, a retired Army general, as director of the Central
Intelligence Agency.  Dempsey also recommended that the Defense Department review
the level and type of support staff and aides that are assigned
to military general and flag officers, Little said.  Former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said last month that
top military officers get a “sense of entitlement” and “great
power” that can skew their judgment. Unlike civilian officials,
Gates said top officers get support staff that help with
everything from “fixing meals” to yardwork.  Panetta has conveyed the initial recommendations to
President  Barack Obama , while the Joint Chiefs continue to weigh
the recommendations, according to Little, who said no deadline
has been set to complete the review.  General Demoted  Last month, Panetta demoted the former head of the U.S.
Africa Command, Army General William Ward, who was found to have
spent thousands of dollars of taxpayer money on unofficial
travel and other unauthorized expenses. He will be forced to
retire as a three-star lieutenant general and repay the
government about $82,000, the Pentagon said. Ward has denied
wrongdoing.  Also in a report released last month, the Pentagon’s
inspector general said that Admiral James Stavridis, who heads
the U.S. European Command, violated rules by accepting gifts
from foreign governments without reporting or disposing of them
and letting family members travel with him on military aircraft
without reimbursing the government at full coach fares. The Navy
rejected that finding, saying there was no “personal
misconduct” and only “shortcomings in administrative
procedures” that have been remedied.  The Pentagon’s inspector general also is investigating
whether General John Allen, commander of the  International
Security Assistance Force  in  Afghanistan , sent inappropriate e-
mails to Jill Kelley, the Florida woman whose complaint to the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  about harassing e-mails began
the inquiry that disclosed Petraeus’s affair.  In a memo asking Dempsey to review officer ethics training,
Panetta said  violations “have the potential to erode public
confidence in our leadership and in our system for the
enforcement of our high ethical standards.Worse, they can be
detrimental to the execution of our mission to defend the
American people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  