-- Oscar Niemeyer Talks About Brasilia, Communism, Regrets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L u o n g o
-- 2012-12-07T00:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/oscar-niemeyer-talks-about-brasilia-communism-regrets.html
Oscar Niemeyer has spent 70 years
designing buildings around the world, from the United Nations in
 New York  to many of the key edifices of Brasilia,  Brazil ’s
capital. He’s not the retiring type.  Now 97, the famed architect still goes to work every
morning at his spacious  Rio de Janeiro  penthouse studio. There,
he has a panoramic view of Copacabana Beach and Sugar Loaf
Mountain. In the distance, you can see his distinctive flying-
saucer-like building on a pedestal that is part of a cultural
complex in Niteroi that was built in the mid-1990s and is still
expanding.  Niemeyer is so beloved by Brazilians that for the 2006
Carnaval, the samba school Viradouro will celebrate his career.
Festive floats and costumes representing his buildings will be
paraded through the Sambodromo Carnaval stadium, itself one of
Niemeyer’s creations, before tens of thousands in the stands and
millions more watching on television.  Michael Luongo spoke with Niemeyer in his office, where he
teaches architecture and urban planning students and supervises
his staff of nine. Magic-marker graffiti cover the walls --
images of some of his most famous buildings, interspersed with
phrases, hands with flowers, and every so often, a highly
stylized face of a woman.  Typical Day  Luongo: I am sure that most people are amazed when they
find out that, at the age of 97, you’re still working. When do
you come into the office, and what is your typical day like?  Niemeyer: I enter my studio at 9 a.m. I have lunch here, I
return right away to my work and I go out to dinner at 8 p.m. My
daily tasks vary very much. Sometimes I lose a whole morning
waiting on journalists and other people who look for me. But I
always find some time for reading, talking to my friends and
feeling what is happening in this world.  Luongo: How did you start your career in architecture?  Niemeyer: It was the drawing that led me to architecture,
the search for light and astonishing forms. And I was lucky. I
was working for Lucio Costa in his office, and when he was
working on Brasilia, I was called to work on this. Brasilia was
an adventure that was successful, a moment of optimism when
people are conscious that a lot of things can be accomplished in
so contradictory a world.  Regrets?  Luongo: You have worked on buildings all over the world,
and some of them mark signature achievements in your career.
Looking back, do you have any regrets, or is there anything you
would do differently?  Niemeyer: My desire was to create a wide  United Nations 
square. Aiming at such a goal, I located the councils
(Secretariat) in a low and huge block near the river, and the
volume of the big (General) Assembly became smaller, permitting
the solution I desired.  The project pleased everybody, and it had been selected.
The day after this choice, Le Corbusier begged me to transfer
the big assembly to the center of the site. I was too young and
I accepted his proposal. Today I deplore to have consented. The
United Nations square has disappeared, and the project has been
definitely damaged.  Luongo: Do you have a favorite building or work?  Niemeyer: It is difficult to choose my favorite project
among so different buildings. But telling people that I have
designed them with the same enthusiasm makes me tranquil.  Architecture, Communism  Luongo: Among the comments often made by people who study
your work is that it strongly reflects a philosophy of
communism. Your political affiliation with communism is well
known and was the main reason why you sought refuge in  France 
after the military dictatorship took over Brazil in 1964. Do you
believe that communist ideals or political philosophies are
reflected in your work?  Niemeyer: It is not with architecture that one can
disseminate any political ideology. Nevertheless, I say that the
important thing is not architecture, but life itself, the
struggle for a better world; I manifest myself with
indispensable clearness. I am a man like any other one, who
struggles against social injustice, with the same conviction
born 70 years ago.  Luongo: With Brasilia such an important achievement and
defining project in your career, why do you live in Rio de
Janeiro?  Niemeyer: I am a Carioca (native of Rio). I like the sun, I
like Rio -- its beaches, the mountains, the people.  (Michael Luongo is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 