-- Hostess Seeks Third Extension of Plan Exclusivity
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-12-07T23:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/hostess-seeks-third-extension-of-plan-exclusivity.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the bankrupt
maker of Wonder bread and Twinkies, is seeking a third extension
of its exclusive right to file a bankruptcy plan and solicit
creditor votes.  “A reasonable extension of exclusivity to permit the
debtors to further this process, determine if a liquidating plan
is possible and develop the terms of such a plan is warranted,”
Hostess said in a filing today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  White
Plains ,  New York .  The 82-year-old maker of Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs and
Ho Hos was undone by a strike by its bakers’ union after changes
in American diets led to years of declining sales while
ingredient costs and labor  expenses  climbed. The decision to
liquidate capped a weeklong standoff between the Irving, Texas-
based company, once the largest U.S. wholesale baker, and a
union that called a proposed labor contract “horrendous.”  The  Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union  went on strike Nov. 9 after U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain imposed contract concessions
opposed by 92 percent of the union’s members. The union
represents about 5,000 Hostess workers.  Drain at a Nov. 29 hearing gave final approval of Hostess’s
request to sell its assets and eliminate about 18,000 jobs. The
transactions may generate about $1 billion, financial adviser
Joshua Scherer of Perella Weinberg Partners LP estimated last
month.  Buyer Interest  The company was worth $450 million in 2011,  David Rush , the
baker’s interim treasurer, told Drain at the hearing. The 2011
estimate should be re-evaluated because of potential buyers’
interest in the company’s brands and intellectual property, Rush
said.  Hostess has suggested a preliminary bid deadline of Dec.
10, with most initial or so-called stalking-horse purchase
agreements set in January or February and auctions to be held
beginning in February and March, according to court papers.  The company said in court papers that officials “will not
have a good sense of the proceeds” possible until early in
2013, and it wants to extend the exclusivity period until March
because officials “do not desire to prepare a liquidating plan
if the sale process ultimately demonstrates” that confirmation
is in doubt.  Second Filing  Hostess sought court protection in January for the second
time, less than three years after completing a restructuring
that spanned 4 1/2 years. It listed assets of $982 million and
debt of $1.43 billion in the January filing.  The company, then known as Interstate Bakeries Corp., first
sought court protection in its former hometown of  Kansas City ,
 Missouri , in 2004 blaming stiffer competition and higher prices
for raw materials. Interstate left bankruptcy in February 2009
under the control of lenders and buyout firm Ripplewood Holdings
LLC. It changed its name to Hostess Brands in October 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The new case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp., 04-
45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Missouri
(Kansas City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net 
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  