-- Tottenham May Make $37 Mln Offer for Moutinho: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-12-07T11:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/tottenham-may-make-37-mln-offer-for-moutinho-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Eying Evra  Manchester United  may be tempted by a 5 million-pound ($8
million) bid from Paris Saint-Germain for defender  Patrice Evra ,
letting the Frenchman go so it can sign Everton’s  Leighton Baines ,  the Independent said .  Evra, 31, is a PSG supporter and has expressed interest in
playing for his hometown club, which may increase his 90,000
pound a week salary, the newspaper said. The French club wants a
left-back and because his play has dropped this season, United
may be willing to let him go, the Independent said.  PSG may turn to Manchester City’s Gael Clichy should it
fail to get Evra, the newspaper said.  Money for Michu  Swansea manager Michael Laudrup has warned rivals that
they’ll have to pay more than 30 million pounds for top scorer
Michu,  the Telegraph said.   The Welsh club signed the Spaniard for 2 million pounds
before the season, and he’s got 10 goals this season, tying him
with United’s  Robin van Persie , Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez  and
Demba Ba of Newcastle, the newspaper said.  Cabella Chase  Manchester United and Arsenal are tracking Montpellier
midfielder Remy Cabella,  the Sun said .  The 22-year-old may get his first match with the French
national team this year, and may be worth about 5 million
pounds, the newspaper said.  Zaha Finally?  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  may make a formal bid for
Crystal Palace’s Wilfried Zaha,  the Telegraph said .  Zaha, an Arsenal supporter, is helping Palace rise to the
top of the Championship, and Wenger may bring in the player
sometime after the season, the newspaper said. He’ll get playing
time as the Gunners are likely to allow winger Theo Walcott to
leave, the Telegraph said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  