-- HP Breakup Bolstered as Deals Top Stock Value: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-12-07T21:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/hp-breakup-bolstered-as-deals-top-stock-value-real-m-a.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s value has
plunged to less than the $31 billion it spent during a five-year
takeover binge, the strongest evidence yet that investors would
be better served by disassembling the maker of consumer laptops,
printers and corporate servers.  Deals for Autonomy Corp., Electronic Data Systems Corp.,
Palm Inc. and others built on the $17.6 billion purchase of
Compaq Computer Corp. a decade ago, when Hewlett-Packard doubled
down on personal computers. With the company failing to
capitalize on a boom in demand for smartphones, tablets and
cloud computing, fiscal 2012 sales fell, and analysts  project 
declines for at least three more years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the latest setback, Hewlett-Packard
said it overpaid for Autonomy because of fraud, boosting last
year’s deal-related writedowns to $18 billion.  “All of this points to a company that’s dysfunctional,”
Brian White, a New York-based analyst for Topeka Capital Markets
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “This whole mishap with
Autonomy should be a wake-up call to do something. I think it’s
time,” he said. “How much more pain can investors take before
you understand that something needs to be done?”  The $27.2 billion  company , valued at more than $100 billion
as recently as 2011, could boost a  stock price  languishing near
a 10-year low under $14 to more than $20 by separating into two
companies focused on consumers and business clients, UBS AG
said. By jettisoning PCs and printers, Hewlett-Packard can
reinvest that cash into the enterprise unit to enhance its
software used for data centers, according to Topeka Capital.  Status Quo  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-
based Hewlett-Packard, said in an e-mailed statement that the
company remains committed to its current corporate structure.  “HP has some of the most valuable franchises in the
technology industry,” he said. “There are many advantages in
one organization, including branding, go-to-market, supply
chain, procurement scale, effective leverage of functional costs
and collaborative R&D efforts. HP is committed to keeping our
businesses and assets together. Our customers and partners tell
us that’s what they want.”  Hewlett-Packard, a Silicon Valley pioneer founded in 1939
and now run by Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman, remains one
of the U.S. technology industry’s largest companies, producing
$120.4 billion in revenue during the past four quarters. Only
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , at $156.5 billion, generated more, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Hewlett-Packard also has the  second-
worst-performing  stock in 2012 among technology companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, following a 46 percent plunge.  Ousted CEOs  Today, Hewlett-Packard shares rose 0.8 percent to a one-
month high of $13.94. The stock rallied a fourth straight day,
the longest winning streak in seven weeks.  The company bolstered its position in personal computers by
purchasing Compaq, a deal former CEO Carly Fiorina completed in
2002 despite the objections of Walter Hewlett, the son of co-
founder Bill Hewlett. While the transaction catapulted Hewlett-
Packard to No. 1 in PCs over Dell Inc. several years later,
Fiorina was ousted in 2005 after failing to generate the profits
she’d promised.  Her successor as CEO, Mark Hurd, struck deals for
Electronic Data Systems, expanding Hewlett-Packard’s division
providing contract technology services to corporations, as well
as mobile-device maker Palm. After he departed, his replacement
Leo Apotheker shut phone and tablet production amid slow sales
and increasing demand for Apple’s iPhones and iPads and devices
running Google Inc.’s Android software.  Fraud Allegations  Apotheker also agreed to buy Autonomy, a developer of data-
mining software used by corporations. Hewlett-Packard now says
that company committed accounting fraud. Autonomy’s former CEO
Mike Lynch has denied that. Hewlett-Packard wrote down the value
of the Autonomy deal by $8.8 billion during the fourth quarter.  Hewlett-Packard’s  acquisition  strategy has failed to boost
its value, with the $31 billion spent since December 2007 on
acquisitions exceeding the stock’s current market
capitalization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company also has $35.6 billion in goodwill, the amount paid for
acquisitions above the target company’s asset value. That
exceeds Hewlett-Packard’s market value by $8.4 billion, more
than any other U.S. corporation, the data show.  “HP has been a serial disappointment and a case study in
mismanagement, dreadful capital allocation and poor corporate
governance,”  Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based money manager
at HighMark Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $17
billion and owns shares of Hewlett-Packard, wrote in an e-mail.
“The company is probably worth twice its current share price on
a conservative appraisal of its sum-of-parts breakup scenario.”  Immediate Fix  Fiduciary Trust sold its Hewlett-Packard  stake  several
years ago when the investment firm began losing confidence in
the company’s leadership, according to Chief Investment Officer
Michael Mullaney.  “It’s absolutely dirt cheap,” Mullaney, who helps manage
$9.5 billion in  Boston , said in a phone interview. “If they
want to try to fix it immediately, it would be by splitting up
the company. That’s exactly what they have to do.”  Hewlett-Packard needs to overhaul its  board , because some
of the current members are responsible for approving the
Autonomy acquisition, and then split the company in two, said
Topeka Capital’s White.  The personal computer and printer businesses could be spun
off together or sold to a buyer such as an Asian computer maker
like  Taiwan ’s  Acer Inc. (2353)  or  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357) , White said.
The printer business, the stronger of the two, could help entice
an acquirer and get a better price, he said. Stella T.H. Chou, a
spokeswoman for Acer, declined to comment on whether it’s
interested in the Hewlett-Packard divisions. A phone call and e-
mail to Asustek wasn’t returned.  Enterprise Focus  A breakup would allow management to turn its focus to the
enterprise unit and reinvest the cash to bolster its software
offerings, White said.  “Why should the CEO have to wake up and spend any time
thinking about the PC business when there’s such a negative
trend? Why wake up to a losing battle each day?” he said. “If
they actually did some of these divestitures, they’d have more
capital for acquisitions -- but good ones.”  PCs and printers together  made up  49 percent of Hewlett-
Packard’s 2012 sales, yet investors are getting those businesses
for free based on the current market value, said Steven Milunovich, a New York-based analyst at UBS. He estimates the
company could be worth more than $20 a share, or almost $60
billion including net debt, in pieces next year, according to an
Oct. 8 report. He valued the PCs and printers groups at a
combined $15.6 billion.  ‘Too Big’  “HP is probably too big for anyone to manage,” he said in
a phone interview. “They’re trying to be all things to all
people.”  The sum of Hewlett-Packard’s businesses implies a  stock 
price of about $20 a share, according to ISI Group’s Brian Marshall. That’s 45 percent higher than yesterday. Still, he
cautions that the company’s future sales and profit are so
uncertain that it would be difficult to get to that level under
the current structure, and a breakup may be too difficult for
management to enact right now.  “It’s cheap for a reason,” Marshall, a San Francisco-
based analyst for ISI, said in a phone interview. “It would be
extremely difficult, if not impossible, to break up those
divisions. HP has so much on its plate right now just trying to
keep the ship afloat that they can’t possibly take on that
complex of a transaction right now.”  Plan Reversed  Whitman has said the company reaps advantages by keeping
its divisions together, including the strength of the Hewlett-
Packard brand on PCs and advantages from buying chips and other
components that can be used across computers, printers and
servers. Whitman last year decided to keep the PC business,
reversing Apotheker’s plan to get rid of it.  Still, analysts see a diminished business should the status
quo be maintained. Hewlett-Packard’s revenue in the fiscal year
that ended in October was down 5.4 percent from 2011, the
biggest annual slump since 2001. Analysts’ average estimates
show a decline in each of the next three years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Whitman on Oct. 3 forecast less fiscal 2013 profit than
analysts projected, saying the company would earn $3.40 to $3.60
a share, excluding some items. The average estimate was $4.16,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Project Moonshot  Hewlett-Packard’s greatest strengths at the moment are in
its enterprise computing group, according to  Jayson Noland , a
San Francisco-based analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. That unit
had sales of $20.5 billion last year and supplies the servers,
storage and networking gear that powers corporate data centers.
The company is counting on products like its Project Moonshot
systems, which let customers cram thousands of computing
cartridges into a machine to solve Web serving and data-analysis
problems.  “They have to show synergies across these divisions” and
show corporate customers what the advantages are of buying PCs,
printers, servers, storage and networking gear from one company,
Noland said in a phone interview.  If not, “what’s the point of this all being under the same
umbrella?” he said. “Then you need to break it apart.” The
company wouldn’t likely sell divisions under “duress” and
could wait until performance improves, Noland said.  ‘Deep Pockets’  Hewlett-Packard probably hasn’t pursued a divestiture
because it will be difficult to align the company’s asking price
for its PC or printer business with what a buyer is willing to
pay, said Shaw Wu, San Francisco-based analyst for Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. Even if a suitor were interested in the entire
company, its size could be a deterrent, he said.  “You’ve got to have pretty deep pockets,” even though the
shares have already fallen, Wu said in a phone interview.  Still, it behooves Hewlett-Packard to act quickly and not
be too discriminating when it comes to offer prices because the
value of the pieces may continue eroding, he said.  “It may make sense to do it sooner than later,” Wu said.
“There is a bit of an expiration date.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  