-- Pfizer’s Inlyta Fails to Win U.K. NICE Backing
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-12-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/pfizer-s-inlyta-fails-to-win-u-k-nice-backing.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Inlyta failed to win
the backing of the U.K.’s health cost regulator in draft
guidance on the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, even after
the company offered the  National Health Service  a discount.  The preliminary decision applies to the use of the drug in
patients who weren’t helped by the New York-based company’s
Sutent or treatments known as cytokines, the National Institute
for Health and Clinical Excellence, known as NICE, said today in
an e-mailed statement. NICE advises the state-run NHS on which
therapies represent value for money.  Pfizer submitted trial data comparing Inlyta with a drug
not recommended by NICE, the agency said. The trial didn’t
compare the medicine with so-called best supportive care, which
the majority of patients receive, and an indirect comparison was
made using information from another study, NICE said. As a
result, NICE’s appraisal committee was concerned that the
company’s analysis wasn’t valid and reliable.  “Before we recommend any new treatment we have to be sure
the evidence on how well it works is robust and that it is cost
effective,”  Andrew Dillon , the agency’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “We do not want to divert NHS
funds to a treatment that costs more but doesn’t help people
live longer.”  Inlyta blocks receptors in the body thought to play a role
in spreading tumors. The European Commission  approved  the
medicine for use in kidney cancer in the European Union in
September.  A pack of 56 5-milligram Inlyta tablets costs 3,517 pounds
($5,660), according to NICE. The discount offered by Pfizer
wasn’t disclosed by the agency, which cited commercial
confidentiality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  