-- Philippine Peso Has Weekly Drop as Capital Curbs Considered
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-12-07T08:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/philippine-peso-set-for-weekly-drop-as-capital-curbs-considered.html
The Philippine peso completed a
weekly decline after the central bank said it was looking at
measures to address rising capital inflows.  The peso rose 5.8 percent in the past year, the best
performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-active currencies. Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said on Dec. 3
that changes to the reserve-requirement ratio for lenders, and
 capital controls , may be part of possible steps to deal with
inflows but won’t be necessary at this stage.  “We’ve seen comments from the BSP start to turn slightly
more aggressive against inflows,” said Dominic Bunning, a
foreign-exchange strategist in  Hong Kong  at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“The market is taking that into account. Tetangco is trying to
guide the market away from too many speculative positions.”  The peso fell 0.1 percent this week to 40.933 per dollar in
Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency, which
rose 0.1 percent today, reached 40.840 on Nov. 29, the strongest
level since March 2008. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
was steady this week at 4.4 percent.  Tetangco said in Manila on Dec. 5 that policy makers were
discussing non-deliverable forwards with members of the Bankers
Association of the  Philippines .  South Korea  tightened limits on
the amount of currency-forward positions banks are allowed to
hold last week.  Currency Forwards  The Philippine authority has already ordered banks to set
aside more funds to cover risks on currency forwards this year.
Forwards are agreements in which assets are bought and sold at
current prices for settlement at a later specified time and date.
Non-deliverable forwards are settled in dollars rather than the
underlying asset.  The yield on the 6.125 percent notes due October 2037
dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, this week to
5.59 percent in Manila, according to prices from Tradition
Financial Services. The rate was little changed today.  Inflation eased last month to the slowest pace since June,
government data showed on Dec. 5. Consumer prices rose 2.8
percent from a year earlier after increasing 3.1 percent in
October. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a 3 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  