-- Pound Has Weekly Advance Versus Euro on Lower German GDP Outlook
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-07T16:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/pound-strengthens-to-2-week-high-versus-euro-before-output-data.html
The pound held a two-day advance
against the euro, touching the strongest level in two weeks,
after the Bundesbank cut its forecast for economic expansion in
 Germany , damping demand for the 17-nation shared currency.  Sterling declined versus the dollar as a report showed U.S.
employers added more jobs in November than economists forecast.
The pound was set for its biggest weekly gain in six against the
euro after three officials with knowledge the European Central
Bank’s deliberations said a majority of policy makers were open
to cutting the benchmark interest rate. Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne this week revised down the British
government’s economic growth forecasts.  “These downward revisions from the Bundesbank in Germany
are significant and are going to be a factor which weighs on the
euro over the longer term,” said Ian Stannard, head of European
currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London . “In the U.K.,
the downward revisions were widely expected. They were very well
factored in, so sterling was able to shrug that news off.”  The pound was little changed at 80.75 pence per euro at
4:09 p.m. London time, after reaching 80.45 pence, the strongest
level since Nov. 22. It has gained 0.4 percent this week, the
most since the period ended Oct. 26. Sterling dropped 0.2
percent to $1.6024 today.  The Frankfurt-based Bundesbank cut its 2013 growth
projection to 0.4 percent from the 1.6 percent predicted in June
and said the economy,  Europe ’s largest, will grow 0.7 percent
this year, down from its previous forecast of 1 percent. Gross
domestic product will fall in the fourth quarter this year and
stagnate in the first quarter next year, the Bundesbank said.  Growth Outlook  ECB President Mario Draghi said yesterday that while there
had been “wide discussion” about interest rates among policy
makers, “the prevailing consensus was to leave” borrowing
costs unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent. The central bank
also kept the deposit rate at zero.  U.S. employment climbed by 146,000 following a revised
138,000 gain in October that was less than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
increase of 85,000.  Sterling has strengthened 1.1 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro declined 2.5 percent and
the dollar fell 2.3 percent.  Austerity Extended  Total industrial  output  in the U.K. fell 0.8 percent in
October from the previous month, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. The median forecast of 31
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 0.8 percent
increase. Manufacturing  production  shrank 1.3 percent from
September, a separate report showed. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey had predicted a drop of 0.2 percent.  Osborne told lawmakers on Dec. 5 that forecasts from the
 Office for Budget Responsibility  show the U.K. economy will
shrink 0.1 percent this year instead of the 0.8 percent growth
predicted in March, and expand 1.2 percent next year instead of
2 percent.  The chancellor extended his austerity program by one year
to 2018 and said he will miss by a year his target to start
cutting debt as a percentage of GDP in 2015.  U.K. government bonds were little changed as a report from
the National Institute of Economic and Social Research said
Britain’s economy probably barely grew in the three months
through November.  GDP rose 0.1 percent in the period, the same rate as in the
quarter through October, the institute, whose clients include
the Bank of England and the U.K. Treasury, said in a statement
in London today.  The 10-year gilt yield was at 1.74 percent, set to drop
four basis points this week. The price of the 1.75 percent bond
due in September 2022 was at 100.065.  Gilts returned 3.1 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
4.3 percent and U.S. Treasuries earned 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  