-- Rand Declines Against Dollar, Paring First Weekly Gain in Four
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-12-07T13:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/rand-declines-against-dollar-paring-first-weekly-gain-in-four.html
The rand declined, paring its first
weekly advance in four, as traders bet a four-day rally that
took the currency to the strongest level against the dollar in a
month was overdone. Bond yields fell to six-week lows.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 8.7024
per dollar as of 3:05 p.m. in Johannesburg. That cut its gain
this week to 2.3 percent, the biggest since the five days ending
Sept. 7. Yields on the government’s 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 7.37 percent, the lowest since Sept. 27. The yield has
declined 23 basis points this week.  The rand strengthened as much a 1.2 percent yesterday to
8.6634 per dollar, the highest level since Nov. 8, after South
Africa’s third-quarter current-account  deficit  remained
unchanged at 6.4 percent, less than the 6.7 percent median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Foreign investors
bought a net 1.01 billion rand ($116 million) of South African
stocks and 1.57 billion rand of bond yesterday, according to
data from JSE Ltd., operator of the nation’s equity and
interest-rate markets.  “The market adjustment yesterday was quite
extraordinary,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The
rand is now probably overextended” and “it looks like we’ll
see something of a reversal” in line with declines in other
emerging-market currencies, he said.  The dollar advanced against 17 out of 25 emerging-market
currencies monitored by Bloomberg today.  Interest Rates  Bonds gained on speculation low  interest rates  in developed
nations will boost investment in higher-yielding, emerging-
market debt.  A majority of European Central Bank policy makers were open
to cutting the benchmark rate yesterday and there is a
possibility of a reduction early next year if the economy
doesn’t pick up, three officials with knowledge of the Governing
Council’s deliberations said.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that while there
was a “wide discussion” about interest rates, “the prevailing
consensus was to leave the rates unchanged.” The ECB held its
benchmark at a record low of 0.75 percent and kept the deposit
rate at zero.  “Talk of an EU rate cut and weak growth abroad” mean that
“South Africa’s relative attraction to foreigners is further
enhanced,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at
ETM Analytics, said in a note e-mailed to clients today.  Foreign investors have bought a net 93.4 billion rand of
South African bonds this year, this most on record, helping to
drive yields down record lows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  