-- Treasuries Little Changed Before Non-Farm Payrolls Report
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-07T12:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/treasury-rally-leads-diam-shin-kong-life-to-sell.html
U.S. Treasuries were little changed,
headed for a weekly advance, before a report today that
economists forecast will show the world’s largest economy added
jobs at the slowest pace since June.  Ten-year  yields  were two basis points from a three-week
low. U.S. non-farm payrolls rose by 85,000 workers following a
171,000 increase in October, according to the median forecast of
91 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Further gains may be
limited as the 10-year term premium, a model created by Federal
Reserve economists that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation, showed Treasuries approached the
most expensive level on record.  “There are still a lot of uncertainties in the  U.S.
economy  both in terms of data and on the fiscal outlook,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “These factors are
keeping bond yield levels down.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields were at 1.58 percent as of
6:55 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
The price of the 1.625 percent security due in November 2022 was
100 12/32. The yield fell to 1.56 percent yesterday, the least
since Nov. 16. Thirty-year yields were little changed at 2.77
percent.  The 10-year term premium was negative 0.96 percent, versus
the all-time low of minus 1.02 percent set in July. A negative
reading indicates investors are willing to accept yields below
what’s considered fair value.  Treasuries have returned 2.8 percent this year, versus 4.3
percent for German bonds and 2.9 percent for U.K. gilts,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Unemployment  The jobless rate held at 7.9 percent, another survey showed
before the Labor Department reports the number at 8:30 a.m.
today in  Washington .  The forecast is fueling speculation the Fed is preparing to
announce a new round of bond purchases for 2013 at its next
meeting Dec. 11-12 to spur the economy. Policy makers said Sept.
13 they will buy bonds, a policy known as quantitative easing,
or QE, until the job market improves “substantially.”  The approach of the U.S. fiscal cliff of spending cuts and
tax increases next year is also threatening to slow growth, as
lawmakers work to amend the measures before they begin to take
effect in January.  Shin Kong Life, with the equivalent of $55.5 billion in
assets, sold Treasuries last week, said Will Tseng, who trades
U.S. bonds for the company in Taipei.  Ten-year rates will rise to 2.27 percent in the U.S. and to
1.12 percent in  Japan  by the end of next year, based on
Bloomberg surveys of economists, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  ‘Too Slow’  “The economy is too slow for the Fed,” Tseng said by
telephone yesterday. “The market is pricing in new QE
already,” which will make it difficult for rates to fall
further, he said.  Tseng said he would like to buy if yields approach 1.8
percent.  Diam Co., which manages the equivalent of $121.7 billion,
sold earlier this week, said Hajime Nagata, an investor at the
company in  Tokyo .  “Yields are at a really low level,” he said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We need to see something like
the fiscal cliff failing to push yields lower.”  Cliff Negotiations  Budget negotiations in Washington will probably result in a
compromise that will damp the expansion and send 10-year rates
down to 1.5 percent or less, said Bin Gao, an interest-rate
strategist in  Hong Kong  at Bank of America Corp. The company’s
Merrill Lynch unit is one of the 21 primary dealers that
underwrite the  U.S. debt .  “Even if they reach an agreement, we will still be faced
with fiscal tightening,” Gao said.  Two Senate Democratic leaders signaled yesterday they may
have to accept cuts to U.S. entitlement programs to win a
deficit-reduction deal, after some Republicans expressed
willingness to discuss higher tax rates for top earners.  The Fed is snapping up $40 billion of mortgage bonds a
month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  It is also exchanging about $45 billion of short-term
Treasuries from its holdings for longer-term debt each month
under a program scheduled to end by Dec. 31.  The central bank  plans  to sell as much as $8 billion of
securities maturing from November 2013 to February 2015 today,
according to the Fed Bank of New York’s website.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said investors should avoid
longer-term Treasuries because policies to spur growth will
boost inflation.  Gross recommended Treasury Inflation Protected Securities,
in a report on the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s
 website  this week.  The Fed’s preferred  measure  of inflation expectations, the
five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, was 2.72 percent.
It has averaged 2.75 percent for the past decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  