-- Treasuries Fall as U.S. Adds More Jobs Than Forecast in November
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-12-07T22:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/treasuries-fall-as-u-s-adds-more-jobs-than-forecast-last-month.html
Treasuries fell for the first time in
four days after a report showed U.S. payrolls expanded more than
forecast last month, easing concern the economy is faltering as
lawmakers fail to agree on a plan to avoid the fiscal cliff.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose from a more than
two-week low after Labor Department figures showed the U.S.
added 146,000 jobs in November and the  unemployment rate  fell to
7.7 percent. Even with the increase in employment, the  Federal
Reserve  is forecast to provide more monetary stimulus when
policy makers meet next week.  “The data is not gangbusters, but the gains are decent,”
said  David Ader , head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There’s a slight
increased risk that they don’t do as much as the market was
pricing in. There’s no renewed sense of urgency. We can back up
a bit.”  Ten-year note yields rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.62 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.625
percent notes maturing in November 2022 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per
$1,000 face value, to 100. The yield rose one basis point on the
week.  The yield traded within a range of 9.3 basis points this
week, the narrowest amount since the five days ended July 20.
The yield, which dropped to a record low of 1.38 percent July
25, touched 1.56 percent on Dec. 6.  Futures Bets  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending Dec. 4, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 202,691 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, compared with 187,654 in the previous week. Net-
long positions rose by 15,037 contracts, or 8 percent, from a
week earlier, the Washington-based commission said in its
Commitments of Traders report.  Today’s employment  report , released just over a month after
 Hurricane Sandy  devastated the East Coast, was forecast to show
the U.S. added 85,000 jobs, according to 91 economists in a
Bloomberg News Survey. The jobless rate had stayed above 8
percent since February 2009 until it broke the trend in
September.  “The two headline numbers, the unemployment rate and the
amount of jobs that were created, point to a gradual healing of
labor markets,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “But if you look at the details, long-term unemployment,
youth unemployment, participation rate, they tell you we are not
at critical masses yet.”  Quantitative Easing  The payrolls data also follow a month after  Barack Obama 
won his second term as president. The Fed is trying to sustain
growth with Obama and Republican leaders in Congress unable to
agree on a plan to avert $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases for 2013 that will start to take effect in January.
The  Congressional Budget Office  has warned that if lawmakers
don’t avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, the economy might slip
into recession.  “The most likely outcome is some mini-bargain that will be
a first step,” El Erian said. “There’s a lot of posturing.”  Fed policy makers said on Sept. 13 they will buy bonds
until the job market improves “substantially.” A “number” of
officials said at their policy meeting in October that
additional monthly purchases of bonds may be warranted,
according to the minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee .
The Fed’s program of swapping short- for long-term debt that’s
become known as Operation Twist expires this month.  Smaller Swings  The yield difference between 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which
represents traders’ outlook for the rate of inflation over the
life of the securities, touched 2.5 percentage points today, the
widest since Nov. 7. The average over the past decade is 2.18
percentage points.  Volatility in Treasuries dropped this week to the least in
five years. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which
measures price swings based on options, touched 51 basis points
on Dec. 3, the lowest level of price swings since April 1988. It
hit a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June 15. Volatility
climbed to 264.6 basis points in October 2008 as the financial
crisis intensified.  The U.S. will sell $66 billion in Treasuries next week,
including $32 billion in three-year debt, $21 billion in 10-year
notes and $13 billion in 30-year bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  