-- Rolls’s Potential Corruption Costs Will Depend on Timing
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-07T18:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/rolls-s-potential-corruption-costs-will-depend-on-timing.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  will
probably face limited damages from a  Serious Fraud Office 
corruption review if possible wrongdoing took place before the
U.K. Bribery Act came into force, anti-corruption experts say.  “Timing of these issues is key,” Jason Mansell, a
former regulator for the Financial Services Authority and lawyer
for London-based 7 Bedford Row, said in an interview. Criminal
prosecution of the company would be more difficult if the action
predates July 2011, he said.  Rolls-Royce said yesterday it had “identified matters of
concern” relating to actions of intermediaries in China,
Indonesia, and other markets during a review prompted by the
Serious Fraud Office. The findings have been passed to the
regulator.  The SFO is likely to decide in the next two months whether
to launch a formal probe of the London-based maker of commercial
aircraft and marine engines, Mansell said. Such an investigation
would probably last 18 to 24 months, he said.  Activities predating the bribery act and involving
foreigners acting overseas would be difficult for the SFO to
prosecute, Mansell said.  A U.S. probe could come on top of the one in the U.K.  “Rolls-Royce has to be on the lookout for what the
 Department of Justice  will do,” Richard Levick, a Washington,
D.C. based corporate adviser on anti-corruption matters said in
a phone interview. Many of the largest corruption case fines
have been reserved for foreign companies, he said.  Some of the actions the company has taken to quickly
address the SFO concerns could help mitigate any U.S. concerns,
he said. The SFO review will be a “speedbump” because the
company already had anti-corruption policies in place, Levick
said. “I don’t think it is going to have a major impact.”  Outside Review  Rolls said it will appoint an outsider to review anti-
corruption procedures. The report will be based to the board of
director’s ethics committee.  The  aerospace industry  has been hit by numerous scandals
over alleged corruption in the past decade, with  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  affected. A unit of  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  currently is under investigation
by the U.K. over dealings in Saudi Arabia.  Rolls shares, which fell more than 5 percent on reports of
the SFO probe, rose 1.3 percent today and closed at 896.50 pence
in London, valuing the business at 16.8 billion pounds ($27
billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  