-- Romanian Cabinet Austerity Rollback Boosts Ponta’s Lead
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-12-07T08:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/romanian-cabinet-austerity-rollback-boosts-ponta-s-lead.html
Romania ’s ruling coalition has built
up a majority of support before Dec. 9 general elections by
promising to roll back austerity measures passed by a previous
Cabinet, sharpening a feud between the nation’s top leaders.  Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s Social Liberal Union, in
power since May, garnered 57 percent in the  last polls  before
elections, compared with as much as 19 percent for the
opposition alliance trying to regain power. The alliance is
aligned with President Traian Basescu, who has the right to
choose the next premier and survived an impeachment attempt by
Ponta in July.  Ponta is trying to win office for the first time as the
head of government as voter anger sweeps  Europe  over budget cuts
and tax increases that have sparked mass protests, eroded
salaries and wiped out thousands of jobs. As investment dries up
and companies like  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  reduce Romanian
output, Ponta will struggle with Basescu to plot the nation’s
economic future and avert a new recession.  Electoral Promises  “Usually the electoral promises don’t translate into
policies as they are all promising the reversal of austerity,”
said  William Jackson , an emerging-market economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London . “There are risks which are worrisome
for investors. One of them is that the tensions between the
President and the Parliament could re-emerge.”  Voting stations open on Dec. 9 at 7 a.m. in Bucharest and
close at 9 p.m., when exit polls will be released, according to
the Central Electoral Commission. The commission will begin
releasing partial results at 10 a.m. the following day. The
commission doesn’t say when final results are expected.  A poll conducted by Public Affairs and published yesterday
by state-owned news service Agerpres showed Ponta’s USL will get
57.5 percent of the votes, a similar result with a poll by
Avangarde and CURS, which contacted 4,957 people from Nov. 27 to
Dec. 2. The joint survey has a margin of error of 1.4 percentage
points.  The  Public Affairs poll  put the opposition alliance at 19
percent and showed media entrepreneur Dan Diaconescu’s  People’s
Party  will get 13 percent of the votes. The survey of 1,234
people was taken from Dec. 3 to Dec. 5 and had a margin of error
of 2.8 percentage points.  Austerity Anger  Ponta may use popular opposition to austerity to intensify
his political war with Basescu, said analysts including Daniel Lenz at DZ Bank AG. Voter acrimony over austerity during the
three-year-old sovereign-debt crisis has resulted in the ouster
of leaders in countries including Ireland,  Portugal ,  Greece ,
 Italy , the Netherlands,  Spain , Slovenia, Slovakia and  Finland .  The former communist country’s economy shrank in the third
quarter, according to the statistics institute yesterday, and
investor confidence has slipped, boosting borrowing costs and
pushing the leu to a record-low 4.6520 against the euro on Aug.
3. The leu has declined 0.4 percent so far this week, making the
currency one of the worst-performers in the region.  Credit-default swaps, which measure the cost of insuring
Romanian debt against non-payment for five years, traded at 222
points today, after hitting 206 points on Oct. 17, which was the
lowest in at least two years.  Credibility Risk  “Romania’s CDSs could lose even more ground on political
woes close to parliamentary elections Sunday,” DZ Bank AG
economists said in a note. “One of Prime Minister Ponta’s first
actions after the vote may be a next attempt to impeach
President Basescu, which would again hit the credibility of
Romania’s governance badly.”  Ponta’s coalition campaigned in the European Union’s
second-poorest country to undo a valued-added tax increase of 5
percentage points and cut an income tax for low earners in four
years. The opposition Right Romania Alliance says it will cut
income taxes beginning next year and lower some social-security
contributions.  The Democrat-Liberal Party, now part of the opposition
alliance, lowered state wages by 25 percent and raised the  sales
tax  in 2010 to narrow a  budget deficit  and meet pledges to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union. Former Prime
Minister Emil Boc, an ally of Basescu, stepped down on Feb. 6 to
ease political and social pressure stemming from nationwide
anti-austerity street protests.  Right Leaning  “I expect the politicians to start lying less and do more
for the country, like improving infrastructure, investing in
agriculture and reforming the public administration,” said
Adrian Cucu, a 27-year-old food deliveryman with a master’s
degree in political science. “I will vote, but I’m not sure for
whom, I’m leaning more toward the right.”  Romania was earlier this year engulfed in a power struggle
between Ponta and Basescu that culminated in a 52-day suspension
for the president, followed by an invalidated nationwide
impeachment vote on July 29. Basescu returned to office at the
end of August and will designate a new premier.  Under the  Romanian Constitution , the party that wins more
than 50 percent of Parliament’s 470 seats is entitled to
negotiate the nomination of prime minister with the president.
If no party has a majority, the president chooses a premier
after consulting with all the parties.  Failed Impeachment  After the failed impeachment attempt, Basescu said he won’t
designate Ponta as prime minister again. He has since declined
to repeat that statement in public. Ponta said he is the only
candidate for prime minister should his political alliance win.  “We will see some problems in forming a new government. In
the end, Basescu will probably be forced to reappoint Ponta,
though he may try to stall the process,” said  Michael Taylor , a
senior analyst at U.K.-based Oxford Analytica.  The premier-designate has 10 days to draw up a governing
program and pick his ministers before seeking a confidence vote
in Parliament.  Ponta and Basescu agree that Romania needs to reach a deal
with the IMF and the EU next year, once the current 5 billion-
euro ($6.5 billion) precautionary accord, signed in 2011, ends.
The nation has drawn no money from the facility. Romania also
got a 20 billion-euro bailout from the IMF and the EU in 2009.  ‘Political Noise’  “Given the prospects of future political noise, another
IMF program could be a good anchor for the authorities,”
Caroline Grady, a London-based economist at Deutsche Bank AG,
wrote in a November note. “Another impeachment referendum could
be called in the coming months, which could again distract the
government’s attention from policy making.”  The former communist country, with more prime ministers
since 1990 than any other European Union member, has been ruled
by three Cabinets this year alone. Foreign direct investment
plunged to 1.1 billion euros in the first nine months from a
record 9.5 billion euros in 2008.  Skepticism about the government’s ability to deliver on
promises has exacerbated concern about a faltering economy.
Gross domestic product contracted a seasonally adjusted 0.5
percent in the third quarter, wiping off a 0.1 percent gain in
the previous three months, according to revised data from the
statistics office.  The country of about 19 million, the second-largest in the
EU’s east after  Poland , has slipped to 72nd of 183 nations in
the  World Bank ’s 2012 Ease of Doing Business survey, below
neighboring Bulgaria and  Hungary .  “There’s no joy in ruling the country during these times
as there are real social and economic problems to deal with,”
said Adrian Moraru, an analyst at the  Institute for Public
Policies in Bucharest , in a phone interview. “They will have to
take even tougher measures than the ones announced by Basescu
two years ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  