-- Rousseff Rebuffs Economist Magazine Call to Oust Finance Chief
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-12-07T18:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/rousseff-rebuffs-economist-magazine-call-to-oust-finance-chief.html
Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff 
said she wouldn’t be influenced by The Economist magazine’s call
for her to oust Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  after a growth
report that fell short of government forecasts.  “Under no hypothesis will a Brazilian government elected
by free and secret vote be influenced by the opinion of a
magazine that isn’t Brazilian,” Rousseff told reporters in
Brasilia. “We grew 0.6 percent last quarter and we’ll grow more
in the next one.”  The London-based publication, in an article published
yesterday, urged Rousseff to fire Mantega for misleading
investors with growth forecasts that were double the expansion
 registered  in a third quarter report last week.  “She should fire Mr. Mantega, whose over-optimistic
forecasts have lost investors’ confidence, and appoint a new
team capable of regaining the trust of business,” the magazine
wrote.  “In no way will I take under consideration this, shall we
say, suggestion,” Rousseff responded today. “I will not.”  Rousseff added that inflation is under control in  Brazil ,
and unlike  Europe , the country is not suffering a sovereign debt
crisis.  Mantega was named Brazil’s finance minister in 2006 by
Rousseff’s ally and predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. In
2010, he presided over the country’s fastest growth in two
decades, when gross domestic product expanded 7.5 percent, and
won attention abroad for accusing rich nations of starting a
“currency war” fueled by record-low interest rates.  Since Rousseff took over in 2011, the economy has
struggled, growing only 2.7 percent that year as Europe’s debt
crisis and a slowdown in  China  hurt investment and exports. To
revive growth, Mantega has focused government efforts on
stimulating  consumer spending  through tax cuts and helping
manufacturers by weakening the real. The central bank has also
cut  interest rates  more than any other Group of 20 nation.  The stimulus so far hasn’t paid off. This year, the economy
is forecast to expand 1.27 percent this year, less than the U.S.
as well as major emerging market peers Russia, India and China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net 
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  