-- Saiers Made Partner at Alphabet Management After 27% Gain
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-12-07T16:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/saiers-made-partner-at-alphabet-management-after-27-gain.html
Nelson Saiers was promoted to full
partner and co-managing member of Alphabet Management LLC after
leading the volatility hedge fund to a 27 percent advance since
July 2010.  The company, which specializes in options to bet on the
swings in stocks and other assets, will change its name to
Saiers Capital LLC, according to a Dec. 6 letter to investors
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The promotion of Saiers, 37, will be
effective in April and he will remain the chief investment
officer, the statement said. Founder Jason Adler, 41, will stay
in charge of the company’s non-investing activities.  “Together with Nelson’s leadership, we have significantly
expanded the asset classes we trade, our geographic coverage and
have tripled our assets under management,” Adler, who started
the firm in October 2007 with $11 million, wrote in the letter.  The firm manages $565 million and returned 9 percent this
year, according to a person familiar with the fund’s assets and
performance. The average annual return since inception about
five years ago is 17.3 percent, said the person who asked not to
be identified because the results are private.  The HFRX RV Volatility Index, which tracks funds that bet
on stock swings, is up 8.4 percent this year through the end of
October. The broader HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index rose 2.6
percent in 2012 and it is down 0.9 percent since Saiers started
working at Alphabet in July 2010.  Volatility is a small part of the hedge fund industry, with
inflows this year accounting for 4.3 percent of the $20.4
billion added to funds during the first half of this year, HFR
data show.  Alphabet Funds  The name of the firm’s investment funds, Alphabet Partners
LP and Alphabet Offshore Ltd., will not change, said Adler, who
created Alphabet by transforming his former firm, Geronimo LLC,
an options market maker that he founded in 2001, into a hedge
fund.  The team of 11 investment professionals includes Saiers’s
brother Scott Saiers, who was hired as head trader earlier this
year. They use derivatives including exchange-traded options to
bet that volatility levels for stocks and other assets worldwide
are too high or low in relation to each other. The fund uses its
own pricing models to monitor options markets and make trades.  Saiers was a managing director for proprietary derivatives
trading at Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest lender, before
joining Alphabet. He worked at the bank in New York for three
years and previously held trading positions at UBS AG and
Susquehanna International Group LLP. He earned his doctorate in
math from the  University of Virginia , in Charlottesville, at 23.  ‘Connect Situations’  “Nelson is one of the brightest people I’ve worked with,”
Peter Lambrakis, head of equity derivatives trading for the
Americas at Citigroup Inc., said in a phone interview. He was
employed at Deutsche Bank and Susquehanna with Saiers. “Someone
with his skill set is likely to be successful trading in a
market that’s very interconnected and dense with information.
Not just because of his unique mathematical skills, but also
because of his ability to identify relationships and connect
situations that affect other parts in the market.”  Bets on rising volatility have lost this year as the
benchmark index for U.S. stock options slumped 29 percent. The
VIX, as the Chicago Board of Options Exchange Volatility Index
is known, closed yesterday at 16.58, below its average of 20.46
over its two-decade history. The index measures the cost of
using options as insurance against declines in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  