-- Sandy Probably Dealt Blow to U.S. Job Market in November
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/sandy-probably-dealt-blow-to-u-s-job-market-in-november.html
Employment probably slowed in
November as the damage wreaked by superstorm Sandy set the U.S.
labor market back, economists said before a report today.  Payrolls rose by 85,000 workers, the fewest since June,
following a 171,000 increase in October, according to the median
forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The jobless
rate may have held at 7.9 percent, the survey showed.  “Sandy was a temporary drag that reduced employment,”
said Guy Berger, an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Outside of that, we’ve seen a low level
of hiring.”  Some employers may be reluctant to take on more staff until
lawmakers come to agreement on how to avoid the more than $600
billion in tax increases and  government spending  cuts slated to
take effect next year. For their part, Federal Reserve policy
makers are focusing on the elevated  unemployment rate  as they
consider whether to increase record stimulus.  The Labor Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg payroll survey estimates ranged from
increases of 15,000 to 145,000.  Gains in employment, rising home values and cheaper
gasoline are helping boost Americans’ moods, other data may show
at 9:55 a.m. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary  index  of consumer sentiment in December held close
to the prior month’s five-year high, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  Share Prices  Stocks have gyrated this week as investors weigh prospects
for a budget deal. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3
percent yesterday, paring the loss for the week to 0.2 percent.  Private employment, which excludes government agencies,
rose by 90,000 in November, less than half the prior month’s
184,000 increase that was the biggest since February, economists
forecast today’s report will show.  Sandy left about 8 million homes and businesses without
power for days after making landfall in  New Jersey  on Oct. 29.
The 26 counties designated as major disaster areas after the
storm had an average 1,301 labor force participants per square
mile, about 30 times the average labor force density for the
U.S. in 2011, according to the Labor Department.  Economists differ on how much Sandy depressed November
payrolls. Nomura Securities International Inc. projected a hit
of 45,000, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated a reduction of
about 50,000, while UBS Securities LLC and Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. put the fallout at 150,000.  Katrina Comparison  Based on comparisons with  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005,
history suggests the “temporary hiring stall” will extend into
December, after which employment should “meaningfully recover
within a couple of months,” Joe LaVorgna, Deutsche Bank’s chief
U.S. economist, said in a Nov. 26 note.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is among companies cutting payrolls. The New
York-based bank announced this week it will cut more than 11,000
jobs and pull back from some  emerging markets  to drive down
costs as revenue dries up.  On the brighter side, an early Thanksgiving may have
boosted payrolls by about 75,000 last month, according to UBS
projections as companies such as retailers took on extra staff
sooner than normal.  Businesses that stepped up hiring for the holidays include
 Macy’s Inc. (M)  The second-biggest U.S. department-store chain said
it would add about 2,000 more seasonal workers than the 78,000
it hired last year. Toys ‘R’ Us Inc., the world’s largest toy
retailer, reported plans to employ 45,000 temporary staff, up
5,000 from the 2011 season.  Post Recession  Through October, the U.S. had recovered 4.5 million of the
8.8 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009.  At the same time, hiring and investment is being held back
by concern about the so-called fiscal cliff, as well as the
global slowdown in growth.  “We’re expecting the same sort of a slow-growth
environment -- that’s our best view of 2013,” Fredrik Eliasson,
chief financial officer of  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the largest eastern U.S.
railroad, said on a Nov. 28 teleconference with analysts.
“There are a lot of uncertainties out there in the world at
this point between what’s going on here with the fiscal cliff
and between Europe and  China .”  Fed officials are considering whether to step up easing to
stimulate the economy and trim the jobless rate, which prior to
September exceeded 8 percent for 43 consecutive months, the
longest stretch in monthly records going back to 1948.  “Although the economy continues to expand, we must grow
faster if we are to put all of our jobless workers and idle
businesses back to work,”  William Dudley , president of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said in a Nov. 29 speech. He
called the unemployment rate “unacceptably high.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  