-- Saul Steinberg, Corporate Raider, Reliance Chief, Dies at 73
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-12-10T20:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/saul-p-steinberg-former-reliance-group-chairman-dies-at-73.html
Saul P. Steinberg, the former
corporate raider and chairman of Reliance Group Holdings, has
died. He was 73.  He died on Dec. 7 in his sleep at his home in  Manhattan ,
the New York Times reported, citing his son, Jonathan. No cause
was given. That same day, his mother, Anne, who once sued her
son over an unpaid debt, died in her sleep in  Palm Beach ,
 Florida , according to death notices in the Times. Her age and
the cause weren’t given.  Steinberg once controlled Reliance Group, a New York-based
property and casualty insurer. The firm, listing $12.6 billion
in assets and $12.9 billion in debts, filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in 2001 after higher-than-expected workers’
compensation costs and other claims. Steinberg resigned as
chairman that same year, after stepping down as chief executive
officer in 2000 following 32 years at the company.  Reliance served as the base for Steinberg’s unsuccessful
bids for Chemical Bank, now part of JPMorgan Chase & Co., in
1969 and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  in 1984. His pursuit of Disney ended
with the company buying back his shares at a premium of almost
$60 million, helping to establish the term “greenmail,”
according to a Forbes magazine account.  Forbes estimated that Steinberg’s personal wealth once
exceeded $600 million. At Reliance, he received pay of more than
$12 million a year in cash, benefits and dividends, the
 Philadelphia Inquirer  reported in 2001.  Big Ambitions  “You watch: like the Rockefellers, I’ll own the world,”
he said in a late 1960s interview with the financial writer Dan
Dorfman, according to a 2001 Vanity Fair story. “I could even
be the first Jewish president.”  Saul Phillip Steinberg was born on Aug. 13, 1939, in  New
York  City to Julius and Anne Cohen Steinberg, according to
Marquis Who’s Who. His father was a rubber manufacturer.  Steinberg enrolled at the University of Pennsylvania’s
 Wharton School , and graduated in 1959 with a bachelor’s degree
in economics. His first company -- an idea hatched while a
senior at Penn -- was Leasco Data Processing Equipment Corp., a
computer-leasing company. In 1968, at 29, he took over then
Philadelphia-based Reliance Insurance Co.  In 1961, Steinberg married Barbara Herzog, according to
Who’s Who. They had three children: Laura, Jonathan and
Nicholas. Jonathan, chief executive officer of New York-based
WisdomTree Investments Inc., is the husband of Maria Bartiromo,
an anchor for the CNBC television network.  Personal Life  Steinberg’s marriage to Herzog ended in divorce in 1977,
according to Who’s Who. His second marriage, to Laura
Sconocchia, produced one child, Julian. After they divorced,
Steinberg married Gayfryd McNabb. The couple had two children,
Rayne and Holden.  Steinberg was a major benefactor of the  University of
Pennsylvania . On its Philadelphia campus, the Wharton School is
housed in  Steinberg Hall-Dietrich Hall , named in his honor
following a 1983 renovation and addition to the business
school’s home. In 1987, the Steinberg Conference Center opened.  He suffered a stroke in 1995.  In 2000, his mother sued him for nonpayment of a $4.7
million debt.  “Although our client would like to resolve this matter
without resort to litigation, her less formal appeals for
payment have so far been unavailing,” wrote Anne Steinberg’s
lawyer, Mitchell Hurley, in a letter included in the filing at
the time in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan. The
lawsuit was settled three months later, according to court
records.  Home Sale  That same year, Steinberg and his wife, Gayfryd, auctioned
antique furnishings from their 34-room Park Avenue apartment.
The sale fetched an estimated $12 million, according to a Times
article at the time. His Old Masters paintings were sold for $50
million, Forbes  reported .  Also in 2000, Steinberg sold his penthouse residence, once
owned by John D. Rockefeller Jr., for a record $30 million, the
Times reported. New York magazine said the price was $37
million. The buyer was Stephen A. Schwarzman, co-founder and
chairman of Blackstone Group Inc., the New York-based private
equity firm.  In addition to his wife and children, Steinberg’s survivors
include a brother, Robert; two sisters, Roni Sokoloff and Lynda
Jurist; and a number of grandchildren, according to the Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  