-- HSBC’s Boyles to Keep Current Strategy at Helm of Private Bank
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-12-07T16:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/hsbc-s-boyles-to-keep-current-strategy-at-helm-of-private-bank.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s  private bank  is
sticking to its current strategy after a change in leadership,
Peter Boyles, the new chief executive officer of the business,
said in a memo to employees.  “You should not expect a change in direction with my
arrival,” Boyles, 57, said this week in the memo, which was
provided by Medard Schoenmaeckers, an HSBC official based in
Zurich. “I am committed to continuing the new strategy.”  HSBC wants its private bank, which includes units in
 Switzerland , the U.K., Germany and Asia, to win new business by
focusing on wealth created in emerging economies, onshore
domestic markets and through referrals from within the firm. The
private bank, which reported first-half pretax profit of $527
million, or 4.1 percent of total earnings, should contribute 5
percent to 10 percent of the company’s total pretax income, the
London-based lender  said in July .  Worldwide funds under management in private banking
increased to $263 billion from $259 billion in the first half of
this year, HSBC said. That’s 11 percent less than the $297
billion reported a year earlier. Total client assets, including
deposits and non-financial assets in trusts, were $497 billion.  Boyles, who was previously CEO for continental  Europe  and
head of commercial banking, begins his new job amid a crackdown
on offshore  tax evasion  by the U.S. and European countries and
as wealth managers compete for individuals’ assets in faster-
growing regions.  Margin Erosion  Private banks are encountering “intense competition,
additional costs due to regulation and compliance requirements
and margin erosion,” HSBC Holdings CEO  Stuart Gulliver  told
investors in  May , adding that the traditional Swiss offshore
private-banking model built on secrecy is disappearing.  HSBC’s Geneva-based unit reported a 4.1 percent drop in
first-half profit and is preparing to pay a “significant fine”
to resolve a  U.S. Department of Justice  probe of at least 11
Swiss firms suspected of helping Americans evade taxes.  The Swiss unit also suffered “reputational and financial
damage” from a “substantial  data theft  in 2009,” Gulliver
said in May, referring to Herve Falciani, a former software
technician in Geneva, who stole details on Swiss accounts that
were used by European countries including France, Spain and U.K.
to identify tax dodgers.  “We need an open environment in which transparency is the
norm, and I ask you to contact me personally when you observe
anything that goes against our values or standards,” Boyles
told staff in the memo published yesterday on the firm’s
intranet.  U.K. tax authorities are investigating a list of more than
4,000 British residents who have bank accounts with HSBC in the
offshore tax haven of Jersey. The list, leaked by a whistle-
blower, includes a man who was jailed for two years after more
than 300 guns were found in his house and the owner of a farm
where police discovered marijuana valued at 500,000 pounds
($800,000), according to the  Daily Telegraph , which first
reported the document.  Boyles replaces Krishna Patel, who has quit and will leave
at the end of January after 28 years at the lender, HSBC said in
a separate statement on Dec. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  