-- HSBC Rating Lowered One Step by Fitch on Regulation, Costs
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-12-07T18:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/hsbc-rating-cut-one-step-by-fitch-on-regulation-compensation.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, had its Long-term Issuer Default Rating downgraded by
Fitch Ratings to AA- from AA as it braces itself for stiffer
regulation and additional compliance costs.  The ratings company also downgraded the lender’s HSBC Bank
Plc unit to AA- from AA and its Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corp. Ltd. unit to AA- from AA, it said in a statement today.
The outlook for all three was revised to stable from negative.  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver ’s plans to cut
costs and improve profitability are held back by U.S. probes and
compensation claims from U.K. clients. A Senate committee said
in July that failures in HSBC’s money-laundering controls
allowed terrorists and drug cartels access to the U.S. financial
system. Fitch said that HSBC’s expansion into “higher-risk
markets” such as China and tougher competition in Hong Kong
were among the main reasons for the downgrade.  “The agency anticipates that the benefit previously
awarded to diversification of businesses and geographies will be
neutralized by the group’s increasing cost of managing its
diverse operations,” Fitch said. “The latter include legal
fees, provisions for litigation and customer redress, expenses
to ensure consistent adherence to compliance and governance
standards as well as business conduct, and most importantly,
complying with numerous and higher regulatory requirements.”  The  shares  closed little changed at 643.60 pence in  London .
They’ve gained 31.1 percent this year, giving the company a
market value of 118.5 billion pounds ($190 billion).  ‘Key Strength’  The bank said last month it may face criminal charges
from U.S. anti-money-laundering probes and the cost of a
settlement may “significantly” exceed the $1.5 billion it has
set aside. HSBC also earmarked $357 million to compensate U.K.
clients wrongly sold insurance to cover loan repayments.  Fitch said it continues to see the company’s “global reach
as a key strength” and considers “management’s progress in
selling non-core businesses to simplify the group and manage
capital efficiency positively.” Still, “refocusing the group
is necessary for staying competitive and consistent with the
restructuring efforts of other large global trading and
universal banks,” it said.  HSBC’s sale of its stake in Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
on Dec. 5 is “unlikely to reduce the group’s long-term focus
and exposure to  China ,” the company said. The lender’s exposure
to China probably more than doubled to about $115 billion since
2010, according to the statement.  HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) Ltd. was downgraded to AA-
from AA, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  