-- HSBC, Standard Chartered Close to Resolving Iran Claims
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-12-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/hsbc-standard-chartered-close-to-resolving-iran-claims.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  may settle U.S. charges involving money-laundering
violations and dollar-clearing transactions on behalf of Iranian
clients as soon as next week, two people familiar with the
negotiations said.  The agencies involved in the settlements include the U.S.
Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, the  Federal
Reserve , the  Justice Department  and the New York District
Attorney’s office, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because negotiations are still under way.  HSBC announced last month that it had added an $800 million
provision to an existing $700 million reserve to cover the costs
of a potential settlement, and warned investors that the final
payment could “significantly” exceed the $1.5 billion total.  A Senate committee said in July that failures in London-
based HSBC’s money-laundering controls allowed terrorists and
drug cartels access to the U.S. financial system.  Standard Chartered  has said it expects to pay about $330
million to settle claims by federal regulators that its money-
clearing operations violated rules related to U.S. sanctions
against Iran. The London-based bank agreed in August to pay $340
million to resolve charges brought by New York’s banking
regulator that it hid the identity of Iranian customers involved
in dollar-clearing transactions.  “As we’ve disclosed, we are cooperating with authorities
in ongoing investigations,” Robert Sherman, a spokesman for
HSBC in New York, said yesterday. “The nature of any
discussions is confidential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  