-- SEC’s Aguilar Open to Proposals for Overhauling U.S. Money Funds
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-12-07T23:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/sec-s-aguilar-open-to-proposals-for-overhauling-u-s-money-funds.html
A U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission member who blocked the agency’s initial proposal to
overhaul regulation of money-market mutual funds now says the
process is on the right track.  Commissioner  Luis Aguilar , a Democrat, said in an interview
yesterday that a study issued by SEC staff has allayed his
concerns that money-fund rules adopted in 2010 hadn’t been
sufficiently studied. He said he’ll reconsider all the ideas
presented before, including abandoning the industry’s
traditional $1 share price.  “The study indicates that the 2010 amendments weren’t
enough,” Aguilar said. “Given the information that currently
exists, it may be appropriate to consider the various proposals
through the prism of the new information.”  Regulators, led by outgoing SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro ,
have been working to overhaul rules governing the $2.6 trillion
money funds industry since the September 2008 collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, because it
owned debt issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., set off a
run by money-fund investors that helped freeze global credit
markets.  Aguilar said he thinks the study should lead the commission
to consider a new version of a rule early next year. He said
that floating the money funds’ share price “may make sense” in
light of the new data, though he hasn’t yet seen what the SEC
staff will recommend.  ‘Important Option’  Republican Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher said in
September he might support a floating share value under certain
conditions, calling it “an important option to keep on the
table and to subject to further study and consideration.” He
and Aguilar, along with Republican Commissioner Troy A. Paredes,
derailed Schapiro’s overhaul proposals earlier in the year.  The SEC’s 2010 rules created liquidity minimums, lowered
maturity limits and required more disclosure. Schapiro supported
another round of changes that would have forced funds to choose
between abandoning their traditional $1 share price or building
capital buffers to absorb losses and imposing redemption
restrictions to discourage runs.  This week’s report said the funds are “more resilient now
to both portfolio losses and investor redemptions than they were
in 2008,” but it concluded the rule changes wouldn’t have
prevented the collapse of the Reserve Primary Fund.  Commissioner Elisse Walter, the Democrat who will replace
Schapiro after her Dec. 14 departure, was the only member who
didn’t oppose Schapiro’s proposals. The timing for considering a
rule proposal will be up to Walter, Aguilar said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of
regulators headed by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , on
Nov. 13 began a process by which it will pressure SEC
commissioners to reconsider Schapiro’s plan and other overhaul
proposals.  “I’ve taken no option off the table,” Aguilar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  