-- Serbia Seeks Partner for Razvojna Assets, Liabilities
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-12-07T08:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/serbia-seeks-partner-for-razvojna-assets-liabilities.html
Serbia  is seeking a partner to take
over the assets and liabilities of unprofitable  Razvojna Banka
Vojvodine AD (MTBN)  and sell a five-year bond to save deposits after
losses eroded 40 percent of its capital.  The bank, 62 percent owned by Serbia’s northern province of
Vojvodina, had 7.94 billion dinars ($90.35 million) in
accumulated losses at the end of September. Its capital,
adjusted for losses, stood at 11.3 billion dinars and assets
were at 37.7 billion dinars. Loan-loss provisions were at 11
percent, according to its nine-month unaudited  report .  Razvojna Banka is the second bank this year in which the
government is trying to save deposits and avoid a run on banks
as the Balkan country fights the effect of the  European debt
crisis . Serbia wants to save almost 110 million euros ($142
million) in insured deposits and almost as much in uninsured
deposits at Razvojna, as well as 80,000 depositors, it said.  Assets and liabilities will be transferred to a “bank that
offers the best transfer conditions,” the government said in a
statement e-mailed last night.  The bank’s shares last traded at 675 dinars, losing 3.57
percent on the day on Nov. 30.  The transfer is in line with an Oct. 26 law designed to
merge state controlled banks, averting their bankruptcy and
maintaining financial stability.  The effort to save the bank, previously known as Metals
Banka AD, is the second in two years. In late April 2010,
Vojvodina added capital to bail it out and renamed it Razvojna
Banka Vojvodine. Its market share by assets  stood  at 1.3 percent
in September.  Five-Year Bond  Serbia and Vojvodina will jointly sell a five-year bond,
equivalent to 70 million euros, to match the size of uninsured
deposits for which Razvojna has no “quality collaterals” in
its portfolio. The bond, to be tradable in secondary market,
will be first transferred to Serbia’s Deposit Insurance Agency
and later transferred to the future bank owner.  Part of Razvojna’s corporate credit portfolio and its fixed
assets will be transferred to a new Vojvodina Development Fund
that will be “urgently established” to minimize bailout costs
and maintain financial stability, the government said.  Serbia set aside 300 million euros in its 2013 budget as a
reserve financial stability fund to bolster the banking industry
if needed. Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, in office since
July, is also seeking an adviser to help it recapitalize or sell
 Privredna Banka Beograd AD (PRBN) , according to a Dec. 5 invitation
published in the Belgrade newspaper Politika.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  