-- Serbia Must Lower Debt to Avoid ‘Greek Scenario,’ Zivkovic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-12-07T15:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/serbia-must-lower-debt-to-avoid-greek-scenario-zivkovic-says.html
Serbia must lower its debt level and
attract local investors to buy its bonds to avoid a “Greek
scenario,” said Bosko Zivkovic, former chairman of the central
bank’s Governor’s Council.  Luring institutional and small investors into buying bonds
locally will limit the Balkan nation’s exposure to currency
swings and creditors abroad, Zivkovic, who is now an economic
professor, told reporters in Belgrade today. Serbia’s public
debt stood at 57.5 percent of gross domestic product in October
with more than 80 percent of the total denominated in foreign
currencies.  “The aim is to minimize risk” and develop the  debt market 
to avoid a “Greek scenario,” Zivkovic said after a panel of
bankers and analysts discussed ways to reach out to small
investors who keep 7.8 billion euros ($10 billion) in savings
deposits with banks. “Japan’s debt is mainly in the hands of
the Japanese, while Greek debt is mainly in the hands of
foreigners.”  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, in office since July,
is seeking to restore investor confidence by narrowing the
fiscal gap to 3.6 percent of GDP next year from 6.7 percent in
2012 and aiming to balance the budget by 2016. The government
also wants to bring down public debt to below the legal limit of
45 percent of GDP over the medium term.  Debt Servicing  The government will need 493.6 billion dinars ($5.6
billion) next year to service its debt, 25 percent more than in
2012. It will rely on dinar- and euro-denominated debt sales at
home and dollar-denominated Eurobonds abroad until an upgrade in
its BB-  credit rating  at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
government officials have said.  The  Finance Ministry  should offer inflation-linked bonds to
encourage investor demand in a country where the buyers are
mainly banks, which have grown “risk averse to corporate
clients because of recession,” Zivkovic said. Serbia is in its
second recession in three years, with the economy forecast to
contract 2 percent this year.  Linking bonds to inflation is not attractive enough for
banks, which “prefer foreign-currency indexation,” said Bojan Lecic, the head of Treasury at the Belgrade-based Banca Intesa
AD, member of  Italy ’s  Intesa SanPaolo SpA. (ISP)  Inflation-linked
bonds may be attractive if there’s evidence of long-term
macroeconomic stability, public-debt sustainability, and a
stable dinar and inflation, he said.  Inflation stood at 12.9 percent in October and could
accelerate to 14 percent in December, the Belgrade-based
Economics Institute said this week. The central bank target for
inflation this year is a band from 2.5 percent to 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  