-- Singh Sweeps India Parliament Retail Votes in Boost for Reforms
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-12-07T10:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/singh-sweeps-india-parliament-retail-votes-in-boost-for-reforms.html
India ’s government won a vote in
parliament’s upper house on foreign investment in supermarkets,
securing a clean sweep of both chambers and raising expectations
it will move ahead with further economic reforms.  While 123 members in the 244-member upper house supported
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s move to allow companies such as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Carrefour SA to own majority stakes in
ventures in India, 109 voted against. Two regional parties
outside the ruling alliance supported the government, one voting
in favor and the other walking out before the ballot.  “It’s a victory for more reforms,” said Parliamentary
Affairs Minister Kamal Nath. “We will bring financial bills in
following weeks.”  The lower house endorsed the key plank of India’s biggest
embrace of foreign investment in a decade on Dec. 5 with a
margin of victory of 35 votes. Singh plans to present to
parliament proposals to increase the foreign investment cap for
the insurance sector, and allow overseas companies to buy stakes
in pension firms for the first time.  Deputy Governor of the  Reserve Bank  of India Subir Gokarn
said the foreign investment in multibrand retail could help
bring down food prices, a major driver of inflation that’s the
highest among the largest emerging economies.  The September move to enable overseas companies to open
stores in the country didn’t require parliamentary approval to
become law. Singh’s government agreed to a vote to end protests
that had stalled legislative business as economic growth has
slowed to a three-year low.  ‘Have Faith’  As the debate began in upper house yesterday, opposition
lawmakers repeated arguments that the policy would throw small
shopkeepers out of work, further impoverish farmers and hurt
consumers. Ruling coalition members defended the retail plan,
which can be rejected by state administrations.  “We should have faith” that no supermarket chains will
wipe out small retailers, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said
today. “We have taken the decision in the supreme national
interest of the country.”  Opposition parties have used the supermarket policy to
attack the government as it seeks to recover its poise after two
years during which it was attacked over corruption allegations
and weak leadership, and just over a year before the next
election.  “You would eventually have stores owned by the Americans,
the French and the British selling Chinese products,” said  Arun Jaitley , leader of the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party ,
yesterday. India “would become a nation of sales boys and sales
girls.”  Deal Makers  Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party, voted in favor of the
government, while members of her regional opponent, Mulayam Singh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party, left the chamber before voting.
Both parties, which opposed the retail opening, have a record of
refusing to vote alongside the Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya
Janata Party and striking deals with governing parties for their
support.  The retail policy will enable Wal-Mart,  Carrefour SA (CA)  and
 Tesco Plc (TSCO)  to step up their presence in the world’s second-most
populous nation to tap a market that Technopak Advisors Pvt.
estimates will expand to $725 billion by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  