-- Solars Drive Rally as Focus Media Slips: China Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-07T16:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/solars-drive-rally-as-focus-media-slips-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  in New York rose,
pushing the benchmark index to a one-month high, as solar stocks
jumped and improving U.S. employment data bolstered the outlook
for  China ’s second-biggest export market.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.1 percent to 93.78 by 11:08
a.m., set for the highest close since Nov. 7.  JinkoSolar Holding
Co. (JKS)  surged 20 percent, spurring gains in  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and
 LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , after the solar manufacturer said its Swiss unit
would get as much as $1 billion from China Development Bank
Corp.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  was poised for its steepest drop
since July after Dow Jones Newswires reported CDH Investments
Fund Management Co. is withdrawing from the group bidding to
take the company private.  Thirty-day volatility  on the China-US gauge dropped for a
second day, as the U.S. Labor Department said payrolls rose more
than economists expected in November and the jobless rate in the
world’s largest economy sank to the lowest in almost four years.
The U.S. is the second-biggest consumer of Chinese exports after
Europe, accounting for 17 percent of the nation’s overseas
shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  “You have a global economy that at least in the U.S. no
longer appears to be getting worse, and as a major export
destination for China that helps,” Jim Oberweis, who oversees
$700 million as president of Oberweis Asset Management Inc. in
Lisle, Illinois, said by phone yesterday. “From a macro
standpoint, it appears that the worst is probably behind us.”  ETF Jumps  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  climbed 2.5 percent to
$15.20 after the Macau casino operator announced it was buying a
93.1 percent stake in Laguna, Philippines-based  Manchester
International Holdings Unlimited Corp. (MIH)   The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., jumped 0.3 percent to $38.37,
headed for the highest close since March 16. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,413.16 as a report
showing  consumer confidence  in the U.S. declined to a one-year
low in December overshadowed the employment data.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added 0.5 percent to
10,919.24 yesterday, capping a 2.8 percent advance in the week,
while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares gained 1.6
percent to 2,061.79, the highest level since Nov. 12. The
measure rose 4.1 percent this week, the most since October last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  