-- Solars Lead Jump to 1-Month High as Focus Slips: China Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-07T20:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/solars-lead-jump-to-1-month-high-as-focus-slips-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  in  New York  rose,
pushing the benchmark index to a one-month high, as solar stocks
jumped and as improving U.S. employment data bolstered the
outlook for the nation’s second-biggest export market.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.2 percent to 93.87 by 2:37
p.m., set for the highest close in a month.  JinkoSolar Holding
Co. (JKS)  surged 13 percent, spurring gains in  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and
 LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , after the solar manufacturer said a unit would
get as much as $1 billion in state aid.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) 
was poised for its steepest drop since September after Dow Jones
Newswires reported CDH Investments Fund Management Co. is
withdrawing from the group bidding to take the company private.  Thirty-day volatility  on the China-US gauge dropped for a
second day, as the U.S. Labor Department said payrolls rose more
than economists expected in November and the jobless rate in the
world’s largest economy sank to the lowest in almost four years.
The U.S. is the second-biggest consumer of Chinese exports after
Europe, accounting for 17 percent of the nation’s overseas
shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  “You have a global economy that, at least in the U.S., no
longer appears to be getting worse, and as a major export
destination for China that helps,” Jim Oberweis, who oversees
$700 million as president of Oberweis Asset Management Inc. in
Lisle,  Illinois , said by phone yesterday. “From a macro
standpoint, it appears that the worst is probably behind us.”  ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 0.3 percent to
$38.38, headed for the highest close in almost nine months. The
ETF posted a weekly gain of 3.3 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,414.70 as a report showing  consumer confidence  in the U.S.
declined to a one-year low in December overshadowed the
employment data.  The China-US Index has gained 1.1 percent this week, and is
poised for a 4.2 percent advance in 2012.  JinkoSolar’s agreement with China Development Bank Corp. is
part of the government’s effort to provide support for selected
manufacturers it thinks are most likely to survive, the
company’s Chairman Li Xiande said to reporters in Zug,
Switzerland yesterday. Jiangxi, China-based JinkoSolar rose to
$4.60 in New York, the biggest one-day gain since Nov. 26. The
stock is up 8.5 percent this week.  Focus Buyout  Xinyu-based LDK, the world’s second biggest maker of wafers
for solar panels, jumped 8.2 percent to 97 cents, trimming a 17
percent weekly decline, while Trina,  China ’s third-largest maker
of solar panels, based in Changzhou, climbed 8.3 percent to
$3.06, the highest price since Nov. 13. It’s up 6.5 percent in
the week.  Focus Media , the Chinese advertising company subject to a
$3.5 billion buyout offer, sank 3.3 percent to $23.93 after a
report that one of the private equity firms involved in the bid
has dropped out. CDH Investments Fund Management Co. was to
invest about $200 million in the buyout and dropped out because
it felt returns on the investment weren’t sufficient, Dow Jones
Newswires reported, citing a person it didn’t identify with
knowledge of the deal.  CDH and Jing Lu, responsible for Focus Media’s investor and
media relations, didn’t immediately reply to e-mails sent after
business hours in the Chinese capital. The buyer consortium
includes Washington-based  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , whose spokesman
 Chris Ullman  declined to comment on the report.  New Oriental  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest online video company,
dropped 7 percent to a record-low $13.94.  The company’s mobile application was dropped from the Apple
Inc. app Store, according to a Dec. 5  report  on TechWeb.com, and
the company may not realize the gains in market share that it
anticipated when Youku and Tudou Holdings Ltd. merged in March,
Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC who rates the stock hold,
said by phone in New York.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  rose for a
second day, adding 0.8 percent to $17.52. The advance trimmed a
weekly decline of 13 percent, the biggest slump since July.  The Securities and Exchange Commission accused the Chinese
units of the Big Four accounting firms this week of blocking
fraud investigations into nine China-based companies by
withholding documents. New Oriental tumbled 11 percent on Dec. 4
as  Wells Fargo & Co . said in a note that concern that the
disagreement between the U.S. and China over auditor oversight
will spur delistings may weigh on the company’s valuation. The
bank later clarified the note to state they weren’t implying New
Oriental was under investigation by the U.S. regulator.  The Beijing-based education services provider isn’t one of
the companies being probed by the SEC, President Louis Hsieh
said in a Dec. 5 interview.  Melco Purchase  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  climbed 2.5 percent to
$15.17 after the Macau casino operator announced it was buying a
93.1 percent stake in Laguna, Philippines-based  Manchester
International Holdings Unlimited Corp. (MIH)  The stock is down 0.7
percent in the week and traded at a 2.4 percent  premium  to its
Hong Kong shares yesterday.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added 0.5 percent to
10,919.24 yesterday, capping a 2.8 percent advance in the week,
while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares gained 1.6
percent to 2,061.79, the highest level since Nov. 12. The
measure rose 4.1 percent this week, the most since October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  