-- South Sudan Drops Kidnapping Charge Against American and Iraqi
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-12-07T12:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/south-sudan-drops-kidnapping-charge-against-american-and-iraqi.html
A South Sudanese judge dismissed
kidnapping charges against an American and an Iraqi, their
lawyer and the U.S. Embassy said.  Business partners Elton Mark McCabe, from Slidell,
 Louisiana , and Mohamed Oglah were detained on Oct. 14 by
National Security Service agents who accused them of trying to
kidnap an Indian businessman. The U.S. Embassy confirmed the
dismissal of the case in an e-mailed statement.  “There was no evidence and the judge dismissed the case,”
said lawyer Agok Makur today by phone from Juba, South  Sudan ’s
capital. The Minister of Justice, John Luk Jok, wrote to the
court asking it to withdraw the charges, he said.  McCabe and Oglah, who run a construction and consulting
company called Diamond Corp., told reporters in Juba on Nov. 24
that security agents fabricated the charges and detained them in
a windowless cell without notifying the police or the U.S
Embassy. They were later transferred to Juba prison and into the
custody of police who ordered their release after a visit from
U.S. Ambassador Susan Page.  McCabe said security agents re-arrested them as they were
walking to a waiting U.S. Embassy vehicle after being released.
They were freed on bail Nov. 22. The U.S. had said it was
“deeply concerned” about the arbitrary detention of people
including McCabe.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in a Nov.
8 report to the  Security Council  that the UN peacekeeping
mission in South Sudan is working with the government to end
“prolonged arbitrary detention.”  At least a third of the prison population in South Sudan,
which seceded from Sudan in July 2011, hasn’t been convicted of
a crime or even charged, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said
in a report in June.  Liam McDowall, a spokesman for the UN mission, said human
rights officers have assisted the government in resolving more
than 350 cases.  “Arbitrary detention is one of the most serious issues
that we’re looking at,” he told reporters in Juba Dec. 3. “It
is a subject we’ve discussed often with the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba,  South Sudan ,  at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  