-- Sudanese Rebel Group Accuses Militia of Refugee Attack
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-12-07T12:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/south-sudan-rebel-group-accuses-militia-of-attacking-refugees.html
(Corrects headline to show rebel group is Sudanese.)  Sudanese army-affiliated militia
forces attacked a group of about 5,000 people fleeing conflict
in  Blue Nile  state to refugee camps across the border in South
 Sudan , a rebel spokesman said.  The United Nations refugee agency said it’s concerned about
the group, which was expected to arrive in South Sudan’s oil-
rich Upper Nile state earlier this week. Arnu Lodi, spokesman
for the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North, said the
internally displaced people remain trapped by militia forces and
are unable to move toward the border.  “Some of them were killed and wounded and they are
suffering from lack of food and medicine,” Lodi said by phone
today from Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. Sudanese army spokesman
al-Sawarmi Khaled had his mobile phone switched off when called
for comment.  South Sudan  hosts about 180,000 refugees fleeing conflict
in the Sudanese states of Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan,
according to the UN refugee agency. About 2,800 Southern
Kordofan refugees were registered at Yida camp in Unity state
over the past week, it said yesterday.  The agency has set up way stations to welcome and process
refugees when they arrive, spokeswoman Melita Sunjic said by
phone today from Juba, the South Sudanese capital.  “It’s quite obvious that they are hiding somewhere because
of fighting on the ground or they’ve been attacked,” she said.  The refugees are fleeing fighting between government forces
and rebels that broke out in June 2011 in Southern Kordofan and
spread to neighboring Blue Nile the following September. The
rebels were formerly part of the revolutionary army that fought
a two-decade civil war that led to the South’s independence last
year, before they were left on the Sudanese side of the border
after secession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  