-- Soybeans Approach Biggest Weekly Gain Since August on Exports
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-12-07T13:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/soybeans-approach-biggest-weekly-gain-since-august-on-exports.html
Soybeans headed for the biggest
weekly advance since August on signs of increasing demand for
supplies from the U.S. while drought threatens to slow the pace
of barge shipments on the  Mississippi River .  U.S. exporters sold 1.14 million metric tons of soybeans in
the week ended Nov. 29, the most in  nine weeks  and up more than
threefold from a week earlier, the Department of Agriculture
said yesterday. The Mississippi River, the main thoroughfare for
shipping Midwest crops to the  Gulf of Mexico  to be exported, may
drop to a level in  St. Louis  low enough to restrict barge
traffic as early as Dec. 26, the  National Weather Service  says.  “U.S. soybean exports were comparably strong,” Rory
Deverell, a commodity risk manager with INTL FCStone Inc. in
Dublin, said today in an e-mailed report. “U.S. river system
concerns continue to create uncertainty regarding price
development and supply.”  Soybeans for January delivery fell 0.1 percent to $14.8975
a bushel by 7:39 a.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, heading for
a 3.5 percent increase this week, the biggest gain for a most-
active contract since the week ended Aug. 24. Earlier today, the
price touched $14.9825 a bushel, the highest since Nov. 9.
Soybeans surged to a record $17.89 a bushel in September as the
U.S. experienced its worst drought in more than 50 years.  Soybeans erased gains today as prospects improved for crops
in Argentina, where wet weather has delayed planting in recent
weeks. A drier trend will develop in the country after today,
with just a few showers possible in some areas until at least
Dec. 12, Telvent DTN said.  Argentina, Brazil  The USDA is scheduled to update its supply and demand
estimates for U.S. and world crops on Dec. 11. The agency may
cut its outlook on  Argentina ’s harvest to 54.5 million tons,
from 55 million tons forecast last month, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Brazil ’s harvest may be 80.84
million tons, down from the earlier forecast at 81 million tons.  Corn for delivery in March fell 0.6 percent to $7.47 a
bushel. Wheat for March delivery dropped 0.5 percent to $8.58 a
bushel in Chicago, while in Paris, milling wheat for the same
delivery month gained 0.4 percent to 267.50 euros ($345.21) a
ton on NYSE Liffe.  The USDA will probably pare its estimate for global wheat
inventories before the 2013 Northern Hemisphere harvests to
173.6 million tons, from 174.2 million last month, according to
the Bloomberg survey.  People are probably “underestimating the problems” in
global supply, and that may make wheat the driver of grain
prices next year,  Abdolreza Abbassian , an economist at the
United Nation’s Food & Agriculture Organization, said yesterday.
Wheat-growing areas of Russia, eastern  Europe  and  Australia  have
experienced dry weather this year, while crops in Argentina were
threatened by excess rain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  