-- Speed of Talks on Global Services Trade Promising: CSI
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-12-07T15:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/speed-of-talks-on-global-services-trade-promising-csi.html
The U.S. Coalition of Services
Industries said it’s pleased with how quickly World Trade
Organization members seeking to reach an accord on services
trade approved a framework to start negotiations.  The governments have been participating in exploratory
talks on liberalizing services trade since February. Tim Yeend,  Australia ’s WTO ambassador, told the global trade body’s
Services Council yesterday that an agreement in principle had
been reached on a framework that would lead to the start of
talks in early 2013.  “We find this to be very, very encouraging,” CSI
President Peter Allgeier, a former U.S. ambassador to the WTO,
said by phone today from Geneva. “This is faster movement than
we would have anticipated, and the degree of collaboration and
cooperation is also very encouraging.”  The group of 21 governments agreed on five goals for the
discussions, including cobbling together an ambitious accord
that doesn’t exclude any industry. Any deal would be open to
other countries, particularly developing economies, and include
market-access pledges that correspond with actual practice.  “If these 21 members can come up with a meaningful
agreement, that in itself would be a very big success,”
Allgeier said. “More countries have joined and a number of
countries are following this very closely and considering
whether they might join.”  Emerging Economies  Three of the world’s fastest-growing emerging economies,
 Brazil ,  China  and  India , aren’t involved in the discussions.
They say the plurilateral negotiations will impede efforts to
reach a global trade deal as part of the WTO’s Doha Round.  CSI Chairman Sam Di Piazza disagreed. “We’d love to see
Doha have a realistic chance, but the world is moving and
changing and services has grown dramatically over the last
decade or two and it affects every sector,” said Di Piazza, who
is also vice chairman of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s institutional clients
unit. “We’re enthused about the fact that, from a business
perspective, we can move at a fast pace.”  WTO members participating in the exploratory talks are the
U.S., the European Union, Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Hong Kong, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Mexico,  New
Zealand ,  Norway , Pakistan,  Panama , Peru, South Korea,
Switzerland, Taiwan and Turkey.  The 21 governments, which represent 50 countries, account
for about 70 percent of global commerce, Allgeier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  