-- Synergy Says It Made Binding Offer to Buy Portugal’s TAP
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-12-07T14:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/synergy-says-it-made-binding-offer-to-buy-portugal-s-tap.html
Brazilian investor German Efromovich,
owner of the Synergy group that controls the Avianca airline
brands, submitted a binding offer for state-owned Portuguese
airline TAP SA.  “The proposal was submitted within the deadline,” Paulo
Fidalgo, a spokesman for Synergy in Lisbon, said in a telephone
interview, declining to provide details.  Synergy, the only suitor to submit a preliminary offer in
October for TAP, had until noon in Lisbon to present a detailed
bid to state-asset holding company Parpublica. The offer was
less than 500 million euros ($645 million), said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the process is confidential. That figure was the maximum
estimate of Donal O’Neill, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers 
in Dublin.  Portugal  is selling Lisbon-based TAP after becoming the
third euro-area country to seek a bailout from the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union. TAP offers 74 weekly
flights to Brazil and  Africa  and serves 46 routes within  Europe .
That would provide dozens of connections beyond Lisbon for
Synergy’s Avianca Brazil unit.  A purchase would be the first instance of a company in a
former colony buying the flag carrier of the former ruler.  Polish Citizenship  Because of EU rules that limit outside ownership of the
bloc’s airlines at 49 percent, Efromovich sought Polish
citizenship, based on his parents’ country of origin, to qualify
for a larger purchase. He was certified as a citizen on Nov. 30,
Ivetta Bialy, a spokeswoman for Poland’s Mazowsze province, said
yesterday by phone.  Founded in 1945 with two 21-seat Douglas DC-3s, TAP’s
initial routes included a 12-stop service to Angola and
Mozambique. The carrier went private in 1953, with the state
retaining a majority stake, before being renationalized in 1975
following the fall of the authoritarian Estado Novo regime.  Portugal has hired Barclays Plc,  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG as advisers on the
disposal of TAP and state-owned airport operator ANA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  