-- Syrian Rebels Gain Ground on Syria’s Assad, Officials Say
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-07T09:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/syrian-rebels-gain-ground-on-syria-s-assad-officials-say.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned that the civil war in  Syria  is “accelerating”
as President Bashar al-Assad’s grip on the country weakens and
 Russia  rejoins talks on its longtime ally’s future.  Other U.S. officials also yesterday said the rebellion that
began in March 2011 may be approaching a tipping point. They
cautioned that Assad’s forces remain strong and retain the
ability to attack rebel strongholds from the air, albeit at a
rising cost.  The rebel Free Syrian Army has gained significant ground in
Damascus suburbs in recent weeks as it acquired more effective
weapons, and its advances have sparked rapid rises in the prices
of food, fuel, medicine and other staples in the Syrian capital,
the U.S. officials said. They spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss intelligence reports.  “I think Assad’s fall is ripe,” Burhan Ghalioun, a senior
member of the rebel National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary
and Opposition Forces, said in a telephone interview from Paris.
“His end is near and clear. The rebels are advancing on the
ground; they have better training and weapons.”  More than 80 Syrians, including 65 civilians, were killed
in fighting across the country yesterday, the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  said in an e-mailed statement
today. Assad’s troops have been shelling suburbs of Damascus,
Aleppo and Hama since late yesterday, according to the U.K.-
based group.  Russia Talks  In a renewed effort to find a diplomatic solution, Clinton
and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  joined United Nations
Special Envoy on Syria Lakhdar Brahimi in Dublin in a hastily
arranged meeting yesterday that raised hopes the U.S. and Russia
might be closer to a compromise on Syria.  Russia, a longtime backer of Assad and his late father, has
stymied U.S. efforts to increase international pressure on
Assad’s regime.  “The Russians are clearly moving toward a situation where
even they understand the desperation, and they understand that
Assad is rapidly falling and probably is not capable of
sustaining himself,” said  Aaron David Miller , a vice president
at the Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars, a Washington policy
group.  Clinton said on Dec. 5 the newly constituted Syrian
opposition coalition is moving closer to winning U.S. support,
hinting at possible recognition for the group. The coalition
already has won recognition from the European Union and Gulf
Arab countries.  Infrastructure Targets  The opposition, a loosely defined coalition of secular and
Islamist forces, contains a growing number of extremists from
 Iraq  and other countries, according to U.S. officials.  The State Department is moving to designate one Syrian
rebel group as a foreign terrorist organization because of
evidence it has ties to al-Qaeda, said two U.S. officials who
described the move on the condition of anonymity because it
hasn’t happened yet. Members of the group, Jabhat al-Nusra, or
the Support Front, have participated in some recent successful
attacks on government forces.  Rebel fighters are increasingly targeting Syria’s
infrastructure. They have seized a majority of the  oil fields  in
the energy-rich Deir el-Zour governorate, and Assad’s forces now
only control five oil fields, all west of the city of Deir el-
Zour, the Austin, Texas-based geopolitical consulting firm
Stratfor said in a report yesterday. The remaining fields are
“at risk of falling into rebel hands,” Stratfor said.  ‘Losing Resources’  Assad’s forces “are losing resources and are not capable
of refreshing themselves,” Miller said. The rebels have “been
adding territory, resources, more sophisticated weaponry,
experience. They’re getting much better at what they’re doing.”  Opposition forces have acquired and learned to use heavy
machine guns and shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles,
according to a U.S. Defense Department official who follows
Syria closely. Rebels shot down a Syrian Mi-17 helicopter with
shoulder-fired missile on Nov. 27.  Assad’s government has responded by concentrating its
military forces to defend the capital and safeguard a passageway
to the Mediterranean coastal stronghold of the Alawite minority
sect of Shiite Islam that’s ruled the country since 1970. U.S.
officials also say they have seen signs the government may be
preparing to use chemical weapons or nerve agents in a last
stand against rebels.  Chemical Weapons  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  yesterday said U.S.
intelligence reporting “raises serious concerns” about
possible use of chemical weapons, a step President  Barack Obama 
and other U.S. officials have warned would provoke an
international response.  Still, such a response would not be simple. Syria still has
respectable air defenses, and bombing as many as 75 sites that
the U.S. officials said may harbor weapons of mass destruction
would risk killing civilians.  Sending ground forces into the country to secure chemical
and other weapons before they fall into the hands of the
Lebanese terrorist group Hezbollah, a Syrian ally, or opposition
forces allied with al-Qaeda, would be even costlier and would
risk a backlash in an Arab and Islamic world already rocked by
the Arab Spring revolts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Dublin at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  