-- U.K. Judge Who Probed News Says Internet Can Be Tamed
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-12-07T01:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/u-k-judge-who-probed-news-says-internet-can-be-tamed.html
U.K. Justice Brian Leveson, who
called for an independent regulator following a probe of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s phone-hacking scandal, said legal remedies are powerful
enough, over time, to rein in Internet privacy breaches.  Leveson spoke today at a conference in Sydney in a
discussion of whether  Australia  should adopt a privacy law to
protect individuals from breaches on the Internet or the media.  A government-backed review of the  media industry  in
Australia recommended in March the creation of a new regulator
who would set journalistic standards. The government of Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  hasn’t responded to the report.
Levenson’s 2,000 page, Nov. 29, study called for the formation
of an independent media regulator in the U.K., backed by
legislation, that could levy fines of as much as 1 million
pounds ($1.6 million).  “Time and proper application of the law will play the same
role for the Internet as it has done in all other areas of our
lives,” Leveson said. “Just as it took time for the wilder
excesses of the early penny press to be civilized, it will take
time to civilize the Internet.”  Leveson had collected evidence for the report from
newspaper owners, reporters and people who counted themselves as
victims of bad behavior by U.K. media. He declined to discuss
his findings.  “I treat the report as a judgment and judges simply do not
enter into discussions about judgments they have given,”
Leveson told the Sydney audience. “They do not respond to
comment, however misconceived, neither do they seek to correct
error. The judgment, or in this case the report, has to speak
for itself.”  Twitter, Facebook  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has said that while he
supports the principles of Leveson’s report, he believes new
legislation isn’t needed.  News Corp. has spent more than $315 million on civil
settlements, legal fees and costs of closing the weekly tabloid
News of the World newspaper and more than 80 people have been
arrested for intercepting voice mail and bribing public
employees in pursuit of exclusive stories.  Leveson, in today’s speech, cited the use of Twitter,
Facebook and YouTube as usurping newspapers in breaching
people’s privacy, including discussions on the Internet of so-
called superinjunctions in the U.K. Media reporting of the
injunctions is banned.  People who breach court orders, including privacy
injunctions, can be traced through their Internet address and
should be prosecuted, Leveson said. Enforcement of current laws
on defamation and privacy laws will eventually modulate people’s
behavior, he said.  Newspapers can be held financially liable for ignoring a
court order, while most people who publish on blogs or twitter
don’t have a financial incentive to do so, Leveson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  