-- U.K. Manufacturing Drops in Sign of Fourth-Quarter Weakness
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-07T10:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/u-k-manufacturing-drops-more-than-forecast-on-food-alcohol-1-.html
U.K.  manufacturing production  fell
more than economists forecast in October as food and alcohol
slumped, indicating weakness in the economy at the start of the
fourth quarter.  Factory output dropped 1.3 percent from September, the most
in four months, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. The median forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.2 percent decline.  Total industrial output 
unexpectedly fell 0.8 percent, a third consecutive decrease, led
by mining, oil and gas.  Manufacturers are under pressure as Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis hurts demand in the U.K.’s biggest export market and a
fiscal squeeze crimps sales at home. The Bank of  England , which
has said the economy may contract this quarter, left its  bond-
buying program  on hold yesterday as it assesses the need for
more stimulus after Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
extended his austerity program.  The data “raise the chances of a triple-dip recession in
the wider economy,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London . “We continue to expect industrial
production to fall further in 2013 as the euro zone’s recession
deepens and high inflation holds back domestic consumer demand
for manufactured goods.”  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
report, and was trading at $1.6035 as of 10:10 a.m. in London,
down 0.1 percent on the day. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
U.K. government bond was little changed at 1.74 percent.  Beer Slump  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, 10 fell, two rose
and one was unchanged in October, the statistics office said.
The slump was led by food and alcohol production, with the
latter falling 9.1 percent, the most since May 2011. The British
Beer and Pub Association said 117 million fewer pints of beer
were sold in October compared with a year earlier. Manufacturing
of coke and refined petroleum declined almost 20 percent, a
record drop.  The monthly drop in industrial output, which includes
mining and quarrying and utilities, compared with the median
forecast of 31 economists for a 0.8 percent increase. Oil and
gas extraction fell 4.4 percent in October from September,
partly due to the continued shutdown of the Buzzard platform,
the largest in the North Sea.  ‘Shockingly Bad’  David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London,
said the data were “shockingly bad.” While some of the decline
may be due to “erratic” factors, such as an unwinding of food
and alcohol sales after the London Olympics, “this is still
very bad news at the start of the fourth quarter,” he said.  In a separate report today, the ONS said construction
orders rose 5.4 percent in the third quarter from the previous
three months. However, they were down 6.7 percent from a year
earlier and at their third-lowest level on record.  While the U.K. economy emerged from a recession in the
 third quarter  with growth of 1 percent, the recovery remains
weak. Surveys this week showed manufacturing and construction
shrank in November while services growth weakened.  Britain’s  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its growth
forecasts this week and said the economy has performed less
strongly than it expected in March, “primarily reflecting the
weakness of net exports.”  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee kept its
quantitative-easing target at 375 billion pounds ($602 billion)
yesterday. Still, policy makers have indicated the door is open
to more purchases if needed.  In the euro area, the economy shrank 0.1 percent in the
third quarter and manufacturing output contracted for a 16th
month in November, adding to signs a recession may extend into
next year. In  Germany  today, the Bundesbank cut its 2013 growth
projection to 0.4 percent from the 1.6 percent predicted in June
and said the economy,  Europe ’s largest, will grow 0.7 percent
this year, down from its previous forecast of 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  