-- U.K. Bank Regulation Risks Alienating Investors, ABI Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-12-07T13:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/u-k-bank-regulation-risks-alienating-investors-abi-says.html
U.K. banks’ business models risk
becoming “unsustainable,” discouraging investors as tougher
regulations reduce lenders’ return on equity, according to the
 Association of British Insurers .  Regulators’ commitment to reducing leverage, increasing
banks’ capital reserves and imposing new rules to prevent a
repeat of the 2008 financial crisis may deter equity investments
in banks, the London-based ABI, which represents investors with
1.8 trillion pounds ($2.9 trillion) of assets, said today in a
report.  “Lack of clarity regarding capital levels, and the
apparent conflict between resilience and recovery, are muddying
the investment case for U.K. banks,” the ABI said. “Banks must
be correctly capitalized but not over-capitalized.”  The four biggest British banks may be overstating their
capital positions by as much as 35 billion pounds, Bank of
England Governor Mervyn King said last week as he asked the
Financial Services Authority to review whether banks have
adequate reserves. The largest U.K.-based banks,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , may need to make bigger provisions for future
loan losses, according to the central bank.  Banks’ return on equity, a measure of profitability, must
exceed their cost of equity, otherwise they will be
“unsustainable in the longer term and will inevitably constrain
asset growth and lending to the wider economy,” according to
the ABI report.  Costs Vary  The cost of equity for consumer banks is about 8 to 10
percent, while about 15 percent for investment banks, the ABI
estimated. Global banks’ return on equity was 5.1 percent in
2011, according to  McKinsey & Co. , a New York-based management
consultant.  Regulatory “clarity” on whether the U.K. will impose
stricter rules on its banks than other countries and a lack of
certainty over future capital requirements are putting off
investors, the ABI said.  The U.K. government is implementing the Independent
Commission on Banking’s recommendation to partially separate
consumer and investment banking. The panel, led by Oxford
University academic John Vickers, proposed large banks should
have “loss-absorbing capacity,” including equity, of 17
percent to 20 percent of risk-weighted assets. The remainder
could be held as so-called bail-in bonds, which can take a loss
when a bank fails and may be converted into equity, according to
the 2011 ICB report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  