-- U.S. Extends Iran-Oil Sanctions Exceptions for Nine Nations
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-12-07T20:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/u-s-extends-iran-oil-sanctions-exceptions-for-nine-nations-1-.html
The State Department announced that
nine oil-importing nations will continue to be exempted from
U.S. sanctions aimed at  Iran ’s nuclear program.  The decision by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton covers
China, India,  Malaysia , South Korea,  Singapore , South Africa,
Sri Lanka,  Turkey  and  Taiwan , the State Department said today in
an e-mailed statement.  A December 2011 law cuts off from the U.S. banking system
any foreign financial institutions that handle oil trade with
Iran if their home country hasn’t earned an exception from
sanctions by significantly reducing imports of Iranian oil. The
exceptions are subject to review every six months.  Iran’s oil production fell by 1 million barrels per day in
September and October, compared with the same period last year,
according to a U.S. Energy Information Administration report
cited by the State Department.  Iran’s oil output, formerly the second-largest in OPEC, has
dropped to fifth among the 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries as a result of economic sanctions
imposed by the U.S. and its allies.  “The United States and the international community remain
committed to maintaining pressure on the Iranian regime until it
fully addresses concerns about its nuclear program,” Clinton
said in the statement.  Twenty countries and economies “have continued to
significantly reduce the volume of their crude oil purchases
from Iran,” Clinton said. “This has reduced Iran’s export
volumes and oil revenues, which fund not only the nuclear
program but its support for terror and destabilizing actions in
the region.”  Clinton said the message for Iran is that it must meet its
international obligations on its nuclear program “or face
increasing isolation and pressure.”  The U.S., European Union and  Israel  say Iran is secretly
pursuing a nuclear weapons capability. Iran says its nuclear
program is strictly for civilian energy and medical research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  