-- U.S. Agrees With Russia to Back Mediation on Syria Civil War
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-07T15:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/u-s-agrees-with-russia-to-back-mediation-on-syria-civil-war.html
The U.S. and Russia have agreed to
support mediation among all sides in  Syria ’s civil war in a
renewed bid to end the violence, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today.  Talks on Syria in Dublin yesterday among Clinton, Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  and United Nations Special Envoy
Lakhdar Brahimi were “an important step but just the
beginning,” Clinton said today on a stop in  Northern Ireland . 
“I don’t think anybody believes that there was some great
breakthrough.”  Clinton reiterated that the U.S. believes any transition to
a “democratic, unified” Syria “cannot possibly include
Assad.” At the same time, she added, the U.S. intends to hold
“every party to the same standard” of human rights and
democratic values. “This is not just a one-sided dialogue”
against the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, she
said.  Speaking at  Stormont Castle  government offices in Belfast,
Clinton said the next step will be a meeting in the coming days
among senior U.S. and Russian officials on “how we can
operationalize the path forward.” The U.S. and  Russia 
“committed to support a renewed push by Brahimi and his team to
work with all the stakeholders in Syria to begin a political
transition based on the outline that we agreed to in Geneva last
June,” she said.  Several Times  Clinton and Lavrov have discussed Syria several times in
recent months without coming to agreement and word of the
hastily arranged meeting organized by Brahimi had stirred hopes
that the U.S. and Russia might be closer to a compromise over
the best path to halt 21 months of violence in Syria. Clinton
and Lavrov were both in Dublin for a gathering of the
Organization of Security and Cooperation in  Europe .  Brahimi said after the Dublin meeting that the three hadn’t
“taken any sensational decisions” while agreeing to “work
together to see how we can find creative ways” to end the
fighting.  The meeting followed warnings to the Assad government from
the U.S., NATO and Russia this week against unleashing its
stockpile of chemical weapons. There were also signs this week
that the U.S. is bolstering its support for the Syrian
opposition and that Russia, a stalwart ally of Syria’s and
longtime backer of Assad and his late father, may be moderating
its support.  ‘Dangerous Developments’  “We reviewed the very dangerous developments inside
Syria,” Clinton said. “No one should have any illusions about
how hard this remains.”  The U.S. and Russia have been at an impasse over how much
pressure to exert to end the fighting between Assad’s government
and rebels. The U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights 
says more than 41,000 people have died since an uprising
inspired by other Arab Spring movements began in March 2011.  The U.S. has pushed for a UN Security Council resolution
that would impose consequences, such as economic sanctions, for
a failure to end the conflict and begin a planned transition to
a unity government. Russia has blocked UN sanctions and thwarted
efforts to pressure Assad under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter,
which could theoretically authorize the use of force. Russia
also has blocked U.S., European and Arab League efforts to
disqualify Assad and his inner circle from any transitional
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Belfast  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  