-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Drop; AIG Plane Unit’s Swaps Decline
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-07T22:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-drop-after-jobs-data-beat-estimates.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
declined, recording its third weekly drop as payrolls rose more
than anticipated in November and the jobless rate fell to an
almost four-year low.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.7 basis point to a mid-price of 96.8 basis points at 4:47 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure, which was poised for the lowest closing level since
Nov. 6, fell about 1.8 basis points this week.  Employment climbed by 146,000 following a revised 138,000
gain in October, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median estimate of 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a gain of 85,000. The unemployment rate
fell to 7.7 percent, the lowest since December 2008. Signs the
recovery is gaining strength may ease investor concern that an
economic slowdown will hinder companies’ ability to repay debt.  “The employment numbers were quite good, better than
anticipated,” Michael Kraft, senior portfolio manager at
Vanderbilt Avenue Asset Management LLC, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “And there’s modest optimism that
there’s going to be a deal on the fiscal cliff. The combination
of those two things has given a little bit of support to credit
across the board.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  ILFC Swaps  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
International Lease Finance Corp.,  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) ’s aircraft-leasing unit, fell 130.6 basis points to 259.2
basis points as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  AIG, the insurer that counts the U.S. as its largest
shareholder, said it is in talks to sell 90 percent of ILFC to
an investor group including New China Trust Co.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt narrowed 5
basis points to 5.6 percentage points, led by spreads on the
senior debt of financial companies, which dropped 10 basis
points to 3.7 percentage points, Bloomberg data show. High-
yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 3.1 basis points to 486.5 basis points,
according to Bloomberg prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  