-- Ukraine Credit Rating Cut by S&P on Debt Repayments
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-12-07T15:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/ukraine-credit-rating-cut-by-s-p-on-debt-repayments.html
Ukraine’s credit rating was cut by
Standard & Poor’s, which cited “significant external financing
needs,” while the country’s reserves slid.  The former Soviet state’s debt was lowered one level to B,
five steps below investment grade, S&P said in an e-mailed
statement today. The rating has a negative outlook, suggesting
the possibility of a further downgrade from the current level,
which is on par with  Egypt  and Bosnia. Moody’s Investors Service
this week cut its rating one step to B3, six levels below
investment grade.  Ukraine, which neighbors  Russia  to its east, is seeking IMF
aid to meet $10 billion of debt payments due in 2013 and help
stabilize an  economy  that shrank 1.3 percent from a year earlier
in the third quarter. President Viktor Yanukovych dismissed the
Cabinet on Dec. 3 after Prime Minister Mykola Azarov stepped
down following his election to Parliament. The government
remains on a temporary basis.  “The government may face higher borrowing costs and more
difficulty securing financing than it has over the past year,”
S&P said. “A sharp and sustained decline in net foreign
currency reserves would put downward pressure on the ratings.”  Ukraine’s 2022 government bond fell for a third day,
pushing the yield up to 7.799 percent from 7.719 yesterday. The
hryvnia strengthened to 8.1637 as of 17:01 p.m. in Kiev from
8.1794 yesterday.  Reserves Shrink  Ukraine’s central bank reserves fell 5.5 percent to 25.4
billion in November, the lowest since March 2010, as the central
bank helped hryvnia to stay stable.  The International Monetary Fund planned to arrive in Kiev
today for talks on a third bailout in five years at the former
Soviet republic’s request. It delayed its visit to the second
half of January, allowing a new Cabinet to participate after
Azarov resigned.  “There’s a lot of debt they have to repay next year and
there’s a lot of pressure on the hryvnia,” Liza Ermolenko, an
emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London ,
said by phone. “Investors are getting nervous and people want
to see some movement from the government toward an IMF deal.
They don’t have a lot of options and this downgrade is another
reminder for them.”  Bond Reaction  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years. The rates moved in the opposite
direction 47 percent of the time for Moody’s and for S&P. The
data measured yields after a month relative to U.S. Treasury
debt, the global benchmark.  Fitch’s current rating and stable outlook “assume” the
government will seek the deal with IMF “in a timely fashion,”
Charles Seville, director of the rating company’s sovereign
group in London, said by e-mail yesterday.  “The government has a window to take the necessary
measures and the Cabinet reshuffle signals they are preparing
the ground for this,” Seville said. A further decline in
foreign reserves due to a delayed IMF agreement “is the most
likely source of pressure on the rating,” he said, adding that
“we’re watching that closely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  