-- Tullow Says Ugandan Crude Needs Two Years to Start Flowing
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-12-07T06:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/tullow-says-ugandan-crude-needs-two-years-to-start-flowing.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , which found oil in
Uganda in 2006, said delays in agreeing with the East African
government on a plan to develop a refinery and export-pipeline
means it will be at least end-2014 before crude starts flowing.  It will take a minimum of two years to start initial-stage
production, which involves selling unrefined crude to heavy-fuel
users in Uganda, Tullow’s Vice-President of African Business Tim
O’Hanlon said yesterday in an interview.  Delays could last even longer while Tullow and its partners
 Total SA (FP)  and CNOOC in the Lake Albert fields try to narrow
differences with the state on a three-prong development plan, he
said. Issues under discussion include financing arrangements and
processing capacity for a planned refinery in Uganda and the
terms of pipeline-construction to ship the crude to markets
abroad, O’Hanlon said in Kigali,  Rwanda ’s capital.  “The quickest one is the consumption of crude by local
industries and that could take place within the next 24
months,” O’Hanlon said. “But we can’t guarantee that because
we have to get approvals to be able to do that, and we’d like a
holistic development plan to be approved in its entirety
before.”  O’Hanlon, speaking on a panel on Dec. 5 at an
infrastructure conference in Kigali, called for transparency and
predictability in the way governments deal with oil and gas
developers. Production-sharing contracts kept secret from the
public are usually a condition from the governments, not
companies, he said.  ‘Time is Money’  “Time is money, and the money will only flow when the oil
is being sold, either through refinery gates or into a vessel
off the coast and that’s taking longer than we hoped” in
Uganda, he said in the interview. “But the private sector is
always in a hurry and governments are often going slower than
ideal because they are trying to get it spot-on right for their
countries.”  London-based Tullow, which has the most oil licenses in
 Africa  of any company, announced in March the first oil
discovery in  Kenya , which borders Uganda, along with its partner
in the project,  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  They have yet to determine
whether it’s commercially viable to develop the deposit.  Tullow’s stock closed 1 percent lower at 1,242 pence in
 London  yesterday, paring its gain this year to 11 percent,
compared with a 5.6 decline in the FTSE 100 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  