-- Murray’s Randy Roosevelt; Gerard Butler, Love Daddy: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-12-07T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/murray-s-randy-roosevelt-gerard-butler-love-daddy-film.html
“ Hyde Park on Hudson ,” starring  Bill Murray  as  Franklin Roosevelt , chronicles a visit the king and
queen of  England  (Samuel West and Olivia Colman) made to FDR’s
Hudson Valley,  New York  estate in 1939 to enlist support in the
coming war with Germany.  The narrator is Daisy Suckley, a distant cousin of the
president’s and one of his mistresses.  Laura Linney  plays her as
such a sparkless thing (or maybe the blame belongs to the
director, Roger Michell) that it’s unlikely the glamorous
Roosevelt would even want to have her over for tea.  Both the royals are terrible stiffs, so outraged that hot
dogs are on the menu for a picnic in their honor that you wonder
if they think they’re going to be eating real ones.  Richard Nelson, the writer, shows no interest at all in the
politics of the situation.  When the movie isn’t busy leering at Roosevelt’s sexual
appetite, it’s reducing the wheelchair-bound president and the
stuttering king -- two leaders who had a large part in saving
the world -- to their maladies, adding extra sympathy in the
form of dollops of sludge from Jeremy Sams’s perky-maudlin
score.  And Murray? He’s the one bright spot. Though he isn’t a
convincing FDR, it’s fun to contemplate, as your mind wanders,
how far he’s come from the mock-sleazy lounge lizard he used to
play on “Saturday Night Live.”  The filmmakers look down on everyone else -- including the
audience, which they hold in such low esteem that they consider
it necessary to attach an end title explaining that in time the
 United States  did enter the war on the side of Britain.  “Hyde Park on Hudson,” from  Focus Features , is playing in
New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: * (Seligman)  Gerard Butler  There’s no more point in griping about “ Playing for Keeps ”
than there is in complaining about the slightly overdone slab of
medium-grade beef that arrives on your plate at a chain
steakhouse. What were you expecting?  What you get here is  Gerard Butler  as George Dryer, a has-
been Scottish footballer who’s moved to  Virginia  to be near his
little boy (Noah Lomax) and his ex-wife (Jessica Biel), who’s
about to remarry. I would never, ever reveal what happens.  Soccer Dad  Before anything does, George spends some time turning his
son’s lackluster soccer team into champions. Most Little League
movies concentrate on how the coach inspires the team. This one
shows no interest in the sport or any of the other kids.  Instead it focuses on George’s drab (though busy) sex life.
The movie’s one distinction is the trio of good actresses --  Judy Greer,  Catherine Zeta-Jones  and a bitterly funny  Uma Thurman  (reprising, with a suburban twist, her “ Pulp Fiction ”
character) -- playing soccer moms who throw themselves at him.  Written by Robbie Fox and directed by Gabriele Muccino, it’s
competently made and inoffensive enough. If you were hoping for
something more, you came to the wrong film.  “Playing for Keeps,” from FilmDistrict, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: ** (Seligman)  Long Odds  The private dancers, gamblers, bookies and assorted strivers
in Stephen Frears’s “ Lay the Favorite ” are an oddly chipper lot.  That distinction aside, this sentimental Vegas tale of the
betting life might most generously be written off as a misguided
lark for the talented director and a cast that includes  Bruce Willis , Catherine Zeta-Jones and Vince Vaughn.  Rebecca Hall  (“ Vicky Cristina Barcelona ”) plays Beth Raymer,
the real stripper-turned-author (“Lay the Favorite: A Memoir of
Gambling”) whose life can’t have been this gooey.  With her Daisy Duke shorts and wide-eyed sensuality, Beth
ditches cocktail waitress dreams to become the protege (among
other things) of professional gambler Dink (Willis).  Dink, whose sartorial flair is limited to baggy shorts,
oversize shirts and white knee-high tube socks, has a romantic
fling with Beth before ex-showgirl wife Tulip (Zeta-Jones) puts
a stop to the affair and Beth’s new career.  Despite a promising relationship with nice-guy journalist
Jeremy (Joshua Jackson), Beth moves to Florida for a job with
outlaw bookie Rosie (Vaughn).  When the new gig goes sour -- the FBI can be so persnickety
-- Beth’s gold-hearted Vegas pals come to the rescue.  The screenplay by D.V. DeVincentis (Frears’s “ High
Fidelity ”) finds little drama in this low-stakes saga, and the
director apparently sees a charm in his heroine that makes no
appearance onscreen.  Looking bored, Vaughn and Willis resort to old tics, Zeta-
Jones emotes and Jackson fades away.  Hall’s unconvincing Baby Doll mannerisms are cloying from
the start and her amateurish performance -- the only risk this
film takes -- is a bet with no payoff.  “Lay the Favorite,” from the Weinstein Company, is playing
in select theaters. Rating: * (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 