-- Verizon Pension Recipients Fail to Block Plan Transfer
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-07T20:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/verizon-pension-recipients-lose-bid-to-block-plan-transfer.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  pension-
plan beneficiaries lost a bid to block the company’s transfer of
$7.5 billion in plan obligations to Prudential Insurance Co. of
America.  U.S. District Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater in  Dallas  today
denied a request by two  retirees  who worked for a Verizon
predecessor to issue an order stopping the deal, saying they
failed to show a “substantial likelihood of success on the
merits” of their case.  The transaction, under which the retired managers’ plan
would be converted to an annuity, would strip them and about
41,000 other beneficiaries of the protections of federal law and
cause irreparable harm, they said in lawsuit filed Nov. 27.  “Plaintiffs have failed to establish a substantial
likelihood that Verizon has a specific intent to interfere with
their rights,” Fitzwater wrote in his opinion today. “They do
not offer a rebuttal to Verizon’s proffered legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reasons for defining the group of retirees for
the annuity contract.”  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, said on
Oct. 17 that it planned to shift about one-fourth of its pension
obligations to Prudential to remove risk from its  balance sheet .
The New York-based company has said the beneficiaries’ lawsuit
is without merit and it may be harmed if the transaction isn’t
completed by Dec. 10.  ‘No Say’  Curtis Kennedy, an attorney for the retirees, said today
that his clients should have been given “a voice and a
choice,” as General Motors Co. beneficiaries were when their
plan was transferred to Prudential.  “Verizon’s style was to do a ‘cram-down,’ giving retirees
no say in the matter,” Kennedy said in an e-mailed statement.
Fitzwater’s ruling will probably be appealed, the lawyer said.  “While we cannot immediately stop the Verizon/Prudential
annuity transaction from going forward next week, all of the
parties may, eventually, be faced with a need to unwind some of
the deal,” Kennedy said.  In his 15-page ruling, the judge rejected the plaintiffs’
claims that by transferring the whole of their pension to just a
single entity, Prudential, Verizon was breaching its fiduciary
duty to diversify plan investments to minimize risk.  “This argument relies on characterizing the annuity
contract as an investment instead of a distribution of
benefits,” Fitzwater said. “But plaintiffs offer no support
for their position that the fiduciary duty to diversify
investments applies in this context.”  Protected Interests  Ray McConville, a spokesman for Verizon, said by phone
today that the company is pleased with the court’s decision.  “Verizon’s actions regarding its pensions protect the
interests of our retired management employees,” the company
said in a Nov. 29 statement. “The monthly pension benefits of
the retirees receiving an annuity from Prudential will remain
unchanged.”  The unit of  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest
U.S. life insurance company, is also a defendant in the suit. In
a Dec. 5 filing, the  Newark , New Jersey-based company told
Fitzwater the plaintiffs’ pensions will remain safe and urged
him to reject their request to block the transfer.  “Prudential has paid retiree benefits under group annuity
contracts and other arrangements since 1928 without
interruption,” according to the filing.  Dawn Kelly, a Prudential spokeswoman, declined to comment
today on the judge’s ruling.  The case is Lee v. Verizon Communications Inc., 12-cv-4834,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  