-- Veteran Lawmaker Favored Over House Freshman in Louisiana
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-12-07T05:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/veteran-lawmaker-favored-over-house-freshman-in-louisiana.html
The last undecided U.S. congressional
race of the 2012 campaign also is one of its most unusual: a
matchup between two  Louisiana  Republican incumbents with
different backgrounds and bases of support.  Charles Boustany Jr., a four-term congressman on the tax-
writing House Ways and Means Committee, is favored to defeat
Jeff Landry, a freshman aligned with the Tea Party Caucus, which
supports cutting government spending and taxes. The contest will
be decided in a runoff election tomorrow in a Republican-
friendly swath of southwestern Louisiana bordering the Gulf of
Mexico.  The Boustany-Landry race is “kind of a microcosm of the
struggle within the Republican Party about what’s the future of
the Republican Party,” Pearson Cross, a political scientist at
the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, said in an interview.  It’s a battle, Cross said, between “younger, insurgent
elements” who are less prone to compromise, represented by
Landry, 41, and more establishment-style candidates like
Boustany, 56, who have a “leadership-oriented, get-on-a-
committee, dig-in-to-the-detail wonkish approach to
government.”  The race isn’t much of a fair fight.  Boustany’s advantages begin with favorable political
geography. A redrawing of congressional lines combined his
district with Landry’s to reflect slow-growing Louisiana’s loss
of one seat after the 2010 Census. Boustany now represents about
three-fourths of the people in the merged district, compared
with about one-fourth for Landry.  Comfort Levels  “It’s just been a case of there being more voters here
comfortable with Boustany than were comfortable with Landry, and
Boustany has had four terms to make friends,” Cross said.  Boustany’s stronger ties to the revamped district propelled
him to a 45 percent to 30 percent lead over Landry in the first-
round of voting on Nov. 6, a contest that included candidates of
all parties and triggered a runoff because none got more than 50
percent.  Boustany’s other big advantage is fundraising. He outraised
Landry by $887,000 to $300,000 in the 32-day period that ended
Nov. 18, and has spent $3.7 million to Landry’s $1.9 million
since the beginning of 2011, Federal Election Commission reports
show.  As a member of Ways and Means, Boustany can raise money
from companies seeking to influence the tax, trade and health
policies under the committee’s purview.  Political Donations  Companies including Bank of America Corp.,  Humana Inc. (HUM)  and
Federal Express Corp. made political donations to Boustany’s
campaign within the past week, FEC records show.  Republican members of the Ways and Means Committee aiding
Boustany include Chairman Dave Camp of Michigan and Peter Roskam
of  Illinois , the party’s chief deputy whip in the House.  Landry is backed by some lawmakers first elected to
Congress with him in 2010, when Republicans won control of the
House. A few of them appeared in a campaign ad for Landry.  Outside groups active in the race include FreedomWorks for
America, an anti-tax advocacy group backing Landry, and
Louisiana Prosperity Fund, a super-political action committee
aiding Boustany with ads attacking Landry for missing votes. The
super-PAC’s donors include Louisiana energy executive William
Dore.  Boustany and Landry see eye-to-eye on most policy issues.
Both oppose raising tax rates as part of a deal to avoid the so-
called fiscal cliff, the combination of more than $600 billion
in automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to begin
in January if President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in Congress
don’t reach an agreement on an alternative deficit-reduction
package.  Conservative Accomplishments  In one ad, Boustany says his “real record of conservative
accomplishments” includes opposition to abortion and gun
control measures and votes to repeal Obama’s 2010 health-care
overhaul.  Landry has highlighted Boustany’s votes to raise the
national debt limit and for a $700 billion financial rescue
package in 2008 as a credit crisis deepened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  