-- Wasendorf’s Chicago Lakefront Condo Sells for $1 Million
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-12-07T20:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/wasendorf-s-chicago-lakefront-condo-sells-for-1-million.html
The  Chicago  condominium belonging to
Russell Wasendorf Sr., the former futures brokerage executive
who pleaded guilty to fraud in September, sold for $1 million,
according to an attorney for the receiver in the case.  The deal for the two-bedroom, three-bathroom apartment was
completed yesterday, said Randy Lending, the Chicago-based
lawyer for Michael Eidelman, who was appointed to marshal and
liquidate Wasendorf’s assets. The property overlooking  Lake
Michigan  was purchased fully furnished, Lending said.  The penthouse apartment used to be owned by Ernie Banks,
the former Chicago Cubs shortstop and member of the Baseball
Hall of Fame, according to Vince D’Amico, a senior adviser with
brokerage Sperry Van Ness, who handled the sale. The deal
included some contents of the property, such as Wasendorf’s ties
and belts, and a hat autographed by Banks, D’Amico said.  “It was eerie,” D’Amico said. “It was like he was there
one day and gone the next.”  The unit has high ceilings, a recently updated kitchen and
a den that could be converted to a third bedroom, according to
the property  listing . The starting bid on the unit was $975,000,
D’Amico said. The buyers were a couple who have a home in a
western suburb and paid cash for the condo, he said.  Peregrine Financial Group Inc., the commodities brokerage
Wasendorf founded, is being liquidated after he admitted to
stealing at least $100 million of client money. The embezzlement
came to light after Wasendorf attempted suicide in July and was
found with a signed statement confessing to more than 20 years
of fraud.  The receiver also is planning to sell the $24 million
custom headquarters Wasendorf built for Peregrine in Cedar
Falls,  Iowa . There has been “some interest” in the property,
though a broker hasn’t yet been hired, Lending said.  Wasendorf moved Peregrine to  Cedar Falls  from Chicago, a
five-hour drive east and the Midwest’s traditional financial
center, in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  