-- West Texas Sour, Maya Crudes Weaken on Glut in Permian Basin
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-12-07T22:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/west-texas-sour-maya-crudes-weaken-on-glut-in-permian-basin.html
West  Texas  Sour oil weakened for a
second day on a supply glut in the Permian Basin.  Texas oils including West Texas Sour have been under
pressure over the past two months as rising production has
filled pipelines leading out of the region. The glut has also
reduced the price of Latin America Maya crude, which refiners
use as an alternative to West Texas Sour.  West Texas Sour weakened by $4 to a discount of $17.50 a
barrel to the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate at 4:02
p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Maya’s discount to Light Louisiana Sweet widened by $1.20 to
$19.32 a barrel.  “Because the West Texas Sour is bottlenecked in the
Permian Basin, it is now lowering the price of Maya that’s
delivered to the Gulf Coast, giving the refiners there the
incentive to process Maya versus LLS,”  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said in a telephone
interview.  Maya has been weakening against LLS since June 28, when the
two crudes traded within $6 of each other. The discount for Maya
spiked to $25.77 on Nov. 19, a four-year low.  An extended outage at  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Borger, Texas, refinery
has worsened the glut. The plant, which normally processes some
of that crude, has been down for maintenance since Sept. 22. A
person familiar with the matter said Dec. 5 that the company may
extend work on a fluid catalytic cracker for two weeks.  Projects are under way to relieve the bottleneck.  Magellan
Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  plans to reverse the flow of the Longhorn
pipeline to move crude from West Texas to Houston early next
year.  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL)  plans to complete expansions
in the Permian totaling 110,000 barrels a day in the first
quarter, Chief Executive Michael Hennigan said during the
company’s earnings call Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  