-- Westlife to Combine Units Including India McDonald’s Franchisee
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-12-07T14:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/westlife-to-combine-units-including-india-mcdonald-s-franchisee.html
Westlife Development Ltd. (WLDL) , an Indian
real estate developer, plans to combine some of its group
companies and make the local franchisee of  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  a
direct unit as part of a revamp, it said in a statement today.  Westlife will consolidate Westpoint Leisureparks Pvt. and
Hardcastle Restaurants Pvt., which operates 148 McDonald’s
outlets in western and southern India. The listed parent will
gain access to capital and accelerate growth, Amit Jatia, vice
chairman of Westlife, said in a telephone interview.  “This opens up opportunities for investors in the Indian
market to be able to invest in the growth of McDonald’s
franchise business in India,” Jatia said, without revealing
terms of the merger. The process may be completed in six to nine
months, he said.  India , the world’s second-most populous nation, is
important for McDonald’s as it expands sales  overseas . As much
as 68 percent of the company’s revenue came from outside the
U.S. in the year ended December 2011. Hardcastle plans to add
new McDonald’s outlets at the rate of about 25 percent each year
and will have 260 by the end of 2014, Jatia said.  Westlife shares rose 2 percent to 86.20 rupees in Mumbai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has more than
quadrupled this year, compared with a 26 percent gain in the
benchmark BSE Ltd. Sensitive Index.  Connaught Plaza Restaurants Pvt., which operates McDonald’s
stores in northern and eastern India, earlier this year
announced plans to open the fast-food chain’s first vegetarian
outlets. McDonald’s, based in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , will double
its restaurants in India in four years, Connaught’s Managing
Director Vikram Bakshi said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  