-- When the Army Invaded Montgomery Ward
-- B y   K e n n e t h   L i p a r t i t o
-- 2012-12-07T18:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/when-the-army-invaded-montgomery-ward.html
Many corporate executives have defied
the government. How many have been willing to be carried from
their offices by soldiers for doing it?  Sewell Avery was. In 1944, Avery, the head of retail giant
Montgomery Ward, was ordered by President Franklin D. Roosevelt
to settle a strike with his workers. When he refused, the
government took over his company. In an iconic photo of the era,
two soldiers hold Avery in a sitting position, his arms crossed,
a look of insubordination on his face, as they remove him from
the building.  Although the company was eventually returned to private
hands, Avery didn’t relent in his opposition to Roosevelt or the
New Deal. He continued to combine business with politics. The
mixture didn’t go well for him, or for his company.  Avery was born into a prominent family in Saginaw,
 Michigan . He got his start managing a small gypsum plant, which
was folded into the  United States Gypsum Co. (USG)  in 1901. Avery
worked his way up to president within a few years.  In the depths of the Great Depression, he took charge of
the struggling retailer Montgomery Ward. Founded in 1872, the
company had pioneered catalog sales but had steadily lost ground
to its  Chicago  rival Sears Roebuck & Co. Avery slashed costs,
fired workers, closed stores and reduced lines. The strategy
worked and the company’s finances soon rebounded.  Robbing Liberty  But even as the country began to recover from the
Depression, and Avery’s personal wealth soared, he remained
convinced the economy was on the path to ruin. He kept generous
cash on hand at Montgomery Ward, fearing the destabilizing
effects of government policies. A fierce proponent of free
markets, he opposed Roosevelt’s seemingly pro-business National
Recovery Act, which allowed industries to set prices and control
output, and he held out against labor unions, convinced that in
resisting these “robbers of liberty” he was speaking to the
“hearts of millions.”  He helped to finance anti-Roosevelt groups and urged
Montgomery Ward’s shareholders to vote in the 1935 election to
end “burdensome and inequitable taxes,” which he said were
holding back business expansion.  Such fulminations pitted Avery against a popular president
who won re-election by overwhelming majorities in 1936 and 1940.
And when the nation entered World War II, his battle took on
national-defense implications.  In 1942, Roosevelt reauthorized the World War I-era War
Labor Board. Composed of business, political and union leaders,
the board arbitrated labor disputes to prevent any slowdown of
production. Unions agreed not to strike for the duration of the
war, so long as management agreed to abide by the board’s
decisions.  This didn’t sit well with Avery. When his employees sought
to unionize, he declined to recognize them, incensed
particularly by a maintenance-of-membership clause in their
proposed contract. New workers would be automatically enrolled
in the union after 15 days, a concession the government granted
in exchange for the pledge not to strike. Avery viewed it as the
first step toward a “closed shop.”  The conflict simmered for almost two years, then came to a
boil on April 27, 1944, when the company’s labor agreements
expired. Without a contract, the workers weren’t bound by the
no-strike pledge. Roosevelt ordered Avery to either extend the
contract pending a union-certification vote or accede to
government seizure of his company.  Feet First  When Avery refused, soldiers arrived and took him out the
door. On his way out, Avery allegedly could be heard shouting
something to the effect of “You New Dealers, you.” Softening his
tone a bit later, he affirmed his support for the war effort and
joked, “I’ve been fired before, but this is the first time they
ever carried me out feet first.” Nonetheless, he was steadfast
that his actions were a protest against “political slavery.”  The case quickly made it to the courts. As the judge
deliberated, Montgomery Ward was nominally being run by the U.S.
Department of Commerce. Before a ruling could be handed down,
however, the union completed its election and employees returned
to work. On May 9, Commerce Secretary Jesse Jones returned the
company to private management.  Avery still wasn’t placated. He rejected the union
contract, and by December the labor situation had deteriorated
once more. Workers in  Detroit  and Chicago again went on strike.
On Dec. 27, 1944, the president ordered the War Department to
take over.  This time Avery stayed in his executive suite, while Major
General Joseph Byron and his staff made do with an office
nearby. The general and the chief executive officer traded
control of Avery’s reserved parking space, depending on who
arrived first. Avery and his team engaged in a sort of passive
resistance, refusing to show where the company books were kept
or to aid in their use. The general warned that employees could
be dismissed for noncompliance and then reclassified for active
service by their draft boards.  While the government argued that Avery’s actions imperiled
the business-labor accord, Avery countered that the War Labor
Board was merely an advisory body and that his company wasn’t a
war-production facility. The issue ended up back in federal
court for months. Finally, on Oct. 18, 1945, the Army
relinquished control once more.  The fight with Roosevelt hardened Avery’s resolve against
liberalism. He purged company managers who opposed his view, and
Montgomery Ward entered the postwar decades with Avery, at 76,
running a one-man show. He criticized companies that offered
their workers frills like pensions and decried the public’s
taste for security above risk. Sure that the economy was headed
toward collapse, he again stockpiled cash and refused to follow
rival retailer Sears Roebuck on a course of growth and
expansion. As consumers moved to the suburbs in the 1950s, Avery
and Montgomery Ward stuck with their aging downtown stores.  Montgomery Ward rallied a number of times over the next
four decades, but its best days were over. In 2000, the company
closed its doors for good. Only the name survives, purchased by
an  online retailer .  Avery died in 1960 a wealthy man, a beneficiary of the boom
he denied was happening. But his efforts to turn the tide of
politics were a failure. “Who am I to argue with history?” he
once quipped to critics. Argue with history he did, however, and
it cost his company the future. It’s a lesson for shareholders
to consider if their CEO is thinking of Going Avery.  (Kenneth Lipartito is a professor of history at Florida
International University and co-author of “Corporate
Responsibility: The American Experience.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Kenneth Lipartito at
 lipark@fiu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  