-- Why Greece Isn’t Like U.S. Revealed in Bonds: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-12-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/why-greece-isn-t-like-u-s-revealed-in-bonds-cutting-research.html
The vulnerability of economies to
sovereign debt crisis may depend on who’s holding their bonds.  That’s a signal from a new index designed by International
Monetary Fund economists. It seeks to show which advanced
economies have the flightiest sources of investment and so are
most at risk of sudden capital outflows.  The gauge, published in a  working paper  this month, runs
from zero to 100. A higher score means that the country is more
prone to a sudden buyers’ strike from investors. A country with
a zero rating would have all its debt held by the domestic
central bank, while a 100 reading means all the country’s debt
would be owned by foreign investors such as insurance companies
and  hedge funds , excluding governments and banks.  Created by IMF economists Serkan Arslanalp and Takahiro Tsuda, the index is based on a dataset from 24 major advanced
economies and $42 trillion of sovereign debt holdings from 2004
to 2011.  The measure suggested the euro-area economies that received
bailouts exhibited high risk of outflows as early as 2010.
Greece was rated at 75 in the fourth quarter of 2009, when it
could still borrow in the market. With results of 39 and 44
respectively at the end of 2011,  Spain  and Italy are less
threatened because of the high share of debt in the hands of
domestic banks, the report said.  With scores of less than 25 at the end of 2011,  Australia ,
 Japan ,  Switzerland  and the U.S. were among those identified as
having safer sources of finance.  Germany  scored 40 a year ago.  The index can explain some classic “puzzles” of why
certain countries can sustain much higher debts without market
pressure, said Arslanalp and Tsuda.  For example, while Japan has a debt equivalent to more than
200 percent of gross domestic product, a lot of it is held
domestically and so is less at risk of flight, they said, while
the U.K., Germany and U.S. may be in a similar class.  The study also found a rising share of foreign investors in
sovereign debt markets even after $400 billion of withdrawals
from the euro region’s most strained nations from mid-2010 to
the end of 2011.  Banks are also increasingly exposed to their own
government’s debt. Sixty-nine percent of euro-area bank’s
regional debt holdings were of their own sovereign issues at the
end of 2011, up from 57 percent at the end of 2007. In  Greece ,
Italy and Spain, the ratio was closer to 100 percent.  The results “show that large funding gaps may arise in a
number of countries in case of severe foreign outflows,
requiring large absorption by domestic banks,” said Arslanalp
and Tsuda.  * * *  Two thousand years of history show recent trade imbalances
in the world economy are nothing unusual.  Between 1 AD and 3 AD, Rome ran persistent trade deficits
with  India , Deutsche Bank AG strategist Sanjeev Sanyal wrote in
a Nov. 30 study. He noted that the Roman philosopher Pliny once
said “not a year passed in which India did not take fifty
million sesterces away from Rome.”  By the 16th century, Spain was running trade deficits as it
imported resources to sustain its empire and fight wars, paying
for the gap with Andean silver. In the late 19th century, the
U.K. acted as the world’s economic engine with a steadily
growing trade gap.  The rare period in which there was balance came in the
first half of the 19th century. It was an era of three-way trade
in which Britain sold manufactured goods to India in return for
opium. That in turn was sold to  China  for tea and porcelain.  “History shows that the global economy is not
characterized by balance, but by long periods of symbiotic
imbalances,” said Singapore-based Sanyal.  * * *  Investors seeking to gauge whether a central bank will
shift  interest rates  should look how it voted the previous time.  So says a paper published this month by the International
Journal of Central Banking, focused on the track record of
central banks in the  Czech Republic , Hungary, Poland, Sweden and
the U.K. The study found that if even a minority votes for
higher rates at one meeting, it’s more likely that there will be
a rate increase at the subsequent gathering.  “In all these countries the voting records are indeed
informative about future monetary policy and thus in principle
improve monetary policy predictability,” said economists Roman
Horvath of Charles University in Prague, the Czech National
Bank’s Katerina Smidkova and Jan Zapal of the  London School  of
Economics.  Interestingly for the  European Central Bank , which doesn’t
publish its governing council’s votes in part because it doesn’t
want its officials to face criticism at home, the report said
the predictive results hold even if the votes of individual
policy makers are concealed.  * * *  China needs to open up trading of financial assets before
letting its  exchange rate  float if it is to protect its economy
from foreign shocks.  That’s according to a Dec. 3 report by two economists from
the  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco  who studied how China
prohibits its private sector from freely trading overseas assets
and manages its currency.  Against that backdrop, China has found it harder to set
monetary policy in recent years. Interest rates on its foreign
assets fell following the global financial crisis, while yields
on its own domestic assets stayed high, Zheng Liu and Mark M.
Spiegel wrote.  “Opening the capital account would improve China’s
capacity to weather economic shocks, such as sudden declines in
foreign interest rates,” they said. “However, allowing the
exchange rate to float without removing  capital controls  is less
effective,” they said.  * * *  Greater volatility in financial markets and lower price
differentials provoke increases in high-frequency trading,
according to a  Bank of England  working paper.  High-frequency trading occurs when companies use computer
programs to trade at high speed and try to avoid holding
positions overnight.  Such a practice is of interest to the U.K. central bank
because there is little insight into it and because of recent
mishaps such as May’s 2010 “Flash Crash,” economists Evangelos Benos and Satchit Sagade wrote in a study published this month.  The Bank of  England  “has a natural interest in better
understanding HFT behavior and how it might impact the quality
of U.K. equity markets,” the study said.  High-speed trading technologies can inject useful levels of
volatility into markets and are less likely than other traders
to generate excessive moves -- those not triggered by
fundamentals, the report said.  “It is not immediately clear what the welfare implications
of HFT activity are,” the report said. How they are embraced
may ultimately depend on “how much additional noise we are
willing to tolerate at some times for the benefit of more
informed trading at other times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 