-- World's Richest Gain $5.9 Billion as Grocer Albrecht Dies
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2012-12-07T22:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/world-s-richest-gain-5-9-billion-as-grocer-albrecht-dies.html
The 100 wealthiest people on the
planet added $5.9 billion to their collective net worth this
week as global markets inched upward amid concerns about U.S.
budget negotiations and slowing economic growth in  Germany .  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest person, gained $308
million during the week, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . The Mexican telecommunications tycoon, 72, is confronting
a mounting backlash from the same Latin American countries that
made him wealthy as authorities rein in his expanding mobile-
phone empire.  Mexico ’s new president pledged last week to
stimulate competition against Slim. He is worth $73.3 billion.  “The sectors that are most tightly connected to global
economic growth are falling,” Jack Ablin, chief investment
officer at BMO Private Bank in  Chicago , which oversees about $66
billion in assets, said in a phone interview. “Technology
shares are off so much. Those tend to be attached to individuals
more, say, than the bank stocks, which are advancing.”  Payrolls in the U.S. rose more than anticipated and the
jobless rate fell to an almost four-year low in November,
indicating the labor market withstood the impact of superstorm
Sandy. Employment climbed by 146,000 following a revised 138,000
gain in October that was less than initially estimated, Labor
Department figures showed yesterday in  Washington . The median
estimate of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
gain of 85,000.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.13 percent during
the week to close at 1418.07 in New York. The Stoxx  Europe  600
Index up 1.23 percent, closing at 279.17.  Albrecht Dies  Berthold Albrecht, whose inheritance of half of closely
held supermarkets Aldi Nord and Trader Joe’s from his father
placed him on the Bloomberg ranking with a $10.7 billion
fortune, was removed from the ranking after reports of his death
surfaced. He was 58.  Albrecht was buried last month in a private ceremony
attended by close family and friends, according to a full-page
death notice from his wife Babette published in Handelsblatt
newspaper yesterday.  The billionaire’s passing may make his wife and children
billionaires too, according to a lawyer who advises on German
foundation law.  “If you have a normal relationship to your family,
everyone gets something, your wife and your children,” said Dr.
Hedda Hoffmann-Steudner, the head of the legal department at
Berlin-based Bundesverband Deutscher Stiftungen, a non-profit
organization representing the interests of German foundations.
“There’s no standard way in Germany for the value being
inherited to the next generation. It depends on every person,
what he or she decides.”  Buffett, Ortega  Albrecht was father to five children, including quadruplets
-- three boys and a girl -- born in 1990. Their names could not
be confirmed. His uncle,  Karl Albrecht , 92, is the richest
person in Germany with a net worth of $22.3 billion, according
to the Bloomberg ranking, down $236 million for the week.  Retail billionaire  Dieter Schwarz , 73, who controls the
Lidl and Kaufland supermarket chains, is worth $20 billion. He
is the country’s second-richest person, off $160 million. Lidl
and Aldi are competitors.  Europe’s richest man,  Amancio Ortega , the 76-year-old
founder of  Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s biggest clothing retailer and
owner of the Zara clothing chain, is No. 3 on the list with a
net worth of $53.7 billion, $6.9 billion ahead of  Warren
Buffett , 82.  Laurene Powell Jobs, the 49-year-old widow of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
co-founder Steve Jobs, lost $347 million. Apple shares plummeted
8.9 percent during the week, and are down 24 percent since
hitting their all-time high in September. Her fortune is valued
at $10 billion.  ’Thermonuclear War’  Samsung Electronics Co. yesterday urged a judge to reject
Apple Inc.’s escalation of “thermonuclear war” by denying the
iPhone maker’s request for a permanent U.S. sales ban on more
than 25 Samsung products.  “Apple has changed every day since I have been here. But
the DNA of the company, the thing that makes our heart beat, is
a maniacal focus on making the best products in the world,”
Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Businessweek. “Not good products, or a lot of
products, but the absolute best products in the world.”  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  