-- Worst Beef Bet JBS Set to Beat Peers After M&A: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-12-07T13:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/worst-beef-bet-jbs-set-to-beat-peers-after-m-a-corporate-brazil.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the worst-performing stock
among meat companies in the Americas this year, is now forecast
to post the biggest rally as the maker of Swift steaks says
cheap Brazilian cattle will drive profit growth and reduce debt.  Shares in the supplier of  restaurant chains  from McDonald’s
to Outback will gain 42 percent in the next 12 months, the most
among beef producers worldwide, according to the average of 17
price estimates tracked by Bloomberg. The stock has lost
investors 13 percent this year compared with  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) ’s
3.7 percent decline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Beef margins in Brazil will keep rising going forward,”
Chief Executive Officer Wesley Batista, 42, said in a Nov. 30
interview at the company’s headquarters in  Sao Paulo . “Add to
that the outlook of lower grain prices, which will help
Pilgrim’s Pride, and you have a good year ahead.”  Batista, whose father Jose founded JBS in 1953 by opening a
slaughterhouse, expects to lower the company’s  ratio  of net debt
to earnings before items to “the low 2s” by 2014 from 3.7 at
the end of the third quarter by containing costs and widening
profit margins. JBS will benefit as expanding herds in Brazil
reduce cattle prices, while in the U.S. it can pass on higher
U.S. chicken and cattle prices to customers, he said.  Shares dropped 2 percent at 10:51 a.m. in Sao Paulo today,
amid news that a cow that died in  Brazil  in 2010 carried the
causing agent of mad cow disease, “but hasn’t manifested the
illness nor died because of it,” according to a statement
released by the country’s ministry of agriculture today.  ‘Positive Cycle’  JBS swung to a profit from a loss in the third quarter,
mostly because of sales of its Brazilian beef unit. The stock
trades at 33 times trailing earnings, compared with 10 for
Tyson.  “I’m excited about the company’s outlook,” said Eduardo Carlier, head of core equities at Schroder Investment, which
manages about 3 billion reais ($1.4 billion) in shares including
JBS. “Taking into consideration that debt levels are the main
concern surrounding JBS, the positive cycle for cattle in Brazil
and a strong dollar that helps exports should allow the company
to deleverage,” he said Dec. 4 by telephone from Sao Paulo.  The company’s  debt  ballooned since 2005 to 15.2 billion
reais at the end of the third quarter as the Batista family
started to expand outside of Brazil with  acquisitions  including
 Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC) , Swift & Co. and Tasman Group Services.
JBS had losses in the past two years and hopes to be “in the
black” this year and next, Batista told reporters Nov. 14.  Net income probably will surge to a record 1.53 billion
reais next year from 998 million reais this year, according to
the average estimate among analysts tracked by Bloomberg.  High Grain Prices  “The larger supply of cattle in Brazil is positive, but I
don’t see debt leverage declining as rapidly as I would like it
to,” Viktoria Krane, a director at  Fitch Ratings , said Dec. 5
in a telephone interview from  New York . “Cash-flow generation
tends to be neutral to slightly negative going forward in 2013
because of the lasting impact of high grain prices.”  Corn reached a record $8.40 a bushel in August and soybeans
touched an all-time high of $1.7835 a bushel in September amid a
U.S. drought that parched fields. Both commodities have since
plunged at least 9.7 percent through yesterday as  South America 
prepares to reap bigger crops.  Fitch rates JBS  bonds  a BB-, or three levels below
investment grade, and has a negative outlook on the company’s
debt.  Record prices for corn and soybeans eroded margins for the
beef and poultry units in the U.S. and may still affect results
this quarter and next because it typically takes time for
chicken and cattle raised on expensive corn and soybean meal to
reach the market, said Pedro Herrera, an analyst with HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Worst Not Over  “The worst of Pilgrim’s Pride is yet to come, but I think
the Brazilian beef unit will offset some of the weakness of the
U.S. business,” Herrera said in a Dec. 5 telephone interview
from Sao Paulo “If you put things on a scale, it’s going to be
an average year for JBS, which is good.”  Batista said normal weather conditions in the U.S. Midwest
next year should further reduce feedstock costs and, combined
with the outlook for cattle prices in Brazil, improve margins.
Expected sales growth of at least 10 percent will be fueled by
the startup of its new plants and higher capacity usage, rather
than additional asset purchases, he said.  The company is expanding in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
by starting six beef plants next year.  “We’re not in a mood to do big acquisitions,” he said.
“Now it’s time to reap the benefits from synergies after all
the acquisitions in past years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  