-- Yara to Buy Bunge Brazil Fertilizer Assets for $750 Million
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-12-07T13:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/yara-to-buy-bunge-s-brazil-fertilizer-business-for-750-million.html
Yara International ASA (YAR) , the largest
publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, agreed to purchase
 Bunge (BG)  Ltd. operations in  Brazil  for $750 million as it pursues a
33 percent production increase in four years from 2010 levels.  Yara sees annual synergies of at least $25 million from the
cash deal, the Oslo-based company said in a statement today.
Bunge has 22 blending units in Brazil that produced 4.8 million
metric tons of fertilizers in 2011, Yara said. Bunge had revenue
of $2.65 billion from the business and adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $77 million.  Industry producers are seeking acquisitions as the cost of
raw materials increases and higher food prices spur farmers to
plant more crops, boosting consumption of fertilizers. World
demand is poised to climb 3 percent to a record in the 2011-12
season, driven by “attractive” crop prices, the International
Fertilizer Industry Association said in February.  “It’s a great fit,” Per Haagensen, an analyst at
Fondsfinans ASA in Oslo, said by phone. “The pricing is 10
times Ebitda on an historical basis but the synergies are
massive, far higher, I think than the $25 million indicated.”  The purchase includes Bunge’s Brazil blending facilities,
brands and warehouses, the companies said in statements.  Yara rose 1 percent to 283.2 kroner by 2:15 p.m. in Oslo,
the second biggest gainer on the benchmark OBX Index of stocks
after  Aker Solutions ASA. (AKSO)  The OBX Index was down 0.4 percent.  White Plains  Bunge, the world’s second-largest oilseed processor, based
in  White Plains ,  New York , and Yara have agreed to a long-term
fertilizer supply accord, enabling the U.S. company to continue
to provide fertilizer to farmers. Bunge will retain and operate
its fertilizer terminal at the port of Santos.  “Brazil is a key growth market where there is significant
further potential for acreage and yield increases,” Yara Chief
Executive Officer and President Joergen Ole Haslestad said.
“Today’s agreement also creates a strong platform for future
growth opportunities within the Brazilian fertilizer industry.”  Yara plans an 8 million ton increase in sales of its own
and joint venture production between 2010 and 2016 from 24.5
million tons, according to slides from the company’s capital
markets day this week. Its growth plans include “significant”
mergers and acquisitions activity, the company said Dec. 4. The
Norwegian group will carry out all M&A without issuing new
equity except for the “very largest” acquisitions, it said.  Western Australia  The deal “proves that Yara will deliver on its growth
ambitions,” Eirik Vegem Dahle, a Pareto Securities AS analyst,
wrote in note. It provides Yara “with a solid base in one of
the most attractive and fastest growing fertilizer markets.”  The transaction comprises $385 million in net operating
capital value and $365 million in other assets, Yara said.  Credit Suisse Group AG advised Bunge on the deal, which is
expected to close in the second half of 2013, Bunge said.  Yara may buy the remaining stake in an Australian ammonia
plant from U.S. energy group  Apache Corp. (APA)  to boost output of the
raw material, Haslestad said in a Dec. 4 interview. The company,
which controls 51 percent of the Yara Pilbara plant in Western
Australia state, says it may buy the interest it doesn’t already
own as long as the valuation is considered reasonable.  Yara spent $143 million raising its stake in the operation
to 51 percent from 35 percent in February and Houston-based
Apache paid $439 million for 49 percent after receivers were
appointed to former operator Burrup Holdings Ltd.  Apache hired Citigroup Inc. to sell its 49 percent stake,
and may attract interest from buyers including  Incitec Pivot
Ltd. (IPL)  and  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , the Australian Financial Review reported
on Nov. 13, citing people it didn’t identify. The sale may be
worth more than $400 million, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  