-- Zogenix Painkiller Fails to Win Support of U.S. Advisers
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-12-07T23:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-07/zongenix-s-painkiller-fails-to-win-support-of-u-s-advisers.html
Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX) ’s pure hydrocodone
painkiller Zohydro failed to win the backing of U.S. advisers,
who said regulators should first take a closer look at measures
to curb the abuse of opioids.  A Food and Drug Administration advisory panel voted 11-2 at
a meeting today in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , that data submitted
by the company fails to support approval. The agency must now
decide by March 1 if it will follow the panel’s advice or allow
San Diego-based Zogenix to sell the painkiller.  The review of Zohydro, touted by the company as a pure
alternative to hydrocodone-combination products like Vicodin,
spurred questions from the panel about ways to prevent abuse of
opioids. Panel members said more risk measures, such as those
that deter abusers from crushing the pills and snorting the
drugs for a greater high, are needed for all such painkillers.  “Why not raise our standard as we move forward for
society?” Alan Kaye, a panel member and chairman of the
anesthesia department at the Louisiana State University School
of Medicine in  New Orleans , said at the meeting.  The government is weighing under what circumstances the FDA
should consider requiring abuse-deterrent features for opioids,
 Bob Rappaport , the agency’s director of the Division of
Anesthesia, Analgesia and Addiction Products in the Office of
Drug Evaluation II, said during the meeting.  Tamper Resistance  “Zogenix recognizes and appreciates that prescription
opioid misuse and abuse is a critical issue,” the company said
in a statement. “However, it is also important to remember that
there is a documented patient need for an extended-release
hydrocodone medicine without acetaminophen.”  Zohydro contains as much as 50 milligrams of hydrocodone,
while Vicodin has 5 milligrams and is combined with
acetaminophen. Zohydro is a twice-daily pain reliever while
combination products are used every four to six hours.  Zogenix is in the early stages of studying a tamper-
resistant pill,  Stephen Farr , the company’s president and chief
operating officer, said at the meeting. Zogenix didn’t create
one during its first attempt at approval because of issues with
choking and decreased effectiveness with pills that seek to
guard against abuse, he said.  Drug Dependence  If Zohydro is approved, the drug may generate more than
$200 million in sales, according to an estimate made by Annabel Samimy, a New York-based Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst, in a
note to clients last month. Zogenix reported $38 million in
revenue last year from the migraine injection Sumavel.  Zogenix’s shares were halted during the meeting. The  stock 
rose 6.3 percent this year through yesterday.  The panel voted that Zohydro is effective and 9-5 that the
drug is unsafe for those who are intended to take it.  “This drug will almost certainly cause dependence in the
people who are intended to take it,” Judith Kramer, a panel
member and professor of medicine at Duke University Medical
Center in Durham,  North Carolina , said during the meeting.  The drug may have a higher risk of abuse than other
painkillers, FDA staff said in a Dec. 5  report .  The FDA staff estimated the difference in emergency room
visits between Zohydro and the current drugs would be similar to
that of pure oxycodone and combination-oxycodone products. Pure
oxycodone resulted in 85 emergency room visits per 1 million
tablets dispensed, more than three times as many as for those
using combination tablets. There were 14 visits per million
hydrocodone-combo tablets dispensed.  OxyContin Development  Purdue Pharma, a closely held company in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , that made OxyContin, is researching a once-daily
hydrocodone tablet that is supposed to be harder to manipulate
and snort or use intravenously, the company said in a statement.  Prescription pain relievers are the second-most abused drug
in the U.S. after marijuana, with hydrocodone-related emergency
room visits more than doubling from 2004 to 2010, according to
the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
About 47 million patients received dispensed prescriptions for
combination hydrocodone-containing prescriptions last year,
according to the FDA report.  Zogenix submitted a risk mitigation strategy that mirrors a
template the FDA released in July for all extended-release
opioid products, Roger Hawley, chief executive officer of
Zogenix, said in a Nov. 8 earnings call with analysts. The
strategy requires makers of such drugs to educate prescribers
and patients on safe use of painkillers and make training
available for physicians on proper prescribing practices.  Alkermes Technology  Zohydro uses  Alkermes Plc (ALKS) ’s drug delivery technology to
provide extended release of the painkiller. Zogenix and
Alkermes, based in Athlone, Ireland, agreed on Nov. 2 that
Alkermes would be the exclusive manufacturer and supplier to
Zogenix of Zohydro.  Zogenix said it expects the Drug Enforcement Administration
to classify Zohydro, if approved, as a Schedule II product. The
category comes with stricter controls on sales, requiring more
doctor interaction with patients than Schedule III drugs, the
category for combination products. The DEA has asked the FDA to
review reclassifying the combo treatments to require tighter
oversight.  If the drug is approved, Zogenix expects about 90,000
patients will be using the medicine about five years after sales
begin, James Breitmeyer, Zogenix’s chief medical officer, said
during the meeting  If Zohydro wins approval, Zogenix is considering finding a
sales partner or expanding its internal sales force to about 150
representatives, Hawley said on the  earnings call . The company
plans to begin sales of the painkiller in June if it is cleared,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  