-- Manchester United Beats Newcastle 3-0, Moves Second in League
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/manchester-united-beats-newcastle-3-0-moves-second-in-league.html
Manchester United  won 3-0 at
Newcastle to climb to second in soccer’s Premier League, while
Tottenham beat Aston Villa 2-0 for its fourth straight victory.  Defenders Jonny Evans and  Patrice Evra  scored in the first
half, with Tom Cleverley stretching United’s advantage after 71
minutes. United sits above defending champion Manchester City on
goal difference, four points behind unbeaten Chelsea.  “We were on top of our game,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told  Sky Sports  after yesterday’s match. “The
concentration was terrific and the determination was there.”  In yesterday’s other games, Liverpool was held to a 0-0
home draw by Stoke, while Southampton and Fulham tied 2-2.  Steven Caulker and  Aaron Lennon  were the scorers for Spurs.
Hugo Lloris started in goal for Tottenham, ending  Brad Friedel ’s
run of 310 consecutive Premier League starts.  United, beaten 3-0 at Newcastle last season, dominated the
early stages and was ahead after only eight minutes when Evans
headed in from a corner. It was the center-back’s second goal in
130 appearances for the club.  The visitors continued to push forward and Rafael hit a
shot just wide three minutes later.  Danny Welbeck  then robbed
goalkeeper Steve Harper of the ball but was unable to guide it
into an empty net.  Harper saved a free kick from Wayne Rooney on 15 minutes
and United scored from the resulting corner, Evra heading past
the goalkeeper for only his fourth United goal in almost 300
games.  More Dangerous  Newcastle was more dangerous after halftime. Papiss Cisse
headed against the bar after 50 minutes and Demba Ba followed
up, although goalkeeper David de Gea clawed away his effort as
the home team appealed that the ball had crossed the line.  Ferguson and Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  were both unsure
if the strike should have been allowed by the officials.  “It’s inconclusive,” Ferguson said. “I would be
disappointed if he didn’t give the goal for ourselves, but the
rule is the whole ball has to be over the line.”  Cleverley ended any chance of a Newcastle comeback with a
shot that curled into the top corner of the net with 19 minutes
remaining.  Tottenham extended its unbeaten run in all competitions
since an opening day league defeat at Newcastle to eight matches
with a comfortable victory against Villa. It includes four
straight league wins.  Spurs were unable to take advantage of several first-half
opportunities, but were ahead on 58 minutes when a shot from
Jermain Defoe hit the back of Caulker’s foot and flew into the
net.  Lennon Recall  Lennon, who was recalled to the England squad last week,
doubled the home team’s advantage with a low shot nine minutes
later.  Liverpool remains without a home league win at Anfield this
season after its scoreless match against Stoke. The Reds have
six points from seven matches and sit 14th in the standings.  “I thought the performance was excellent,” Liverpool
manager  Brendan Rodgers  told reporters. “Stoke are a difficult
team to play against.”  At St. Mary’s, Jose Fonte scored twice as Southampton tied
against Fulham to climb out of the relegation positions.  Fonte gave the Saints a fourth-minute lead and then rescued
a point as the game headed into injury time at the end of the
match. Southampton’s Jos Hooiveld deflected the ball into his
own net on 70 minutes, with  Kieran Richardson  getting the
visitors’ other goal.  Southampton climbs one spot to 17th in the 20-team league,
leaving Reading, Norwich and Queens Park Rangers in the bottom
three.  Two days ago, Reading tied 2-2 at Swansea, Norwich lost 4-1
at Chelsea, while QPR had a 3-2 defeat at West Bromwich Albion.
Manchester City beat Sunderland 3-0, Arsenal won 3-1 at West
Ham, and Everton tied 2-2 at Wigan.  The league takes a break next weekend because of qualifying
matches for the 2014  World Cup .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 