-- Asmussen Seeks European Reform as Calm on Markets Is ‘Deceptive’
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-10-07T11:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/asmussen-seeks-european-reform-as-calm-on-markets-is-deceptive-.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
Member Joerg Asmussen said countries sharing the euro must
pursue reforms as the “current calm” on financial markets is
“deceptive.”  “Our announcement that we’d do everything to save the euro
contributed to a calming of the markets,” Asmussen said in an
interview with  Germany ’s Bild am Sonntag published today. “But
that will not be sufficient. The current calm is deceptive.”  Asmussen said many of his colleagues agree with his stance
of only allowing the ECB to purchase sovereign bonds if states
agree to conditions. When asked by the Berlin-based newspaper if
a majority of his colleagues are of that opinion, Asmussen said
“we’ll see if that situation arises.”  While the sovereign debt crisis is under control after
efforts made over the last two years, European Union leaders
must develop a vision for the bloc at summits this month and in
December to attract bond investors, Asmussen said.  Mario Draghi  is “the best president the ECB could have in
the current situation” and recent criticism of him in Germany
isn’t appropriate, the newspaper cited Asmussen as saying.  Asmussen said the ECB can’t assist  Greece  by extending the
maturities of its holdings of the state’s bonds or lowering
interest on the debt. The country’s request for more time to
implement austerity measures necessarily means more aid as its
spending outstrips revenue, he said.  The ECB expects inflation to decline to less than 2 percent
next year and the central bank “will continue to guarantee the
stability of the common currency,” Asmussen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  