-- Barwa to Sell $4.4 Billion of Assets to Reduce Liabilities
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-10-07T08:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/barwa-to-sell-4-4-billion-of-assets-to-reduce-liabilities-1-.html
Barwa Real Estate Co. (BRES) , Qatar’s
second-largest property developer by market value, is seeking to
sell assets valued at 16 billion riyals ($4.4 billion) in Qatar
and Egypt to reduce debt.  Assets being sold include Barwa Al Khor land in Qatar and
the Barwa New Cairo project in Egypt, the Doha-based company
said today in a statement. The sales price will be set according
to book value and won’t involve any profit or loss, the company
said. The developer is seeking to cut the 50.5 billion riyals of
liabilities it had at the end of the second quarter.  Qatari real estate is recovering from excessive residential
and office construction before the global financial crisis four
years ago. Average rental rates for apartments and villas were
unchanged in Doha during the first quarter, even as the leasing
market “picked up significantly,” according to an April report
by Asteco, a real estate services company.  Barwa, in which government-controlled Qatari Diar Real
Estate Investment Co. owns the biggest stake, is developing
properties in countries such as  Egypt , the U.K. and  Russia ,
according to its website. The company had a 21 percent decline
in first-half profit as net income dropped to 593.6 million
riyals from 752.5 million riyals a year earlier, the company
said in a statement in August.  Barwa’s stock climbed 1.2 percent to 29.75 riyals today on
the Qatar Exchange as of 10:45 a.m. The shares are up 3.1
percent in the past year, beating the country’s QE Index, which
rose 2.8 percent during the same period.  Results of the sale will be reflected in company’s fourth-
quarter financial statements, Barwa said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 