-- Brazil Seen Pursuing Portugal’s Flag-Carrier as BA Shuns
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-10-08T15:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/brazil-seen-targeting-tap-airline-as-europe-shuns-auction.html
Portugal ’s auction of state-owned
airline TAP SGPS SA has been shunned by  Europe ’s three biggest
carriers, boosting prospects for a Latin American takeover of a
company analysts say may fetch 500 million euros ($653 million).  Air France-KLM Group, Deutsche Lufthansa SA and  British
Airways (IAG)  parent IAG failed to bid by a deadline last week, the
companies told Bloomberg. Among non-binding offers was one from
 Brazil ’s Synergy Group, owner of the Avianca airline brands,
according to three people with knowledge of the sale process.  TAP would offer dozens of connections beyond Lisbon for
Synergy’s Avianca Brazil unit and provide the first instance of
a company in an ex-colony buying the flag-carrier of its former
ruler. European airlines attracted by TAP’s South America routes
are preoccupied with absorbing earlier purchases, and Lufthansa
may also be standing aside because its  Star Alliance , which
currently includes TAP, features an Avianca sister company.  “TAP’s only value is in its Latin American network,” said
 Yan Derocles , an aviation analyst at Oddo & Cie in Paris. “Star
is weaker there but Avianca Taca is a member, so you can offset
this issue through them. And it’s quite a good entry point for
Avianca to jump into Europe, even if it’s not in the center.”  Wider Loss  Portugal is selling TAP after becoming the third euro-area
country to seek a bailout from the  International Monetary Fund 
and European Union. Founded in 1945 with two 21-seat Douglas DC-
3s, initial routes included a 12-stop service to Angola and
Mozambique. The carrier went private in 1953, with the state
retaining a majority stake, before being renationalized in 1975
following the fall of the authoritarian Estado Novo regime.  TAP’s first-half loss widened to 112 million euros, hurt by
strikes and fuel costs, though the underlying performance has
been “pretty good,” said  Chris Tarry , a U.K. analyst who has
followed the industry for three decades.  Portugal is seeking “reference shareholders” for TAP, the
airline has said, an indication that it wants to sell a majority
stake, according to Stefan Kick, a research analyst at Silvia
Quandt in  Frankfurt . That wouldn’t be possible with an investor
from beyond the EU, which caps outside ownership at 49 percent.  Valuation  Donal O’Neill, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in
Dublin, said TAP is worth 400 million euros to 500 million
euros, adding: “I’ve seen 1 billion euros mentioned, but in my
opinion that’s absolute rubbish.”  Preliminary offers were received by Sept. 14 and final
terms for the sale will be approved soon, Luis Marques Guedes,
senior spokesman for Portugal’s cabinet, said Sept. 27, at which
point bidders will be invited to submit binding proposals. The
government expects to conclude the sale by the year’s end, Nuno
Vinha, a spokesman for the  Economy Ministry , said last month.  TAP Chief Executive Officer Fernando Pinto, himself a
Brazilian, says that while the economic situation isn’t ideal,
the value of 74 weekly flights to both Brazil and  Africa  and 46
connections in Europe is recognized by the industry. “In that
respect the moment is perfect for this privatization,” he said
in an interview shown Oct. 3 on business website Dinheiro Vivo.  BA owner International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
which is prioritizing cost cuts at Spanish unit Iberia, said
Sept. 17 that it won’t be bidding for TAP after interest
“diminished” over the past 12 months. “We have taken a closer
look at the business and can confirm that we have decided not to
proceed further,” spokeswoman Lorena Monsalves said by e-mail.  Lufthansa Focus  IAG probably cooled on a bid since a “political
dimension” between Lisbon and  Madrid  made a deal impractical,
Tarry said.  While Lufthansa requested an information memorandum on TAP,
its operates to most of the same major cities and has “enough
restructuring to do already,” Chief Financial Officer Simone Menne said in an interview on Oct. 2. Spokeswoman Claudia Lange
said the company was concentrating on the SCORE savings plan and
restructuring its Austrian Airlines unit, “not on acquisitions.”  Air France-KLM (AF)  wasn’t among nine potential bidders that
applied for the information memo. Europe’s biggest airline is
“not examining the subject,” spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand said
last week, citing Chief Financial Officer Philippe Calavia.  TAAG Angola Airlines, also based in a former Portuguese
colony, has “no interest in TAP” and won’t be bidding,
spokesman Carlos Vicente said by telephone from Luanda.  Long-Haul Links  Synergy’s owner, German Efromovich, is seeking long-haul
links for the Avianca Brasil business he’s building from the
former OceanAir, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the bid process is private. A spokesman for
the company in  Sao Paulo  declined to comment.  Synergy also controls  Avianca Taca Holding SA (PFAVTA) , Colombia’s
biggest airline, which Efromovich bought for $64 million when it
was close to bankruptcy in 2004. The company added El Salvador’s
Taca in 2010 and with Avianca Brasil -- which it may ultimately
absorb -- controls Latin America’s largest route network.  Avianca Brasil had a 5.1 percent share of Brazil’s domestic
market in August, according to the National Agency of Civil
Aviation, ranking behind the Tam SA unit of  Latam Airlines Group
SA (LAN) , Sao Paulo-based Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA and
discount carrier Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras SA.  Avianca Taca CEO Fabio Villegas said in an interview April
13 that his carrier’s Brazilian affiliate was “interested in
analyzing” the TAP sale. Guillermo Bran, Avianca Taca’s head of
alliances, said via e-mail that TAP could also provide Colombian
passengers with connections to Lisbon and Oporto via Madrid and
Barcelona, as well as linking with Taca in Venezuela and Miami.  Shares of Avianca Taca traded little changed at 4,335 pesos
as of 10:19 a.m. in Bogota, close to a seven-month high.  Star Player  TAP was also instrumental in Avianca Taca’s decision to
join the Star airline grouping, of which it became a member in
June, having shared the experience and knowledge gained during
its own admission in 2005, Bran said Sept. 25.  Avianca Taca’s Star allegiances mean Lufthansa may benefit
from a Synergy purchase of TAP without having to bid itself,
though Avianca Brasil isn’t currently a member. While Star is
the biggest global alliance with 27 airlines, its only other
South American recruit is Tam, which is debating a move to the
rival Star grouping following a merger with Chile’s Lan.  TAP’s disposal, featuring a capital increase and the sale
of shares to one or more investors, must retain a “strong link”
with Portugal, the government said Aug. 2. Banco Espirito Santo
SA, Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG are
advising on the sale and that of airport manager ANA-Aeroportos
de Portugal SA, state-holding company Parpublica said May 24.  The ANA disposal includes TAP’s Lisbon hub, the development
of which is vital for the airline to “grow strongly,” Kick said.  Synergy submitted one of three non-binding bids for TAP,
alongside  Etihad Airways  of  Abu Dhabi , the No. 3 Gulf carrier,
and an unidentified Asian company, Diario Economico reported
Sept. 18. Etihad spokesman Thomas Clarke declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  