-- Caesar Fails to Conquer, Icy Lovers Melt on U.K. Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-10-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/caesar-fails-to-conquer-icy-lovers-melt-on-u-k-stage.html
In the battle of Zela,  Julius Caesar 
came, saw, and conquered. At the  English National Opera , he
suffers a rather different fate.  Handel’s “Julius Caesar” -- about the famous Roman emperor
helping his lover Cleopatra regain her throne -- is a
notoriously tricky piece to stage.  The plot is slow and proceeds via a series of dramatically
static arias. These work best when the characters are vividly
presented, their relationships full of detail, and their aims
and conflicts clear.  Michael Keegan-Dolan , a choreographer directing his first
opera, is predictably wrong-footed by the conventions of the
baroque lyric stage.  He adds dancers, unremarkably choreographed, to about half
of the arias, and forgets about the characterization of the
singers. For the most part they stand still, center stage, and
look like mannequins.  “My heart with joy doth glow,” sings Cleopatra (Anna
Christy), displaying all the glowing joy of someone working
night-shifts at a supermarket checkout.  It all takes place in front of an enormous curved wall made
of ugly chipboard, which provides little sense of location. A
couple of tables and metal chairs look like they’ve come from
the bargain bay of IKEA.  Stuffed Crocodile  A stuffed crocodile is thrown in too. I think it’s a visual
metaphor to suggest hunters and their prey. It ends up being
prodded, stroked and poked in various drama-school ways, as the
performers try to get some use out of one of the few props.  The singing is good, without being great. Countertenor
 Lawrence Zazzo  has a warm sound which changes into a bark when
he goes into his chest register.  Anna Christy  is a sweet, dull
Cleopatra.  Daniela Mack plays the male role of Sesto as a girl, which
causes confusion in the libretto and adds nothing to the drama.
Still, she has an attractive richness of voice.  Conductor  Christian Curnyn  creates some lovely sounds in
the pit. In a concert, that would be great. In a three-hour, 
45-minute staging, it’s no compensation for the torpor on 
stage. Rating: **.  Hollinghurst’s Berenice  Booker prize-winning novelist Alan Hollinghurst has
produced a new blank verse translation Jean Racine’s “Berenice”
(1670), currently playing at the Donmar Warehouse.  It’s a formal love-versus-duty piece, set in ancient  Rome .
The emperor Titus rejects his beloved Berenice, a queen of
 Palestine , because the populace will not tolerate a foreign
Empress.  The characters express their emotions in majestic,
sculptured phrases (“fire seen through ice” is the way one
writer memorably described the effect) which Hollinghurst
translates with lucidity and simplicity.  The same adjectives can’t be applied to Josie Rourke’s
underpowered in-the-round production. The set is a sandpit
(Berenice is from Palestine, see?) with a staircase rising out
of it. There’s no sense of Rome’s grandeur, or anything to help
us understand the forces making Titus reject his lover. Throw in
some costumes which ride up and wrinkle in all the wrong places,
and you’ve got a production in which the emotional stakes are so
low you can barely register them.  The actors wander around the sandpit doing their best with
the verse. Only  Anne-Marie Duff  (Berenice) rises to the
challenge, and presents a soul in torment. Neither Titus
(Stephen Campbell Moore) nor his rival Antiochus (Dominic Rowan)
match her. Rating: **.  Ayckbourn’s Chorus  Alan Ayckbourn’s 1984 comedy “A Chorus of Disapproval”
tells the story of a shy, naive widower called Guy who joins an
amateur production of “The Beggar’s Opera.”  After a series of misunderstandings about a proposed
property speculation, he is unwittingly bribed with the lead
role of Macheath and becomes the lover of two women at once.  It’s a slyly amusing piece, given an efficient and
straightforward production, set in 1984, by Trevor Nunn. If
there are no belly laughs, there are plenty of chuckles.  The weak spot is Nigel Harman (Guy), whose presentation of
the hero’s naivety verges on the implausibly imbecilic. Never
mind: a strong supporting cast, including Ashley Jensen
(“Extras”) and Rob Brydon make up for it. Rating: ***.  Lewis’s Soldiers  “Our Boys” by  Jonathan Lewis , is set in the same year in a
military hospital. Six ill or injured soldiers share their
thoughts about the army and life. They talk about sex, class,
the injustices of authority,  Northern Ireland . The humor is
laddish and rough-and-ready.  It adds up to a series of sketches, and not a play. A plot
device about the discovery of an illegal beer drinking session
is thin, overstretched, and cursorily dispatched.  A play needs conflict, and here all we get are endless
minor skirmishes between people who are too similar. If the
playwright had dramatized any contrary points of view,
especially in the scenes about the injustice of authority, there
might have been hope. As it is, it feels like background
research for a play, rather than a play itself.  A very good cast, including Laurence Fox and Arthur
Darvill, make the disappointment the greater. Rating: **.  “Julius Caesar” is in repertoire at ENO, London Coliseum,
Saint Martin’s Lane, WC2N 4ES, until Nov. 2. Information:
 http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-0200.  “Berenice” is at the Donmar Warehouse, 41 Earlham Street,
Seven Dials, WC2H 9LX, until Nov. 24. The principal sponsor is
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Information:  http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or
+44-844-871-7624.
‘    “A Chorus of Disapproval” is at the Harold Pinter, 6 Panton
Street, SW1Y 4DN, to Jan. 5, 2013. Information: +44-844-871-
7615,  http://www.atgtickets.com/venues/harold-pinter-theatre .  “Our Boys” is at the Duchess Theatre until Dec 15.
Information:  http://www.ourboystheplay.com  or +44-844-412-4659.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 Elin McCoy  on wine.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 