-- California Governor Orders Winter Gas Switch
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-10-07T20:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/california-governor-orders-winter-gas-switch.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  told
state regulators to immediately allow oil refineries to make an
early transition to winter-blend gasoline to help bring record
prices at the pump under control.  “Gas prices in California have risen to their highest
levels ever, with unacceptable cost impacts on consumers and
small businesses,” Brown said in a statement today. “I am
directing the Air Resources Board to immediately take whatever
steps are necessary to allow an early transition to winter-blend
gasoline.”  Winter-blend gasoline typically isn’t sold until after Oct.
31.  Regular gasoline in California  retailed at an average $4.655
a gallon today, 22 percent higher than the  national  average,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization.  Retail prices began to skyrocket after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s
150,000-barrel-a-day refinery in southern California reduced
production Oct. 1 after a  power failure . That followed a fire
that knocked out a crude-processing unit at  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s San
Francisco-area plant in August and a Chevron pipeline that
delivers crude to Northern California that was stopped because
of contamination.  The Exxon refinery came back online at the end of last
week. Earlier this month, the California Independent Oil
Marketers Association asked the board for a waiver to begin the
winter fuel early. Winter-blend gasoline is a mixture that
evaporates more quickly than the gasoline sold in summer months,
which takes longer to evaporate and is better for air quality
during the smog season.  Allowing an early transition to winter-blend gasoline may
increase California’s fuel supply by 8 percent to 10 percent
with only a “negligible” impact on  air quality , Brown said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  