-- Cameron Suggests Two-Tier System for European Union’s Budget
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-07T23:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/cameron-suggests-two-tier-system-for-european-union-budget.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
suggested the European Union should have a two-tier budget
structure, with countries in the euro region paying more toward
governance of the bloc.  “When you have got a single currency with a single bank
behind it and more transfers between those countries there will
come a time when you are going to need to have two European
budgets: one for the single currency because they are going to
have to support each other much more and perhaps a wider budget
for everyone else,” Cameron told BBC television’s “Andrew Marr
Show” yesterday.  The premier also said he’d be prepared to use the British
veto unless he gets a “good deal” in negotiations over the
2014-20 EU budget. The Liberal Democrats, his coalition
partners, reacted with dismay last year when Cameron took a
stance opposing a pact enforcing stricter fiscal discipline
within the EU.  Cameron, who spoke as his  Conservative Party  began its
annual conference in Birmingham, central England, was seeking to
reassure euroskeptic Tories, many of whom want a referendum on
pulling out of the EU. He reiterated his desire to remain a part
of the EU, saying he wants to renegotiate Britain’s relationship
with the bloc after the 2015 general election.  “It’s very simple what I want:  Europe  is changing; the
single currency is integrating rapidly,” he said. “I think
this presents a great opportunity for Britain to get the sort of
deal we’ve always wanted in Europe. That’s at the heart of a
free-trading, open-market Europe, but we don’t want this endless
political integration.”  ‘New Settlement’  Cameron said that “the opportunity will open up, over
time, to get a new settlement, and when we get that new
settlement, after the next election, we should have new consent
for that settlement.” he said.  That new consent “could either take place through a
referendum, or possibly if it was close to one, at a general
election,” Cameron said. “But a new settlement, new consent --
that’s what you’d get from a Conservative government.”  Foreign Secretary William Hague told the Tory conference
yesterday that “over time we must take the opportunities for
Britain to shape its relationship with Europe in ways that
advance our national interest.” He highlighted “being part of
the single market that has done so much for our prosperity,
using the collective weight of European nations to advance our
common interests, in free trade, open markets and cooperation on
climate change.”  Labor Movement  Cameron said Britain is examining areas of policy opt-outs
from the EU. When asked about the possibility of abandoning the
free movement of labor in Europe, Cameron said, “heavens above,
we have got so many unemployed people in our country,” refusing
to say whether it is an area he is looking at.  Home Secretary Theresa May was cited by the Sunday Times
newspaper yesterday as calling for a review of workers’ ability
to switch countries, one of the EU’s central tenets, as the
government seeks to control immigration.  “We are looking at this whole area of the abuse of the
freedom of movement,” the newspaper quoted May as saying. “But
we will go further on this, and the issue of free movement will
be part of the review” the government is carrying out into
Britain’s relationship with the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Birmingham,  England , at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  