-- Cheapest Chinese Stocks Since 1997 Don’t Signal Rally
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-08T08:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/cheapest-chinese-stocks-since-1997-not-enough-to-signal-rally.html
The last time  China’s stocks  were
this cheap in 2008, the benchmark index rose 83 percent in a
year. Now is different as policy makers struggle to reverse the
worst economic slowdown in more than a decade, the most-accurate
strategists say.  While the Shanghai Composite Index  trades  at 11.3 times the
earnings of  China ’s biggest companies, the lowest level since at
least 1997, economists predict the world’s second-largest
economy will grow at its slowest annual pace in 13 years.
 Investors (SHCOMP)  anticipate the government will lack focus on the
slowdown as the Communist Party prepares for a once-in-a-decade
leadership transition.  Haitong Securities Co. strategist Chen Ruiming, who
correctly predicted on Aug. 1 the index would fall below the
2,000 level, says the measure is poised to drop a further 14
percent to 1,800 this year. China’s stocks will end down for a
third year, according to Bank of Communications Co.’s Hao Hong,
the only forecaster among 13 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg
at the start of the year to predict declines for equities in
2012. Falling interest rates and increasing copper prices --
which foreshadowed the  rally  in 2009 -- aren’t predictive this
time around, said David Cui, chief China strategist at  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  He sees more losses for the index after saying in
Feb. 22 that it would slump to 2,100 by year-end. The measure
dropped 0.6 percent to 2,074.42 at today’s close.  “These signals are only indicative of a market turnaround
if and when there are signs of a genuine turnaround in economic
growth and the prospect of sustained improvement in corporate
earnings,” Shanghai-based Cui wrote in e-mailed comments on
Sept. 25. “Right now, things appear to be still heading
downhill and the market cannot figure out where the bottom is.”  Stock Valuations  The Shanghai Composite tumbled 34 percent from its November
2010 high to 2,086.17 on Sept. 28, the most among benchmark
equity gauges in 21 developing nations tracked by Bloomberg.
China’s financial markets were closed for holidays last week,
when the MSCI All-Country World Index advanced 1.6 percent.  The Shanghai gauge’s price-to-earnings  ratio  has dropped
from an average 24 during the past decade and a 2007 high of 46,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  is valued at 12.5 times profit, while the Bovespa
index in  Brazil , the second-biggest emerging market after China,
trades for 18.8 times.  Jonathan Garner , chief strategist for Asia and  emerging
markets  at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong , sees “significant
undervaluation” in China and recommends material, energy and
consumer discretionary stocks that will benefit from the largest
economies in the world easing monetary policies.  Shifting to Consumption  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s  Jim O’Neill  says Chinese stocks
are the most attractive among the so-called BRIC nations that
include Brazil,  Russia  and  India  as China’s leaders foster
changes to boost consumption and reduce the economy’s reliance
on exports. MSCI Inc.’s Index of the largest emerging-market
economies will rise as much as 20 percent next year, O’Neill,
who coined the term BRICs, said in a phone interview from  London 
on Oct. 5.  “Going forward, the Chinese authorities are really going
to ensure that the broader-income consumer, the broader middle-
income groups in China are the ones that are really going to
benefit most,” said O’Neill, who oversees about $700 billion as
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  Consumer stocks  as
opposed to commodity shares will benefit most from economic
growth next year, he said.  Bears say the new government won’t change policy soon
enough to make shares attractive.  Policy Outlook  Data for the past two months point to a deepening slowdown
after manufacturing contracted in September, imports
unexpectedly fell in August, industrial output expanded at its
weakest pace since May 2009 and industrial companies’ profits
dropped for a fifth month. Policy makers cut their expansion
target to 7.5 percent from the 8 percent goal in place since
2005, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 5.  China’s economy  may grow at a 7.7 percent pace this year,
according to the median forecast of 45 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, which would be the slowest rate since 1999. The GDP
report is scheduled to be released Oct. 18.  “The economy will still be down,” Haitong’s Chen said in
a phone interview from Shanghai on Sept. 25. “The only way for
the market to improve is to allow a natural adjustment within
industries -- allow for companies to restructure, be acquired or
go bankrupt.”  Trading Accounts  The People’s Bank of China reiterated last month it will
pursue a “prudent” monetary policy, scotching speculation of
interest-rate cuts, while the official Xinhua News Agency said
Sept. 12 “massive stimulus” would be detrimental to growth.
The central bank has refrained from easing since rate cuts in
June and July and a May reduction in  reserve requirements  for
lenders. The government has been reluctant to lower rates
further amid concern inflation will quicken and more liquidity
will re-flate the property bubble.  Since 1996, the Shanghai Composite has advanced nine times
out of 13 in the three months after the central bank lowered
borrowing costs. The index jumped 17 percent in the three months
after a December 2008 rate cut. This time, the Shanghai
Composite has fallen 9 percent since June 7, when the government
announced the first of two rate reductions. The combined drop in
deposit and lending rates is 56 basis points.  A third year of equity losses has spurred local investors
to empty trading accounts. The number of Chinese  stock accounts 
containing funds dropped by 1.1 million to 56.1 million in the
year to Sept. 21, the most for a 12-month period.  Leadership Change  “The whole market is very pessimistic,” Shi Weixiang,
strategist at Shanghai-based Guotai Junan Securities Co., the
nation’s third-biggest brokerage by revenue, said in an e-mailed
interview on Sept. 21.  At current valuations, “there’s more
opportunity for the market to gain,” said Shi. Guotai Junan
predicted the slump in China’s stocks in 2010 and 2011 before
turning bullish this year.  Delegates from the Communist Party will gather in Beijing
starting Nov. 8, when they are forecast to anoint Vice President
 Xi Jinping , 59, and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , 57, as the so-
called fifth generation in charge, to replace President  Hu
Jintao  and Premier Wen.  “China’s equity market is now trading much closer to prior
trough valuations and should exhibit better performance after
the leadership transition and as growth picks up next year,”
said Morgan Stanley’s Garner.  Sany Heavy  The Shanghai Composite’s price-earnings ratio fell to as
low as 11.8 in November 2008. The gauge rallied 83 percent
during the next 12 months as the government announced a $585
billion stimulus package, reduced borrowing costs by 216 basis
points in three months and cut the amount of reserves banks must
set aside to 15.5 percent to bolster the economy as the global
financial crisis curbed demand for exports.  Gross domestic
product  recovered from a 6.2 percent expansion in the first
quarter of 2009 to a 9.2 percent pace for the full year.  A gauge tracking  industrial companies  on the CSI 300 Index
rallied 72 percent in the two years to 2010 amid an
unprecedented credit expansion that boosted infrastructure
spending. The measure has slumped 14 percent this year, the
second-worst performer among the 10 industry groups.  Sany Heavy Industry Co., China’s biggest construction-
equipment maker, has plunged 25 percent in 2012 after rallying
163 percent in 2009. The stock  traded  at 7.9 times reported
earnings last month, the lowest on record.  Tax Cuts  A rebound in copper prices hasn’t foreshadowed gains for
stocks this time around because China, the world’s largest
consumer of metals, isn’t buying as much as in the past, Hong,
BoCom’s managing director for research, said on Sept. 21.  In 2009, copper prices surged 140 percent in London, while
the Shanghai index had an 80 percent advance. Last quarter,
copper prices jumped 6.8 percent, while the stocks gauge dropped
6.3 percent.  “Investors had expected the economy to stabilize in the
first half and rebound in the second half and this didn’t
happen,” Chen Li,  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s head of China equity strategy, said
in a phone interview on Sept. 27. “From the third quarter, it’s
obvious the economy is still deteriorating. The economy’s
slowdown is much worse than expected.”  For stocks to rise, the government needs to take more
fiscal measures because monetary policy steps such as interest-
rate cuts haven’t been effective, Hong said. “Tax cuts would be
great and any form of genuine tax relief would be welcomed by
the market big time,” he said.  BofA’s Cui said investors need to see the government tackle
the fundamental issues facing China’s growth, including
reforming state-owned enterprises and the tax system.  “I don’t think stimulus or loosening is the path to
investors’ heart,” Cui said. “Reform is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  