-- Czech Inflation May Point to More Policy Easing
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-10-08T07:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/czech-inflation-may-point-to-more-policy-easing-after-rate-cut.html
Czech September inflation was
probably below the central bank’s forecast for a sixth month as
household consumption weakened, which may trigger more monetary
policy easing after an interest  rate  cut to a record low.  Consumer prices  grew  3.4 percent from a year earlier, the
median forecast of 14 economists in a Bloomberg  survey  showed,
compared with the central bank’s 3.5 percent estimate. August
inflation was 3.3 percent because of factors outside the
influence of monetary policy, including a sales-tax increase and
global commodity costs. The data will be released tomorrow at 9
a.m. in Prague.  The Czech  economy  is suffering from weak domestic demand
after the government cut investments and raised sales taxes to
trim the budget deficit. The central bank cut the benchmark
interest rate to a record-low 0.25 percent on Sept. 27 and said
it may weaken the koruna if it needs to ease monetary policy
further.  “Czech household consumption remains weak and the
development is consistent with the pessimism seen in  consumer
confidence  surveys,” Radomir Jac, chief economist at Generali
PPF Asset Management in Prague, said in an e-mail after data
released on Oct. 5 showed that retail sales fell 0.8 percent in
August. “Any significant improvement does not seem likely for
months and quarters to come,” he said.  Fighting Crisis  Monetary authorities in eastern European Union members are
following central banks in the U.S. and U.K. in policy easing to
address an economic slowdown as  Europe  fights a sovereign-debt
crisis.  The Czech koruna traded at 24.895 per euro as of 9:07 a.m.
in Prague, little changed from the close on Oct. 5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on 1-year bonds dropped two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 0.378 percent,
according to generic data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hungary ’s central bankers lowered the two-week  deposit rate 
to 6.5 percent from 6.75 percent in September, the second
reduction in two months.  Poland ’s central bank signaled it may
cut borrowing costs next month if the economy slows further
after unexpectedly leaving the main rate at 4.75 percent on Oct.
3.  While the trade balance remains in surplus, the debt crisis
has curbed purchases of electronics and cars. The 27-nation EU
buys 80 percent of Czech exports, including from companies such
as carmaker Skoda Auto AS.  Economic Contraction  Czech  gross domestic product  declined 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the third
consecutive contraction, as consumers responded to the worsening
economic outlook by spending less.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts
was for a 0.1 percent decrease in prices from the previous
month, which would be the third such decline in a row.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, was 2 percent in
August, matching the central bank’s target. The bank forecasts
the monetary-policy inflation rate at 2.2 percent in September
and sees it at 1.5 percent in the third quarter of next year.  The Czech economy lacks “inflationary pressures” and the
only reason for a headline inflation rate above the central
bank’s target is the sales tax increase,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
analysts said in an Oct. 4 note.  “With the Czech central bank’s failure to react to what is
effectively deflationary pressures, we would expect a further
decline in Czech inflation in coming months,” according to the
report. “Unfortunately, the CNB has been extremely slow in
reacting to deflationary pressures and as a result the Czech
economy remains trapped in recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  