-- Dubai Stocks Rise on Property Company Projects, Profit Outlook
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-07T12:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/dubai-stocks-rise-on-property-company-projects-profit-outlook.html
Dubai’s shares advanced to the
highest level in more than five months after companies including
 Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  announced overseas projects and as
investors speculate quarterly earnings may rise.  Emaar, developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper, climbed
to the highest level since December 2010.  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) ,
the United Arab Emirates’ biggest construction company, rose 0.4
percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  added 1 percent to 1,644.28 at
the close in Dubai, the highest level since April 26. The gauge
rallied 8.7 percent in the third quarter. Qatar’s QE Index added
0.3 percent and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the region’s top
200 equities slipped 0.2 percent.  Companies in  Saudi Arabia (SABIC)  and Qatar kicked off the third-
quarter earnings season. Yamamah  Saudi Cement (SACCO)  Co., a maker of
building materials, estimated profit rose 5.4 percent. Emaar,
which has the  biggest weighting  on Dubai’s index, may say this
month profit climbed 18 percent, according to the  mean estimate 
of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Positive sentiment continues from last week as investors
are optimistic about third-quarter earnings,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. “The
latest news from some companies such as Emaar and Arabtec lured
investors back into these stocks.”  Iraq, Russia  Emaar, which rose 6 percent last week, gained 1.9 percent
to 3.76 dirhams. The company signed an agreement with Iraq to
develop real estate projects as the country tries to meet demand
for 670,000 new homes. The developer got a proposal to form an
Iraq unit, one third of which would be sold in an initial public
offering,  Al Bayan  reported today. Emaar is expanding across the
Middle East as an oversupply of properties in Dubai continues to
subdue its home market.  Arabtec climbed the most in almost a week to 2.55 dirhams.
The builder’s last week said it won a 453 million-dirham
contract from  OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  to build Europe’s tallest office tower
in St. Petersburg, helping push the shares 4.1 percent higher.
Yamamah shares declined 1.1 percent today to 44.4 riyals after
rising 0.9 percent last week.  Kuwait’s Stock Exchange Price Index (KWSEIDX)  advanced 0.2 percent.
Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah issued a
decree dissolving parliament, state television reported today.
The move came after the Constitutional Court ruled last month
against a government bid to amend the election law.  Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  gained 0.1 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.1 percent while Bahrain’s  BB All Share
Index (BHSEASI)  declined 0.7 percent. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share
Index retreated 0.4 percent.  Markets in Israel and Egypt are closed for holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  