-- EADS-BAE Merger Hinges on Germany as France, U.K. Unite
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-10-08T07:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/eads-bae-merger-hinges-on-germany-as-france-u-k-unite.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  are struggling to convince Germany and
skeptical investors to back their merger plan, with less than
three days to go before a regulatory deadline.  Even as the French and British governments have agreed with
EADS and BAE on the terms of a combination, Germany is holding
out for more, people familiar with weekend talks said.   Invesco
Ltd. (IVZ) , BAE’s largest shareholder with 13.3 percent, said it
opposes the combination as it lacks “strategic logic.”  “The merger would materially jeopardize BAE’s unique and
privileged position in the U.S. defense market, and has been
unable to identify any corresponding benefits to offset this,”
Invesco said in a statement today.  The two companies have been hamstrung in what they can tell
investors until a merger plan is delivered. Germany, which
currently doesn’t own a direct holding in EADS, is concerned
about being marginalized. The business would be headquartered in
 France , with defense operations run out of  London , leaving
Germany without a center of command. Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders , who is German, scaled back a Munich administrative hub
this year.  Germany has to join France and the U.K. in signing off the
agreement to try and form the world’s largest aerospace and
defense company by sales.  EADS shares fell as much as 0.9 percent in Paris and were
little changed at 26.45 cents at 9:05 a.m. BAE shares were down
0.1 percent to 327.7 pence in London.  German Recalcitrance  German recalcitrance may force the companies to seek an
extension to an Oct. 10 U.K. regulatory deadline to file a
merger plan. Enders said last week he wants a deal by the
deadline or soon after to ease investor and employee concerns.
The companies will likely decide by Tuesday whether to extend,
one person said. The deadline is set for 5 p.m. in London.
  “It would be awkward for the Germans to go on resisting
something that the other EADS member countries want, especially
since the primary driver behind this is a German,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-
based aviation consulting company. “They would have to say that
despite a commitment to a unified  Europe  they’re getting back
into provincial politics of old Europe.”  CEO Enders sought to convince  Angela Merkel ’s government in
a phone conversation with one of her most senior advisers on the
weekend, one of the people said. All sides backed Germany’s
demand for a direct stake, they said.  Government Shareholding  Enders spoke with Merkel adviser Lars-Hendrik Roeller over
the weekend to address German demands, one of the people said.
Roeller had participated in a phone conversation with senior
advisers from the U.K. and France at the end of last week and
aborted the talks when he failed to win backing for a divisional
headquarters, another person said.  Martin Aguera, a spokesman for EADS, said he had no comment
on the negotiations.  Even if some parts of the 200-page merger document can
still be changed, the paperwork would not be submitted without a
nod from all governments, one person familiar with the matter
said. France and the U.K. have drafted a document that spells
out the main points of the combination, leaving only  Germany 
outside of an agreement, two of the people said.  The U.K. government said it would not oppose Germany and
France each holding 9 percent stakes in the new company, even as
it settles for a so-called golden share to protect its strategic
interests. U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said yesterday
that he will have “crucial” three-way talks with his French
and German counterparts at a NATO defense ministers’ meeting in
Brussels tomorrow, in which he will set out the U.K.’s
resistance to any government stake more than 9 percent.  Impaired Prospects  Invesco said it “is very concerned that the level of state
shareholding in the combined group will heavily impair its
commercial prospects - especially in the U.S. - and result in
governance arrangements driven more by political considerations
than shareholder value creation.”  As Enders seeks to pull governments across the finishing
line, he risks increasing the regulatory challenge in the U.S.,
which also has to sign off on elements of the deal. The Pentagon
is BAE’s largest customer and the firm’s access to secret
technologies will come under review once a merger document is
ready.  The U.S. government is examining whether the combined
company would be categorized as under foreign ownership or
control, said Sash Tusa, a partner at Echelon Research &
Advisory in London.  A main determinant is likely to be the level of French and
German government shareholdings and influence, he said, adding
that this may force EADS and BAE to keep their U.S. operations
at arms length via a proxy board.  Political Involvement  Enders has sought to limit political involvement in the
enlarged company, offering the main companies special shares
that grants some veto powers. The U.K. owns a golden share in
BAE, letting it block a change of ownership. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s government isn’t seeking a direct stake in the
merged company, while the 15 percent owned by France would
shrink to about 9 percent. Germany’s interests are represented
by Daimler AG, which controls about 22.5 percent of EADS.  Among German demands is that one of EADS’s more significant
divisions be based in Germany, two people said. German Defense
Minister Thomas de Maiziere broached the topic with French
Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, saying Germany would like
to see EADS’s Eurocopter helicopter business based in Germany
rather than in Marignane, France, the people said.  Cash Generation  Enders is not inclined to move Eurocopter simply to appease
political demands, because the French contributions to the
business have outweighed those of Germany, two people said. The
business’s chief executive, Lutz Bertling, is a German.
Eurocopter has a major production facility in Donauwoerth in
southern Germany now.  EADS would control 60 percent of the combined business, the
world’s largest aerospace and defense company by sales.
“The merger ratio does not reflect BAE’s superior cash
generation, or the quality of its earnings stream, derived from
the length and nature of its customer contracts,” Invesco
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  