-- Hedge Funds End Rout as Prices Reach Two-Month Low: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-10-08T21:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/hedge-funds-end-rout-as-prices-reach-two-month-low-commodities.html
Hedge funds  increased bullish bets on
commodities for the first time in three weeks as prices dropped
to a two-month low on signs of slowing Chinese growth and rising
supplies of everything from crude oil to coffee.  Money managers raised net-long  positions  across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 0.2 percent to 1.24 million contracts in
the week ended Oct. 2, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. They fell 6.6 percent in the previous two weeks. Silver
wagers climbed to the highest in almost two years while bullish
oil bets fell to a seven-week low. Gold holdings rose for a
seventh week before prices reached an 11-month high.  Commodities retreated 4.4 percent since the  Federal Reserve 
announced a third round of debt buying Sept. 13. While raw-
material prices surged in the previous two rounds from December
2008 through June 2011, weaker growth and rising supplies are
driving futures lower this time. Non-manufacturing  industries  in
 China  expanded at the slowest pace in at least 18 months in
September, European Union unemployment held at a record in
August and U.S. crude output is the highest since 1996.  “It’s harder to put money on the table right now in
commodities,” said  David Goerz , the chief investment officer at
Highmark Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $17
billion of assets. “Commodities are increasingly focused on
what’s happening in the fundamental economy, and China is a very
big part of that. Overall, the real issue is whether the economy
is able to strengthen.”  Two-Month Low  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
fell 0.9 percent last week and on Oct. 3 reached the lowest
closing level in two months. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
 equities  climbed 1.6 percent and the dollar fell 0.7 percent
against a basket of six major trading partners. Treasuries lost
0.5 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows. The GSCI
declined 0.5 percent to settle at 656.64 today.  China’s non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index fell
to 53.7 in September, the lowest since at least March 2011, the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing in Beijing said Oct. 3. Readings below 50
indicate contraction. On the same day, the  Asian Development
Bank  said the region excluding  Japan  will grow 6.1 percent this
year, the slowest pace since 2009.  U.S. oil output rose to 6.52 million barrels a day in the
week ended Sept. 28, the most since December 1996, the Energy
Department reported Oct. 3. Coffee  inventories  monitored by the
ICE Futures U.S. exchange have climbed for 47 consecutive
trading sessions, the longest stretch since August 2003.
Supplies of cotton, sugar and nickel will exceed demand this
year, Morgan Stanley said in a report Oct. 1. Barclays Plc
expects surpluses in aluminum, lead and zinc.  U.S. Jobs  An improving U.S. labor market may signal faster growth in
the world’s largest economy as the Fed increases its record
stimulus and keeps  interest rates  at a record low. The jobless
rate, stuck above 8 percent for 43 months, unexpectedly fell to
7.8 percent in September, Labor Department figures showed Oct.
5. The U.S. is the world’s biggest consumer of corn and crude.  The Fed said it would start a third round of so-called
quantitative easing with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month and pledged to keep the benchmark interest
rate near zero percent “at least through mid-2015.”  “We’re long-term bullish,” said Nelson Louie, the global
head of commodities at New York-based Credit Suisse Asset
Management, who helps manage $10.9 billion. “What the market is
really focused on over the next quarter or so is seeing a series
of numbers that show general improvement to ensure that the
quantitative easing that the Fed has committed to will actually
work to strengthen the economy.”  Commodity Funds  Money managers added $1.08 billion to commodity funds in
the week ended Oct. 3, with $881 million going to gold and
precious metals, according to  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows.  While the surprise decline in the U.S. unemployment rate
may give President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign a boost a
month before the election, whoever wins the presidency will
contend with a budget on a trajectory characterized as
unsustainable by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The U.S. may tumble into a recession next year if Congress
fails to avert the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic spending
cuts and tax rises, International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said in an interview with CBS Oct. 1.  Net-long holdings of  crude  dropped 6.5 percent to 166,172
futures and options, the lowest since Aug. 14, the CFTC data
show. Prices declined 2.5 percent last week, a third drop and
the longest run of declines since June 1. Total U.S. fuel demand
fell 0.3 percent to 18.3 million barrels a day in the four weeks
ended Sept. 28, the lowest since April, the Energy Department
reported Oct. 3.  Gold Positions  Money managers boosted their gold positions by 3 percent to
195,647 contracts, the highest since Feb. 28. Futures in  New
York  climbed 0.4 percent last week and touched $1,798.10 an
ounce on Oct. 5, the highest since Nov. 9. Holdings in exchange-
traded products backed by the metal jumped 7.3 percent since the
end of July, reaching a record 2,569.59 metric tons on Oct. 5,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A measure of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators lowered
bullish  bets  in agricultural commodities by 7.1 percent to
674,229 contracts. The wagers have dropped for four straight
weeks, the longest slump since April.  Soybean positions fell 8.5 percent to 178,742 contracts,
the lowest since March 13. Prices slid 3.1 percent last week in
 Chicago  on speculation that rain in the past two months revived
yields threatened by the country’s worst drought since 1956.  “With squishy growth in emerging countries, we may not see
the demand for commodities surge,” said  Michael Shaoul , the
chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New York, which
oversees more than $3 billion of assets. “We are not predicting
a collapse, but it seems like it’s not a very exciting place to
have your money parked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  