-- Merkel to Be Met by Greek Anti-Austerity Protesters
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-10-08T19:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/merkel-arrival-in-athens-to-be-met-by-anti-austerity-protesters.html
Greek protesters are gearing up for
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s first visit to Athens since
the financial crisis began, with plans for strikes, rallies and
a petition demanding reparations for the Nazi occupation.  Greece ’s need for bailouts and German-led conditions
attached to emergency loans have made Merkel the face of
austerity for Greeks. Merkel has been depicted in the Greek
media wearing jackboots and an SS uniform. While Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras called the chancellor’s visit tomorrow
a “very positive development,” opposition leaders are planning
a show of anger and frustration after five years of recession.  “Mr. Samaras said we should welcome Mrs. Merkel as she
deserves,” said Alexis Tsipras, head of the Syriza party, which
finished second in June’s national elections and has urged
workers, the unemployed and young people to join the rallies.
“We completely agree.”  Samaras has warned that soaring unemployment and political
unrest risk the kind of upheaval that undermined the Weimar
Republic in post-World War I  Germany  and ushered in the Nazis.
His coalition is currently negotiating a new round of budget
cuts with representatives of the so-called troika of Greece’s
international creditors, the European Union, the International
Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, to unlock the next
aid payment to keep the country afloat.  Athens Walkout  GSEE and ADEDY, the umbrella organizations for private and
public-sector unions, have called for a three-hour walkout
tomorrow in the Athens metropolitan area and a rally in the
center of the capital to protest Merkel’s visit. The two groups
are also holding a protest gathering in Syntagma Square opposite
parliament at 6 p.m. today.  Tsipras will participate in tomorrow’s union rally,
accompanied by Bernd Riexinger, co-chairman of Germany’s Left
party, and the two men will address protestors, Syriza said
today.  Greek authorities today announced a ban on public
gatherings and marches in most of central  Athens  tomorrow from 9
a.m. to 10 p.m., “for reasons of public safety and to preserve
the social and economic life of the capital.”  The union
protest is scheduled to take place outside the prohibited zone.  Tsipras in a speech Oct. 6 urged Samaras to show Merkel the
real Greece: “The 40 patients for each nurse, and then see if
she asks for more state employees to be sacked. I propose she
visit a commercial street so she can see the padlocks on stores.
And then she can propose more austerity measures.”  Biggest Contributor  As the biggest contributor to bailout commitments totaling
240 billion euros ($311 billion), Germany rejects responsibility
for Greece’s hardships.  “We want to help Greece stabilize within the euro zone,”
Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said Oct. 5. “We do
this by contributing massively to the rescue programs Greece I
and Greece II.” Merkel last visited Greece in July 2007.  Greece’s economy is set to contract for a sixth year in
2013. The government is struggling to reach agreement with the
troika on austerity measures to meet deficit-reduction targets
that have been consistently missed.  The economic downturn has been the worst since World War
II, sparking memories of the Nazi occupation and outbursts at
even the highest levels of the Greek government as German
officials have pressed for more austerity measures.  Angry Presidential Response  As talks on a second bailout stalled in February, criticism
by German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble of Greek
politicians provoked an angry response from President Karolos Papoulias, 83, a former resistance fighter.  “I don’t accept insults to my country by Mr. Schaeuble, I
don’t accept it as a Greek,” Papoulias said. “We always had
the pride to defend not just our own freedom, not just our own
country, but the freedom of all of  Europe .”  Invaded first by Mussolini’s  Italy  and then by Nazi
Germany, Greece was forced to finance its own occupation, paying
war loans to Hitler’s Reich. Hyperinflation and a famine ensued
under German occupation.  More than 500,000 Greeks, or 7 percent of the population,
died between October 1940 and October 1944, 260,000 of them from
hunger and malnutrition. A Time magazine report in 1942 labeled
Greece “the hungriest country.” Bread cost $15 a loaf.  Syriza lawmaker Manolis Glezos and the late Apostolos
Santas are considered heroes for climbing the Acropolis as young
men in May 1941 to tear down the swastika, considered the first
resistance act in Greece under the Nazi occupation.  Reparations Demands  Independent Greeks, formed by lawmakers who broke from
Samaras’s New Democracy party, made the demand that Germany pay
reparations part of their election campaign in May and June.  Now the fourth-largest parliamentary group, Independent
Greeks called Oct. 5 for a protest outside the German embassy in
Athens during the chancellor’s visit. They planned to hand the
German ambassador a petition outlining the party’s opposition to
Merkel “transforming Greece into a German protectorate” and
calling for war reparations and “the return of an occupation
loan,” the party said.  Independent Greeks were today forced to cancel the protest
due to the ban on public gatherings, a move the group called
“unconstitutional” and “undemocratic.” The German embassy
lies within the prohibited zone.  The Greek Finance Ministry has set up a committee to
calculate for the first time the country’s World War II claims
against Germany. Estimates vary, with a group of 28 lawmakers
who petitioned parliament on the issue in February saying
Germany should pay 54 billion euros and the Golden Dawn party
demanding 510 billion euros.  German Treaty Payments  Germany paid 115 million deutsche marks to Greek victims of
Nazi crimes under a 1960 treaty, in addition to funds paid to
victims of forced labor under the Third Reich, German Foreign
Ministry spokesman Andreas Peschke told reporters in 2010.
Germany’s Constitutional Court ruled in March 2006 it didn’t
have to pay compensation to individuals seeking damages for war
crimes committed during World War II.  “The German reparations are a particularly complex legal
issue,” Deputy Finance Minister Christos Staikouras said Sept.
4. “The case is still outstanding, and as a country we reserve
the right and the possibility to manage it to a satisfactory
conclusion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  