-- Etihad Sees Full-Year Profit After Third-Quarter Revenue Boost
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-10-07T08:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/etihad-sees-full-year-profit-after-third-quarter-revenue-boost.html
Etihad Airways PJSC, the Abu Dhabi-
based carrier, expects to post a full-year profit after third-
quarter revenue rose by 19 percent, helped by increased
passenger numbers from partnerships with other airlines.  Revenue rose to $1.3 billion from $1.1 billion a year
earlier, Etihad said in an e-mailed statement, without providing
numbers for earnings. The airline said it’s on track to carry 10
million passengers this year after the average seat factor, or
percentage of seats filled, rose to 81.2 percent from 80.8
percent. Passenger numbers increased 23 percent to 2.79 million
during the quarter because of partnerships with other airlines,
according to the statement.  “We remain confident of delivering full-year profitability
based on current market conditions,” Chief Executive Officer
 James Hogan  said in the statement. “We are particularly pleased
with the contribution from our code-share and equity partners.”  Etihad competes at home with Dubai-based Emirates, the
largest airline by international traffic. Emirates is building
the world’s biggest fleet of Airbus SAS superjumbos to establish
Dubai as a long-haul travel hub. Neighboring Doha is also
competing for market share as Qatar Airways Ltd., the region’s
second-largest carrier, grows its fleet with $50 billion-worth
of aircraft on order.  State-owned Etihad posted its first-ever profit last year,
achieving net income of $14 million. Code-share deals and
partnerships rose 51 percent to $182 million, it said. Code-
share arrangements allow airlines to sell tickets on flights
operated by their partners.  Revenue contribution from Airberlin Group, in which Etihad
holds a 29.21 percent stake, surpassed full-year estimates
during the quarter, with $51 million in revenue in the year to
date, according to the statement. Air Seychelles, 40 percent
owned by the Abu Dhabi airline, is poised to break even this
year, Etihad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  