-- Euro Snaps Seven-Day Rally Versus Yen Amid Crisis Talks
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-08T21:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/euro-weakens-against-most-peers-before-german-production-data.html
The euro snapped a seven-day stretch
of gains against the yen as European finance ministers met in
 Luxembourg  to discuss the region’s sovereign-debt crisis amid
speculation  Spain  is struggling to avoid a bailout request.  The shared currency slid versus most major peers after data
showed German industrial production declined, adding to evidence
the fiscal turmoil is weighing on growth. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  visits  Greece  tomorrow for the first time since
the crisis began in 2009. The yen climbed as investors sought a
haven. South Africa’s rand sank to the weakest level against the
dollar in more than three years amid spreading labor strikes.  “There’s not a lot of liquidity in the market today,”
Michael Lavina, a senior trader in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at
Faros Trading LLC, said in a telephone interview. “The largest
issue that people are waiting on is whether or not Spain will
request a bailout in a formal way, as well as if there’s any
stark clarity on what will go on with Greece.”  The euro depreciated 1 percent to 101.58 yen at 5 p.m.  New
York  time, and slid as much as 1.4 percent. The shared currency
moved below its 200-day moving average of 101.78 yen after
closing above it the prior two sessions. It had last gained for
seven straight days in February  Europe ’s 17-nation currency lost 0.6 percent to $1.2968.
The dollar fell 0.4 percent to 78.33 yen.  Sterling Sinks  Sterling weakened for a second day versus the dollar as a
survey by Lloyds Bank showed Britons’ assessment on employment
prospects fell to negative 49 last month from negative 43 in
August, the first decline in five months. The pound declined
against the euro for a seventh day, the longest run since
November 2009.  The U.K. currency fell 0.7 percent to $1.6027 and slipped
0.2 percent to 80.92 pence per euro.  The pound may slide toward $1.5912 to $1.5900, its lowest
in more than a month, after it failed last week to advance above
key resistance levels, according to  Karen Jones , head of fixed-
income, commodity and currency technical analysis at Commerzbank
AG. Resistance is an area on a chart where sell orders may be
clustered. The pound touched $1.6217 on Oct. 5.  India ’s rupee slumped the most this year against the
greenback on a closing basis as investors sought a haven amid
Europe’s crisis talks. The currency, which dropped against its
31 most-traded peers, fell 1.5 percent to 52.6450 per dollar.  The Czech koruna slid versus all except two of its major
counterparts after the country’s industrial output slumped as
the  European debt crisis  damped demand for exports. The currency
weakened 0.9 percent to 19.2368 per dollar. It declined 0.2
percent to 24.935 per euro.  ‘Scaling Back’  “The market is scaling back hopes that there’s going to be
an immediate resolution to the broader euro-zone crisis,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) , said in a
telephone interview. “How the euro-zone stability mechanism
plays a part in resuscitating economic growth in Spain and
Greece still remains a very murky question.”  The  European Central Bank ’s planned purchases of  government
bonds , called outright monetary transactions, to curb the debt
crisis will help support the euro, which will appreciate to
$1.32, according to Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign-exchange
strategist at Swissquote Bank SA. He spoke in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Guy Johnson .  Finance ministers from the 17-member euro area are
discussing issues including Spain in Luxembourg and leaders from
all 27 nations in the European Union will meet tomorrow. The
European Council gathers for a summit in Brussels on Oct. 18-19.  Rescue Fund  The euro-bloc finance ministers also declared the 500
billion-euro ($648 billion) European Stability Mechanism
operational, while saying that Spain, the permanent rescue
fund’s biggest potential near-term customer, isn’t on the verge
of tapping it.  Spain has hesitated to set the ECB’s plan in motion by
requesting aid, a condition the bank insists on. Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has said his government is considering a
request, while damping speculation that it will come soon.  Greece, where the European debt crisis began, needs to find
spending cuts to maintain access to 240 billion euros in rescue
funds and is trying to reach an agreement with its official
lenders to release the next payment of 31 billion euros.  Germany’s  industrial production  decreased 0.5 percent in
August from July. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  called for a 0.6 percent drop.  The euro gained 1.2 percent in the past month against nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The yen lost 0.3 percent and the dollar fell
0.2 percent.  Rand Drops  The South African rand fell versus all of tis 16 most-
traded counterparts. It declined for a fourth day versus the
greenback, the longest losing streak since August, as workers at
Transnet SOC Ltd.,  South Africa ’s ports and rail utility, went
on a one-day strike. They joined truck drivers who’ve been in
industrial action since Sept. 24.  The rand dropped 1.3 percent to 8.8928 per dollar after
earlier falling as much as 2.5 percent to 8.9942, the weakest
level since April 2009.  Implied  volatility  among major currencies, which signals
the expected pace of price swings, increased as much as 26 basis
points, or 0.26 percentage point, to 7.76 percent, a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index for Group-of-Seven currencies showed. It was
the most since Sept. 27. Lower volatility makes investments in
currencies with higher key lending rates more attractive because
the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profit.
The five-year average is 12.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  