-- Euro Finance Chiefs to Give Positive Greece View, Rehn Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-10-08T10:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/euro-finance-chiefs-to-give-positive-greece-statement-rehn-says.html
Euro-zone finance ministers meeting
today are likely to make a positive statement on  Greece ’s
progress toward meeting austerity targets needed to free the
nation’s next bailout payment, European Union Commissioner for
Economic and Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn said.  “It’s important that this can be concluded in the coming
weeks,” Rehn said in an interview in Helsinki on Oct. 6.
“Negotiations have progressed well in the past few days and
last night. This is why I assume and expect the euro-group to
give a positive and supportive statement on Greece’s progress.”  Negotiations between the government of Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras and Greece’s official lenders stalled amid Greek
reluctance to sign off on more pension and wage cuts as the
nation suffers a  fifth year of recession . Greece needs to find
spending cuts to maintain access to 240 billion euros ($313
billion) in rescue funds and is trying to reach an agreement
with its official lenders to release the next payment of 31
billion euros. The funds would primarily be used to recapitalize
Greek banks and boost liquidity in the cash-starved economy.  “It will take some time before the report can be finalized
as it takes more work than simply an agreement over the measures
Greece commits to balance its budget and carry out structural
reforms,” Rehn said.  Deadlines Past  Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told reporters in
 Athens  this weekend that his government made progress on talks
with the European Union and International Monetary Fund on a
13.5 billion-euro package of austerity measures for the next two
years. Talks will continue this week, he said on Oct. 6.  The yield on Greece’s benchmark 10-year note eased eight
basis points to 18.38 percent as of 9:37 a.m. in  London . The
difference in yield between Greek 10-year yields and rates on
similar-maturity German bunds narrowed to 16.86 percentage
points from 16.94 percentage point at the end of last week.  Greece’s statistical service said last week that the
economy shrank 7.1 percent last year, more than the 6.9 percent
previously thought.  Two bailouts and the biggest debt write-off in history have
so far failed to halt Greece’s recessionary slide, prompting
Christine Lagarde, the IMF’s managing director, to signal last
month that another writedown might need to be considered. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  is due to visit Athens tomorrow.  “The deadlines are already past, around the time of the
Greek elections and it’s important that this be concluded in the
coming weeks,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  