-- Record Crash Prompts Indian Exchanges to Seek New Limits
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-10-08T11:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/exchanges-asks-india-regulator-to-lower-price-bands-after.html
Indian exchanges asked the market
regulator to narrow the range it allows some stocks to trade
after erroneous orders caused a record plunge in the S&P CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index, according to officials familiar with the proposal.  Price limits for 216 of the  biggest  and most liquid stocks
should be lowered from 20 percent to 9 percent, the three
officials said. The measure was proposed to the Securities &
Exchange Board of  India  by exchange executives at a meeting in
Mumbai on Oct. 6, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the talks were private.  Trading in the benchmark Nifty and some stocks stopped for
15 minutes on Oct. 5 after the 50-stock gauge sank 16 percent.
The incident, which briefly erased $58 billion in value, is the
latest in a series of mishaps that has put pressure on
regulators globally to prevent market errors. Bad trades sent
 Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT)  up as much as 29 percent on Oct. 3, and
in May, the Nasdaq Stock Market blamed software for delays in
order confirmations in the debut of Facebook Inc.  “Everyone is very sensitive to these electronic errors,”
Adam Mattessich, head of international trading at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, said by phone from  New York  on Oct. 5. “It’s the
kind of thing that could be nothing or it could become a
financial calamity.”  Intraday Slump  Of the 4,100 companies on the National Stock Exchange of
India, the nation’s largest bourse, 19 slumped 19 percent or
more intraday.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the biggest company by
market value, rebounded from a 20 percent plunge to close up 0.6
percent at 857.8 rupees. The stock dropped 4.5 percent to 819.4
rupees today, the most in more than seven months.  Housing
Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the biggest mortgage lender, also
fell as much as 20 percent on Oct. 5. It rose 0.7 percent to
750.6 rupees today.  The Nifty retreated 1.2 percent to 5,676 at the 3:30 p.m.
close, the steepest decline in more than two months.  As many as 59 erroneous trades by a dealer at  Emkay Global
Financial Services Ltd. (EMKAY)  in Mumbai that led to trades valued at
6.5 billion rupees ($125 million) caused the problem, the NSE
said in a statement on Oct. 5.  Circuit-breaker limits enforced by the NSE get activated
“after existing orders are executed,” Ravi Varanasi, head of
business development at the exchange in Mumbai, said by phone on
Oct. 5. “We are investigating the reason behind the wrong
orders and how checks and balances at the member’s end failed.”  ‘Review Orders’  The NSE’s trading limits for the Nifty index range from 10
percent to 20 percent. The exchange and rival BSE Ltd.,  Asia ’s
oldest bourse, have price caps on individual stocks that range
from 5 percent to 20 percent. Stocks traded in the futures and
options segment are permitted to rise or fall 20 percent in a
single session without a halt in trading.  “Lowering these limits may prevent flash crashes in the
future,” Nirakar Pradhan, chief investment officer at Future
Generali India Life Insurance Co. in Mumbai, said by telephone
yesterday. “Traders will get room to review and modify their
orders” after price limits are reached, he said.  Exchange officials are meeting the market regulator today
to discuss the implementation of the proposal, the people said.
S. Ramann,  executive director  at the Securities and Exchange
Board, declined to comment on the plan. BSE spokesman Ketan
Mehta was not immediately available for comment.  In May 2010, high-frequency orders worsened the U.S.’s so-
called flash crash, which briefly wiped $862 billion from the
nation’s stocks. While the drop in India drew comparisons with
rout in American equities, the U.S. event spurred many times the
losses of the Nifty’s drop and affected more stocks.  U.S. Crash  About 20 companies in India saw declines of 19 percent or
more on Oct. 5, compared with the more than 300 securities that
lost at least 60 percent during the flash crash before the
trades were canceled, a September 2010 report from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission found. The decline and rebound in the Nifty lasted
seconds, compared with more than 15 minutes for stocks, futures
and indexes in the flash crash.  Narrowing the price cap to the proposed 9 percent may be
“too low in light of a relatively fewer free-trading shares,”
Seth Freeman, San Francisco-based chief executive officer at EM
Capital Management LLC, said by e-mail today. “This, coupled
with ETFs and other index based vehicles that hold in common a
large number of the same shares, can move the market in either
direction. Aggregate shares in a single name traded poorly could
drastically move prices beyond 9 percent.”  Free-float shares exclude those held by company founders
and strategic partners, and are the basis for Nifty rankings.  Policy Reforms  The NSE controls more than 90 percent of India’s $28
billion equity  derivatives  market and handles 75 percent of the
stock trades. The stoppage, the biggest such problem in more
than two years, comes as a burst of policy reforms by Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  propels Indian stocks to a 17-month
high. Foreigners have plowed a net $16.5 billion into local
shares this year, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by
Bloomberg, excluding  China .  Combined daily  volumes  on the nation’s two biggest bourses
averaged 989 million shares last month, 27 percent more than in
August, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Trading last year in
the Nifty, at 35.5 billion shares, was the lowest in four years.  “It’s not something that India needed at this stage when
volumes are just beginning to recover,” A.S. Thiyaga Rajan, a
senior managing director at Aquarius Investment Advisors Pte.,
which manages about $400 million, said by phone from  Singapore 
on Oct. 5.  Emkay in a statement issued Oct. 6 said the “obvious and
apparent error would justify the annulment of these trades,” on
the NSE. The trades won’t be scrapped as the exchange’s systems
weren’t at fault, said Varanasi.  Emkay’s shares plunged by the daily limit of 10 percent for
a second straight day to 28 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  