-- Fig-Eating Pigs Share Sty With Port Grapes: Elin McCoy
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-10-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/fig-eating-pigs-share-sty-with-port-grapes-elin-mccoy.html
In a steep terraced vineyard above
northern  Portugal ’s winding Douro river are 6,000 very special
gnarled vines. Their grapes make the world’s rarest, most
collectible and expensive vintage port, Quinta do Noval
Nacional.  I’d tasted only one vintage of what a critic once called
the  Mount Everest  of port. So there was no way I’d miss the
chance to sample 12 historic vintages from 1962 to 2003 with
Christian Seely, who brought the Quinta do Noval estate back to
greatness.  The soothing beige-walled private dining room at  New York ’s
Eleven Madison Park hummed with anticipation. Sniffs of the
filled glasses in front of me brought heady aromas of mint, dark
chocolate, licorice and nuts.  Seely, wearing a dark blue Charvet bow tie and Savile Row
double-breasted suit, looked pretty enthusiastic himself,
admitting, “I don’t lead tastings like this every day.”  Since 2000, he’s been the managing director of AXA
Millesimes, the wine division of French insurance giant  AXA SA. (CS) 
He was a poetry-reading 32-year-old when the company bought
legendary but rundown Quinta do Noval in 1993 and dispatched him
to oversee its revival.  Holy Grail  The 145-hectare estate started making port as early as
1715, but its glory days were the 1920s to the early 1970s. The
great 1994 put it back on track. Seely says its worldwide
reputation was made by the 1931 Nacional, a Portophile’s Holy
Grail that’s considered the greatest port of the 20th century.
Seely’s only tasted it three times. (Me? Never.)  Unlike most port houses, the quinta (farm) makes its two
main ports -- Quinta do Noval and Quinta do Noval Nacional --
from grapes grown in the estate vineyard. Nacional relies only
on those from a 2.5-hectare plot in its heart.  Yet comparing the two, I discover how very different they
are. I like the plummy, licorice-and-black velvet 2000 Quinta do
Noval ($100) as much as I did when it was first released years
ago.  The Nacional ($600 to $1,000) has a similar character, but
it’s deeper, richer, subtler and more sophisticated, with a
distinctive aroma that reminds me of wild lilies. Both have a
wonderfully delicate quality that Seely calls Quinta do Noval’s
hallmark. The opulent 2003 and savory 1997 Nacional surpass
their Noval counterparts.  Superior Harvest  Port producers “declare” a vintage several times a
decade, when they decide the quality of wine from a particular
harvest is superior. But declarations for Noval and Nacional
don’t always coincide.  “The 2007 regular port is wonderful but there’s no 2007
Nacional,” says Seely. “It just didn’t sing.” On the other
hand, there’s no regular Noval in 1996, and the big powerful
Nacional ($450 to $700) is a stunner.  What accounts for the difference?  It’s not the three indulged photogenic pigs who reside in a
deluxe stone sty in Nacional’s vineyard, where they have an
unparalleled view of the Douro valley and are fed ripe figs to
fatten them for their fate, the quinta’s annual pig roast.  Seely says the intensity and character of Nacional’s ports
come from the plot’s ungrafted vines.  Phylloxera Epidemic  After the 19th century phylloxera epidemic wiped out almost
all  Europe ’s vineyards, virtually all vines had to be grafted on
resistant American rootstock.  The Nacional parcel near the winery had apparently been
spared, and when Noval’s then owner replanted the usual mix of
Portuguese varieties, he planted ungrafted vines in that spot,
hence the name “Nacional.”  Why the root-destroying phylloxera pest leaves these vines
alone is a viticultural mystery; presumably it has nothing to do
with the pigs.  Making both of these vintage ports remains a traditional
process that involves treading grapes by foot in large square
granite troughs called lagares. Colorless grape spirit is added
to stop fermentation at the point where the wine will retain its
hallmark balanced sweetness.  These powerful, deeply fruity ports need time to smooth out
and reveal elegance and complexity. The truly great, ripe, dark,
and chocolaty 1994 Nacional ($1,200) will be even more
spectacular in another 10 years.  My other favorites were all from the 1960s: a wild, exotic,
spicy 1967 ($1,200), a vibrant 1966 ($1,100), and the star of
the day for me, the just about perfect 1963 ($3,000).  Chateau Petrus  Nacional’s price (2003, $800) is no deterrent to its sales.
Only 200 to 250 cases are made in any declared vintage, which
happens about three to four times a decade. That’s a tenth the
annual production of  Chateau Petrus  (2003, $2,500).  This fortified wine might go for much more if port’s image
weren’t partly stuck in the past -- men in black tie harrumphing
as they pompously pass a decanter after dinner in a Downton
Abbey-type drawing room.  So port houses are trying to woo younger drinkers with a
different kind of port experience.  Noval Black  ($20), launched
two years ago, is a berry-flavored, spicy-sweet, and affordable
ruby reserve port with its own flashy website.  This year the estate enlisted mixologist Jim Meehan of New
York’s  PDT  to create cocktail recipes for it.  They probably taste better if you don’t try them after
drinking the sublime 1963 Nacional.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans on TV .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 