-- French BAE-EADS Demands Threaten Deal, U.K. Minister Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-07T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/french-bae-eads-demands-threaten-deal-u-k-minister-says.html
Any French government demands to
retain more than 10 percent of a combined  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  risk derailing the
merger, U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said.  Hammond will have what he described as “crucial” three-
way talks with his French and German counterparts at a NATO
defense ministers’ meeting in Brussels tomorrow, in which he
will set out the U.K.’s resistance to any government holding
more than 9 percent of the planned company after the merger.  “If we are going to keep this thing in play we need a
clear signal back from the French in particular that they are
willing to reduce their shareholding, where they are effectively
an investor in the company, not a state party trying to run the
company,” Hammond said in an interview yesterday at the
 Conservative Party ’s annual conference in Birmingham, central
England. Asked if he is optimistic a deal can be struck between
the three governments, he replied: “I didn’t say that.”  With an Oct. 10 deadline to formalize their plan
approaching, EADS and BAE have been attempting to dispel
government concerns about how a combination of  Europe ’s largest
aerospace company and the biggest defense contractor will affect
the states’ role as well as jobs and the centers of command.
 Germany , which doesn’t have a direct stake in EADS, has been
lobbying for more involvement, while French officials have said
they want to retain their influence.  “The French and German governments need to get down below
10 percent,” Hammond said.  Lawmakers’ Demands  A group of 45 Conservative lawmakers have written to Prime
Minister  David Cameron  demanding French, Spanish and German
government shareholdings in the combined company be removed as a
condition for their support for the deal. Concerns raised in the
letter include national-security risks, BAE’s U.S. defense
contracts and possible “interference” by foreign governments
to protect jobs in their own nations over the U.K.  If agreement can be reached on the shareholdings, “there
will still be a lot of other things that need to be addressed,
but there will be a sense that then the deal is within reach,”
Hammond said. He added that if the French agree to a reduction
in their stake, he would expect the Germans to go along with
that.  “It’s not realistic to expect the French state to get rid
of its shareholding entirely but it has got to be reduced to a
level that removes effectively a blocking-minority control over
the company, so that the company can operate in a normal
commercial way,” Hammond said. He said Britain would retain its
“golden share” in a merged company, allowing it to veto any
transactions that affect national security.  ‘Vital Interests’  “The golden share will remain to allow us to protect our
vital national-security interests in the defense business,” he
said. He added that the U.K. is prepared to veto the merger if
it does not get the deal it wants.  “There will have to be some give and take, but we have red
lines,” he said. “It’s a question of if we can get a deal that
works for Britain then fine, if we can’t then it doesn’t happen.
It’s as simple as that.”  Hammond will meet separately with U.S. Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  in Brussels tomorrow. Asked if the U.S. had
expressed concerns over the proposed merger, Hammond replied
“Not yet, no.” He added that the U.K. is “seeking to
establish what the American red lines are.”  The U.K. minister said it’s possible the deal could fail
entirely if the U.S. administration decides it does not want to
share national-security information with a merged company.  U.S. Requirements  “I think there is that risk, but all the parties to this
transaction are well-acquainted with the way the American
administration works,” he said. “All parties have taken the
view the American government will have some requirements of its
own, but it will be possible to accommodate those requirements.
They are not going to say no at any price.”  Hammond pledged to protect British defense-industry jobs
under any merged company.  “The security around jobs will be delivered by a structure
of the company which means it is run commercially, so it’s not
subjected to single government pressures to do things which are
not commercial,” he said. He said there would also be a set of
“specific agreements” that would guarantee “at least for a
period of time a certain allocation of jobs in certain places.”  “For us one of the key things is making sure the U.K.
retains an appropriate share of the European Airbus work,” he
said.  Hammond said he does not expect an agreement before the
U.K. Takeover Panel’s Oct. 10 deadline and that the management
of BAE and EADS should look for an extension.  “The name of the game for the management teams -- they are
not going to get a deal closed by Wednesday -- is to try to get
to a point by Wednesday that they can say to themselves we are
close enough, and it’s worth seeking an extension and worth
carrying this on for another couple of weeks,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Birmingham,  England , at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  