-- Brees Sets NFL Mark in Saints’ Win as Colts Rally Without Pagano
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-08T04:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/giants-beat-browns-as-colts-stun-packers-in-pagano-s-absence.html
Drew Brees ’s record-setting game
carried the New Orleans Saints to their first win of the
National Football League season, while the Indianapolis Colts
rallied to upset the Green Bay Packers 30-27 less than a week
after coach Chuck Pagano was diagnosed with leukemia.  Brees threw four touchdown passes as the Saints beat the
San Diego Chargers 31-24 last night in New Orleans. He’s now
thrown at least one scoring pass in 48 straight games, breaking
the NFL record he shared with Hall of Famer Johnny Unitas.  “It’s a team record, not an individual record,” Brees
said in a televised interview. “Certainly the man who held this
record, Johnny Unitas, stands for everything that’s great about
this league and was one of the pioneers of this game. It
couldn’t have happened in a better way.”  The  New York Giants  erased a 14-point first-quarter deficit
yesterday in defeating the winless Cleveland Browns 41-27 and
the  Atlanta Falcons  beat the Washington Redskins 24-17 to become
the first NFL team to start 5-0 this season.  In a matchup of quarterbacks with multiple NFL Most
Valuable Player awards, the  New England Patriots  and  Tom Brady 
beat the  Denver Broncos  and Peyton Manning 31-21.  The Colts knocked off the Packers as 7-point underdogs when
rookie quarterback  Andrew Luck  threw a winning 4-yard touchdown
pass to Reggie Wayne with 35 seconds left in Indianapolis. Mason Crosby missed a 51-yard field goal for the Packers with three
seconds left that could have forced overtime.  Meaningful Win  The Colts earlier this week learned that Pagano, 52, was
unlikely to coach again this season after being diagnosed with a
treatable form of cancer of the bone marrow. Pagano, who is in
his first season coaching the Colts after replacing  Jim Caldwell , said he “will beat this” in an e-mail sent to his
players this week.  “Everyone knows how much this means,” Colts owner  Jim Irsay  said in the team’s locker room as he held a game ball he
said would be presented to Pagano.  The Pittsburgh Steelers beat the Philadelphia Eagles 16-14
on a 34-yard field goal by Shaun Suisham as time expired, while
the Chicago Bears routed the Jacksonville Jaguars 41-3 as
Charles Tillman and Lance Briggs scored on interception returns
for the second straight week.  The Baltimore Ravens beat the Kansas City Chiefs 9-6 in a
battle of field goals; the Seattle Seahawks topped the Carolina
Panthers 16-12; and the Miami Dolphins beat the Cincinnati
Bengals 17-13 as Daniel Thomas and  Reggie Bush  each had
touchdown runs. The  Minnesota Vikings  eased past the Tennessee
Titans 30-7 and the San Francisco 49ers racked up a franchise-
record 621 yards of offense in a 45-3 rout of the Buffalo Bills.  Jets-Texans  Week 5 concludes tonight in East Rutherford, New Jersey, as
the New York Jets host the unbeaten Houston Texans.  Brees broke Unitas’s 52-year-old record in front of
suspended Saints coach  Sean Payton , who applauded the milestone
from a luxury box at the Superdome in New Orleans.  Payton, interim coach  Joe Vitt  and General Manager Mickey Loomis -- all of whom were suspended by the NFL in the Saints’
bounty case -- got approval last week from the league to attend
the game after a special request from Brees. They had no contact
with the team.  “It gave us some good mojo for sure,” said Brees, who
played his first five seasons with San Diego. “It was special
for our team that they could be a part of this night.”  Brees set the record with a 40-yard touchdown pass to
Devery Henderson in the first quarter and also threw three
scoring passes to Marques Colston as the Saints avoided an 0-5
start and dropped the Chargers to 3-2.  Giants Win  In East Rutherford,  Ahmad Bradshaw  rushed for 200 yards and
a touchdown for the Giants, who pulled away from the Browns by
scoring 27 straight points spanning the second and third
quarters.  Eli Manning and  Victor Cruz  hooked up for three touchdown
passes as New York improved to 3-2 and dropped the Browns to a
league-worst 0-5. Cleveland had opened a 14-0 lead less than
five minutes into the game and led 17-7 in the opening minutes
of the second quarter.  “It’s obviously not the way you want to start, but we
never get down or frustrated or start to panic,” Manning said.
“We were able to put some good drives together offensively. We
didn’t force things and took what the defense had given us.”  The Falcons stayed unbeaten with 17 fourth-quarter points,
including  Michael Turner ’s 13-yard touchdown run with 2:46
remaining. Atlanta has won its first five games for the first
time in franchise history while the Redskins (2-3) lost their
eighth straight home game.  Matt Ryan  passed for 345 yards and two scores for the
Falcons, who are one of the NFL’s two unbeaten teams along with
the Texans (4-0). The Arizona Cardinals fell to 4-1 on Oct. 4
with a 17-3 loss to the St. Louis Rams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  