-- Givaudan Perfumers Keep Artificial Whale Extract for Own Scents
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-10-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/givaudan-perfumers-keep-artificial-whale-extract-for-own-scents.html
Givaudan SA (GIVN) ’s perfume creators have
faced down bosses to keep a super-strength artificial version of
the world’s rarest perfume ingredient rather than license it to
competitors.  The Swiss maker of flavors and fragrances, whose customers
include  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Danone SA (BN) , won’t sell its pine-tree based
Ambermax molecule for “at least a couple more years,” Givaudan
researcher Felix Flachsmann said in an interview.  Ambermax is the latest chemical effort to recreate the
musky, woody qualities of ambergris, which is excreted by sperm
whales and counts as one of the most costly and delicate scents.
Synthetic alternatives including Firmenich International SA’s
Ambrox,  Henkel AG (HEN3) ’s Ambroxan, and Givaudan’s own Ambrofix have
been among the best-selling fragrance ingredients for decades.  Ambermax’s value is hard to define as it is one ingredient
among hundreds used by Givaudan’s own in-house perfumers to
create colognes, Flachsmann said at his office in Duebendorf,
 Switzerland . The molecule “could be worth millions” of dollars
if sold to third parties, he said.  Artificial Ambergris  The artificial ambergris may be worth less than 5 million
Swiss francs ($5.3 million) now, said Jean-Philippe Bertschy, an
analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich, who has a hold rating on the
stock.  The Swiss maker of Gucci Guilty and Boss Bottled Night
typically gives in-house perfumers exclusivity on ingredients
for two years before selling the molecules to third parties.  Executives at the firm’s fragrance-ingredients unit would
now prefer to license the four-year-old molecule to outsiders
such as Firmenich and  International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (IFF) ,
Flachsmann said. Instead, Givaudan is keeping Ambermax because
it’s “a huge advantage for our perfumers and beneficial for our
perfume sales.”  Natural ambergris is excreted by sperm whales and matures
over years into a waxy rock which is picked up by beachcombers.
Low-quality ambergris has a “very nasty, nearly fecal type of
smell,” even if it may mature over years to develop woody and
tobacco notes, Flachsmann said.  In “Moby-Dick,” first published in 1851, Herman Melville
described ambergris as “an essence found in the inglorious
bowels of a sick whale” and said it looks like “ripe Windsor
soap, or rich mottled old cheese.”  Warmer and Sensual  Givaudan made Ambermax as a “more signature, warmer and
sensual” answer to  Symrise AG (SY1) ’s Ambrocenide, Flachsmann said.  “You have to calculate the potential it has for your own
perfumers versus what it does to sales and profitability if you
add another distribution channel,” Symrise spokesman Bernhard
Kott said by telephone. “If uniqueness of positioning is so
impressive, you might want to keep it one to two more years
captive.”  Scientists have worked on perfecting a synthetic version
since the 1950s. The original is no longer used by mainstream
perfumers since a ban on the use of animal products. Firmenich
pioneered early research and developed the first synthetic
ambergris under the trade name Ambrox.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  