-- Libyan Premier Ousted After Lawmakers Reject Cabinet
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-10-08T08:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/libyan-lawmakers-reject-crisis-cabinet-debate-next-steps-1-.html
Libyan lawmakers were to meet today
to weigh their options after rejecting a revised Cabinet list
submitted by Prime Minister-elect Mustafa Abushagur and firing
him from his post.  Abushagur, who earlier presented a “crisis cabinet” of 10
people to lead  Libya , was defeated in a no-confidence motion
late yesterday, less than a month after he took office. He faced
a challenge of appeasing the various political groups in a
country where the central government has wielded little
authority in the year since Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster.  The premier-elect had faced an already-extended Oct. 7
deadline for the new Cabinet after the National Congress
rejected his earlier list. Much of the criticism revolved around
different groups or factions looking to secure representation
for their regions in the Cabinet -- a demand Abushagur said
undercut his efforts.  “I was going to form a national unity government, not
based on quotas,” he told Parliament in Tripoli yesterday.
“But then there was pressure on me. People wanted ministers
from their regions.”  Abushagur called on lawmakers to work quickly to select a
new prime minister and form a government “so the country is not
left with a political vacuum during this period.”  The legislature’s head, Mohammed Magariaf, said in
televised comments yesterday that the body would meet again
today to discuss how to proceed.  No Surprise  The latest rejection and protests by demonstrators who say
their regions are unrepresented in the government reflect
Libya’s fragile political situation since last year’s bloody
uprising. The interim government has pushed to restore order and
revive the economy, efforts stymied by factionalism as militias
refused to disarm and regional interests predominated.  “The collapse of the Libyan government should have
surprised nobody,” said  Aaron David Miller  of the Washington-
based research group Woodrow Wilson Center. “Anybody who
believed that Libya was going to be the poster child for easy
transitions and good governance wasn’t focused on the tribal and
regional divisions that will impede stability.”  Libya in particular has no experience of self-rule because
of Qaddafi’s “bizarre one-man cult rule,” Miller said. “The
country has too many guns and grievances, militias and
malcontents for that.”  Challenges  Christopher Chivvis , a senior political strategist with the
Rand Corporation in  Washington , called yesterday’s events
“another challenge that Libya doesn’t need right now.”  “The thing to watch is how quickly they’re able to try
again and potentially succeed, and I have no way of judging
whether they’ll be able to do that,” Chivvis said.  Abushagur had earlier proposed that ministries without
named heads would be grouped under the premier’s office and
supervised directly by the deputy prime minister. He withdrew
the initial slate of names on Oct. 4, the same day more than 100
protesters from the western city of Zawiya forced their way into
the congress building. Congress must approve Cabinet choices.  The Cabinet selection unveiled on Oct. 3 included largely
unknown figures and took little account of demands made by the
country’s political groups and regions. The list included three
deputy premiers representing the country’s three main regions.  Abushagur struggled to form a government amid attempts by
authorities to disband militias following an Sept. 11 assault on
the American Consulate in Benghazi that left U.S. Ambassador
Chris Stevens and three colleagues dead. The U.S. has blamed the
attack, which took place during a protest against a U.S.-made
anti-Islamic film, on terrorists.  Libya must overhaul its security industry and tackle
economic and political issues, and “until they have a
government in place they can’t do it,” Chivvis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  