-- Iran Low on Options as Hyperinflation Concerns Spark Gold Dash
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-10-07T20:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/iran-low-on-options-as-hyperinflation-concerns-spark-gold-dash.html
Iran has few policy options to end
turmoil in its  currency markets , as the U.S. and allies seek to
inflict enough economic pain to force the Islamic republic into
concessions over its nuclear plans, analysts said.  The rial has depreciated as much as 40 percent against the
dollar in street markets since August and gold purchases have
surged as residents seek to shield savings. The currency plunge
led to unrest in Tehran’s markets last week as police used tear
gas to end protests. Iran has raised interest rates on deposits
and opened an exchange center to stabilize the currency market.  The U.S. and European Union are starving Iran of foreign
currency by blocking sales of oil, its main export, and other
transactions in dollars and euros. Israel has threatened to
attack to stop  Iran’s nuclear program  if the sanctions don’t
succeed in curbing it. Iranian leaders say they won’t bow to the
pressure, even as the country’s  crude output  plunges to the
lowest in more than two decades.  “I don’t see what Iran can do on the economic front other
than try to avoid sanctions by exporting to countries that are
prepared to use their currency as payment,” said  John Williamson , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington . “I don’t think monetary
policy changes will make any difference. People aren’t going to
examine interest rates when their savings are being
confiscated.”  ‘Hyper-Inflation’  The run on the rial has exacerbated inflation that had
already been pushed up by the removal of subsidies on energy and
food. The official rate rose to 23.5 percent in August. The real
rate, which adjusts for the  currency depreciation , is three
times that, according to  Steve Hanke , a professor of applied
economics at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore.  “We’re getting into what is technically hyper-inflation,”
with an “implied inflation rate” of about 70 percent a month,
Hanke said.  Concern that savings are being eroded is leading Iranians
to other assets, including gold and property.  Turkish sales of precious metals to Iran jumped to $6.2
billion through July from $21.9 million in the same period last
year. Wealthy Iranians in  Turkey  are collecting gold and
exporting it to Iran, the Istanbul-based Zaman newspaper said
July 11. Iranians in Dubai and  India  are also collecting gold
and sending it to the central bank, Zaman said, citing a Turkish
economy administration official it didn’t name.  ‘Out of Options’  The currency decline is reminiscent of Iran’s economic
crisis in the 1980s, when its eight-year long war with
neighboring  Iraq  prompted a rush to buy gold and dollars.  “Iranians have made some very big purchases recently,”
said Mohamed Zahran, a shopkeeper at Al Matroushi Jewellery FZCO
at Dubai’s Gold and Diamond Park said by telephone Oct. 7.
“Definitely more than before. Although Iranians have always
been good customers, it’s just that we’ve seen more sales.”  While foreign-currency traders and bazaar merchants in
Tehran opened their shops this week, prices are climbing so fast
that the price of milk jumped 9 percent in a single day last
week. The risk of protests spurred President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
to call for calm on Oct. 2, blaming the weakening of the rial on
foreign pressures.  More than 200 policemen were stationed around Ferdowsi
Street, near one of the main trading areas in the capital, on
Oct. 4. Earlier in the day, police used teargas to disperse a
crowd at the currency market, and were also sent to the city’s
bazaar after shopkeepers refused to open.  “If some believe that through pressure they can push
Iranians to the negotiating table they are certainly mistaken,”
Ahmadinejad, 55, said.  Foreign Reserves  Still, some analysts say that behind the scenes Iran may
take a more flexible line.  “They’re running out of options, no one is going to
realistically help shore up their foreign currency reserves,”
said Ghanem Nuseibeh, founder of political risk analyst
Cornerstone Global Associates. Making concessions on  Iran ’s
nuclear program “will probably be their way out,” he said.  The rial traded at about 30,000 per dollar yesterday in the
streets of Tehran. That compares with the official rate of
12,260 rials set by the  central bank . Importers of essential
goods including medicines, meat and grains have access to that
rate at an exchange center opened by the government last month,
while other importers of goods such as industrial and
agricultural machinery enjoy a smaller discount.  Camouflage the Problem  Edward Bell, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit
in  London , said Iran’s “strong manufacturing and industrial
base” and agricultural output leaves it better placed than most
regional economies to be self-sufficient for a period. He said
another round of sanctions flagged by the EU would impose a
“sharper squeeze on the economy, and that might bring the
government back to some negotiations.”  The new exchange center “has clearly not been up to the
task” of meeting demand, Bell said. To steady the rial, Iran
would have to “inject a lot more money into the market to
support the currency, and that means injecting foreign currency
reserves into the market to meet demands.”  It’s not clear how much cash would be needed or how much
the authorities have at their disposal, he said.  The EIU estimates Iran’s foreign reserves will drop to $70
billion this year from $80 billion in 2011 as sanctions reduce
oil exports. Ahmadinejad said in January that the country has
$90 billion in reserves earned from crude sales.  Without recourse to hard currency, Iran’s response may be
limited to stop-gap measures, such as the new exchange centers
or a January move to raise  interest rates  on rial accounts to as
much as 21 percent.  “The direction they will go won’t solve the problem, it
will repress” it, Hanke said. “All they will they be able to
do is camouflage the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  