-- Islam’s Angry Literalists Are Only at Halfway Point
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2012-10-07T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/islam-s-angry-literalists-are-only-at-halfway-point.html
It would seem that  rage  grips the
world of Islam, that frivolity and joy and plain normalcy quit
Muslim lands and communities a long time ago.  We don’t know with any reasonable certainty when this great
change settled upon the Muslims. We do know that when Americans
and Europeans encounter Islam today, they usually do so in the
context of a ferocious anti-U.S.  riot  of young men -- this is
the population that takes to the streets -- who are offended by
a novelist’s literary license, a cartoonist’s irreverent
depiction of Muhammad or a convicted fraudster’s  idea , on a
video trailer, of the life and imagined predilections of the
prophet.  One would not know today that these Arab and Islamic cities
had their “hakawatis” (storytellers) -- who spun yarns in the
evening -- and had their sinners and brothels and proud
heretics. One would have no idea of what life pulsated behind
the shutters of these Muslim homes.  “You love only talking of death and the dead, and I have
wearied of that,” the Egyptian novelist Naguib Mahfouz observed
in a work of autobiography. It isn’t only people in Copenhagen
and  Manhattan  who bristle and wonder about that Muslim world.  Forgive the personal pronoun: I came into my own  in Beirut 
in the late 1950s and early 1960s. The old traditional world
hadn’t yet been overwhelmed, people wore their faith lightly,
and there was a measure of skepticism about anyone overdoing
displays of religious zeal.  Tolerant Past  People went to Mecca for pilgrimage, and their neighbors
gave them an inattentive reception when they returned. Islam
framed the lives of the believers and set the parameters of
social and cultural life, yet men and women strayed, navigating
their way between the permissible and the impermissible.  This was Islam. But a new breed, the  Islamists , made their
appearance. The faith of past centuries was reworked and worked
on; hijacked is the more familiar term.  The road to that belligerent reading of the faith was paved
by the secular dictatorships. They shook up the old order,
herded people into the cities, promised a bright new world, and
the newly urbanized and half-educated would in time awaken to a
harvest of failure and disappointment.  For the Arabs, reckoning came with the defeat of their
armies in the  Six-Day War  of 1967. It is fitting to say that the
rise of the Islamists began on the seventh day of that war. The
modernist project, led by the Egyptian state, was a shambles.  The Persians were a decade behind. A pompous ruler, Shah
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, with vast new oil wealth available to
him, set out to create a grand civilizational project. He had in
mind an Asian  Germany , he said, but his people were not Germans,
and by 1979 he was on the road, in search of a country that
would grant him exile. He left his homeland to a turbaned
successor who would use faith and terror to create his own
reign.  By the 1980s, the Middle Eastern heartland of Islam had been
altered, and with it, Islam itself. The beards grew longer, the
faith more strident. The Islamists allocated to themselves the
privilege of enforcing the faith.  They were literalists about the faith. There had been
allegory and subtlety aplenty in Islam. In  Baghdad  during the
High Middle Ages, in Islamic Spain in its heyday, philosophers
had quarreled about the balance between reason and revelation,
perfecting an art of doublespeak that permitted them enormous
leeway while keeping the pretense of piety. There had developed
a consensus of sorts that the mass of ordinary people can be
left to their faith, while the philosophers and the skeptics
gave free rein to the rule of reason.  Rote Learning  But the literalists had no patience for all that. They were
half-educated. They could read the text, and were often the
first in their families to become literate. That literacy
empowered them. Education -- rote learning -- had remade all
Arab and Muslim societies. In  Cairo , Karachi and Hama, a new
generation could now read and write, but the learning came
without the habits and the attitudes of tolerance. Elite culture
-- emancipated women, daring writers, young people under the
spell of new forms of expression -- was under surveillance.  The new enforcers could look into that elite culture and
take it apart. Even in the lands of the Muslim diaspora, in
Western Europe and later in North America, the literalists were
alert to the slights they looked for and saw everywhere.  The faith had become portable. It was British Muslims who
first burned copies of “The Satanic Verses”; they were the
ones who gave Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, on the rebound from a
disastrous war with  Iraq , the inspiration for his fatwa on the
life of Salman Rushdie.  The angry protesters in Bradford, West Yorkshire, in 1989
weren’t readers of fiction. It was enough for them that a man
raised in a Muslim home had taken liberty with the faith. In the
same vein, a barely literate Egyptian electrician stabbed
 Mahfouz ,  Egypt ’s and the Arab world’s greatest writer, and
paralyzed his writing hand in 1994. The electrician had been
offended by a novel he could not penetrate, a Mahfouzian work of
allegory that had long antagonized the keepers of Islamic
orthodoxy.  The traditional folks awed by the learning of the modernist
elites had been replaced by their angry offspring. Islamism gave
power and a sense of militant virtue to an unsettled generation
exposed to a modernity it can neither master nor reject.  An explosive demography and a literacy disconnected from
critical inquiry had given rise to a culture of brittle pride:
Young men exalt the faith, as they grapple with its inability to
contain their lives or keep them at home. On a street in
Amsterdam in 2004, Mohammed Bouyari, a Dutch-Moroccan in his
mid-20s, struck down Theo van Gogh, and slit his throat as
though slashing a tire, one witness reported.  Van Gogh had
worked with the Somali-born politician Ayaan Hirsi Ali on a
short film, “Submission,” critical of Islam’s attitude toward
women.  Disinherited Masses  Shortly afterward, a dozen cartoons of the prophet
commissioned by a Danish newspaper set things ablaze. A hundred
people may have been killed in riots that followed. We are in
the middle of this upheaval, and there shall be more book
burnings and storming of Western embassies in the years to come.  The literalists have come into their own. For them, there
is no way back to a cozy past, and the way forward, to a new
world, is blocked by the vast magnitude of their numbers, their
material disinheritance and the very inabilities they carry with
them.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution
and author of “The Syrian Rebellion,” recently published by
Hoover Institution Press. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  new sanctions for Iran  and on
 the economic cost of political dysfunction ; Mark Buchanan on  the
stupidity of markets ; William D. Cohan on  the JPMorgan lawsuit ;
Edward Glaeser on why Obama is wrong  about the transcontinental
railroad ; Albert R. Hunt on  revisiting Reagan’s 1980 victory ;
Camille Paglia on  the caryatids in the Athenian Acropolis .  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 