-- Israel Says Drone Origin Being Probed Amid Hezbollah-Link Report
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-07T11:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/israel-says-drone-origin-being-probed-amid-hezbollah-link-report.html
Israel ’s army is looking into the
origin and purpose of an unmanned aerial vehicle that was shot
down yesterday over Israeli territory, the country’s military
said after a report that the drone was Hezbollah’s.  Israel Radio today cited unidentified Israeli army
officials as saying the Lebanese Shiite Muslim group was
responsible for the aircraft. Hezbollah, which is backed by
 Iran , is considered a terrorist group by the U.S. and Israel.
Israel’s forces shot down the drone after it entered Israeli
airspace from the  Mediterranean Sea .  “The event is under investigation to check where the UAV
came from and what its mission was,” Major Arye Shalicar, an
army spokesman, said by phone in response to the radio report.
He declined to comment on the Israel Radio report.  The incident comes amid tensions over the nuclear program
of Shiite-led Iran, which doesn’t recognize Israel as a
legitimate nation. Iran denies allegations by the U.S., Israel
and many of their allies that it may be trying to develop atomic
weapons.  Soldiers were searching the Negev desert to locate the
drone’s wreckage and determine its origin, Army spokeswoman
Lieutenant Colonel Avital Leibovich said yesterday.  Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said Israel views the violation
of its airspace “very gravely” and will consider its reaction.  Iran in December televised images of a U.S. drone used for
gathering intelligence that came down in Iranian territory. Last
month, the Persian Gulf nation said it would equip its own
drones with missiles.  Israel has a nuclear facility in the Negev desert town of
Dimona that it says is for research. The country’s policy is to
neither confirm nor deny possession of nuclear arms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  