-- Japan’s China Row May Spur GDP Fall This Quarter, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-10-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/japan-s-china-row-may-spur-gdp-fall-this-quarter-jpmorgan-says.html
Japan ’s territorial spat with  China 
may cause the Japanese economy to contract this quarter and
hasten a current account slide as exports decline and Chinese
tourism to Japan drops off, according to a JPMorgan report.  The dispute will knock 0.8 percentage point off Japan’s
gross domestic product in the October-December period, JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co. economists Masaaki Kanno and  Masamichi Adachi  wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday. They now estimate
fourth-quarter GDP will contract 0.8 percent from the previous
quarter, compared with a previous estimate of no growth.  The squabble over islands claimed by  Asia ’s two largest
economies imperils a $340 billion trade relationship ahead of
China’s power transition and a possible general election in
Japan this year. Carmakers are hardest hit, with  Mazda Motor
Corp. (7261)  deliveries in China last month falling 35 percent.  “As its global role has increased, China has become much
more important in Japan’s international trade,” Kanno and
Adachi wrote. “While there remains a lot of uncertainty ahead
and the risk of the dispute escalating cannot be ruled out, we
assume that it will diminish in two quarters under the new
governments in both countries.”  JPMorgan joins Morgan Stanley and BNP Paribas AS in
predicting Japan’s  economy  will shrink for two consecutive
quarters through the end of December.  The worst diplomatic crisis between the two countries since
2005 may also accelerate a deterioration in Japan’s  current
account  surplus, the JPMorgan economists said, predicting the
excess could disappear before the end of 2014. This compares
with its estimate in January that the nation would begin posting
a deficit in the first quarter of 2015.  Exports Fall  Japan’s  exports  fell 5.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, the third straight monthly decline, with shipments to
China, its largest trading partner, dropping 9.9 percent and
those to the European Union slumping 22.9 percent.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  on Oct. 5 reported Chinese sales
slumped 63 percent in September from a year earlier, while the
Yomiuri newspaper said on the same day, without citing where it
received its information, that Toyota Motor Corp.’s deliveries
in China fell 50 percent from August.  The dispute has caused cancellations of 40,000 seats on  All
Nippon Airways (9202)  flights between the two countries, the airline
said last month. JPMorgan said it is assuming a 70 percent
decline in the number of Chinese tourists visiting Japan this
quarter, compared with the average first-quarter figures in 2011
and 2012, lowering receipts by 67 billion yen ($852 million), or
38 percent of the expected decline in exports.  China’s economy  may also be adversely affected, as the
unrest may prompt Japanese companies to accelerate the
diversification of investment and trade in Asia away from the
nation, the JPMorgan economists said. More than 5,000 affiliates
of Japanese companies operated on the mainland as of the end of
March 2011, employing 1.6 million people, according to a
Japanese trade ministry report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  