-- JPMorgan Feigns Injury From Lawsuit Pinprick
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-10-07T22:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/jpmorgan-feigns-injury-from-lawsuit-pinprick.html
New York  State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s fraud lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase & Co. for
the misdeeds that occurred at Bear Stearns Cos. has sent exactly
the wrong message to Wall Street: Don’t worry, you can get away
with seemingly criminal behavior.  And yet JPMorgan -- the bank that bought the stock of Bear
Stearns in March 2008 with a $30 billion assist from the U.S.
government -- is offended. The suit alleges that Bear Stearns’s
bankers and traders manufactured and sold about $20 billion of
mortgage-backed securities containing home loans they knew were
fraudulent. What JPMorgan objects to is that the government
asked it to buy Bear Stearns “over the course of a weekend” to
help keep the financial system from collapsing, and now, more
than four years later, it has the temerity to sue.  I can imagine Jamie Dimon,  JPMorgan (JPM) ’s chief executive
officer, saying: If this is the thanks we get, you can pretty
much be assured that next time you ask us to save a failing
systemically important institution, we’ll just walk away.  Methinks the bank doth protest too much. JPMorgan didn’t
buy Bear Stearns as a favor to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson,
New York Fed President Timothy Geithner and Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben Bernanke; it bought Bear Stearns because it saw an
opportunity to acquire on the cheap a company with assets it
coveted. JPMorgan admired Bear Stearns’s clearing business, its
commodities trading, a few of its bankers and traders and, most
of all, its sleek, new skyscraper at 383 Madison Avenue, across
the street from JPMorgan headquarters at 270 Park Avenue.  First Offer  Pretty much from the start of that fateful weekend in
March, JPMorgan knew that there was no serious competition for
Bear Stearns. And that wasn’t because the government had
handpicked Dimon to save the company. Dimon’s first offer was $8
to $12 a share, a two-thirds discount to Bear Stearns’s closing
price of about $30 a share that Friday. Bear Stearns’s
management was incredulous that Dimon would make such a low
offer. So the JPMorgan CEO lowered it even further. Then, on
Sunday morning, Dimon’s representatives told Bear Stearns’s
executives that he was walking away from the deal altogether.  That’s when panic erupted and Paulson, working behind the
scenes, got Dimon to agree to buy Bear Stearns for $2 a share if
the government took $30 billion of squirrelly assets that
JPMorgan didn’t want. The $2-a-share deal was announced Sunday
night. Dimon had paid less for the equity of Bear Stearns than
the market value of the building at 383 Madison. JPMorgan soon
scrapped plans to erect a new building downtown for its
investment-banking operations, which were moved instead across
the street to the former Bear Stearns digs. (The purchase price
for Bear Stearns was later increased to $10 a share supposedly
because of a legal drafting error; who precisely was to blame
for that mess or how it happened has never been made clear.)  In doing a stock-for-stock deal for Bear Stearns, JPMorgan
not only bought all of the bank’s assets -- except for the $30
billion taken by the New York Fed -- but it also took over its
 liabilities , including its debt and its lawsuits, both the known
ones and those to come. JPMorgan knew that it would be held
responsible for the bad behavior that led Bear Stearns to the
brink of disaster and viewed that potential liability as just
another cost of the deal. ( Bank of America Corp.  faced the same
predicament -- only much worse -- in its acquisitions of
Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co.)  For JPMorgan to complain about Schneiderman’s suit, even
though this was one of the risks it agreed to take in the March
2008 merger agreement with Bear Stearns, is beyond ridiculous;
it’s simply spin.  ‘Deceptive Acts’  That isn’t the worst of it. What makes Schneiderman’s suit
against JPMorgan a total yawner on Wall Street is that the
attorney general failed to bring criminal charges against
JPMorgan for the doings at Bear Stearns. How Schneiderman could
let the bank off so easily when the complaint itself claims that
Bear Stearns “committed multiple fraudulent and deceptive acts
in promoting and selling its” mortgage-backed securities is an
utter mystery. If those aren’t criminal offenses under
securities law, could someone please tell me what is?  The complaint describes repeated bad behavior at Bear
Stearns, including a now-infamous e-mail that describes one
securitization deal in the most vulgar of scatological terms.
Those e-mails alone make clear that Bear Stearns executives knew
that they were packaging and selling a load of junk to
investors.  It’s also clear that after March 15, 2008, JPMorgan knew it
would be legally responsible for that bad behavior. The lawsuit
will probably be settled shortly -- I would guess for about $100
million -- and Schneiderman will no doubt sue other Wall Street
firms for similar reasons. He will extract fines out of them,
too, and fill New York state’s coffers.  Yet he missed a chance to change the behavior on Wall
Street by his decision not to make the criminal case against
Bear Stearns and its owner, JPMorgan. A $100 million fine?
That’s a joke for JPMorgan and an unneeded cost for the bank’s
shareholders and its insurance carrier. Bear Stearns was picked
up for a song, in what still ranks as one of the savviest
business deals of the past decade. Schneiderman blew it.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. His sister-in-law, Ellen Futter, is on JPMorgan Chase’s board of directors. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  new sanctions for  Iran  and on
 the economic cost of political dysfunction ; Mark Buchanan on  the
stupidity of markets ; Edward Glaeser on why Obama is wrong  about
the transcontinental railroad ; Albert R. Hunt on  revisiting
Reagan’s 1980 victory ; Fouad Ajami on how literalists  keep their
hold on Islam ; Camille Paglia on  the caryatids in the Athenian
Acropolis .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  