-- Kuwait’s Emir Dissolves Parliament Paving Way for Elections
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-10-07T16:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/kuwait-emir-issues-decree-dissolving-parliament-state-tv-says.html
Kuwait ’s parliament was dissolved
today for the third time in less than a year, a move welcomed by
opposition members that paves the way for fresh elections.  Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah issued
a decree disbanding the National Assembly, elected in 2009,
state media reported. It came 12 days after the Constitutional
Court ruled against a government bid to amend the election law
and was seen as a victory for the opposition, which said that
attempt amounted to gerrymandering by an administration defeated
at the polls in February.  “The 2009 assembly has gone without regret,” former
opposition lawmaker Mubarak Al-Waalan said on his Twitter
account. “We strongly warn the government against attempting to
amend the electoral system.”  No date was given for the elections, which require another
emiri decree to take place. Elections must be held within two
months of parliament being dissolved, according to Kuwait’s
Constitution.  The 2009 parliament was first dissolved by the emir in
December after a dispute over corruption allegations sparked
unprecedented anti-government protests. A new parliament was
elected in February, with the opposition winning most of the 50
seats, only to be dissolved four months later when the
 Constitutional Court  voided the vote and reinstated its
predecessor.  The opposition had considered the reinstated parliament to
be illegal and lawmakers boycotted two sessions since July.  ‘Legitimacy at Stake’  “Legitimacy is at stake,” Shafeeq Ghabra, a political
science professor at Kuwait University, said by phone today.
“Whatever change happens has to be acceptable to all sides.
We’ve not yet reached the stage where we can say Kuwait has
reached a stage of democratic transition,” though “the
conditions are becoming right,” he said.  Kuwait’s steps toward democracy have led to repeated
clashes between parliament and governments chosen by the ruling
Al-Sabah family. The economy has trailed Gulf peers with
investment projects being derailed by political disputes. Street
protests last year, amplified by the wave of unrest across the
Arab world, drove out a government headed by the emir’s nephew
amid calls for more power-sharing with elected politicians.  Kuwait, the third-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, has had seven parliamentary
dissolutions since 1962. Parliament was also unconstitutionally
suspended in 1976 and again in 1986. The country has had 10
Cabinets since February 2006.  While hailing last month’s court ruling as a victory, the
opposition had called for the dissolution of the 2009 house and
fresh elections. Kuwait’s opposition includes Islamists,
liberals and independents, as well as youth groups that draw
inspiration from the Arab Spring uprisings.  Some groups want a constitutional monarchy and an elected
government, while others say their focus is fighting corruption
and bringing about reform without amending the Constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  