-- North Korea’s Kim Urges Vigilance on Day Soldier Flees to South
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-10-07T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/north-korea-s-kim-urges-vigilance-on-day-soldier-flees-to-south.html
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un urged
vigilance from the security ministry, the official Korean
Central News Agency reported on the same day a soldier in his
army shot two officers and defected to the South.  “The Ministry of State Security has a very important duty
to perform to protect the sovereignty of the country and the
nation,” KCNA quoted Kim as saying Oct. 6 while viewing a
statue of his late father at the ministry. A North Korean
soldier fled across the Demilitarized Zone at around noon the
same day, after shooting his platoon and squad leaders,  South
Korea ’s defense ministry said.  Kim became head of the totalitarian state in December,
following the death of his father,  Kim Jong Il , who ruled the
secretive nation from 1994 to 2011. He took the country’s top
rank of marshal in July, the final step to secure his power as
leader of the impoverished nation’s 1.2 million-strong armed
forces. The promotion came days after Kim sacked veteran army
chief Ri Yong Ho, in the biggest publicly revealed power shift
since his succession.  South Korea’s government and the U.S. have agreed that the
Asian nation will extend the range of its ballistic missiles to
800 kilometers (500 miles) from the previous limit of 300
kilometers, according to a statement yesterday on the
presidential Blue House website. The move will enable South
Korea to better respond to threats from  North Korea ’s nuclear
and missile development, said Chun Yung Woo, senior presidential
secretary, said at a briefing.  ‘Fierce Struggle’  “The security men should wage a fierce struggle against
the enemies,” KCNA quoted Kim as saying. He also called for
incorporating modern  information technology  into state security,
the report said. KCNA did not mention the defection in its
report.  Kim has named economic development as the socialist
country’s top focus, in a departure from his father’s so-called
“military first” policy, which prioritized defense issues.  North and South Korea remain technically at war since their
1950-53 conflict ended in an armistice, not a treaty. Six
gunshots were heard before the North Korean was seen to run over
the border in the western part of the peninsula, and the soldier
was being questioned by a joint team of related agencies, South
Korea’s Yonhap news agency reported, citing the country’s Joint
Chiefs of Staff. No unusual activity by the North Korean
military had been noticed since the desertion, Yonhap said.  More than 2,700 North Koreans fled to the South last year,
raising the total number of defectors from the regime to 23,100
as of the end of 2011, according to the most recent estimate
from the South’s Ministry of Unification in January.  The last time a North Korean soldier escaped across the
Demilitarized Zone was in March 2010, Yonhap reported. The
division of the Korean peninsula at the 38th parallel is 250
kilometers (155 miles) long and 4 kilometers wide, according to
 NASA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  