-- Novak Djokovic, Victoria Azarenka Win China Open Tennis Titles
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-10-07T13:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/novak-djokovic-victoria-azarenka-win-china-open-tennis-titles.html
Novak Djokovic beat Jo-Wilfried
Tsonga in straight sets to win tennis’s China Open for a third
time in four years, while top-ranked  Victoria Azarenka  won the
women’s title.  Serbia’s Djokovic, No. 2 in the ATP World Tour rankings,
beat his French opponent 7-6 (7-4), 6-2 in Beijing to claim a
 32nd career title  and fourth this year.  “I think the first set was really even, and maybe a couple
points decided the winner there,” Djokovic told reporters.
“When you’re getting to the second set with the advantage,
mentally it is much more encouraging for you and then you try to
play on that confidence run that you have.”  Djokovic, 25, now has an 8-5 record against the seventh-
ranked Tsonga, who today was able to convert only one of his six
break points. That break came in the 65-minute opening set,
which was decided in a tiebreak when Tsonga hit a backhand slice
into the net.  Djokovic broke in the third and fifth games of the second
set, completing his victory in one hour, 42 minutes.  In a meeting of the top two players in women’s tennis,
Belarus’s Azarenka defeated Russia’s Maria Sharapova 6-3, 6-1.
It improved the 23-year-old’s record against Sharapova, 25, to
7-4.  Azarenka has won five events in 2012, including the
Australian Open for her first Grand Slam title. She has faced
Sharapova in three of those finals.  In Tokyo, Kei Nishikori defeated Canada’s Milos Raonic 7-6
(7-5), 3-6, 6-0 to become the first home winner of the Japan
Open.  It was the 22-year-old’s second career title, more than
four years after his success at the International Tennis
Championships at  Delray Beach ,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 