-- Obama’s Dream Is Abe Lincoln’s Train, Not Amtrak
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-10-07T22:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/obama-s-dream-is-abe-lincoln-s-train-not-amtrak.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  wants to
jump-start a world-class high-speed rail network, but Republican
candidate  Mitt Romney  wants to end Amtrak’s run as a government-
controlled, subsidized rail company.  This debate mirrors the larger conflict between Obama’s
optimistic vision of a public sector that enriches our lives,
and Romney’s skepticism about what the government actually
delivers.  We will never arrive at good decisions about either  Amtrak 
or anything else, if we fall back on simple ideology. The
president is right that the federal government has done some
very good things, but the political decision-making process is
so hit-or-miss that the Republicans’ small-government views are
also legitimate.  Any decision on Amtrak should be based on whether the
subsidies provide enough social benefit to offset their cost,
and they should be tied to the measured advantages to society
when people take the train instead of driving cars. Passenger
rail is defensible in the  Northeast Corridor  and  California ,
where the congestion costs of driving are considerable. But it
is hard to imagine that the less-traveled rail corridors in
Middle America provide benefits that offset their costs.  In the Oct. 3 debate, Obama praised President Abraham Lincoln’s support of the transcontinental railroad as an example
of one of those “things we do better together,” reminding us
that the Republican Party was once a great  champion  of railroad
subsidies. The Pacific Railroad Acts of 1862 and 1864,  signed 
into law by Lincoln, provided land grants and government bond
financing for the budding rail network.  Subsidies’ Impact  While Obama sees the transcontinental railroad as a symbol
of America’s once-great infrastructure, it can just as easily be
seen as a forerunner of the corruption and waste that comes with
government aid. Congressional rail subsidies led directly to the
1873  Credit Mobilier  scandal, which involved a future president,
James Garfield, and other legislators. Credit Mobilier appeared
to be an independent contractor paid by Union Pacific, but the
company was actually owned by the same large stockholders as
Union Pacific.  Congressmen were given shares in Credit Mobilier at far
below their value, not in exchange for more subsidies, but “ to
enlist  strength and friends in Congress who would resist any
encroachment or interference with the rights and privileges
already secured.”  The railroads were right to worry, for  C.C. Washburn , a
founder of what would later become General Mills, was already
proposing rate regulations that would reduce the profitability
of the subsidized railroads, and presumably help mill companies
that were shipping on their trains. Washburn didn’t get his
legislation, but Congress passed the Interstate Commerce Act of
1887, which limited price discrimination, railroad collusion and
established the  Interstate Commerce Commission .  These early interventions were seen as correcting the
market failure of monopoly, the great bugbear of Progressives.
In 1906, the  Hepburn Act  gave the ICC the direct power to set
railroad rates, which was later strengthened by the Mann-Elkins
Act of 1910. When governments start price fixing, the big worry
isn’t corruption (which will typically lead to toothless rules),
but  populism , which pushes for prices that are too low to
sustain either decent service levels or minimal profitability.  By the 1960s, the ICC-regulated railroads had fallen from
proud symbols of U.S. capitalism to a sluggish, declining
industry. Trucks, cars and airplanes eliminated any monopoly
power that railroads had once enjoyed.  Penn Central  declared
bankruptcy in 1970, partially because the ICC required it to run
unprofitable passenger services as well as shipping freight.  Amtrak’s Arrival  In the same year, the Rail Passenger Service Act created
 Amtrak , which accepted passenger lines into its system in
exchange for eliminating rail companies’ ICC-mandated
obligations to run unprofitable passenger lines.  In the 1970s, a series of laws culminating in the Staggers
Rail Act of 1980 deregulated the railroads, enabling them to
focus on the most profitable routes. Penn Central was merged
into Conrail, which benefited from public investment before it
was reprivatized in 1987. Even the unprofitable shorter routes
abandoned by the major railroads have had a comeback,
 increasingly plied  by nimble, smaller companies. Freed from
their obligations to provide passenger service by Amtrak,
American rail operators  now carry  a larger share of total
freight than their European counterparts.  The history of Amtrak has been less rosy. The system’s
original interim “emergency financial assistance” has become
 permanent . Amtrak’s  current  capital and operating subsidies of
more than $1.4 billion work out to almost $50 a passenger, as
the Republicans point out. That subsidy seems like an injustice
partially because many Amtrak’s customers are well-heeled.  The usual defense of this support is that  highways  receive
far more money. This is  true , but a terrible argument for waste
in one area doesn’t justify overspending in another. By that
logic, every industry should be asking for more subsidies
because, after all, agriculture gets more.  The better arguments for Amtrak focus on congestion,
accidents and pollution. In a better world, we would tax drivers
for the social costs of driving, but we don’t, and that creates
a justification for moderate rail subsidies that keeps drivers
off the roads.  If every rail passenger would have otherwise driven or
taken a plane, then the right subsidy is the difference in total
social costs, such as pollution and congestion, between taking a
train and going by car or plane. The economists Ian Parry,
Margaret Walls and Winston Harrington  estimate  that the social
costs of driving that aren’t paid by the driver are typically
somewhat less than 10 cents a mile.  Driving’s Cost  That figure means that the maximum subsidy for a 200-mile
train trip in less crowded parts of the country should be about
$20. The number would be lower if people are flying
commercially, or if they are paying significant gas taxes or
tolls, or if there is some chance that the train traveler might
not have traveled at all. If I am right in guessing that the
current subsidy per trip in the lower-density corridors is more
than $50, then discontinuing service in these areas seems
sensible.  But in those dense areas where rail carries plenty of
riders, the social costs of driving are higher because
congestion is more severe. Parry and his co-authors estimate
that the social cost of congestion can rise to as much as 60
cents a mile when roads are extremely crowded. If driving
creates 50 cents of harm per mile, then Amtrak subsidies are
eminently defensible, but not even the Northeast Corridor is
that crowded everywhere.  This logic suggests that a sensible rail-privatization plan
should focus, perhaps exclusively, on the system’s  busiest lines 
-- the Northeast Corridor, San Diego to Los Angeles, and San
Jose to Oakland.  If these corridors can survive as truly private profit-
making entities, then the path forward seems clear. Gradually
shut down the money losers and eventually follow Conrail into
nonsubsidized privatization. The benefits of ending the
permanent subsidies should eventually  offset  the considerable
shutdown costs.  The more difficult scenario occurs if these corridors can’t
break even. Continuing rail service would require more
government funding, and a publicly subsidized private entity
could again become a wellspring of corruption. A great virtue of
Amtrak today is that since it doesn’t make money, it doesn’t
bribe Congress, either.  Perhaps the safest approach is to tie the subsidy to
something obvious and measurable: engineering assessments of the
social costs of congestion, pollution and accidents from driving
along particular corridors. Amtrak would receive a per-rider
subsidy equal to some fraction of the social costs that would
have occurred if this passenger had traveled by car.  Taxing States  We would then be able to have a legitimate debate about the
right subsidy for Amtrak. Moreover, the subsidy could be
provided entirely with gas taxes levied from the states in which
Amtrak operates, to avoid the injustice of having taxpayers in
 Nebraska  paying for rail transport in  Massachusetts .  A privatized system offers the possibility of needed
cutbacks in the number of corridors that would reduce waste. But
even a pared-down system may involve some subsidizing. The key
is to design one that doesn’t become the train equivalent of
Fannie Mae, where private shareholders benefit at the public’s
expense, and that requires the discipline created by tying the
subsidy to the social benefit of reducing road traffic.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at Harvard
University, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  new sanctions for Iran  and on
 the economic cost of political dysfunction ; Mark Buchanan on  the
stupidity of markets ; William D. Cohan on  the JPMorgan lawsuit ;
Albert R. Hunt on  revisiting Reagan’s 1980 victory ; Fouad Ajami
on how literalists  keep their hold on Islam ; Camille Paglia on
 the caryatids in the Athenian Acropolis .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  