-- Oil Declines a Second Day on Economic Outlook for Europe, Asia
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-10-08T06:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/oil-drops-a-second-day-on-demand-outlook-amid-europe-debt-crisis.html
Oil fell for a second day in New York
before a meeting of European officials amid speculation the
region’s debt crisis and an economic slowdown in Asia will curb
fuel demand.  Futures slid as much as 1.3 percent after capping a third
weekly decline on Oct. 5, the longest run of losses since June.
Finance ministers meet in Luxembourg today to discuss Spain’s
overhaul effort and closer banking cooperation. Speculators cut
bullish bets on oil in the week ended Oct. 2, a report showed.
Economic growth in developing East Asia, including  China , will
be the slowest since 2001, according to the World Bank.  “The prospects for any really significant increase in
demand doesn’t seem to be there,” said Ric Spooner, a chief
market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “There’s plenty of
supply. It’s difficult for traders to get too bullish.”  Crude for November delivery dropped as much as $1.17 to
$88.71 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and was at $88.93 at 2:50 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract slipped 2 percent to $89.88 on Oct. 5, capping a 2.5
percent loss last week. Prices are down 10 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell as much as $1.16, or 1 percent, to
$110.86 a barrel. The European benchmark grade crude was at a
$22.27 premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade.
The spread was $22.14 on Oct. 5, the widest since October 2011.  Bullish Bets  Oil in New York is near long-term technical support at
$89.83 a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On the
weekly chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the
drop to $32.40 in December 2008 from an intraday record high of
$147.27 in July that year. Losses tend to accelerate below
chart-support levels.  Prices will decline this week, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. Twenty-one of 38 analysts and traders predicted
crude will decrease through Oct. 12. Thirteen respondents, or 34
percent, said futures will gain and four said there will be
little change in prices.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators cut their
net-long position in oil futures and options by 11,590
contracts, or 6.52 percent, from a week earlier, according to
data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Oct.
5.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  tomorrow will make her
first visit to  Greece  since the debt crisis began in 2009.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy travels for talks with
French President Francois Hollande on Oct. 10. Leaders have yet
to agree on a plan for rescue conditions and centralized bank
supervision, a month after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi unveiled a proposal to buy bonds to alleviate the crisis.  ‘Negative Impact’  Economic growth in developing East Asia, which excludes
Japan and  India , will probably ease to 7.2 percent this year,
down from 8.3 percent in 2011 and a May forecast of 7.6 percent,
the World Bank said. The slowdown in China has been
“significant,” the Washington-based lender said.  The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest crude users,
accounting for a combined 32 percent of consumption last year,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The
European Union used 16 percent.  “The sentiment about demand may have a negative impact on
prices with the global economic slowdown, particularly the
concern over Spain and the recent growth revision in China,”
Fahad Alturki, a Riyadh-based senior economist at Jadwa
Investment Co, said yesterday.  Record Gasoline  The average price of regular unleaded gasoline reached a
record $4.655 a gallon in  California  yesterday, 22 percent more
than the national average of $3.814, said AAA, the largest U.S.
motoring organization. Prices have risen and producers including
Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  have rationed
deliveries as refinery halts cut into the state’s supplies.  Governor Jerry Brown told state regulators to allow
refineries to make an early transition to winter-blend gasoline
to help bring pump prices under control, according to a
statement yesterday. The grade typically isn’t sold until after
Oct. 31 and the end of the smog season because it reduces air
quality more than summer gasoline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  