-- Hong Kong’s Leung Seeks Turnaround With Economy Focus
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-10-08T05:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/hong-kong-s-leung-seeks-turnaround-with-economy-focus.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun- ying completes his first 100 days in office with his popularity
at its lowest level, putting pressure on him to return to
campaign pledges to tackle  Asia ’s biggest wealth gap.  He is set to review a proposal for increasing the  minimum
wage  after he receives a report this month from a panel of
academics, workers and employers. That would help residents
squeezed by inflation and the world’s highest  home prices .  Leung’s plan to focus on the economy has been derailed as
closer ties with  China  stoked concerns the city’s autonomy will
be eroded, with thousands protesting last month over proposals
for Chinese national education classes. The former property
surveyor has also been buffeted by slumping export demand and
the resignation of a top official since becoming the former
British colony’s third post-handover leader on July 1.  “Leung needs to put economic issues higher up on the
agenda,” Kevin Lai, a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets Ltd., said by telephone. “He needs to let the
public know that this is a top priority to the government or he
will continue to lose popularity.”  In the latest survey conducted by the University of  Hong
Kong ’s Public Opinion Programme, Leung’s support rating dropped
to a low of 46 on a scale of zero to 100, with satisfaction over
his government’s handling of human rights and democracy
development declining. The 58-year-old said Sept. 8 he wants to
focus on livelihood issues, which the  poll  said his government
does better on.  Recession Fears  Hong Kong must maintain growth in order to address issues
such as housing and poverty, and the government wants to
capitalize on China’s support to boost the economy, Leung said
Oct. 1 in his National Day speech. The city’s economic and
social ties with the mainland are “inextricable,” he said.  Hong Kong’s economy shrank 0.1 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months as the  European debt
crisis  eroded demand for exports. The risk of a “technical
recession” may increase after declines in exports and a
slowdown in retail sales, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said
Sept. 2.  With the wealth gap at a record in the city, the chief
executive plans to set poverty lines with reference to the
city’s median income, a practice in line with the Organisation
for Economic Cooperation and Development, said Ho Hei-wah, a
member of an advisory group to the government on poverty.  About 1.2 million residents, out of a total of 7 million,
will fall below the poverty line under the new measurement, said
Ho, who is a director at advocacy group Society for Community
Organization.  Minimum Wage  The minimum wage committee will recommend a 7 percent
increase, to HK$30 ($3.90) an hour, according to three people
familiar with the proposal who declined to be identified before
the report is submitted.  It took Leung’s predecessor  Donald Tsang  almost his entire
seven years in office to implement the initial wage floor, and
if he could speed up the review process that “would be a big
step forward,” said  Michael DeGolyer , a political scientist at
the Hong Kong Baptist University.  The average gross household income of the poorest 10
percent of the population fell 16 percent to HK$2,170 a month in
2011, from ten years earlier, according to a government  report .
The comparable income for the richest 10 percent jumped to
HK$137,480 a month, a 12 percent increase.  Home prices  surged to an all-time record in September,
fueled by record low interest rates and an influx of mainland
Chinese buyers, who made up about a third of new home sales by
value in the first quarter.  Street Protests  On the day Leung took over, the 15th anniversary of Hong
Kong’s handover to China, 112,000 people took to the streets to
call for higher minimum wages, and protest against  income
disparity  and human rights abuses in China.  Street protests against a proposed anti-subversion law
triggered the 2005 resignation of Tung Chee-hwa, the city’s
first chief executive.  Leung started his term with a support rating of 53.8 on a
scale of zero to 100, according to a survey by the University of
Hong Kong’s Public Opinion Programme. That rating dropped to 46
in the latest survey conducted from Sept. 18 to 27, after
protesters last month said national education classes in schools
will erode independent thinking by whitewashing the rule of the
Communist Party in China.  Not Ready  Leung “was trying to be more assertive with integration,
and Hong Kong people may be not ready,” said David Zweig, chair
professor of social science at the  Hong Kong University  of
Science and Technology. “They are certainly not ready to have
schools whose books tell people that democratic processes are
not good and the one-party system on the mainland is good.”  A government-appointed panel recommended today that the
course guidelines for national education be “shelved” because
of public unease over the curriculum, Anna Wu, chairman of the
committee, told reporters. The plan will be submitted to Leung
for consideration, Wu said.  Leung faces a delicate balancing act. While there’s
discontent over competition for housing, school places and
hospitals from mainland residents, Hong Kong’s economy is
increasingly reliant on spending from across the border.  Fights broke out at a government forum to discuss plans to
develop 787 hectares (1,945 acres) of land that borders
Shenzhen, China, the  South China Morning Post  reported on Sept.
23. Those against the plan said the development may become a
backyard for mainland Chinese.  Birth Ban  To pacify the public, Leung backed moves barring Chinese
mothers from giving birth in the city, introduced housing for
locals only and stopped the issuance of more visas for mainland
visitors.  Leung warned Hong Kong residents though in an interview
published Oct. 5 in the Post that they had to be “mindful” of
how the mainland perceives the city.  “The recent acts by certain people in Hong Kong, such as
flying the old colonial flag or making allegations against
mainlanders’ activities in Hong Kong, have not gone unnoticed by
the mainland,” Leung said in the interview. “We shouldn’t try
to build a wall or draw a line between ourselves and the rest of
the country.”  Leung’s rapid response to the city’s deadliest marine
accident in four decades last week may soften some of the
criticism. He coordinated the rescue after two ferries collided
off the coast of Hong Kong, killing at least 39 people. He
mobilized more than 1,000 officers in the hours after the
disaster, visited hospitals, and started a criminal
investigation.  Fast Response  “He didn’t wait around,” DeGolyer said. “C.Y. Leung’s
administration was the fastest to respond to tragedy.”  The city’s most pressing problem remains the economy, said
Daiwa’s Lai, who has cut his growth forecast for Hong Kong to
0.9 percent from 1.5 percent for 2012.  “Economic recession will be the biggest challenge for CY
in the next 12 months,” said Lai. “Leung needs to get his
priorities right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  