-- How Washington’s Dysfunction Harms Economic Growth
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/how-washington-s-dysfunction-harms-economic-growth.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  traded barbs in last week’s
presidential  debate  over the costs of both Romney’s tax plan and
Obama’s Medicare changes. What neither candidate addressed,
however, is the huge economic cost of the current state of
political dysfunction.  It’s easy to dismiss  Washington ’s gridlock as business as
usual. Congress has long been saddled with dismal approval
 ratings , and those are unlikely to improve after its recent
decision to simply fund the government for a few more months
instead of dealing with substantive budget issues.  Yet this failure is damaging the U.S. in subtle and serious
ways. Washington’s inability to reduce the national deficit and
debt undermines economic growth and global competitiveness.  The evidence no longer seems debatable. Last year’s
showdown over whether to raise the U.S. debt limit increased the
nation’s borrowing  costs  by $1.3 billion in 2011 alone,
according to the  Government Accountability Office , and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke   blamed  the polarized debate for
disrupting the economic recovery. A new Federal Reserve  study 
shows that had there been no uncertainty over the past four
years, the U.S. unemployment rate would have been closer to 6
percent or 7 percent than the 8 percent to 9 percent actually
registered.  Lingering Impact  A 2011 study by economists at the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business  found  periods of economic policy
uncertainty -- such as the debt-ceiling dispute, the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the 2010 midterm elections --
are followed by significant declines in output, investment and
employment. The peak impact comes nine to 24 months after the
period of uncertainty, with gross domestic product declining 2.2
percent, private-sector investment falling 13 percent and
employment dropping by about 2.5 million workers as businesses
and households -- uncertain about future taxes, spending levels
and  interest rates  -- postpone purchases and slow hiring.  That’s hardly comforting given the looming $607 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases slated to take effect next year
-- the so-called  fiscal  cliff. If Congress is unable to reach an
agreement to scale back the changes, it will almost certainly
tip the U.S. back into recession. Last month,  Moody’s  Investors
Service Inc. cautioned it would probably lower its U.S. credit
rating if Congress fails to engage in a “relatively orderly
process” for increasing the debt limit and reducing the national
debt. That’s a pretty tall order  given  last year’s circus.  It’s not as if the economy is robust to start with.
Business investment  contributed  just 4.2 percent to second-
quarter GDP, down from 7.5 percent in the first quarter and 8.6
percent in 2011, according to the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .
Chief executives of the nation’s largest businesses  repeatedly 
 warn  they won’t restart investment unless Congress acts to avert
the fiscal cliff.  Unfortunately, Congress shows no appetite for compromise.
House Speaker  John Boehner  said he was “not confident at all”
that Republicans would reach a deficit reduction agreement with
Obama after the Nov. 6 election. Is that really the message
Congress ought to be sending to shaky financial markets around
the world?  It’s little wonder that the White House has  embarked  on an
effort to use executive authority to bypass congressional
inaction, despite Obama’s campaign pledge to avoid doing so. The
president’s “We Can’t Wait” initiative has used executive power
to push through changes on renewable energy, mortgage
refinancing and infrastructure investments.  Shared Responsibility  Can he do more? Not really. Authority to tax and spend is
vested in Congress. Big-ticket issues, such as entitlement
reform, spending cuts and a tax overhaul, are rightly the shared
responsibility of the legislative and executive branches.  Divided government need not be a barrier to agreement. (Or
to economic growth: Many economists think periods of  divided
government  are actually beneficial, because gridlock minimizes
unproductive government action, allowing the private sector to
allocate capital more efficiently.) The Social Security reform
of 1983 and welfare reform of 1996 are examples of bipartisan
deals in which both parties swallowed some distasteful
provisions to achieve, on balance, a better system.  At any rate, a divided government is not the same as a
dysfunctional one. Uncertainty about the ability of the nation’s
political leaders to deal with its fiscal mess threatens to undo
the meager economic gains the nation has eked out since 2009 and
throw the economy dangerously off-track.  What the U.S. needs is a decisive government. The decision
to compromise is the first one Congress should make upon
returning from the campaign.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  new sanctions for Iran ;  Mark
Buchanan  on  the stupidity of markets ; William D. Cohan on  the
JPMorgan lawsuit ;  Edward Glaeser  on why Obama is wrong  about the
transcontinental railroad ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  revisiting Reagan’s
1980 victory ; Fouad Ajami on how literalists  keep their hold on
Islam ; Camille Paglia on  the caryatids in the Athenian
Acropolis .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 