-- Palm Oil Exports From Indonesia to Sink Most in Four Months
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-10-08T09:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/palm-oil-exports-from-indonesia-set-to-sink-most-in-four-months.html
Palm oil  shipments from  Indonesia ,
the world’s largest producer, are poised to tumble the most in
four months in October because of weak demand from importers.  Exports may slump 12 percent to 1.41 million metric tons
from 1.6 million tons in September, according to the median of
estimates from four plantation executives, a refiner and an
analyst compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest drop since
June when shipments fell 13 percent. Output may climb to 2.43
million tons from 2.05 million, the survey showed. Stockpiles
are about 2.6 million tons, according to three respondents.  Palm oil has plunged 21 percent since the end of August as
the global slowdown hurt demand for the oil used in everything
from candy to biofuel amid an increase in production in
Indonesia and Malaysia. Buyers are monitoring prices to see what
the export tax will be in November, said Sahat Sinaga,  executive
director  at the Indonesian Vegetable Oil Industry Association.  “The tax will probably decline if the price direction
stays the same, by how much we will have to see,” Sinaga said
on Oct. 4. Indonesia kept the tax for crude palm oil exports at
13.5 percent in October and will decide the November rate at the
end of this month, using average prices in Rotterdam,  Kuala
Lumpur  and Jakarta from Sept. 20 to Oct. 19.  For now, the price decline may prompt buyers to renegotiate
contracts or defer fresh orders, Sinaga said last week. Some
buyers in India, the biggest importer, may default or review
contracts as purchases are unprofitable, according to Atul Chaturvedi, chief executive officer of Adani Wilmar Ltd.  Higher Inventories  Stockpiles in Indonesia may be higher than estimated in the
survey. Inventories have hovered between 3.5 million tons and 4
million tons since 2010 compared with popular estimates in the
range of 1.5 million tons to 2 million tons, said  Dorab Mistry ,
director at Godrej International Ltd., on Sept. 6.  Overseas buyers have yet to take about 600,000 tons of
crude palm oil piled up in  storage tanks  at Belawan port and at
mills in North Sumatra province,  Bisnis Indonesia  reported last
week, citing Timbas Prasad Ginting, secretary at the local
branch of the Indonesian Palm Oil Association.  Reserves in Malaysia, the second-largest producer, probably
climbed 15 percent in September to a record as production surged
and demand slowed. Inventories increased to 2.43 million tons
from 2.12 million tons in August, according to the median of
estimates from five analysts and two plantation companies
compiled by Bloomberg. The previous record was 2.27 million tons
in 2008, Palm Oil Board data show.  The contract for December delivery on the  Malaysia 
Derivatives Exchange traded at 2,396 ringgit a ton at 5:18 p.m.
today. Futures fell 8.5 percent to close at 2,255 ringgit on
Oct. 2, the lowest settlement in almost three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  