-- Philippine Deal May End Violence, Lure Investors: Southeast Asia
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-10-08T07:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/philippines-muslim-rebels-agree-on-peace-settlement-framework.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino ’s
deal with Muslim rebels provides the best chance since 2008 to
extinguish a four-decade insurgency that has killed as many as
200,000 people and attract investors deterred by violence to the
mineral-rich south.  “It adds to the positive momentum in the Philippines,”
said  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research at
HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “The economy is doing very
well, and a peace deal is going to help sentiment. There have
been false starts in past years in terms of the peace process,
so there is also likely to be some wait-and-see attitude to see
if this one sticks.”  Aquino announced an agreement in  Manila  yesterday to create
a “political entity” called Bangsamoro to replace a failed
autonomous region in Mindanao set up in 1989. The talks with the
Moro Islamic Liberation Front, which took place in  Malaysia ,
call for a 15-member committee to draft a new law that will need
to be passed in Congress and approved by a local referendum.  “This framework agreement paves the way for a final,
enduring peace in Mindanao,” Aquino said, flanked by his
cabinet. “This means that hands that once held rifles will be
put to use tilling land, selling produce, manning work stations,
and opening doorways of opportunity for other citizens.”  While  economic growth  in the Philippines is accelerating,
the rebellion has hurt Aquino’s efforts to attract investment as
companies such as  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.
struggle to access an estimated $312 billion in mineral
deposits. Death squads, contract killings, al-Qaeda-affiliated
militants and local power brokers remain obstacles to a lasting
peace in Mindanao as the nation pursues an investment-grade
 credit rating .  ‘Really Underdeveloped’  Standard & Poor’s  in July raised the country’s debt rating
to BB+, one level below investment grade, citing improved
prospects for economic growth. The $225 billion economy  expanded 
5.9 percent last quarter from a year earlier, and 6.1 percent in
the first half of the year, according to government data.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index, which has gained about
24 percent this year, was almost unchanged at the close. The
peso fell 0.2 percent to 41.507 per dollar, snapping a four-day
advance, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency climbed
0.7 percent last week to complete its biggest weekly gain in a
month.  “We’re unlikely to see any immediate positive reaction
from markets as the government has been on this road before and
there could be a bit of skepticism until a final agreement is
sealed,” said Dalmacio Martin, senior vice president at  BDO
Unibank Inc. (BDO) , the Philippines’s largest lender. “This is a
positive development in the long run.”  2008 Collapse  Aquino’s two-year-old government vowed full transparency
and posted the framework agreement online. He is seeking to
avoid a repeat of 2008, when the  Supreme Court  voided a similar
deal because President  Gloria Arroyo  failed to consult key
groups and appeared to bypass Congress.  “The work does not end here,” Aquino said. “There are
still details that both sides must hammer out.”  The 13-page agreement adds six towns and several villages
to the five provinces covered by the autonomous region. It calls
for rebel fighters to disarm, ensures the region “a just and
equitable” share of resource revenues and has provisions
covering property, policing, taxes and  women’s rights .  Rebel Groups  “We welcome this development with hope and bright
prospects,” Ghadzali Jaafar, vice chairman of the MILF who
described himself as the group’s second-in-command, said by
phone from a base in Camp Darapanan, Sultan Kudarat province.
“The talks progressed because both sides are serious and
sincere.”  MILF is currently in talks with the Bangsamoro Islamic
Freedom Fighters, a splinter group that opposed the talks with
the government, he said.  “They think there’s no hope that this can be resolved, but
we proved to them that it can be done,” Jaafar said, referring
to the BIFF. “They need to understand the  peace process .”  The government will not negotiate with the BIFF or groups
such as the al Qaeda-linked Abu Sayyaf, Edwin Lacierda, Aquino’s
spokesman, told reporters today. Talks with Communist insurgents
in the  New People’s Army , which also operates in the area, are
stalled because of disagreements over rebel detainees, he said.  “The talks have not moved on because of the precondition
for the release” of certain detainees, Lacierda said, referring
to the NPA. The government hopes the MILF deal will inspire the
communist rebels to move the talks forward, he said.  Security Concerns  The various rebel groups and local politicians with private
armies who fear they may lose power pose the biggest risk to a
lasting peace, according to Bryony Lau, a senior analyst at the
 International Crisis Group , a policy research group based in
Brussels. Companies also will likely wait until security
improves in Mindanao, a process that could take years, she said.  “I don’t think this means there’s going to be a wave of
investments,” Lau said, referring to the MILF deal. “The
security environment down there is not going to change
immediately on the issues that mining companies would have
around things like kidnappings.”  The NPA in March said it carried out about 600 attacks
since January 2011. Targets included Xstrata, the world’s
fourth-biggest copper miner that plans to invest  $5.9 billion  in
the Tampakan copper and gold deposit on a nearby island, and
 Sumitomo Metal , Japan’s biggest nickel producer, which suffered
10 billion yen ($127 million) in damage after an attack on its
Mindanao mine last year.  Separatist Movements  The Mindanao conflict is one of the most entrenched in the
region, along with a separatist movement in southern  Thailand 
and decades-long ethnic minority rebellions in Myanmar. While
peace in Thailand remains evasive, Myanmar’s government has
reached cease-fire agreements with 10 armed groups.  Indonesian authorities in 2006 reached a peace agreement
with rebels in Aceh province after a three-decade conflict that
had killed about 15,000 people. Sri Lanka’s military defeated
Tamil guerrillas in May 2009 to end a 26-year war that killed as
many as 40,000 civilians in its final stages.  The U.S., which has stationed about 600 troops in Zamboanga
on the west coast of Mindanao for the past decade to combat
terrorists, welcomed the agreement.  Terrorist Training  “While much work remains, successful implementation of
this agreement would improve security, stability, and
development for the people of Mindanao,” Ambassador Harry K.
Thomas, Jr. said in a statement from Manila yesterday.  The agreement may help the Philippine government rid the
area of terrorist groups such as Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah
Islamiyah, according to  Rohan Gunaratna , head of the
International Center for Political Violence and Terrorism
Research in Singapore.  “The southern Philippines was the most important training
base of all the terrorist groups in  Southeast Asia ,” he said by
phone. “This peace agreement will make the environment hostile
and unfriendly for foreign trainers, ideologues and trainees.”  The Philippines ranked 126th of 144 countries in the latest
World Economic Forum  survey  on the cost to business from
terrorism. Fifty-four percent of mining companies said issues
such as attacks by terrorists, criminals and guerrilla groups
are a strong deterrent for investors in the Philippines, the
second-highest among 93 jurisdictions in a Fraser Institute  poll 
released in February.  Nothing to Eat  Mindanao, the island furthest from Manila that is home to
about a quarter of the country’s 100 million people, has often
been neglected by the central government, engendering a sense of
resentment as many of its provinces remain underdeveloped.
Catholic settlers have overwhelmed Mindanao’s Muslim population,
leaving them outnumbered by about five-to-one.  About a third of Mindanao’s people said they had nothing to
eat for at least one day in the three months to August, the
highest rate among the nation’s three main regions, according to
a survey by Manila-based polling company  Social Weather Stations 
released Oct. 1. That was up from 24 percent in March 2010,
before Aquino was elected.  “The armed conflict really affected long overdue
development in Mindanao,” Rommel Banlaoi, executive director of
the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence, and Terrorism
Research in Manila said by telephone. “With the signing of the
agreement, doors will open and development will follow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  