-- Putin at 60 Has Rule Rated Positive by Majority, Poll Shows
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-10-08T12:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/putin-at-60-has-rule-rated-positive-by-most-russians-poll-shows.html
President Vladimir Putin, who turned
60 yesterday, had his rule rated “more good than bad” by the
majority of Russians more than 12 years after he first became
the country’s leader, an opinion poll showed.  Sixty-four percent of Russians are positive about the Putin
era, the state-run All-Russia Center for the Study of Public
Opinion, or VTsIOM, said today in an e-mailed  statement .
Fourteen percent said Putin’s regime is bad for Russia.  Putin in May reclaimed the presidency for a six-year term
after a constitutional rule forced him into a stint as prime
minister from 2008. He faced the biggest protests against his
rule when tens of thousands of Russians demonstrated against
alleged fraud in parliamentary elections in December and the
presidential balloting in March.  While paying attention to approval ratings, “it’s the
chemistry, the feeling inside that I’m doing the right thing”
that lends legitimacy to his rule, Putin  said  in an interview
broadcast late yesterday on NTV, a Russian television channel
owned by OAO Gazprom Media. “There are plenty of forces that
oppose the strengthening of  Russia .”  Casting a rare light on Putin’s daily routine, NTV’s 50-
minute film showed him swimming, lifting weights and picking
through porridge, quail eggs and cottage cheese for breakfast at
his residence outside Moscow. Mixed with glimpses of his working
life were interviews discussing subjects ranging from the
prospects of freeing jailed former Yukos Oil Co. owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky to his decision four years ago to hand the
presidency to Dmitry Medvedev.  ‘Living Better’  Fifty-two percent of respondents in VTsIOM’s poll said
“people started living better” since Putin came to power in
2000, while 14 percent said life hasn’t improved in Russia since
then. The poll of 1,600 Russians was conducted Sept. 29-30. It
has a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  “I’m sure he would have had more than 80 percent of
Russians supporting his era in 2008,” Valery Fedorov, VTsIOM’s
head, said by phone from Moscow. “But that was another era. The
new one is just starting. And it’s about people being massively
unhappy with the state.”  A VTsIOM poll conducted in 2007 showed 25 percent of
Russians were positive about President Boris Yeltsin rule in
1991-1999, while 49 percent were negative about it.  Wages, Patriotism  Speaking in NTV’s film, Putin cited an increase in the
well-being of Russians, including a more than tenfold increase
in average wages since 2000, and uplift in public spirit as the
greatest accomplishments of his tenure.  “Finally we feel like a unified, powerful state,” Putin
said. “We brought that respect back.”  Russia’s opposition needs leaders able to “take
responsibility for some industries, spheres of public life, and
perhaps country as a whole,” Putin said.  “Despite their occasionally boorish behavior, I take it
calmly and really hope serious people will appear someday”
among the opposition, he said.  As for Pussy Riot, an all-female punk group whose three
members were sentenced Aug. 17 to two years in prison for a
protest stunt against Putin in Russia’s largest church, they
“got what they wanted,” Putin said.  “Arresting them was the right thing to do and the decision
taken by the court was the right thing to do,” Putin said.
“The foundations of morality and virtue can’t be undermined.
Otherwise what will we be left with?”  Leaving the Kremlin the second time will be easier, the
Russian leader said.  “If I did that once -- without clinging to all these
armchairs and phones -- that means I already have such
experience,” Putin said. “I see no trouble at all in doing it
for a second time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  