-- Qatar National Bank Quarterly Profit Rises 11% as Lending Climbs
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-10-07T11:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/qatar-national-bank-quarterly-profit-rises-11-as-lending-climbs.html
Qatar National Bank (QNBK) , the Middle
East’s biggest lender by assets, posted an 11 percent increase
in third-quarter profit as lending climbed.  Net income  rose to 2.11 billion riyals ($580 million) from
1.9 billion riyals a year earlier, the Doha-based lender said in
a statement posted on the Qatar Exchange. Beltone Financial
estimated a profit of 2.27 billion riyals, while EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE forecast at 2.11 billion riyals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Net interest income and profit from Islamic operations rose
to 2.27 billion riyals from 1.93 billion riyals a year earlier,
according to the statement. Net impairment loss on loans and
advances fell to 238 million riyals from 250 million riyals.  Qatari banks are benefiting from government plans to invest
$130 billion on developing infrastructure before the 2022 soccer
World Cup. Qatar National Bank said in April it had a five-year
plan to make itself an “icon” in the Middle East and  Africa  by
expansion and “diversifying income sources.”  The lender received approval last month from  Egypt ’s
central bank to start due diligence on the local unit of  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  ahead of a possible acquisition. The bank this year
more than doubled its holding in Dubai-based Commercial Bank
International, bought stakes in  Iraq ’s Mansour Bank, Libya’s
Bank of Commerce & Development, and Morocco’s Union Marocaine
des Banques.  Shares Climb  Qatar National Bank’s bonds have rallied amid the bank’s
expansion plans and economic growth in Qatar expected by the
planning bureau at 6.2 percent this year. The yield on the
bank’s 3.375 percent dollar-denominated bonds fell 44 basis
points the third quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an eight basis-point drop in the
average yield on financial company debt in the six-nation GCC,
according to HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s GCC Conventional Financial
Services U.S. Dollar Bond Index.  Qatar National Bank shares  rose 0.3 percent to 136 riyals
before results were reported. The stock has fallen 1.6 percent
this year compared with a 3.2 percent decline for the benchmark
QE Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  