-- Qtel Says Stake Increase in Wataniya Telecom Positive for Rating
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-10-07T15:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/qtel-says-stake-increase-in-wataniya-telecom-positive-for-rating.html
Qatar Telecom QSC (QTEL) , the Middle East’s
second-biggest telecommunications company by revenue, said
boosting its stake  in  National Mobile Telecommunications Co. (NMTC) 
will be “slightly positive” for its  credit rating , even after
Moody’s Investors Service signaled the move could
lead to a downgrade.  The company, known as Qtel, will get a significantly bigger
“net profit consolidation from both,” Chief Strategy Officer
Jeremy Sell said in a telephone interview today. “I think it
will be regarded positively by the rating agencies.”  Qtel, bought 199.65 million shares of the Kuwaiti company
for 519.1 million dinars ($1.8 billion) at 2.6 dinars a share
raising its stake to 92.1 percent from 53 percent, according to
an e-mailed statement by the Qatari company today.  Moody’s Investors Services said in June that Qtel’s offer
to raise its stake in the company known as Wataniya is “credit
negative” and it “will reduce Qtel’s liquidity headroom.” The
deal came after Qtel agreed to double its holding in Asiacell, a
mobile operator in Iraq, earlier this year for $1.47 billion.
Moody’s ranks  Qtel’s credit  A2 and “stable,” according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Wataniya encompasses Qatar Telecom Group’s businesses in
Kuwait, Tunisia, Algeria,  Saudi Arabia , the Maldives and
Palestinian territories, according to Qatar Telecom’s first-
quarter financial statement.  The Sum of Parts  The increased stake in Wataniya may have “removed a lot of
discount people put on our stock,” Sell said.  “We’ve always felt there was a little discount in the
Wataniya stock price because it was illiquid,” he said.
“Hopefully, now when people look at Qtel they will value it at
the sum of the parts.”  Qtel, which owns stakes in phone companies from Tunisia to
Indonesia, plans “to continue to invest,” Sell said. The
company is keeping track of 15 to 20 companies that may be of
interest, he said.  Qtel is expanding outside its home market where it faces
competition from  Vodafone Qatar (VFQS) , a unit of  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) 
It teamed up with Princesse Holding of Tunisia in 2010 to buy
 Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) ’s 50 percent stake in Telecom
Tunisie for $1.2 billion.  Morocco is one country that Qtel follows “very closely”
and Maroc Telecom, the African wireless unit of France’s Vivendi
SA, is the only operator “that might be in play,” Sell said.  Qtel’s share price  rose 0.1 percent today to 104 riyals on
the Qatar Exchange. The stock has gained 10.3 percent this year
compared with a 3.15 percent decline for the QE Index of Qatari
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  