-- RBA Keeps Some Documents Private in Securency Bribe Probe
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-08T03:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/rba-keeps-some-documents-private-in-securency-bribe-probe.html
Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said the central bank won’t disclose some
documents relating to allegations of corruption at its note-
printing units to avoid jeopardizing criminal prosecutions.  “It is very important that the Reserve Bank does not say
or do anything which would improperly impinge on any legal
process, most particularly not in a public forum,” Stevens told
a parliamentary panel in Canberra today. “There are accordingly
documents which, I am advised, we should not table at this
time.”  Eight former managers and employees at the central bank’s
Note Printing Australia Ltd. unit and Securency International
Pty face charges in relation to the bribing of officials in
 Malaysia , Indonesia and  Vietnam  from 1999 to 2004 to win bank-
note printing contracts. The RBA is facing demands from Greens
Party lawmaker  Adam Bandt  for a public inquiry into the matter,
which has resulted in the first prosecutions under anti-bribery
laws enacted in Australia in 2000.  It was the first time Stevens was called to testify to
parliament solely about the case. The RBA governor said that
while he believed officials who reported to him acted
appropriately, there should have been more questioning and
“skepticism” of both companies.  Whistle-Blower  Stevens, who didn’t comment about the Australian economy or
monetary policy in the text of his remarks, responded to
questions from some lawmakers about how senior officials handled
information from a whistle-blower about the alleged bribery. The
RBA last week lowered the overnight cash rate target to 3.25
percent to help bolster an economy that’s showing signs of
slowing.  “A number of the individuals accused have expressed
concerns regarding the possibility of publication of this
material and the bank has decided we should not publish it,”
Stevens said in his prepared remarks today. “But there is a
list of documents that are relevant. If at some stage the
constraints are able to be lessened, then the committee will
know what documents may be of interest.”  Former RBA Deputy Governor Ric Battellino also appeared
before the panel today.  Brian Hood, former company secretary at  Note Printing
Australia  who revealed alleged corruption at the RBA unit, said
last week he was told by Battellino not to disclose his
concerns.  ‘Made Redundant’  Hood, testifying before a parliamentary committee in Sydney
on Oct. 4, said Battellino, the central bank’s No. 2 official
until he retired earlier this year, told him at his farewell
lunch from the NPA in 2008 “not to mention the matter.” Hood
said he was “made redundant” from the NPA a year after he
wrote Battellino a letter raising concerns NPA agents were being
funded to pay bribes in order to win foreign contracts.  In response to questioning today, Battellino said he didn’t
tell Hood to remain silent and said that it was Hood who
demanded secrecy during the process. “I’m not a person who goes
around telling people not to say things,” Battellino said.  Securency’s former chief financial officer David Ellery
pleaded guilty to one charge of false accounting and on Aug. 20
was given a six-month suspended sentence after he agreed to
cooperate with investigators and testify at trials of the other
employees.  Note Printing Australia is governed by a board of directors
appointed by the  Reserve Bank . Securency’s board has three
directors appointed by the RBA. The central bank said in its
annual report last year that it had replaced its representatives
on the two companies’ boards. The RBA said in November 2010 that
it will sell its stake in Securency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  