-- Reckitt’s Veet Makes Hair Apparent for Women in China
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-10-07T22:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/reckitt-s-veet-makes-hair-apparent-for-women-in-china.html
When  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) 
brought its Veet hair-removal cream to China, sales were
sluggish. The problem: Most Chinese women don’t have much body
hair, and those who do didn’t worry about it.  So the company came up with a new marketing plan. Instead
of simply explaining what Veet does, Reckitt Benckiser
introduced ads that equate hair-free skin with health,
confidence and “shining glory.” In the process, the company
has helped make many Chinese women self-conscious about every
stray follicle.  “It’s not how much hair you have, it’s how much you think
you have,” Aditya Sehgal, the company’s China chief, said by
phone from Beijing. “If your concern level is high enough, even
one hair is too much.”  Veet has become Reckitt Benckiser’s fastest-growing brand
in China. As the company’s growth slows in Europe and the U.S.,
Asian sales of hair removers are rising 20 percent annually,
Euromonitor reports, almost double the rate of women’s razors
and blades.  That makes Reckitt Benckiser more reliant on customers like
Maggie Li. The 29-year-old public relations consultant in
Beijing got a handout of Veet this summer and she’s been buying
the product ever since.  Hair Apparent  Li spends about 400  yuan  ($63) a month on beauty products
like  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s SK-II skincare. A 60-gram bottle of
Veet, costing 46 yuan, is enough keep her legs smooth for about
two months. Veet’s marketing, she said, “makes Chinese women
more aware of their body hair issue.”  In the $427 billion personal-care sector, of course,
manufacturers have long convinced women to focus on perceived
flaws.  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL)  and  L’Oreal SA (OR)  sell skin-whitening
creams in China, where women have been fixated on lighter skin
for centuries, according to Harriet Evans, professor of Chinese
cultural studies at the University of Westminster.  “We are not here to remind the Chinese how much hair they
have,” Sehgal said. “Our job is to talk about the fact that
beautiful smooth skin is critical and grooming is critical.
Women make their own conclusions as to what that means.”  While Veet dominates the global market for hair removers
with a 41 percent share, five times that of  Church & Dwight
Co.’s (CHD)  Nair, success in China is by no means guaranteed. The
brand’s presence and appeal diminish outside of big cities, and
professional waxing salons could lure some customers away.
Chinese-made copycats might also hurt sales -- like the knockoff
“Veet Epilator” available on  Alibaba.com .  Miscommunication  Sehgal’s opportunity is vast because just 0.6 percent of
Chinese women remove body hair, according to a study conducted
by Ipsos for P&G, maker of Gillette razors. Global sales of
Veet, a brand previously called Neet whose roots go back a
century, were about 405 million pounds ($657 million) last year,
according to  research  from Sanford C. Bernstein.  Reckitt Benckiser, based in Slough,  England , made other
miscalculations when it introduced Veet in  China  in 2005. The
company, which also makes Finish dish detergent and Mortein
insecticides, only sold Veet in larger packages, which women
unfamiliar with the product were reluctant to buy.  “We got the pricing, sizing and communication wrong,”
Sehgal said. “It took a bit of time to fix.”  ‘Good Husband’  After those initial missteps, Sehgal applied lessons
learned selling Veet in  India , where the brand was introduced in
2004. He improved the quality and color of Veet’s packaging,
positioning Veet as a product for women “for whom grooming is
part of how she gets a promotion, a good husband, and a raise,”
said Paul French, an analyst at Mintel in China.  Those women shop at retailers like drugstore chain Watsons
and beauty outlet  Sephora (MC) , whose expansion across China has been
fueled by a 52 percent increase in sales of personal-care
products since 2008, Euromonitor reports.  Veet’s new look debuted in 2008 in the southern coastal
city of  Guangzhou , where summers are hot and humid. Veet
representatives flooded local universities with free samples and
encouraged retailers to push the product, while online videos
taught consumers how to use it.  “With a product like this you are asking them to change
their lifestyle, so it can be a challenging thing,” said Peter
Golder, a professor of marketing at Dartmouth’s  Tuck School  of
Business.  ‘Silky Femininity’  Expansion to Beijing and  Shanghai  followed, and today about
25 varieties of Veet are sold in more than 130 Chinese cities,
including scented variants that mask the unpleasant smell of the
chemicals that weaken the hair so it can be scraped off. Actress
Yang Mi endorses the product, attaching a glamorous Chinese face
to the brand in ads that promise “silky femininity” for users.
Next year, Veet plans to unveil its first nationwide campaign in
China.  With Veet in China, “marketing plays a role that is very
similar to that of the apple in the Bible,” said Ben Voyer, a
social psychologist and assistant professor of marketing at ESCP
 Europe  Business School. “It creates an awareness, which
subsequently creates a feeling of shame and need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  