-- Reds, Tigers Win MLB Playoff Series Openers, Yankees Play Today
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-07T05:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/reds-tigers-win-mlb-playoff-series-openers-yankees-play-today.html
The Cincinnati Reds and Detroit
Tigers won the opening games of their Major League Baseball
playoff series. The  New York  Yankees begin their best-of-five
series today against the Baltimore Orioles.  Brandon Phillips and Jay Bruce hit home runs to give the
visiting Reds a 5-1 victory against the San Francisco Giants in
Game 1 of a National League Division Series.  “I was just trying to make things happen for the team,”
Phillips said in a televised interview.  Justin Verlander allowed one run and struck out 11 batters
in seven innings as the Tigers defeated the Oakland Athletics 3-
1 to take a one-game lead in their American League Division
Series.  In addition to the Yankees-Orioles series, the Washington
Nationals open their best-of-five series today against the St.
Louis Cardinals in the NL.  The Yankees are 7-2 favorites to win the World Series, with
the Tigers given second-best odds of 5-1, according to the Las
Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The Giants, Cardinals, Reds and
Nationals all have 6-1 odds, with the Athletics at 8-1 and the
Orioles at 14-1.  Phillips, who had three hits, had a two-run homer in the
third inning and a run-scoring single as the Reds scored two
runs in the ninth. Bruce led off the fourth with his homer.  Buster Posey led off the sixth inning with a home run for
the Giants, who added a run in the ninth on a wild pitch. Game 2
of the Major League Baseball series is set for tonight in San
Francisco.  Cincinnati starting pitcher Johnny Cueto got just one
batter out before leaving the game with back spasms. Cueto, 26,
led the Reds with 19 victories this season.  Cain Loses  Sam LeCure, the second of six Cincinnati pitchers, got five
outs for the win. Giants starter Matt Cain took the loss,
allowing three runs in five innings.  Reds manager Dusty Baker, who led the Giants from 1993-
2002, got a 30-second standing ovation from San Francisco fans
when he was introduced before the game. Baker, 63, missed 11
games in late August because of an irregular heartbeat and a
mild stroke.  In  Detroit , Verlander allowed three hits, including a home
run by Coco Crisp leading off the game for the Athletics last
night.  “Obviously, that takes the wind out of your sails,”
Verlander said in a televised interview. “It’s like a
heavyweight bout when you get popped in the face in the first
round and it kind of wakes you up.”  Joaquin Benoit pitched the eighth for Detroit and Jose Valverde got a save while striking out two in the ninth.  “I was out of sync early,” Verlander said. “Then I found
my rhythm, my mechanics.”  The A’s began the season 29th in the major leagues with a
$55 million payroll, compared to fifth-highest Detroit at $132
million, according to USA Today’s annual survey. The Oakland
roster was assembled by General Manager Billy Beane, whose
philosophy of evaluating players was the topic of the book
“Moneyball” by Michael Lewis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  