-- Ronaldo, Messi Score Twice as Real, Barcelona Draw; Inter Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-10-07T22:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/ronaldo-messi-score-twice-as-real-barcelona-draw-inter-wins.html
Cristiano Ronaldo  and  Lionel Messi 
each scored twice as Real  Madrid  and Barcelona tied 2-2 in
Spanish soccer’s La Liga, while 10-man  Inter Milan  beat city
rival AC Milan 1-0 in Italy.  Ronaldo squeezed in a shot at the near post in the 23rd
minute at the Camp Nou last night to set a record for scoring in
consecutive so-called El Clasico matches. Messi then put
Barcelona ahead with goals in the 31st and 61st minutes before
Ronaldo tied it five minutes later.  The result leaves Barca eight points ahead of defending
champion Real after seven matches.  Atletico Madrid  is tied on 19
points with Barca atop the standings after Radamel Falcao’s
90th-minute goal secured a 2-1 win against third-place Malaga.  “If at the beginning of the season we would have said that
we would be eight points ahead of Real at this stage we would
have taken it,” Barcelona coach Tito Vilanova said in comments
on his team’s website.  Ronaldo opened the scoring with a shot that beat Victor Valdes at his near post, becoming the first player to score in
six straight El Clasico matches. He had shared the previous
record of five with former Real striker Ivan Zamorano.  Barca was level on 31 minutes after Pepe failed to clear
the ball in his team’s penalty area, leaving Messi to tap into
the net. Just after the hour, the World Player of the Year put
the home side in front by curling in a free kick for his 17th
goal in matches against Real.  Top Scorers  Ronaldo scored off Mesut Ozil’s pass to tie it in the 66th
minute and join Messi and Falcao atop the La Liga scoring list
with eight goals. Barcelona’s Martin Montoya, on for the injured
 Dani Alves , had a chance to win it for the home team in the
closing minutes, though his curling shot struck the crossbar.  “It was tightly fought and nobody knew what the outcome
was going to be until the last minute,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  said in comments on his team’s website. “The world
will be happy because often these matches are too tactical and
finish goalless. This match had everything that people like.”  In Milan, Walter Samuel’s fourth-minute header secured the
victory for Inter, which went a man down three minutes into the
second half when Yuto Nagatomo was red carded for a handball,
having earlier been shown the yellow card.  Defending champion Juventus maintained its unbeaten start
in Serie A this season with a 2-1 win at Siena as  Andrea Pirlo 
and Claudio Marchisio got its goals.  Juventus, unbeaten in 46 Serie A games, is tied atop the
standings on 19 points with Napoli, which defeated Udinese 2-1.
Lazio and Inter Milan are four points back.  Bayern Leads  Second-place Eintracht Frankfurt slipped to its first
defeat in  Germany ’s Bundesliga this season, 2-0 at Borussia
Moenchengladbach, to give  Bayern Munich  a five-point cushion at
the top of the standings.  Bayern and third-place Schalke both won two days ago, 2-0
against Hoffenheim, and 3-0 against Wolfsburg respectively.
Defending champion  Borussia Dortmund  is nine points behind
Bayern after it tied 1-1 at Hanover yesterday.  Andre-Pierre Gignac and Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored two goals
apiece as Marseille drew 2-2 against Paris Saint-Germain to stay
three points ahead of its rival atop France’s Ligue 1.       All
four goals came in the first half at the Stade Velodrome in
Marseille, with Gignac scoring either side of two Ibrahimovic
goals in the space of three minutes.  Third-place Lyon tied 1-1 at Lorient, and Bordeaux drew 1-1
against Brest in yesterday’s other games.  Last season’s champion Montpellier is 15th in the 20-team
league after sliding to a 3-2 home loss against Evian on Oct. 6,
its fourth defeat in eight matches.  FC Twente  defeated nine-man AZ Alkmaar 3-0 yesterday to
hold a three-point lead over  Vitesse Arnhem  and  PSV Eindhoven  in
Dutch soccer’s Eredivisie, with Ajax two points further back.  Ajax was held to a 1-1 home tie by Utrecht, while PSV beat
 NAC Breda  4-0. Two days ago, Vitesse drew 3-3 with Heerenveen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 