-- Rupee, Ringgit to Lead Losses This Quarter, Top Forecaster Says
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-10-08T04:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/rupee-ringgit-to-lead-losses-this-quarter-top-forecaster-says.html
India’s rupee and Malaysia’s ringgit
will lead declines in Asian currencies this quarter as the
global slowdown damps export demand, according to Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp., the most-accurate forecaster.  The rupee and the ringgit, which led gains in the three
months through September, will drop 2.5 percent and 2.2 percent
against the dollar, respectively, by year-end, said OCBC, which
had the closest estimates in the last six quarters as measured
by Bloomberg Rankings. Westpac Banking Corp., the second-best,
predicts Taiwan’s dollar will weaken the most with a loss of 1.9
percent. The two banks expect all of the eight most-traded Asian
emerging-market currencies to decline.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index climbed 1.7
percent last quarter, the most in two years, as the U.S., Europe
and Japan stepped up measures to spur their economies. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia unexpectedly reduced the benchmark
 interest rate  by a quarter of a percentage point last week,
while the  Asian Development Bank  lowered its growth forecast for
Asia excluding Japan, saying deceleration in China and India was
tempering earlier optimism. The  World Bank  said today it cut its
2012 estimate for East Asia, which excludes Japan and India, to
7.2 percent from a May projection of 7.6 percent.  “The macro backdrop remains less than hospitable for
strong Asian currency gains,” Emmanuel Ng, a Singapore-based
strategist at OCBC, the republic’s second-biggest lender, said
in an Oct. 4 interview. “With the RBA setting the tone, we also
expect regional central banks to continue to lean toward
growth.”  Global Stimulus  Wells Fargo & Co ., the third-most accurate forecaster, is
more positive, predicting gains of 1.7 percent and 1.4 percent
against the greenback for the Philippine peso and the ringgit,
respectively. The San Francisco-based bank sees most Asian
currencies rising by year-end, with only the Chinese  yuan  and
the  Taiwan dollar  losing ground.  The rupee advanced 5.3 percent against the dollar last
quarter, followed by a 3.5 percent appreciation in the ringgit
and a 1.9 percent gain for the Taiwan dollar. India’s currency
has since advanced 1.3 percent to 52.1775 as of 9:13 a.m. in
Mumbai, Taiwan’s currency rose 0.2 percent to NT$29.275, while
Malaysia’s declined 0.2 percent to 3.0689.  Analysts were ranked according to the accuracy of their
estimates in each of six quarters beginning with the three
months through June 2011. To test long-term accuracy, Bloomberg
added one annual forecast made on Sept. 30, 2011, for Sept. 30
this year.  Fed Impact Fading  The Asian Development Bank cut its growth forecast for the
region to 6.1 percent this year and 6.7 percent in 2013,
compared with previous estimates of 6.6 percent and 7.1 percent,
the Manila-based lender said in a report on Oct. 3. The  European
Central Bank  is ready to start buying  government bonds ,
President  Mario Draghi  said on Oct. 4. The  Federal Reserve 
announced a third round of asset purchases, or quantitative
easing, last month and the  Bank of Japan  also stepped up its
note-buying program.  Central banks across Asia have been easing monetary policy
to spur  economic growth . The  Reserve Bank of India  unexpectedly
cut the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as  reserves  to
4.5 percent from 4.75 percent last month. The  Bank of Korea  will
reduce its benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis points to 2.75
percent on Oct. 11, according to 12 out of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We see Asian foreign exchange as relatively extended at
present, with the aftermath of the latest Fed easing still
driving markets,”  Huw McKay , a senior international economist
in Sydney at Westpac Banking, Australia’s second-largest lender,
said in an Oct. 3 interview. “This effect will gradually fade,
and alongside interest-rate cuts in Asia, we will see Asian
currencies weaken.”  Falling Exports  As demand from developed nations has dwindled, Asian
exports have declined over the past few months. Shipments from
Taiwan, which account for about two-thirds of the island’s
economy, fell for a sixth month in August, sliding 4.2 percent,
official data show. South Korean  overseas sales  are equivalent
to about half of the nation’s gross domestic product and
decreased 1.8 percent in September, a third monthly decline.
Thai exports fell for a third month in August, down 7 percent
from a year earlier.  Nick Bennenbroek , head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. bank by market value, said Asian
currencies can finish stronger this year ahead of a pickup in
regional economic growth in 2013.  “We see global economic growth remaining soft in the
fourth quarter, though potentially bottoming out in the Asian
region,” said New York-based Bennenbroek. “We see hints that
growth in China and India may be nearing a trough,” he said,
adding that the Philippine and Malaysian economies remained
resilient.  ‘Sturdy Economic Growth’  GDP in the Philippines advanced 5.9 percent in the second
quarter, while Malaysia’s rose 5.4 percent, beating the median
forecasts in Bloomberg surveys for increases of 5.5 and 4.6
percent, respectively. The Philippines has a benchmark  interest
rate  of 3.75 percent and Malaysia’s is 3 percent, compared with
a maximum of 0.25 percent in Japan and the U.S.  “The peso and the ringgit are two of our favored Asian
currencies,” Bennenbroek said. “Considering the underwhelming
economic performance of the major economies and the monetary
policy stance of the major central banks, we see the sturdy
economic growth and steady interest-rate outlooks for Malaysia
and the Philippines as supportive for those currencies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  