-- HSBC Gets Order to Keep Protesters From Hong Kong Office
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-10-08T09:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/hsbc-removes-activists-from-occupy-site-at-hong-kong-building.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  obtained a court
injunction to stop protesters, following two nights of
confrontations, from returning to the plaza at its Asian
headquarters in Hong Kong that saw an 11-month occupation.  The order allows HSBC to restrain any persons from entering
the address without the bank’s consent, spokeswoman Helen Lam
said today. “Such persons are restrained from causing a
nuisance on the site or on the pavement or road surrounding.”  HSBC, which evicted protesters from the site last month,
removed activists who converged there yesterday to screen movies
that criticize banks as part of the Social Movement Film
Festival, according to the organizer’s website. Security
personnel dragged activists off the plaza. They were “illegally
staging an occupation,” the bank said last night.  At least three people were injured and taken away by
ambulance. Police arrested one man for further investigations,
according to a spokesman for the Police Public Relations Bureau,
who asked not to be identified citing agency policy.  “That’s so unreasonable,” said W.Y. Lee, a member of the
organizer. She said the group was sitting outside the building
to watch a movie and was not staging a demonstration.  Occupy Central protesters, the last major holdout of the
global Occupy movement that started in  New York  last year, were
evicted by court bailiffs in September following an 11-month
campaign. While  Hong Kong  has seen its wealth gap widen to a
record, stoking public discontent, the movement failed to
attract demonstrators equal in number to those who took part in
protest marches this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  