-- Six Headstrong Women Confidently Raise Acropolis Roof
-- B y   C a m i l l e   P a g l i a
-- 2012-10-07T22:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/six-headstrong-women-confidently-raise-acropolis-roof.html
When is the burden of the gods
lighter than air?  Six stately young women  stand like sentinels
on a marble parapet atop the Athenian Acropolis. They are gazing
at the Parthenon, the great temple of Athena that, even in its
present ruin, is one of the marvels of the world.  Casual and relaxed, the women balance a heavy stone roof on
their heads. It is a remarkable display of female power:
voluptuous curves combined with massive, muscular strength.  Since the Roman era, columns shaped like women have been
called caryatids. The word comes from the Spartan city of
Caryae, where young women did a ring dance around an open-air
statue of the goddess Artemis, locally identified with a walnut
tree. Antiquity’s most famous caryatids were these six of the
Acropolis. The Athenians, however, called them korai (maidens),
their term for votive images that were female counterparts to
the athletic kouros statues of Archaic art.  Each Acropolis caryatid may once have held an offering
plate or vessel in her outstretched hand (none of the fragile
forearms survive). The young women are dressed in a fine peplos,
a tunic doubled back at the bodice in a bottom-heavy arc and
pinned at the shoulders with a brooch. Their long hair, falling
in a loose braid down the back, presumably signals their
unmarried status, since contemporary Greek matrons wore a
chignon. The caryatids’ fleshy physique is distinctly revealed
by their “wet look” robes (also worn by goddesses on a Parthenon
pediment). These pensive girls with their broad, ripe, thrusting
breasts seem eagerly poised for marriage.  Side Chapel  The  Porch of the Maidens , as it came to be called, was a
closed side chapel of the Erechtheum, a jammed, multilevel
amalgam of three small temples named for Erechtheus, an early
king of  Athens . The inaccessibility of the porch may have
symbolized the maidens’ protected virginity. With pointed
emphasis, the porch rests on stepped platform blocks of the old
temple of Athena, which was destroyed by the invading Persians
in 480 B.C.  Stored in the Erechtheum was Athens’s most sacred object,
the Palladium, a primitive, life-size wooden statue of Athena
Polias, protector of the city. Also inside was a rock cleft said
to have been made by the trident of the sea god Poseidon when he
fought Athena for ownership of the new city. A hole in the roof
marked where his trident had shot to earth and created a salt
spring; when the wind was right, the cistern roared like the
surf.  The caryatids overlooked a walled garden harboring an
ancient olive tree, Athena’s gift to the city when it was named
in her honor. Burned by the Persians, the tree miraculously
sprouted again and reportedly lived for centuries. Off the
garden lay a den for snakes, honored as guardian spirits of the
hill.  Every year the great Panathenaic procession passed by on
its path to the outdoor altar of Athena Polias, just beyond the
Parthenon. Its purpose was to bring a new peplos, woven by the
women of Athens, to adorn the old statue of Athena Polias in the
Erechtheum. Displayed on a cart drawn through the city from the
Dipylon Gate, the garment was hung on a mast like a sail on a
ship. Thus the caryatids seemed to join the procession as it
neared its goal.  The six living pillars of the Porch of the Maidens recall
the distant organic origin of all architectural columns --
bundled reeds or tree trunks. The women resemble a grove of
trees, with the stone roof as their shady canopy. The sculptors
(possibly Alkamenes and Agorakritos, students of Pheidias) have
given the caryatids a dynamic contrapposto stance -- one leg
engaged and the other free, so that a draped thigh juts
provocatively forward. Vertical folds of fabric carry visual
energy up like a fountain to the women’s faces, where it spills
back down their bodies.  Head Baskets  The capital, where each statue’s head meets the block,
consists of a cushioned crown sculpted with an egg-and-dart
pattern, its fat ovals bulging from the imagined pressure. These
crowns may in fact be baskets, such as those filled with barley
and sacrificial ribbons and carried by young noblewomen in the
Panathenaic procession. Women also bore baskets on their heads
during secret rites of the mother goddess Demeter at her shrine
in Eleusis, near Athens. The Eleusinian baskets contained
mysterious ritual objects, possibly including phallic fetishes.
In a parallel ceremony on the Acropolis, two young girls with
covered baskets on their heads descended through a secret rock
staircase near the Erechtheum to the Gardens of Aphrodite below:
The baskets held holy objects known only to the priestess of
Athena.  Both the Parthenon and the Erechtheum remained relatively
well preserved for a thousand years until they were caught up in
war. Under the  Ottoman Empire , the Parthenon became a mosque and
the Acropolis a fortress torn by gun battles between the Turks
and the invading Venetians. Munitions stored in the Parthenon
blew up in 1687, severely damaging the temple and sending debris
flying against the Erechtheum. After more violence during the
Greek war of independence in the early nineteenth century, the
Erechtheum collapsed, leaving the Porch of the Maidens standing.
Travelers reported flecks of dazzling white marble exposed where
bullets had hit the caryatids and chipped off their patina.  One of the statues was among the Acropolis sculptures
removed by  Lord Elgin , the British ambassador to Constantinople.
Now in the  British Museum , along with the other “Elgin Marbles”
whose return has been demanded by Greek patriots, that caryatid
is in better condition than its five companions, who were eroded
by acid pollution in modern Athens. In 1979, they were moved to
the  Acropolis Museum , with fiberglass replicas put in their
place.  Monumental Error  In his famous manifesto on architecture, the Roman writer
Vitruvius propagated an error about the Acropolis caryatids:
they depict, he claimed, the humiliated and enslaved matrons of
Caryae, punished by fellow Greeks because of its treacherous
defection to the Persians. But it is unlikely that the Athenians
would have devoted such a monumental and sensitively placed
statement to that remote event.  Furthermore, the entire power of the caryatids comes from
our sense that the women’s subordination is not imposed but
freely chosen. Spaced at a generous distance, they seem like
confidently complete individuals who belong to a dedicated
cohort. They are a sisterhood with one thing weighing on their
minds -- service to the gods. The air around them is transparent
yet highly charged with religious feeling.  By one of those optical illusions for which the architects
of the restored Acropolis were renowned, the two central statues
(their knees in mirror-image reversal) seem to carry the brunt
of the roof. Its rectangular corners fall over the weight-
bearing but recessive legs of their outlying sisters. Hence the
roof seems to float, as if the women were supporting it by
thought alone. Their dignity shows how the Greeks honored their
gods -- not through genuflection or self-abuse but through
assertions of human value and pride.  (Camille Paglia, university professor of humanities and
media studies at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia, is
the author of “Sexual Personae,” “Sex, Art and American Culture”
and “Vamps & Tramps,” among other books. This is the first in a
series of four excerpts from her new book, “ Glittering Images: A
Journey Through Art from Egypt to Star Wars ,” which will be
published by Pantheon Books on Oct. 16. The opinions expressed
are her own. Read  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  new sanctions for Iran  and on
 the economic cost of political dysfunction ;  Mark Buchanan  on  the
stupidity of markets ; William D. Cohan on  the JPMorgan lawsuit ;
 Edward Glaeser  on why Obama is wrong  about the transcontinental
railroad ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  revisiting Reagan’s 1980 victory ;
Fouad Ajami on how literalists  keep their hold on Islam .  To contact the writer of this article:
Camille Paglia at  ask_camille@salon.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 