-- Sofant’s Miniature ‘Smart Antenna’ Promises to End Dropped Calls
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-10-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/sofant-s-miniature-smart-antenna-promises-to-end-dropped-calls.html
At 4 square millimetres,  Sofant
Technologies  claims to have designed the world’s smallest
steerable antenna. The miniature size belies its potential to
transform the performance of smartphones and tablets worldwide.  The antenna, the result of seven years’ work by a team from
Edinburgh University, is designed to cut battery consumption by
as much as 90 percent and improve the signal quality by a factor
of four by locking onto one strong signal rather than constantly
roaming in search of the best one.  “The reality is that, until now, the antenna has acted as
a bottleneck to performance in mobile devices,” Chief Executive
Officer Sergio Tansini said. “As a result, every new generation
of smartphone performs less well than its predecessor, resulting
in dropped calls, lost signals, weak connections, slow Internet
and battery drain.”  Sofant is the latest of 25 spinout companies to emerge from
the university over the past five years while  Edinburgh Research
and Innovation , the university’s commercialization unit, has
also supported 138 startup companies over the same period. As
tablets and smartphones get more powerful and include more
applications, the importance of reliable connectivity and
improved battery life increases, Tansini said.  Still, it may take as long as three years before Sofant’s
technology is widely available for use in smartphones, said
Tansini, who completed the spinout last week.  Early Days  “It is early days,” Tansini, 56, said on Oct. 3 in a
telephone interview from Edinburgh airport on his way to Munich.
“We need to get this technology to the point of industrial
quality and tested for resilience.”  There are now more smartphones than PCs, with an estimated
five billion units being manufactured over the next five years,
Tansini said.  The spinouts supported by the university include  Wolfson
Microelectronics Plc (WLF) , a semiconductor maker that listed on the
London Stock Exchange in 2003. Wolfson now has a market value of
230 million pounds ($370 million) and its Audio Hub technology
is used in smartphones including Samsung Electronics Co.’s
latest Galaxy smartphone.  Vision Group, now a unit of  STMicrolectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
largest chipmaker, was the first spinout from any Scottish
university to be listed when it sold shares in 1995. Founder
Peter Denyer designed the complementary metal-oxide
semiconductor, or CMOS, sensor widely used in digital cameras
and mobile phones.  In 2007 MTEM, which invented a technology designed to save
billions of dollars a year being wasted on drilling dry  oil
wells , was bought by  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS)  for $275 million
less than four years after becoming the largest spinout by any
Scottish university.  Military Use  The technology used in the antenna already has military and
space applications and can be used in connection with Global
Positioning System satellites, said Tansini, who became chief
executive nine months ago.  “I am at the point of my career where I am enjoying
myself,” said Tansini, who was CEO of  Indigovision Group Plc (IND) ,
another Edinburgh-based technology company, when it carried out
an initial public offering in 2001. “I am helping these guys
commercialize it.”  Sofant moved out of the university into the  Scottish
Microelectronics Centre  last week, said Tansini, who is seeking
to raise an additional 600,000 pounds from investors on top of
the 140,000 pounds it has already raised. He forecasts that the
company will have annual sales of more than 10 million pounds
five years after licensing the antenna.  Academics  The antenna was designed by three academics at the
university. The founders of the company, Ahmed El-Rayis, now
chief operating officer, Tughrul Arslan, chief scientist, and
Nakul Haridas, head of engineering, are majority shareholders in
the company which was founded seven years ago.  Arslan will be a non-executive director and will continue
as professor of Integrated Electronic Systems at Edinburgh
University. El-Bayis and Haridas were research fellows in system
level integration at the university.  Edinburgh Research and Innovation has an undisclosed stake
in Sofant in return for licensing the university’s intellectual
property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 