-- Sotheby’s Pulls $1.6 Million Work Challenged by Nun
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-10-07T11:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/sotheby-s-pulls-1-6-million-work-challenged-by-nun.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  said it has withdrawn a
20th-century Chinese painting valued at as much as HK$12.8
million ($1.65 million) after a Taiwanese Buddhist nun
challenged its ownership.  Sotheby’s made the last-minute decision after receiving a
writ in Hong Kong on Oct. 6 on behalf of 60-year-old Lu Chieh-
Chien, requesting a court hearing to prevent the sale.  The 1950 ink and color on paper painting entitled “Riding
in the Autumn Countryside” by  Zhang Daqian  had been consigned
for sale on Oct. 8 by Sotheby’s in Hong Kong by a Taiwanese
client.  “Sotheby’s takes issues of title seriously,” Kevin Ching
chief executive officer of Sotheby’s  Asia  said today. “We will
not sell anything that we cannot be sure that we can pass good
title to, and therefore we are withdrawing the lot.”  Lu claimed she had received the painting as a wedding gift
in 1983, later entrusting it to her brother after joining a
monastery. Her brother then moved to Shanghai leaving the work
behind in Taiwan with an employee for safekeeping, Ching said.  The  South China Morning Post  identified the employee as Shu
Dun-sie. Sotheby’s declined to say whether he was the consignor
of the work because of company policy to keep client information
confidential.  The painting by Zhang, one of the best-selling 20th century
Chinese artists, was valued as the most expensive work among
more than 320 lots offered for sale in Sotheby’s Fine Chinese
Paintings sale.  In May 2011, Sotheby’s sold 25 works by Zhang worth HK$681
million, including a painting that fetched a record HK$191
million.  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on rock,  Martin
Gayford  on art,  Warwick Thompson  on London stage and  Ryan Sutton 
on food.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  