-- Staples Seen Reversing Romney Deal Over Valuation
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-10-08T20:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/staples-seen-reversing-romney-deal-over-value-real-m-a.html
Staples Inc. (SPLS) , the office-supplies
retailer that  Mitt Romney ’s Bain Capital LLC helped take public
more than two decades ago, is now offering private-equity buyers
a bargain that will be tough to pass up.  After falling to a record low valuation in August, the
company now has an enterprise value that’s 4.5 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, still
cheaper than 93 percent of similar-sized U.S. specialty
retailers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At 14.8
percent, Staples’s free  cash flow  yield is higher than 65 of 67
peers, the data show.  Staples, facing the first annual  sales decline  since at
least 1990, announced store closures in September and reduced
2012 forecasts in August. Private-equity firms may see more ways
to cut costs and rejuvenate the business, Edward Jones & Co.
said, while the company’s  cash generation  could be appealing to
potential buyers, according to Pekin Singer Strauss Asset
Management Inc. and Dreman Value Management LLC. The $7.9
billion company may lure bids up to $18 a share, or 55 percent
more than last week’s close, Olstein Capital Management LP said.  “The cash flow generating ability of this business I would
think would lend itself to an acquisition by a private-equity
firm,”  John Sullivan , an analyst at Purchase, New York-based
Olstein, which oversees about $570 million including Staples
shares, said in a telephone interview. “It’s so undervalued.”  Owen Davis, a spokesman at Framingham, Massachusetts-based
Staples, declined to comment on whether the company has been
approached by potential buyers.  Stalling Growth  Revenue growth has stalled at Staples. After increasing 19
percent in the fiscal year that ended in January 2009, the pace
averaged 2.7 percent in the ensuing three years as workers used
fewer traditional office products, such as pens and folders.  The retailer has also been hurt by slower  job creation  amid
the recession in  Europe  and high U.S. unemployment. Analysts
 project  a 1 percent sales decline this year, the first annual
drop in records dating to 1991, according to the average
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Staples was founded in 1986 with help from Bain, and Romney
became a  director  at the office-supplies retailer that year. In
1989, Staples went public, and Romney left its board in 2002. In
the 1990s, Staples posted annual sales growth as high as 105
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Staples jumped 3.6 percent on Sept. 13 after
Fortune reported that private-equity firms including Bain were
considering buying the retailer. The discussions were
preliminary and an offer wouldn’t be made until late this year,
Fortune said, citing people it didn’t name.  Today, Staples added 0.6 percent to $11.70.  Record Low  The company’s enterprise value, or equity plus net debt, is
now  4.5 times  trailing 12-month Ebitda, after slipping to an
all-time low of 4.15 on Aug. 28, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. U.S. specialty retailers with market capitalizations
larger than $500 million trade at a median multiple of 9.3.  “The company is cheaper than we’ve ever seen it before,”
Adam Strauss, Chicago-based co-manager of the  Appleseed Fund (APPLX)  at
Pekin Singer, which oversees $900 million, said in a phone
interview. “It’s an incredibly good value right now.”  The Appleseed Fund, which owns Staples shares, outperformed
98 percent of rival funds in the last five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private-equity firms may be lured by Staples’s  low price 
and abundant cash generation, hallmarks of leveraged-buyout
targets, Strauss said. Its free cash flow represents 14.8
percent of the company’s market capitalization, almost triple
the median yield of 5.1 percent for the industry, the data show.
Only  GameStop Corp. (GME)  and Express Inc. have higher yields at 16.9
percent and 15.3 percent, respectively.  More Restructuring  While the management team at Staples is taking the right
steps to turn around the business by shutting stores,
restructuring is “what private equity does best,” said  Matt Arnold , a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones. Staples said
in September that it would shut 45 locations in Europe and
accelerate the closing of 15 U.S. stores as part of a plan to
save $250 million annually.  “There are plenty of private-equity firms out there that
are specialists in taking a retailer like this out of the public
eye and making it a stronger operator,” he said in a phone
interview.  Staples’s balance sheet is also “pretty decent,” Arnold
said. With total debt almost equal to Ebitda, Staples has a
lower  leverage ratio  than  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) ,
which also sell office supplies, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. OfficeMax has the highest ratio among similar-sized U.S.
specialty retailers at 9.2 times more debt than Ebitda.  Good Management  Still, Staples isn’t mismanaged and a private-equity suitor
may have a hard time finding ways to milk out more costs and run
the company better, according to Bradley Thomas, a New York-
based analyst at Keybanc Capital Markets Inc. Plus, management
doesn’t appear willing to sell, Thomas said.  “There are just no silver bullets,” he said in a phone
interview. “You’ve got an A management team here that’s really
just been dealing with a difficult environment for business
spending and office spending. I don’t know that you’re going to
find people that can do a better job.”  Caris & Co.’s Scott Tilghman said OfficeMax may be the more
viable target given its market capitalization of $668 million,
less than a tenth the size of Staples. Of the three office-
supplies companies, OfficeMax also is the only one projected to
end the year with net cash, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Most Appealing  Julie Treon, a spokeswoman at Naperville, Illinois-based
OfficeMax, didn’t return a phone call requesting comment.  Edward Jones ’s Arnold says Staples is still the most
appealing target because it’s the most profitable of the three.
Staples earned almost 4 cents on every dollar of sales in the
last 12 months, versus a penny at Office Depot and even less at
OfficeMax, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The strongest operator that has the strongest market
share, you would think that qualitatively, on top of the
quantitative aspects -- like strong cash flow generation and a
high free cash flow yield -- that it would seem to be an
interesting candidate,” Arnold said.  Staples’s delivery unit, which sells and delivers office
products to businesses that place orders online, has turned it
into the second-largest Internet retailer, trailing only
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “While Staples’s retail business needs some help, the
delivery business should continue to do very well,” Strauss
said.  $18 Bid  Private-equity buyers betting on Staples’s ability to turn
around its operations may be willing to offer as much as $18 a
share for the company, according to Olstein’s Sullivan.  A bidder can pay a premium and “still kind of steal the
company,” he said in a phone interview. “The business is worth
significantly higher than it is trading.”  With the U.S. unemployment rate dropping below 8 percent
last month for the first time since 2009, Staples may be poised
to benefit from a rebound in the economy as its corporate
customers boost spending, according to  David Dreman , chairman of
Dreman Value Management in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  Staples is “running through tough times, but small
businesses are running through tough times,” Dreman, who
oversees about $5 billion including Staples shares, said in a
phone interview. “As the economy picks up, which I think it
will do, it’s a pretty attractive stock.”  ‘Just Enormous’  While Dreman said the company could be worth about $20 a
share, bids are more likely around $16 or $17, he said. Dreman
said that might not be enough to convince management to sell.
The stock peaked this year at $16.84 in March.  Strauss said there’s plenty for private-equity buyers to
like about Staples.  “We love companies that have good balance sheets and
strong free cash flow, and private-equity companies also look
for those same things,” Strauss said. While unemployment and
weak business spending is a challenge, “when that eventually
turns around, the earning power of this company is just
enormous.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  