-- Hammond Adds to Cabinet Calls to Lower U.K. Abortion Time Limit
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-07T23:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/u-k-s-hammond-says-he-favors-reduction-in-abortion-time-limit.html
U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond
said he favors cutting the time limit for woman to abort a fetus
to “22 or 20 weeks,” becoming the latest Tory Cabinet minister
to urge a change in the law.  Hammond, speaking in an interview yesterday at the
Conservative Party’s annual conference in Birmingham, central
 England , joined Culture Secretary Maria Miller, Home Secretary
Theresa May and Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt in backing a
reduction from the 24-week limit set when abortion was legalized
in Britain in the 1960s. Hunt called for the limit to be set at
12 weeks.  “This is a matter of personal conscience,” Hammond said,
recalling that former Conservative leader Michael Howard had
proposed reducing the limit to 20 or 22 weeks. “I supported his
suggestion of looking at that proposal. I am not sure whether 20
or 22, but I am sure in my own mind that 12 weeks is going too
far.”  Prime Minister David Cameron told the BBC yesterday the
government, in which the Conservatives share power with the
Liberal Democrats, has “no plans” to bring in new abortion
laws. He was speaking after the London-based Times newspaper
cited Hunt as calling for the 12-week limit in an interview.  “I am sure Jeremy Hunt has got very good personal reasons
to make the suggestion he has,” Hammond said.  Women’s rights campaigners expressed alarm at Hunt’s call,
with Professor Wendy Savage, a prominent gynecologist, saying
the number of abortions that take place at more than 20 weeks is
very small and largely of fetuses with abnormalities.  “I think that when Parliament originally enacted the 24-
week limit that meant something in relation to medical
technology at the time,” Hammond said. “Technology has moved
on and babies are able to survive at shorter periods of
gestation now than they were seven or eight years ago and
therefore it is appropriate to look again to make sure we are in
keeping with the spirit of what Parliament intended when it said
24 weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Birmingham, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  