-- U.S. Agrees to S. Korea Extending Its Ballistic Missile Range
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-10-07T23:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/u-s-agrees-to-s-korea-extending-its-ballistic-missile-range.html
The U.S. agreed to  South Korea 
extending the range of its ballistic missiles to 800 kilometers
(497 miles) against possible nuclear and missile attacks from
 North Korea .  The two countries agreed on Oct. 5 to amend a 2001 accord
that allows the South to develop and deploy missiles with a
range of 300 kilometers, Chun Yung Woo, senior presidential
secretary for foreign affairs and national security, said
yesterday in a statement on President  Lee Myung Bak ’s website.  “The South Korean government’s most important reason for
this amendment is to deter any armed provocation from North
Korea,” Chun said in the statement. “If North Korea carries
out an attack or a provocation, we will be able to destroy North
Korea’s nuclear missile capabilities in advance.”  The conclusion to the negotiations, which began last year,
came six months after North Korea’s new leader Kim Jong Un fired
a long-range rocket aimed at putting a satellite into space. The
unsuccessful launch cost the impoverished totalitarian regime a
food aid deal with the U.S., and raised regional concerns of a
follow-up nuclear detonation.  While the amendment now allows key North Korean military
facilities to be targeted, it also limits the payload to 500
kilograms (1,100 pounds) for missiles traveling as far as 800
kilometers. Unmanned aerial vehicles, known commonly as drones,
will be able to carry warheads weighing up to 2,500 kilograms
for targets located beyond 300 kilometers.  Soldier Defects  Separately, Kim urged vigilance from the security ministry,
the official Korean Central News Agency reported on the same day
a soldier in his army shot two officers and defected to the
South.  “The Ministry of State Security has a very important duty
to perform to protect the sovereignty of the country and the
nation,”  KCNA  quoted Kim as saying Oct. 6 while viewing a
statue of his late father at the ministry. A North Korean
soldier fled across the Demilitarized Zone at around noon the
same day, after shooting his platoon and squad leaders, South
Korea’s defense ministry said.  Kim became head of the totalitarian state in December,
following the death of his father,  Kim Jong Il , who ruled the
secretive nation from 1994 to 2011. He took the country’s top
rank of marshal in July, the final step to secure his power as
leader of the impoverished nation’s 1.2 million-strong  armed
forces . The promotion came days after Kim sacked veteran army
chief Ri Yong Ho, in the biggest publicly revealed power shift
since his succession.  Economic Development  Kim has named economic development as the socialist
country’s top focus, in a departure from his father’s so-called
“military first” policy, which prioritized defense issues.  More than 2,700 North Koreans fled to the South last year,
raising the total number of defectors from the regime to 23,100
as of the end of 2011, according to the most recent estimate
from the South’s Ministry of Unification in January.  The two Koreas technically remain at war after the 1950-
1953 conflict ended without a peace treaty. The U.S. military
has since maintained a presence on the South Korean side of the
peninsula, holding wartime operational control. More than 28,500
U.S. soldiers are currently stationed in the South.  The North, which twice detonated nuclear devices, in 2006
and 2009, has more than 250 long-range artillery installations
along the Demilitarized Zone, the world’s most fortified border.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  