-- Venezuela Awaits Chavez Fate in Vote After Historic Turnout
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-08T02:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/venezuelans-to-determine-chavez-s-fate-in-closest-election-yet.html
Venezuelans awaited the fate of
President  Hugo Chavez  and his self-proclaimed socialist
revolution after historic turnout in the election against
younger rival Henrique Capriles Radonski.  Pro-Chavez supporters partied in the streets of downtown
Caracas on expectations the 58-year-old former paratrooper will
extend his 14-year rule. More than 18 million people were
registered to vote in the election that could extend Chavez’s 14
years in power until 2019 or see an upset by Capriles, who
described his challenge against the incumbent as a battle
between David and Goliath.  Chavez, 58, is looking to push ahead with policies that
have seen the seizure of more than 1,000 companies by the state
and the use of rising oil revenue to fund popular social
programs. The economic model has lowered poverty rates, stoked
inflation and driven away foreign investment. The economic
problems, a two-year battle with cancer and the challenge from
Capriles has led Chavez to tone down the triumphalism of his
past campaigns.  “I know I’ve committed errors, like everyone has, but I
promise to be a better president starting Oct. 8,” Chavez told
tens of thousands of supporters standing in rain in downtown
Caracas on Oct. 4. “The future of the country is in your
hands.”  Electronic Voting  Antonio Hernandez, a 47-year-old who resells clothing and
mobile phones, said he voted for Chavez in 2006 and is now
voting for Capriles because the government didn’t fulfill its
promises to improve health and education.  “I see the same schools as when I was 18, the same
hospitals,” Hernandez said today in the Caracas slum of Los
Flores de Catia. “If they offer you change and they don’t give
it to you, you have to try out the other side.”  Some polls stayed open more than two hours past the
scheduled closing time in Caracas as lines of voters waited to
cast their ballots. Representatives of both campaigns said they
were pleased with how voting unfolded today and said
participation was at a historic high.  Venezuela ’s voting system
is electronic except for the 100,000 people registered abroad.
Voting isn’t required by law.  Polling company Datanalisis said that it expects a
participation rate of about 79 percent. Turnout has been
“massive,” Tibisay Lucena, president of Venezuela’s Electoral
Board, told reporters today.  Respecting the Results  Both Capriles and Chavez vowed to respect the results of
the election.  “Be it one vote that makes the difference or three
million, we as responsible political players must recognize the
results,” Chavez said after casting his vote in Caracas.  Some Venezuelans have been stocking up on water and food in
case violence follows the vote, while hospitals are asking
employees to work longer shifts to treat the wounded from any
disturbances. One person was shot dead by a motorcycle driver
while waiting in line to vote in Caracas, newspaper El Universal
 reported .  Polls have been inconclusive while mostly favoring a Chavez
re-election. Chavez had 44.7 percent support against 37 percent
for Capriles, according to a Datanalisis poll concluded on Sept.
18, Credit Suisse said in an Oct. 5 report, citing the private
survey. It didn’t give a margin of error. A Sept. 27 to Oct. 2
survey of 1,546 people by Caracas-based Consultores 21 gave
Capriles a lead of 51.8 percent to 47.2 percent. The poll had a
margin of error of 2.5 percentage points.  ‘Better Off Now’  “We’re better off now than we were before and in the
future we have to be even better,” said 44-year-old toy store
owner Winder Pinero, who said he was backing Chavez during an
interview in the 23 de Enero neighborhood of Caracas.  In a tight race, overseas voters could play a role in the
outcome. Thousands of Venezuelans living in  Florida  traveled to
 New Orleans  to vote after the government closed its consulate in
Miami this year. Voters there waved flags and sang the national
anthem this morning, while others headed to polling stations in
 Chicago  and  New York .  “Not voting is almost criminal in this election,” Jose
Francisco Muci, a 20-year-old college student, said after
casting his ballot at the Venezuelan consulate in New York
today.  Fast Inflation  A government spending boom helped Venezuela’s economy grow
5.4 percent in the first half of 2012. While  annual inflation 
has slowed for nine consecutive months to 18.1 percent, it
remains the highest in the world after Belarus, Iran and
 Argentina , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Whoever wins the election will have to deal with a macro
economy that is increasingly out of sync,” said  Alberto Ramos ,
an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in an Oct. 5 report.  Challenging Chavez is the 40-year-old Capriles, who boasts
that he’s never lost an election since taking public office as a
lawmaker, mayor and, later, governor of Miranda state. Capriles
has focused on resolving what he says are the government’s
shortcomings including stalled projects, inefficiency, mounting
blackouts and the highest  murder rate  in  South America .  “President Chavez, your time is over, I want to thank you
from the bottom of my heart for showing me the direction to
take; it’s love not hate, light not darkness,” Capriles told
supporters in central Lara state Oct. 4. “You abused your
position of authority, but this was always a spiritual fight,
David against Goliath, and we all know David wins.”  Capriles Agenda  Capriles says that he will maintain social programs while
gradually unwinding currency and price controls that he claims
breed corruption, while promising to create more private sector
jobs and increase oil production.  Azael Vivas, standing in line outside a voting center in
Los Flores de Catia, said today he still hadn’t decided on a
candidate. Vivas, 44, said he’s concerned corruption has
increased under Chavez yet thinks Capriles is out of touch with
poor Venezuelans.  “He needs more street experience,” Vivas, a lighting
designer for theater, said of Capriles. “Venezuela is so rich
we should all be wealthy, but very little reaches poor people
like me.”  The close election and speculation that an undisclosed form
of cancer may force Chavez to step down before 2019 if he wins
has led to a rally in Venezuelan bonds, which have returned 30
percent this year through September, the most among major
emerging market economies after the  Ivory Coast , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Televised Speeches  Capriles has said the playing field is slanted in Chavez’s
favor as he uses state funds for campaigning and broadcasts
carried on all television and radio networks for official
announcements that often last more than an hour.  The opposition candidate has tried to use his youth and
fitness to draw a distinction between himself and Chavez, who
slowed his public appearances and speaking times after
undergoing a third operation to remove a cancerous tumor in Cuba
in February. Chavez says that he’s now cancer-free.  “This election is different from all the previous ones,”
that Chavez has faced,  Saul Cabrera , vice president of Caracas-
based Consultores 21, told reporters on Oct. 2. “Anyone can
win.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Caracas at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  