-- Vettel Wins Japanese Grand Prix to Cut Alonso’s F-1 Series Lead
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-07T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/vettel-wins-japanese-grand-prix-as-f-1-leader-alonso-spins-out.html
Sebastian Vettel led from the start
to win the Japanese Grand Prix and move to within four points of
Formula One championship leader Fernando Alonso, who spun out of
the race on the first lap.  Red Bull’s Vettel followed his Sept. 23 triumph in
 Singapore  by finishing 20.6 seconds ahead of Ferrari’s Felipe Massa yesterday at Suzuka, becoming the first to secure back-to-
back victories this season. Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi was third,
giving Japanese drivers a home podium place for the first time
since 1990.  Alonso of Ferrari retired after getting a rear-wheel
puncture during contact with Kimi Raikkonen’s Lotus heading into
the first corner. The Spaniard, a two-time world champion, tops
the standings on 194 points with five races remaining.  “It’s a shame for Alonso, it’s not something you hope for
and it could happen to us at the next race,” Vettel said in a
team statement. “We’ve seen this year there are a lot of up and
downs and things change quickly. We have to keep our heads down
and take it step by step.”  The 25-year-old German is the 4-6 favorite to win his third
straight drivers’ title ahead of 13-8 chance Alonso, according
to U.K. bookmaker William Hill. Red Bull is the favorite for the
constructors’ championship, where it has 324 points to McLaren’s
283, with Ferrari on 263 and Lotus 239.  Vettel’s victory was his third at Suzuka. He converted pole
position into a lead at the first corner and gradually increased
his advantage in the 53-lap race.  Alonso’s Exit  Alonso didn’t complete a single lap after Raikkonen ran
slightly off the road and touched the Ferrari’s left-rear tire
as he rejoined the track, causing a puncture and tipping the
Spaniard into a spin as he went into the first turn.  “When you cannot even get past the first corner it’s
sad,” Alonso said in a televised interview. “We need to think
and concentrate for next week. Others are making mistakes and we
need to avoid this.”  Massa’s second place put him on the podium for the first
time since the 2010 Korean Grand Prix.  Korea  will host the 16th
of 20 races Oct. 14 in Yeongam.  Kobayashi was greeted with chants of “Kamui, Kamui,
Kamui” on the presentation platform after holding off Jenson Button by half a second to secure a career-best third place.  He’s only the third Japanese F-1 driver to score a top-
three finish after Aguri Suzuki in 1990 at Suzuka and Takuma Sato at the 2004 U.S. Grand Prix.  Home Hero  “I had to push to defend my podium place,” Kobayashi, 26,
said. “Only during the final lap did I allow myself to really
think I can keep him behind me, because then the best overtaking
opportunity at the end of the straight was over, and then I saw
all the fans and the raised hands. It meant a lot to me.”  Button finished ahead of McLaren teammate Lewis Hamilton,
while Raikkonen was sixth after fighting off a challenge from
Force  India ’s  Nico Hulkenberg  and Pastor Maldonado in a Williams
in the closing stages.  Raikkonen is in third place in the championship, 33 points
behind Vettel and five ahead of Hamilton, who has 152 points.  Mark Webber is in fifth place after fighting his way back
up the field to finish ninth yesterday after being put into a
spin on the first corner by Lotus’s Romain Grosjean, who
received a 10-second stop-and-go penalty for crashing into
Webber’s Red Bull. Grosjean was banned from the Sept. 9 Italian
Grand Prix after causing a first-corner pile-up in  Belgium  the
previous week.  Toro Rosso’s Daniel Ricciardo in 10th place rounded out the
points-scoring positions at Suzuka.  “We’re trying to fight for results each weekend and it
doesn’t help so, yeah, it’s frustrating as a few of the big guys
suffered out there,” Webber said of his collision with
Grosjean. “I didn’t give up and got something from it. I’ll
come back in Korea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  