-- West Indies Seals World Twenty20 Title by Beating Host Sri Lanka
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-10-08T00:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-07/west-indies-wins-toss-bats-against-sri-lanka-in-twenty20-final.html
Marlon Samuels blasted 78 off 56
balls and took a wicket as West Indies beat host  Sri Lanka  by 36
runs to win its first World Twenty20 cricket title.  West Indies made 137-6 off its 20 overs against the
tournament host after winning the toss in  Colombo  last night.
Sri Lanka was all out for 101 with eight balls remaining after a
middle-order batting slump.  The victory gave West Indies, which dominated international
cricket from the late 1970s through to the 1990s, its fourth
major title having won the first two editions of the World Cup
in 1975 and 1979 and the Champions Trophy eight years ago.  “This is a great achievement, for past cricketers and for
these cricketers who have bonded together to form a strong
unit,” man of the match Samuels said in a news conference.
“The entire Caribbean embraces it. The sky is the limit and
words can’t really explain it. It means the world to us.”  Sri Lanka fell to its fourth defeat in as many finals after
losing the World Twenty20 championship match to  Pakistan  three
years ago, as well as the 2007 and 2011  World Cup  finals to
 Australia  and  India , respectively.  Samuels’s innings, which included six sixes, rallied the
West Indies after a slow start. Johnson Charles was caught by
Nuwan Kulasekara off Angelo Mathews without a run on the board.
The home team then removed big-hitting opener Chris Gayle,
trapped leg-before-wicket by Ajantha Mendis after scoring three
off 16 balls. That left the score on 14-2 after six overs.  Top Wicket-Taker  Samuels and Dwayne Bravo, with 19 runs, steadied the
innings, though  Kieron Pollard  and Andre Russell were dismissed
in successive balls as West Indies lost momentum. Sammy added 26
not out off 15 balls. Mendis took 4-12 to finish as the 12-
nation tournament’s leading wicket-taker with 15.  Sri Lanka opener Tillakaratne Dilshan was bowled by  Ravi
Rampaul  as West Indies made an early breakthrough.  Kumar Sangakkara , with 22 runs, and captain Mahela Jayawardene
restored stability only for the innings to crumble after
reaching 51-2.  Mathews was out for one run, Jayawardene was caught by
Sammy for 33, and then Jeevan Mendis and Thisara Perera were run
out in quick succession to reduce Sri Lanka to 64-6.  Kulasekara threatened to get the run chase back on course
with 26 off 13 balls, though the home team couldn’t maintain the
momentum. Jayawardene, Sangakkara and Kulasekara were the only
Sri Lankan batsmen to reach double figures. Spin bowler Sunil
Narine took 3-9 and Samuels chipped in with the wicket of
Ajantha Mendis.  Lost Momentum  “It was tough for us to get into it,” Jayawardene said.
“We lost momentum when Dilshan fell. They bowled really well,
we just needed to keep the pressure on, which we didn’t. We just
couldn’t get through that final hurdle.”  Australia’s  Shane Watson , who had four straight man-of-the-
match awards and struck 249 runs to top the  run-scoring list ,
was named player of the tournament after helping his team reach
the semifinals.  The World Twenty20, generally held every two years, is the
championship of the game’s newest and shortest format. West
Indies picked up $1 million in prize money for winning the
fourth edition.  “This is definitely a step forward,” said West Indies
captain  Darren Sammy . “We believe we can win matches. We’re not
trying just to compete any more. We believe we can win against
good opposition. Hopefully, this can be the start of something
good for the West Indies team and the people.”  Earlier yesterday, Australia beat  England  by four runs in
the women’s final to retain its title.  Jess Cameron scored 45 runs as Australia totaled 142-4 in
its 20 overs in Colombo. Captain  Charlotte  Edwards top scored
for England with 28 as it could only manage 138-9. Jess Jonassen
took 3-25 to lead the Australian bowlers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  