-- AB Foods to Pay Compensation to Bangladesh Supplier Victims
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-04-29T17:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/ab-foods-to-pay-compensation-to-bangladesh-supplier-victims.html
Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) ’s
Primark chain said it will pay an unspecified amount of
compensation to the victims of the Bangladesh building collapse
who worked for its supplier New Wave and urged other retailers
to “come forward” and offer help.  Compensation will include long-term aid for children who
have lost parents, financial aid for the injured and payments to
parents of the deceased, the London-based company said today in
a statement. Primark said its supplier shared the building with
other retailers and that the retailer is “fully aware of our
responsibility.”  The collapse of the eight-story Rana Plaza in Savar on
April 24 killed at least 382 people in the nation’s biggest
industrial disaster. Primark last week confirmed a supplier,
Simple Approach, had contracted New Wave, which was on the
second floor of the building on the day of the disaster, and
said it was “shocked and deeply saddened” by the incident.  “We shall be reviewing our commitments constantly to
ensure that they meet the needs of the victims as the tragedy
continues to unfold,” the retailer said in today’s e-mailed
statement. It has joined with a non-governmental organization to
provide emergency food aid to families, it added.  Primark is one of at least five retailers whose products
were made in the garment factory, including  Loblaw Cos. (L) ’ brand
Joe Fresh,  U.K. budget  retailer Matalan Ltd., plus-size
womenswear seller Bonmarche Ltd. and Spanish department store El
Corte Ingles.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  says its investigations,
which are ongoing, have confirmed no authorized production took
place in the facility.  “If we learn of any unauthorized production, we will take
appropriate action based upon our zero-tolerance policy on
unauthorized subcontracting,” spokesman Kevin Gardner said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  