-- Prague Explosion Probably Caused by Gas Injures 35
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-04-29T14:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/about-40-hurt-others-feared-buried-in-prague-explosion.html
Thirty-five people were confirmed
injured and hundreds were evacuated after an explosion caused by
gas leaks rocked the area around  Prague ’s National Theater.  At least two of the injuries were serious after the
explosion on Divadelni Street a few minutes before 10 a.m. in
the Czech capital. Some 230 people were evacuated from the area
as rescuers with sniffer dogs searched for people possibly
trapped under debris in the partially collapsed building, Mayor
Bohuslav Svoboda said today.  “According to all available information it was a gas
explosion, it wasn’t a terrorist attack,” Svoboda said at a
news conference. “It was a very powerful explosion that left 35
people injured but there were no fatalities reported.”  The explosion was heard as far as away as the U.S. Embassy
on the other side of Vltava River in Mala Strana, or the Lesser
Quarter, beneath  Prague Castle , according to the state-run CT24.
It shattered windows in nearby buildings such as the National
Theater and forced evacuation of 19 buildings in the area that
includes the famous Cafe Slavia and the library of the Academy
of Sciences.  Concern over possible further gas leaks prompted police  to
shut down some areas of the Smetana embankment that had been re-
opened to the public, police chief Martin Vondrasek said at a
news conference.  People with blood on their faces were seen treated on
sidewalks by paramedics. As many as 55 people may have been
injured in the blast, Pavlina Adamcova, spokeswoman for the
Prague fire department, said by phone earlier today.  Michal Stefula, a security guard, said he smelled gas and
saw glass flying after witnessing the blast from about 50 meters
(55 yards) away.  “I was one of the first three people on the site to help
about seven injured people out of the building, including one
construction worker who told me more of his colleagues were
trapped in the basement,” he said in an interview at the area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  