-- Taiwan Dollar Climbs for Fourth Day on Stock Inflows; Bonds Gain
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-04-29T04:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/taiwan-dollar-climbs-for-fourth-day-on-stock-inflows-bonds-gain.html
Taiwan ’s dollar rose for a fourth
day, the longest winning streak since October, after overseas
investors boosted their holdings of the island’s shares last
week by the most in more than two months.  The currency climbed to a two-month high after exchange
data showed global funds bought $576 million more Taiwanese
equities than they sold in the five days ended April 26, the
biggest net purchases since the period ended Feb. 9. The
government’s  five-year  bonds rose, pushing their yield to a
three-month low, before data tomorrow that is forecast to show
Taiwan’s economic growth slowed in the first quarter.  “Exporters selling the greenback and foreign inflows are
driving gains in the  Taiwan dollar  for the time being,” said
Tarsicio Tong, a currency trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in
Taipei. “We’re watching tomorrow’s GDP numbers. The economic
environment isn’t warranting a prolonged appreciation.”  The Taiwan dollar advanced 0.5 percent to NT$29.558 against
its U.S. counterpart as of 11:50 a.m. local time, Taipei Forex
Inc. prices show. The currency touched NT$29.55, the strongest
level since Feb. 21.  The currency was trading 0.3 percent higher two minutes
before the close on April 26, before ending the session 0.2
percent stronger that the previous day. The central bank has
sold the local dollar in the run-up to the close on most days in
the past year, according to traders who asked not to be
identified.  Yen Rebound  A rebound in the yen is also supporting the local dollar’s
advance, Tong said. The Japanese currency has strengthened 2.5
percent to 97.5 versus the greenback since reaching a four-year
low of 99.95 on April 11. Manufacturers in Taiwan and  Japan 
compete in the global market for electronics.  One-month non-deliverable forwards for the Taiwan dollar
were little changed today at NT$29.522 per  U.S. dollar , after a
0.8 percent advance last week that marked the biggest gain since
November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 3.43 percent.  The yield on the 0.875 percent bonds due January 2018 fell
one basis point to 0.895 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market prices. It reached 0.891 percent earlier, the lowest
level since Jan. 25.  Taiwan’s gross domestic product rose 3.1 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, slowing from a 3.72 percent
gain in the previous three months, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before a report
tomorrow.  “Yields are approaching the lowest levels this year as
investors are worried about growth prospects in Taiwan and
beyond,” said Sam Chang, a fixed-income trader at Yuanta
Securities Co. in Taipei. “The next psychological level would
be the 2013 low of 0.88 percent, but it’s worth noting that
there’s considerable noise of profit-taking in the market.”  The  overnight interbank lending  rate was steady at 0.388
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  