-- Alibaba Buys 18% Stake in China’s Twitter-Like Weibo
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-04-29T21:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/alibaba-takes-18-stake-in-china-s-weibo-com.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. agreed
to buy a stake of about 18 percent in  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Weibo for
$586 million, connecting  China ’s largest Twitter-like service
with the nation’s biggest e-commerce company.  Alibaba, the Hangzhou-based company founded by billionaire
Jack Ma, acquired preferred and ordinary shares and has the
option to increase its stake to 30 percent at “a mutually
agreed valuation,” according to a statement yesterday. The
companies said they will also work on user-account connectivity,
data exchange, and online payment and marketing.  Sina, based in  Shanghai , has boosted development spending
for Weibo, which has more than 500 million users, as clients
increasingly post from mobile devices rather than computers.
Alibaba, operator of the Taobao and Tmall online marketplaces,
is expanding into mobile devices and cloud computing to take
advantage of the increasing number of shoppers who order from
smartphones and tablets.  “Sina Weibo’s media platform nature and social
characteristics, and Alibaba’s various e-commerce platforms,
will help Sina Weibo to form a business model that is way beyond
Weibo’s current large advertisement-oriented business model,”
Juan Lin, an analyst at Wedge Partners Corp., wrote in a report.  Alibaba’sMa said last month that the company may use
acquisitions to boost growth through apps because it hasn’t been
able to keep up with  Tencent (700)  Holding Ltd.’s WeChat messaging
service. WeChat had more than 300 million users by January. Ma
is focusing on strategy after Alibaba named Jonathan Lu to
replace him in May as chief executive officer, amid speculation
the company is preparing for an initial public offering.  Sina Jumps  Shares of Sina, an Internet company, advanced 9.4 percent
to $55.03 at the close in New York yesterday, for its biggest
gain since Aug. 16.  In a note to clients yesterday,  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC) , which
has an overweight or buy rating on Sina, increased its price
target for the stock to $75 from $65 and boosted revenue and
earnings per share estimates, citing the deal.  The companies said they will work on new business models
for social commerce based on the “hundreds of millions” of
users on Weibo and on Alibaba’s e-commerce offerings. The
agreement is expected to generate about $380 million in ad and
social-commerce revenue for Weibo over the next three years,
according to the statement.  “E-commerce will play a vital role in building an eco-
system around Weibo’s open platform,” Charles Chao, chief
executive officer of Sina, said in the statement. “Weibo and
Alibaba’s e-commerce platforms are natural partners.”  Mobile Phones  Alibaba said earlier this month that it’s working with five
Chinese handset makers to use its operating system as the
nation’s biggest e-commerce company competes with  Google (GOOG)  Inc.
and Tencent for mobile device users.  A Chinese government research institute said in March that
the nation’s smartphone makers are “heavily dependent” on
Google’s Android software and that is hampering the development
of the domestic industry.  The number of registered users on Sina’s Weibo rose 73
percent last year to 503 million, according to the company. The
average number of daily users was 46.2 million in December, 82
percent more than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  