-- ANZ Bank Climbs Most in Four Years on Dividend Rise, Profit Gain
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-04-30T07:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/anz-bank-first-half-cash-profit-rises-10-as-expenses-decline.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  climbed the most in four years to a record in Sydney
trading after posting a 10 percent increase in first-half cash
profit and raising dividends.  Shares of Australia’s third-largest lender by market value
rose 5.8 percent to an unprecedented A$31.84 in Sydney. Cash
earnings, which exclude one-time items, jumped to A$3.18 billion
($3.29 billion) in the six months ended March as costs dropped.
The bank boosted its interim dividend to 73 Australian cents a
share and said the near-term payout ratio will probably be at
the upper end of its 65 percent to 70 percent target.  “The highlight was the dividend and the bank’s intention
to progressively increase the payout ratio,” David Ellis, a
Sydney-based analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said by phone. “We
see tight cost management continuing, which along with moderate
revenue growth will yield higher profits and higher dividends.”  Chief Executive Officer Michael Smith, who cut more than
2,000 jobs in the year ended March 31 to pare costs amid weak
credit demand, is betting its Asian business will bolster
returns on equity. ANZ Bank, the most Asia-focused of
Australia’s four largest banks, said today it’s making “good
progress” toward a target to get as much as 30 percent of its
profit from the region by 2017.  Shares of the Melbourne-based lender have climbed 27
percent this year, outpacing a 12 percent gain in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index, which rose 1.3 percent today.  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC) ,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , and  Commonwealth Bank
Australia (CBA)  all gained more than 2 percent.  Expense Controls  Cash profit for the period beat the A$3.13 billion median
estimate of 10 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Net income 
rose 1 percent to A$2.94 billion, according to a stock exchange
filing. Cash operating expenses fell 8 percent from the previous
half and 2 percent from a year earlier, while the lender’s cost
to income ratio was 44.4 percent, the bank said in its filing.
Operating income grew 4 percent.  “We are getting productivity improvements, in terms of
being able to cope with higher volume of business at lower
cost,” Smith said in a statement released in  Melbourne . “I am
genuinely positive about the near and medium term.”  ANZ Bank’s Australian unit saw a 9 percent increase in cash
profit from a year earlier. Earnings from the Asia-Pacific,
Europe and America unit rose 3 percent.  Fewer Employees  Its employee count fell to 47,419 from 49,509 a year
earlier, the lender said. Australian banks are focusing on cost
cuts to maintain profits as  demand  for mortgages remains close
to the lowest on record.  Charges for bad debts increased to A$599 million from A$570
million a year ago and the lender said stress in some parts of
the economy warrants a “cautious outlook.” The central bank in
February reduced its 2013 growth forecast to about 2.5 percent
as mining investment peaks.  Cash net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, dropped 10 basis points to 2.25 percent. Deposits
swelled 12 percent from a year earlier, outpacing lending
growth, and customer deposits now make up 61 percent of ANZ
Bank’s total funding base, it said.  The lender sold A$12.4 billion of  bonds  and expects to
raise as much as A$25 billion in the year through Sept. 30.
Borrowing costs for financial firms in global debt markets have
tumbled to the lowest in more than five years, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  ANZ Bank’s Tier 1  capital , a measure of its ability to
absorb future losses under the local regulator’s Basel III
guidelines, was 8.2 percent.  Return on equity  expanded 80 basis
points from the previous half to 15.5 percent, helped by
earnings growth and a focus on capital efficiency, it said.  The lender is the first of the country’s so-called four
pillar banks to announce  earnings . Westpac is scheduled to
report first-half results on May 3, followed by National
 Australia  on May 9. Commonwealth Bank, the nation’s largest
lender, reports third-quarter earnings on May 15.  “ANZ’s results show there is no major threat to full-year
earnings of any of the major Australian banks,” Morningstar’s
Ellis said. “2013 looks strong with dividends set to rise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  