-- Apple Business Risk ’Inconsistent’ With AA Rating, Fitch Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-04-29T15:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/apple-business-risk-inconsistent-with-aa-rating-fitch-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s credit risk is
“inconsistent” with the double-A rating category awarded to
the iPhone maker by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s , according to  Fitch Ratings .  While Fitch hasn’t released a public  grade  for Apple,
“inherent business risk that overshadows a significant
liquidity cushion” means such a ranking would likely fall “at
the highest end” of the single-A tier, Fitch analysts led by
James Rizzo wrote today in a report. That’s at least three
levels lower than the Aa1 rating from Moody’s and equivalent AA+
grade from S&P.  Apple, which is preparing to sell debt to help finance a
$100 billion capital reward for shareholders, had $145 billion
of cash on March 30, more than the combined funds of every
triple-A rated U.S. company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That  balance sheet  strength is eclipsed by the risk
from volatile consumer preferences, significant competition and
rapid technology changes, Fitch said.  “Consumer product companies such as Sony, Nokia, and
Motorola Mobility have proven the risks related to ever-changing
consumer tastes, low switching costs, and a highly competitive
environment,” Fitch analysts wrote in the report. “Each has
historically had a dominant market position and strong financial
metrics, only to falter over a relatively short period of
time.”  Concern that Apple’s pace of sales growth is slowing was
reinforced last week by a forecast that revenue this quarter may
miss analysts’ predictions by as much as $4.9 billion. Apple had
its first profit decline in a decade last quarter amid
accelerating competition in mobile devices from Samsung
Electronics Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  