-- Apple, Bayer, United, Purdue: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-29T10:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/apple-bayer-united-purdue-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the largest U.S. maker
of smartphones, won a court ruling that it doesn’t infringe
patent claims brought by  intellectual property  licensing firm
 Golden Bridge Technology Inc.   U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
also canceled a  jury trial  that was scheduled to begin today
over two patents for 3-G network communications held by Long
Branch, New Jersey-based Golden Bridge.  “The record evidence remains consistent with the finding
of non-infringement,” Robinson wrote in an order April 25
affirming earlier decisions on the patent descriptions.  Golden Bridge sued Apple in 2010 over patents for boosting
connections in mobile networks.  “We respect the judge greatly, but justice wasn’t done and
of course, we will appeal,” Michael P. Kelly, a lawyer
representing Golden Bridge, said in a phone interview.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on
the ruling.  The case is Golden Bridge Technology Inc. v. AT&T Inc.,
10-00428, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Bayer Wins Bid to Block Norbrook’s Sale of Generic Baytril  Bayer AG (BAYN)  won an agreement from the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  to block sales of a generic version of its
livestock antibiotic Baytril 100 made by Norbrook Laboratories
Ltd.  The FDA on April 19 agreed to withhold its approval of
Norbrook’s Enroflox 100 product to treat bovine respiratory
disease. The decision came two days after a federal judge in
 Washington  ruled that the agency offered no evidence it gave any
consideration to Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer’s concerns the
generic would be used for a so-called off-label dosage.  “FDA itself acknowledges that its action has not been
regular; it failed to respond to the citizen petition for years
and failed to provide a reasoned basis for rejecting it before
approving Enroflox,” U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer said
in an opinion made public Friday.  The FDA approved Norbrook’s application for Enroflox on
March 29. Norbrook, based in the U.K., sought FDA approval in
2008 to market a generic version of Baytril 100 that would be
labeled as a multiday dosing regimen.  Bayer sued the FDA on April 10, alleging it told the agency
in 2006 that the generic version of its product will be used in
a single dose.  Jalil Isa, an FDA spokesman, declined to comment on the
matter. A woman who answered the phone at Norbrook’s U.S. office
in Lenexa,  Kansas , and wouldn’t identify herself, said the
company would have no comment on the case.  The case is Bayer Healthcare LLC v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 13-cv-00487, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  United, Live Nation Win Appeal Over Seat Reservation Patents  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  Live Nation Entertainment
Inc. (LYV)  and other airline and ticketing agencies won a U.S. appeals
court victory that invalidated patents by a company that
demanded royalties on a method to reserve specific seats for
events.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
Washington, ruling Friday, upheld a jury verdict that the
patents owned by closely held Ceats Inc. are invalid. The
opinion was posted on the court’s website.  The case is Continental Airlines Inc. v. Airtran Airways
Inc., 2012-1614, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The lower court case is Ceats Inc. v. Continental Airlines Inc.,
10cv120, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  Purdue Pharma Settles OxyContin Patent Suit Against Actavis  Purdue Pharma LP settled a patent-infringement lawsuit
against  Actavis (ACT)  Inc. over the pain medication OxyContin.  Purdue will grant Actavis a license to sell “defined
quantities” of a generic version of the drug as early as next
year, the companies said Friday in a statement. Actavis, based
in Morristown,  New Jersey , will acknowledge that its
formulations infringed the Purdue patents, according to the
statement.  The agreement “will promote competition and allow for
availability of generic formulations of reformulated
OxyContin,”  John Stewart , chief executive officer of Purdue,
said in the statement. “This resolution relieves us of the
risks, distractions and costs of continued litigation.”  Purdue initially sued Actavis and other drug companies in
2010 for violations of three patents. Actavis had submitted a
new drug application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
seeking approval to make tablets of oxycodone hydrochloride, the
active chemical in OxyContin, before the patents expired.  The FDA said this month that generic drug companies will be
barred from making older versions of OxyContin that aren’t
resistant to tampering.  Purdue, based in  Stamford , Connecticut, replaced an older
version of OxyContin with a tamper-resistant formulation. The
drug, obtained illegally on the black market, has been abused by
addicts.  The original case is Purdue Pharma LP v. Ranbaxy Inc.,
10-3734, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Oregon Tells Iowa High School Its ‘O’ Logo Infringes Trademark  The University of Oregon has demanded that an Iowa high
school change its logo because it too closely resembles the
green and yellow “O”  logo  used by the Eugene, Oregon-based
school, the Los Angeles Times  reported .  Matt Dyste, the university’s director of brand management,
told the newspaper it needed to protect the logo, which was
designed by Nike Inc., based in Beaverton, Oregon.  Iowa’s  Okoboji High School  has asked the university for
some time to come up with a new logo, the Times reported.  The university will be patient with the high school, Dyste
said, and the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  China’s State Radio Delivers Music-Use Report to Copyright Group  China National Radio , the country’s state radio station,
delivered a report about its use of music in 2012 to the  Music
Copyright Society of China , the China.org news website  reported .  The report lists all music played in more than 7,000 hours
of programming, the compositions’ lyricists and composers, and
the times and frequency the music is used, according to
China.org.  This is the first time such a report has been issued, the
website reported.  An official with the National Copyright Administration said
making an exact count of their use of music is a difficult task
for  radio stations .  Fox Demands Takedown of Links to Book Unrelated to ‘Homeland’  Although  Cory Doctorow ’s “Homeland” novel has no
connection to the  television series  by the same name,  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox Film unit has sent  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 takedown notices  for links to the book, the TorrentFreak anti-
copyright news website  reported .  Ironically, the novel is covered by a Creative Commons
license that makes it available for sharing for free online,
according to TorrentFreak.  Doctorow told TorrentFreak he was “incandescent” with
rage at Fox.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 