-- Hartford Posts Loss as CEO McGee Hedges Annuities
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-04-29T21:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/hartford-posts-loss-as-ceo-mcgee-hedges-annuities.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  posted a first-quarter loss as the insurer recorded costs
to pay down debt and guard against losses on savings products
known as variable annuities.  The  loss  was $241 million, or 58 cents a share, compared
with a profit of $96 million, or 18 cents, a year earlier,
according to a statement today from Hartford, which is based in
the Connecticut city of the same name. Core earnings, which
exclude some investment results, were 92 cents a share, beating
the 82 cent  average estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee is focusing on property-
casualty coverage, after divesting a life insurance unit and
ending variable-annuity sales. The firm said this month it
recorded charges to guard against fluctuations in stocks and the
yen on variable annuities it sold to Japanese savers. Hartford
is paying some U.S. customers to give up the contracts as low
 interest rates  and equity volatility weigh on results.  “Getting rid of very large and complicated run-offs takes
a long time, there’s no easy answers to that,”  Randy Binner , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said by phone before results
were announced. McGee “is doing everything he can to make
Hartford a more basic protection insurance company.”  Unit Sales  Hartford fell 15 cents to $27.06 in extended trading at
4:55 p.m. in New York. The shares have  advanced  31 percent in
the past 12 months as McGee sold units to focus Hartford on
coverage for homes, cars and businesses.  Sales of Hartford’s individual life, retirement, annuities-
distribution and broker-dealer businesses have freed up more
than $2 billion of capital. Hartford said in February it would
reduce debt by about $1 billion and repurchase as much as $500
million in stock by the end of 2014.  Expenses tied to repaying debt were about $138 million, and
costs related to Japan annuity hedging were more than $500
million, Hartford said. The charges aren’t included in operating
earnings, Hartford said this month.  Hartford paid out 93.6 cents on claims and expenses for
every premium dollar it took in at the property-casualty unit
during the period, compared with 95.6 cents a year earlier. The
insurer benefited from lower costs tied to natural disasters,
after claims from Superstorm Sandy fueled a loss in the fourth
quarter. Catastrophes cost Hartford $21 million in the first
three months of this year, compared with $46 million a year
earlier.  Policy Sales  Core earnings at the property-casualty unit rose 12 percent
to $318 million as the company recorded a gain after determining
it had more funds set aside than necessary for coverage sold in
prior years. Policy sales fell about 2.5 percent in the
commercial segment to $1.65 billion, while they rose 2 percent
to $878 million in the consumer markets business, which provides
auto and homeowners coverage to individuals.  Hartford placed its annuities and other run-off businesses
into the Talcott Resolution unit, run by Beth Bombara. Core
profit at Talcott was $161 million, compared with $219 million a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  