-- Harvard Receives $50 Million to Develop Treatments From Science
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-04-29T14:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/harvard-receives-50-million-to-develop-treatments-from-science.html
Harvard University , the oldest and
richest U.S. college, received a $50 million donation from the
Blavatnik Family Foundation to support development of treatments
from basic science discoveries.  The gift will establish a program at Harvard, called the
Blavatnik Biomedical Accelerator, to identify promising
technologies and license them to companies, Harvard, based in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said today in a  statement . It will
also fund a fellowship at  Harvard Business School  to give
students experience in life sciences, the university said.  Universities have increasingly been seen as a source of
marketable ideas and products, particularly for potential drugs
and treatments, and schools are reaping financial benefits.
Harvard received $11.5 million in licensing revenue in fiscal
2012, according to its  Office of Technology Development .  “Some of the most important therapies and technologies in
existence today originated from alliances between academia and
the life sciences industry, and we look forward to many more in
the years ahead,” said Isaac Kohlberg, Harvard’s senior
associate provost and chief technology development officer, in
the statement.  Harvard, established in 1636, has an endowment that was
valued at $30.7 billion at the end of June, according to the
school. Len Blavatnik, head of the foundation, is chairman and
founder of closely held Access Industries Holdings Inc. and owns
14 percent of LyondellBasell Industries NV, the world’s largest
producer of polypropylene. He ranks 53rd on the Bloomberg
Billionaires list with a net worth of $15.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  