-- Asian Officials Must Respond Early to Overheating Risk, IMF Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-29T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/asian-officials-must-respond-early-to-overheating-risk-imf-says.html
Asian policy makers must be ready
to respond “early and decisively” to overheating risks in
their economies stemming from rapid credit growth and rising
asset prices, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Growth is set to pick up gradually during the year and
inflation is expected to stay within central banks’ comfort
zones, the Washington-based lender said in a report today.
Greater exchange-rate flexibility in the region would play a
“useful role” in curbing overheating pressures and coping with
speculative capital inflows.  Asian economic growth that the IMF estimates will be almost
five times faster than advanced nations this year, and
increasing investor appetite for risk have spurred capital
inflows into the region. The  Bank of Japan  this month joined
counterparts in the U.S. and  Europe  in unleashing monetary
stimulus, which may fuel further currency gains in developing
markets such as the  Philippines , where policy makers have
stepped up efforts to cool appreciation.  “Financial imbalances and rising asset prices, fueled by
strong credit growth and easy financing conditions, are building
in several Asian economies,” the IMF said. “Policy makers in
the region face a delicate balancing act in the near term:
guarding against the potential buildup of financial imbalances
while delivering appropriate support for growth.”  The IMF’s Regional Economic Outlook for Asia and Pacific
echoes concerns in an April 15 World Bank report that emerging
economies in the region should consider reining in monetary
stimulus.  Japan  needs to have a credible strategy to lower debt,
while  China ’s challenge is to unwind past credit stimulus and
curb the growth of shadow banking, the lender said today.  Domestic Demand  Asia will lead a three-speed global recovery, with domestic
demand supported by “strong” labor market conditions,
“robust”  consumer confidence  and household disposable income,
falling unemployment rates and rising real wages, the IMF said.
Economies may also benefit from China’s growth momentum and
Japan’s stimulus measures, it said.  China’s economy  will expand 8 percent this year and 8.2
percent next year, while India’s gross domestic product will
rise 5.7 percent in 2013 and 6.2 percent in 2014, the IMF said.  Still, the threat of external risks such as the euro-area
crisis remains substantial, and while capital inflows can
provide an impetus, they can also be disruptive, the IMF said.  “In the event of a severe global slowdown, capital flow
reversals and falling external demand would exert a powerful
drag on  Asia ’s most open economies,” including lower investment
and employment in export-dependent sectors and possibly lower
remittances by overseas labor, it said.  Debt Overhang  Risks within the region include disruption to trade from
natural disasters or geopolitical tensions, it said. An economic
slowdown in China led by sharply lower investment, and a rise in
sovereign risk in Japan in the absence of a credible medium-term
fiscal and growth strategy also pose threats.  China, Asia’s biggest economy, faces a debt overhang from
previous credit-led stimulus, according to the IMF. It remains
vulnerable to a renewed  growth slowdown  that could be triggered
by financial stress or uneven progress in reforms, it said.  In  India , monetary policy can best support growth by
putting inflation on a clear downward trend, the IMF said. In
 Indonesia , where price gains are close to the upper end of a
target band and the current account deficit is widening, there
may be a case for higher  policy rates , it said.  Some nations must address fiscal deficits, especially where
the gap is larger than before the financial crisis, the IMF
said. At the same time, most Asian governments also need to
increase public spending on education and health, while food and
energy subsidies in countries such as China, Indonesia and
 Malaysia , should be eliminated and replaced by programs such as
cash transfers, it said.  “To sustain high rates of per capita income growth, the
policy agenda will have to vary across a range of priorities,
including economic rebalancing, strengthening infrastructure
investment, reforms in goods and labor markets, and meeting the
challenges from rapid demographic change,” the IMF said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  