-- Aston Villa Routs Sunderland 6-1 to Ease Relegation Concerns
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-04-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/aston-villa-routs-sunderland-6-1-to-ease-relegation-concerns.html
Christian Benteke scored three
goals in the second half as  Aston Villa  thrashed Sunderland 6-1
to move five points clear of Wigan, which occupies the last
relegation place in English soccer’s Premier League.  Villa also moved above Newcastle into 16th place in the
standings with 37 points from 35 of 38 games. Newcastle and
Sunderland also have 37 points.  Wigan, which has played 34 games and hosts Villa on May 19,
the final day of the season, is in 18th place with 32 points.
Reading and Queens Park Rangers were demoted two days ago.  “That was a massive performance and a big win for us,”
Villa coach  Paul Lambert  told  Sky Sports  in a televised
interview. “It’s great credit to the players and staff.”  Villa opened the scoring after 31 minutes at  Villa Park  in
Birmingham on a low shot into the corner of the net from about
30 yards (27 meters) by Ron Vlaar, the Dutch defender’s first
goal for the club.  Sunderland tied it within a minute as Danny Rose collected
 Danny Graham ’s pass before sliding the ball past Villa
goalkeeper Brad Guzan.  Villa took the lead for good six minutes later as Andreas
Weimann directed Matthew Lowton’s lofted pass into the corner of
the net past onrushing Sunderland goalkeeper Simon Mignolet.  After 55 minutes, Mignolet parried  Gabriel Agbonlahor ’s
deflected shot into the path of Benteke, who stooped to head the
ball into an empty net and make it 3-1.  Benteke outjumped two Sunderland defenders at a corner kick
four minutes later to direct a header down and into the net.  Red Card  Sunderland’s chances of recovery ended in the 70th minute
when a mistimed tackle by Stephane Sessegnon resulted in a
straight red card, which could rule the striker out of the final
three games of the season.  Within two minutes, Benteke had his third goal, as he beat
Mignolet at the goalkeeper’s near post with a left-footed shot
from close to the goal line. It was the Belgian’s 18th league
goal of the campaign, a single-season record for Villa, and his
22nd in all competitions.  Two minutes before fulltime, Agbonlahor rounded Mignolet
and side-footed the ball into an empty net to eclipse the mark
of Dwight Yorke with his club-record 61st Premier League goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 