-- AT&T to Ryder Driven to Natural Gas Vehicles as Oil Soars
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-04-30T19:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/at-t-to-ryder-driven-toward-natural-gas-vehicles-as-oil-soars.html
For  AT&T Inc. (T) , the decision to
introduce natural gas vehicles to the company’s fleet in 2008
proved well-timed, as the  price gap  between gas and diesel
soared to an all-time high that summer.  The largest U.S. phone carrier began discussing a move away
from higher-priced gasoline and diesel cars and vans the year
before hurricanes Ike and Gustav disrupted energy output from
the Gulf of Mexico. Now AT&T has 5,200 natural gas vans on the
road, or about 7 percent of its fleet, as part of a plan to
spend $350 million to replace about 8,000 gasoline-powered
service vehicles over five years.  Fleet-owners from Ryder System Inc. to United Parcel
Service Inc. are also switching as natural gas proves cheaper
and cleaner. Gas prices have plunged 68 percent from a 2008
high, and are now at a 95 cent-a-gallon discount to diesel as
advances in drilling technology have triggered a boom in
production of the fuel from shale formations. Natural gas emits
about 27 percent less carbon dioxide than diesel, Energy
Information Administration data show.  “The economics are in favor of natural gas,” billionaire
T. Boone Pickens said in a Dec. 19 phone interview. “During the
oil crisis in the 1970s, it took only about five or six years
for the U.S. truck fleet to switch from gasoline to diesel. It’s
going to happen that way for natural gas.”  More Vehicles  Pickens’s  Clean Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE)  has 400 stations, up
from 80 in 2003. Demand for natural gas from vehicles has
doubled since 2005, according to NGVAmerica, an industry group
in  Washington . There were 121,650 gas vehicles on the road in
2011, up from 117,074 in 2008, less than 1 percent of total
registered vehicles, data from the EIA and the Bureau of
Transportation Statistics show.  About 23,000 natural gas vehicles may be sold in the U.S.
in 2013, according to David Hurst, an analyst at Navigant
Research in Troy,  Michigan . That’s a 19 percent increase over
the 2011 total, the most recent year for which data is available
from the EIA, the U.S. Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Compressed natural gas averaged $2.94 a diesel-gallon
equivalent at U.S. fueling stations in the week of April 22,
according to Clean Energy Fuels. Diesel was $3.89 a gallon. The
price gap has more than doubled from 45 cents a gallon in
September 2005. Natural gas futures reached a record $15.78 per
million Btu on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange that year after
hurricanes Katrina and Rita curtailed supplies from the Gulf of
Mexico.  Fuel Savings  Gas consumption in the transportation industry was about
400 million gallons of gasoline equivalent last year, double the
200 million in 2005, NGVAmerica data show. Gasoline demand was
134 billion gallons, according to the EIA.  Fleet owners might save $25,000 a year on fuel costs,
according to David Pursell, a managing director at adviser
Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. in Houston. It would take more than
two years to offset the higher initial cost of the vehicle. A
fleet owner paying $65,000 more for a long-haul truck engine
fueled by liquefied natural gas may see a 22 percent rate of
return over the life of the vehicle, Pursell said.  Widespread adoption of so-called NGVs would increase U.S.
gas consumption. If 10 percent of U.S. vehicles used the fuel
instead of gasoline or diesel, natural gas use would climb by 6
billion cubic feet a day, or 8.5 percent of current demand,
according to Tudor, Pickering.  “That is huge,” Pursell said. “I think it’s going to
happen, but the big question is the timing.”  ‘Compelling Economics’  Growing use of natural gas vehicles may cut global gasoline
and diesel demand by 1.5 million to 4.5 million barrels a day,
Martijn Rats, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a
note to clients dated April 16.  U.S.-marketed gas  output  may climb 0.3 percent this year to
an all-time high of 69.3 billion cubic feet a day amid rising
shale supplies, Energy Department data show. Production grew 34
percent from 2005 to 2012. The drilling boom allowed America to
meet 84 percent of its energy needs last year, the highest level
of self-sufficiency since 1991.  Crude and heating oil on the Nymex have more than doubled
from crude’s 2008 low amid a U.S. economic recovery, rising
demand from  China  and concern that Mideast violence may curtail
supplies. Heating oil prices are used as a proxy for diesel.  “With compelling economics for many vehicle owners and a
large number of industry initiatives in place to stimulate
takeup of natural gas, we foresee further growth in the global
NGV fleet, despite some of the obstacles,” Rats said.  Stations Needed  The relatively small number of compressed natural gas
filling stations is an obstacle to NGV expansion. There are
about 1,200 in the U.S., about half of which are in five states,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in a
March 6 keynote speech at IHS CeraWeek in Houston. That compares
with 160,000 retail gasoline stations, about 70,000 of which
sell diesel, according to the  Petroleum Marketers Association of
America , an industry group in Arlington, Virginia.  About 53,000 natural gas fueling stations at a cost of $58
billion are needed in the U.S. to reach the “tipping point”
for large-scale NGV adoption, Rats said in the April 16 report.
Passenger vehicles can be fueled by compressed natural gas
stored in high-pressure cylinders, while trucks use higher-
density liquid gas pumped into thermal tanks. It could cost as
much as $60 billion to build the needed LNG plants, Rats said.  Clean Energy  Pickens’s Clean Energy Fuels is working to “fill in the
network,” said Andrew Littlefair, the president and CEO of the
Seal Beach, California-based company.  Clean Energy and Pilot Travel Centers LLC, the country’s
largest truck stop operator, built 70 natural gas filling
stations in 2012 on highways between major metropolitan areas,
including Los Angeles to Atlanta and the so-called  Texas 
Triangle linking Houston,  Dallas  and San Antonio. The company
plans to add about the same number of stations this year.  “You can see that there’s a lot of talk about LNG for
trucks,”  Loews Corp. (L)  Chief Executive Officer Jim Tisch said on
a company earnings call yesterday. “I’m a believer that we’re
going to see significant increases in demand for our natural
gas.”  Loews holds a 55 percent stake in Boardwalk Pipeline
Partners LP, an owner and operator of pipelines and storage
caverns for natural gas and associated liquids.  Obama’s Proposal  President  Barack Obama , in his  State of the Union  address
Feb. 12, proposed using oil and gas revenues to fund an Energy
Security Trust that will bolster research and technology to
shift cars and trucks away from petroleum products.  Ryder, the largest publicly traded truck-leasing company,
began a natural gas truck program in 2011. The company has 300
of the vehicles serving customers in California,  Arizona  and
Michigan.  Ryder (R)  signed an agreement in March to lease 23
compressed natural gas tractors to Eagle Distributing of
Shreveport Inc., an Anheuser-Busch distributor in  Louisiana .
Ryder also has plans to expand the NGV program in Texas.  Ryder received $19 million in grants for the California
initiative from the state’s energy commission and the Department
of Energy, Scott Perry, the company’s vice president of supply
management in Miami, said in an interview. Ryder met the
remaining $19.4 million cost of buying the trucks, upgrading
maintenance equipment and building fueling stations.  UPS Plan  UPS, (UPS)  the world’s largest package-delivery company, said
April 23 that it plans to buy about 700 liquefied natural gas
vehicles and build four refueling stations in Tennessee and
Texas by the end of 2014. UPS already has more than 1,000 NGVs
on the road worldwide.  AT&T plans to introduce 15,000 alternative-fuel vehicles,
including NGVs and hybrid electric cars and vans, to its fleet
through 2018. The initiative would save 49 million gallons of
gasoline over the 10-year deployment period, according to a 2009
report from the Center for Automotive Research, an Ann Arbor,
Michigan-based nonprofit.  “It seemed like there was going to be some kind of fuel-
price Armageddon,” Jerome Webber, vice president for AT&T
global fleet operations, said in a Jan. 31 phone interview from
Dallas. “That certainly validated what we were doing and helped
move the natural gas initiative forward. We wanted to position
ourselves to make sure we weren’t as dependent on imported fuel
in the future.”  Cummins Westport  Engine makers including Cummins Westport Inc., a joint
venture of  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  and  Westport Innovations Inc. (WPRT) , are
expanding their natural gas offerings to meet increased demand.
The company is developing a 6.7-liter natural gas engine,
scheduled to be in production by 2015, that can be used in
school buses, sanitation trucks and other medium-duty vehicles.  Cummins Westport introduced a 12-liter natural gas engine
earlier this year for heavy-duty vehicles. The company also
offers a 9-liter natural gas engine.  “We’re seeing a huge investment in the natural gas vehicle
industry and the economics are the critical driver,” said
Westport Chief Executive Officer David Demers, who is based in
 Vancouver . Widespread adoption of gas trucks will reduce
American reliance on foreign oil, he said.  NGVAmerica, the Washington-based lobbying group for natural
gas vehicles, has enjoyed increased visibility as gas prices
have tumbled, said Rich Kolodziej, the organization’s president,
in a phone interview.  “When we started in 1988, we were pushing a boulder up a
hill,” Kolodziej said. “Now the boulder’s on the other side of
the hill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  