-- Tata Eyes Coal Assets Freed By Global Fracking Boom
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-04-30T13:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/tata-eyes-coal-assets-freed-by-global-fracking-boom.html
Tata Power Co. (TPWR) , India’s second-
largest generator, is seeking coal assets in the U.S., Canada
and Colombia as prices of the fuel drop amid surging shale gas
supplies in North America.  Initial purchase talks are on for several mines, Managing
Director Anil Sardana said in an interview, declining to
identify the assets. Acquisition prospects in South Africa,
where Tata Power has scouted for more than a year, have dimmed
because of infrastructure concerns, he said.  “We just want cheap coal and there are several assets that
are languishing after the shale gas boom in North America,”
Sardana said. “A lot of assets got abandoned because of the
boom as existing buyers moved on to shale gas.”  Cheap coal may help Tata Power, led by Cyrus Mistry, to
turn its biggest power plant profitable after a purchase of
mines in  Indonesia  turned sour as the Southeast Asian nation
pegged its coal to global benchmark prices. U.S. power
generators have turned to gas extracted from shale rocks as
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has made the country the
world’s biggest producer of the less polluting fuel, while
freeing up coal reserves.  Lack of railroad facilities and inadequate port handling
capacities that can transport coal from the mines to the nearest
shore are veering Tata Power away from assets in South Africa,
Sardana said. The acquisition costs for such mines increase
because miners have to spend time and money to build the
infrastructure, he said.  Tata Power fell 0.6 percent to 94.70 rupees at the close in
Mumbai. The shares have dropped 14 percent this year, compared
with a 0.4 percent gain in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  Coal Shortage  A shortage of local coal supplies and Indonesia’s move have
driven up costs for Indian utilities including  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) 
and Tata Power, which have little choice but to bring in
Indonesian supplies because buying coal from other nations would
boost shipping charges.  Trouble for Tata Power began when Indonesian prices
increased following the change in regulation. Tata Power, which
owns stakes in PT Kaltim Prima Coal and PT Arutmin Indonesia,
both controlled by PT Bumi Resources, and a 26 percent stake in
PT Baramulti Suksessarana, had won the contract to build a
4,000-megawatt plant at Mundra in Gujarat state in December 2006
after bidding the lowest tariff of 2.26367 rupees a kilowatt-
hour.  The coal from Indonesia, which was $42.13 a ton at the time,
has since jumped 79 percent.  Mundra Tariff  Tata Power needs 0.54 rupees more per kilowatt hour for
electricity from Mundra to erase losses, Sardana told Bloomberg
TV India in an interview April 15. The company said in an e-mail
that it has written off 26.5 billion rupees ($489 million) on
its Mundra unit.  The unit may suffer a loss of  475 billion rupees  over 25
years, considered the lifetime of a plant, should the current
tariff be maintained, Tata has told the industry regulator,
which has recommended the producer must be compensated for the
increase in coal costs.  Tata Power reported its  first annual loss  of 10.88 billion
rupees for the year ended March 2012, dragged down by Mundra and
currency fluctuations.  It’s unlikely the Indian states buying power from Mundra
will accept the regulator’s order, said Sachin Mehta, an analyst
at Mumbai-based IFCI Financial Services Ltd. who maintains a
sell rating on the stock. Five Indian states that have
contracted to buy 3,800 megawatts of electricity from the Tata
Power plant have resisted tweaking the contract norms.  Hedging Mundra  “Tata Power is not very bullish on  India  and is seeking to
grow through overseas operations,” Mehta said. “Yet, raising
funds for an acquisition or a new project will not be easy,
considering the losses it is suffering at Mundra.”  The utility is planning to add 1,600 megawatts of capacity
to its Mundra plant and has signed a preliminary agreement with
the Gujarat government for the $1.25 billion expansion, Sardana
said. Tata Power has sought environmental clearance and may take
about four years to build the additional capacity, he said.  The company will use borrowings to fund 70 percent of the
investment, with equity financing the rest, Sardana said.
Electricity from the new capacity will not be bound by
regulatory tariff and could be sold in the open market,
countering losses arising from fixed tariff contracts signed
with state governments, he said.  Shale Boom  The boom in fracking, which shatters shale rocks using
pressurized water to pump out gas and oil, in the U.S. and
 Canada  has absorbed bulk of the energy demand, freeing up large
quantities of coal reserves. The assets can help Tata Power
revive the unprofitable Mundra power plant and aid Asia’s third-
largest economy prevent outages such as the world’s worst
blackout that left 640 million people without electricity last
year.  “The current price points of shale gas have fundamentally
changed the cost economics in the U.S.,” said Arvind Mahajan,
partner and head of energy, infrastructure and government
practices at KPMG LLP. “There’s a clear shift in feedstock
preference towards gas whose supply has increased in a step
function. This is rendering a lot of coal reserves surplus and
ready for exports.”  Albatross  KPMG is working on feasibility studies for several
companies on transporting coal cheaply from these countries and
exploring options such as swap agreements, Mahajan said, without
disclosing if Tata Power is a client.  Global coal demand has grown at a compounded annual rate of
4.8 percent since 2003, seven times the pace between 1990 and
2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Much of the rapid
pickup has been driven by emerging market demand, principally
China and India, which together have accounted for almost 95
percent of the growth in the past decade.  Growth for Tata Power would depend on how challenges around
its Mundra project are overcome, which Chairman Mistry “fully
understands,” Sardana said. The Mundra unit “is the albatross
around the neck.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  