-- Tata to Invest $5 Mln in Israel University Technology Fund
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-04-29T14:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/tata-to-invest-5-million-in-israel-university-technology-fund.html
Tata Industries Ltd. signed an
agreement with Tel Aviv University to invest $5 million in a
fund as the Mumbai-based company’s new chairman seeks to boost
investment in innovation and technology.  Tata Industries is part of the $100 billion  Tata Group ,
which spent more than $2 billion, or about 2 percent of group
revenue, on research and development in 2012-2013, spokesman
Mukund Rajan said April 26. Spending will probably increase,
given Chairman Cyrus Mistry’s focus, he said.  “This is our first major investment in Israel,” Rameshwar
Jamwal, an  executive director  at Tata Industries, said in a
conference call from Mumbai today. “Israel has excellent
technology capabilities and Tata is looking for innovation and
R&D as a key area of focus and as a source of competitive
advantage going forward.”  Israel is looking to increase exports to  India  and  China  as
 Europe , its primary market for goods, struggles with a debt
crisis. Israeli exports, which make up about 40 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product, declined an annualized 6.5
percent in the fourth quarter, after shrinking 8 percent in the
third, data provided by the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of
Statistics shows.  Tata representatives will work with scientists to guide
them with research and test out ideas, said Shlomo Nimrodi,
chief executive officer of Ramot, the university’s  technology
transfer company . Ramot’s Technology Innovation Momentum Fund
seeks to raise an additional $15 million from investors in the
U.S., the U.K. and India, Nimrodi told reporters in  Tel Aviv 
yesterday. Tata will be the lead investor, Nimrodi said.  “Tel Aviv University can be an extension to Tata’s R&D
programs,” said Giora Yaron, Ramot’s chairman and chairman of
the university’s executive council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  