-- Athabasca Oil Seen Winning Approval for Dover Project
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-29T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/athabasca-oil-seen-winning-approval-for-dover-project.html
Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH)  is poised to
rebound from a record low after a Canadian aboriginal group that
has opposed an oil-sands project with PetroChina Co. signaled
the impasse can be overcome.  “We still feel there could be a resolution that will
satisfy both parties,” Dayle Hyde, a spokeswoman for Fort McKay
First Nation, said in an April 24 interview. “We’re not
opposing the full project, we are just opposing the project
that’s closest to our reserve area.”  Athabasca fell 15 percent on April 23, the first day of a
regulatory hearing to decide the fate of the Dover development
that was triggered by the Fort McKay group’s  objection .
Athabasca needs approval to sell its stake in Dover to Beijing-
based project partner PetroChina for C$1.32 billion ($1.30
billion), which would raise cash for the Calgary-based company’s
development.  The possibility of compromise from Fort McKay, a band that
employs more than 800 people  in companies  that provide services
for oil-sands developers, comes as  Alberta  regulators head into
a second week of hearings. Cases of public opposition to
developments usually result in conditional approvals, according
to the Energy Resources Conservation Board.  Athabasca was under pressure before the hearing, down 22
percent this year to April 22, as a lack of pipeline capacity
restricts crude exports and weighs on  Canadian energy  stocks.
Last week’s one-day fall pushed the stock to C$6.95, the lowest
since its initial public offering led by Morgan Stanley and GMP
Capital Inc. at C$18 in 2010. It closed down 2.7 percent to
C$7.15 on April 26.  Cultural Activities  “It’s oversold,” said Chris Cox, a Calgary-based analyst
at AltaCorp Capital Inc. He expects the regulator will rule in
August. “Even without a resolution, I think this thing is a
buy,” Cox said in a phone interview on April 25.  Fort McKay is seeking a 20-kilometer (12-mile) buffer zone
free of development around two lakes the community uses for
cultural activities. The Dover site is about 100 kilometers
northwest of Fort McMurray.  The 20-kilometer buffer “is our ideal,” Hyde said,
declining to discuss where Fort McKay may find common ground
with  Dover Operating Corp. , the company jointly owned by
Athabasca and PetroChina.  The buffer would carve out oil-rich lands from Dover,
Athabasca President Bryan Gould said in a phone interview on
April 25. “We’ve been trying for awhile and we haven’t found
that space that works for both parties,” Gould said. He
declined to comment on specific negotiation details.  Thirteen  analysts  rate Athabasca a buy, three say hold  and
there are no sells on the stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, signaling analysts expect regulatory approval. The
12-month average target price is C$14.32.  Conditional Approval  The 250,000 barrel-a-day Dover project would extract
bitumen using a technology that injects steam underground to
melt the heavy crude so it flows to the surface.  The Energy Resources Conservation Board has 90 days to
decide on Dover after the hearings, which may result in denial,
approval or conditional approval, Bob Curran, a board spokesman
said. The “majority” of hearings triggered by public
opposition result in conditional approval, he said.  The Dover joint venture signed in 2010 includes a put
option that allows Athabasca the right to sell its 40 percent
stake in the project to the Chinese state-owned company upon
receiving regulatory approval.  Sale Proceeds  The C$1.32 billion option is “critical” for Athabasca’s
oil growth in 2014, Matthew Taylor, a Calgary-based analyst at
National Bank Financial, said in a note on April 24. Proceeds
from the Dover stake sale, along with other joint ventures
Athabasca may sign, are not currently priced into the stock,
Taylor said, which he valued at C$7.95 without those items.  “The share price got down to the point where the put
option got discounted to zero,” Mason Granger, who oversees
about C$400 million at Sentry Investments Inc. in Toronto, said
in a phone interview on April 25, calling the “risk-returns”
on Athabasca “favorable.” He doesn’t own the stock.  Should the project be rejected, Athabasca has other ways to
raise money, including tapping equity and debt markets, signing
joint venture deals and selling assets, Gould said.  A separate joint venture with PetroChina to develop the
150,000-barrel-a-day MacKay River oil-sands project had a
similar put option that allowed Athabasca to sell its 40 percent
stake for  C$680 million  last year.  Joint Ventures  The Dover deal, which was signed and approved in 2010,
would potentially be the last oil-sands acquisition by a state-
owned firm after  Canada  changed foreign-takeover rules last year
to prevent government-backed companies from owning oil-sands
businesses, barring exceptional circumstances.  Athabasca is seeking additional joint ventures to develop
its oil and natural gas in Alberta, home to the world’s third-
largest reserves of crude, Gould said. He declined to comment on
a joint venture the company said it was working on last year for
its Birch and Hangingstone properties.  The 20-kilometer buffer sought by Fort McKay would
potentially include Athabasca’s Birch lands, and “infringe on
ultimate development,” National Bank Financial’s Taylor said.  Athabasca reported profit of C$260.2 million  last year , a
rise of 83 percent over 2011, as the company boosted  production 
of oil and gas by more than five times. The company has plans to
increase output to the equivalent of 220,000 barrels of oil a
day by 2020, from 4,110 barrels in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Quarterly Results  The company, which releases its first-quarter results
tomorrow, is expected to report a loss of 2.8 cents a share,
excluding one-time items, according to five  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. First-quarter output was expected to be
impacted by an outage at a plant that processes Athabasca’s gas,
according to an April 18 note by FirstEnergy Capital Corp.  The objection to Dover by Fort McKay represents the first
time the band has formally opposed an oil-sands project since
1993, according to Hyde.  This is “significant” for John Stephenson, an Athabasca
holder who said he won’t buy on the stock’s weakness. “It is
unclear what the implications will be for Athabasca’s put option
if the approval comes under certain conditions,” Stephenson,
who helps oversee C$2.7 billion at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto, said in an e-mail on April 24.
“It’s too risky to add to our position at this time.”  The regulatory concern over Dover is misguided, said Jared Dziuba, a Calgary-based analyst at BMO Capital Markets who rates
Athabasca a buy.  “We continue to believe government regulators are highly
unlikely to reject the Dover project through a hearing
process,” Dziuba said in a note on April 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  