-- Australian Stock Index Futures Gain as U.S. Home Sales Rise
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-29T23:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/australian-stock-index-futures-gain-as-u-s-home-sales-rise.html
Australian stock futures rose as
U.S. home sales climbed and investors speculated central banks
will continue to stimulate the economy. Japanese equity futures
fell as the yen strengthened against the dollar.  American Depositary Receipts of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
 Australia ’s second-largest oil producer, climbed 1.2 percent as
crude rose to the highest level in more than two weeks. Shares
of  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the nation’s
third-biggest bank by market value, may be active as first-half
cash profit climbed 10 percent. ADRs of Honda Motor Co. lost 0.6
percent after  Japan ’s No. 3 automaker forecast profit that
missed analyst estimates.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.4
percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.4 percent. Futures
on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in June traded at
13,850 in  Chicago  yesterday, down from 13,950 at the close in
 Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 13,830 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Japanese equity markets reopen today
after a holiday.  Forecasts for U.S. economic growth “point to a significant
acceleration later this year,” said  Gerard Minack , a Sydney-
based global strategist at Morgan Stanley. “On top of this,
there’s a growing view that any near-term weakness will lead to
further policy stimulus.”  Hong Kong  Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.5 percent
and contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong added 0.6
percent. Mainland China’s equity markets are closed through May
1 for public holidays. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of
the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1.1 percent
in New York yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, climbed 8.6 percent this year and rose 3.7
percent this month through yesterday amid optimism Japan will
deploy more measures to beat deflation and that policy makers in
the U.S. and  China  remain on standby to support growth. That
left the gauge yesterday trading at 14.1 times average estimated
earnings compared with 14.5 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 13 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Federal Reserve will consider renewing its commitment
to bond-buying at a two-day meeting that starts today.  U.S. consumer spending rose more than projected in March,
reflecting a jump in outlays for services that is unlikely to be
repeated. Household purchases, which account for about 70
percent of the economy, climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent
gain the prior month, a Commerce Department report showed
yesterday. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 74
economists called for spending to be little changed.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  slipped 0.1 percent. The
measure rose 0.7 percent to a record yesterday as pending sales
of homes climbed amid optimism central banks will maintain
stimulus plans.  West Texas Intermediate crude climbed 1.6 percent in New
York yesterday.  Reports scheduled to be released before Japanese markets
open today may show the jobless rate dropped and industrial
production declined in the world’s third-largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  