-- Australian Housing Growth Won’t Fill Mining Gap, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-29T00:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/australian-housing-growth-won-t-fill-mining-gap-jpmorgan-says.html
Australian housing investment is
unlikely to fill the void left in the nation’s economic growth
by a slowdown in the  mining industry , according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  A dearth of  first-home buyer activity  and a decline in home
sales over the past decade mean housing will contribute less to
gross domestic product than the losses from a slowdown in mining
investment, Ben Jarman, economist at JPMorgan, wrote in an e-
mailed report dated today.  “In the context of a very large and disappearing growth
contribution from mining capex of around 2 percentage points,”
the magnitude of the “upside” from housing falls short, Jarman
wrote. “Even in an ambitious scenario, dwelling investment
would add only 0.5 percentage points to GDP over 2013. And even
in that case, the lags could be such that these gains do not
materialize until 2014.”  Banks including Morgan Stanley and National  Australia  Bank
Ltd. forecast home-price growth of less than 5 percent in 2013
after two years of declines, compared with a surge of 11 percent
in 2009. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia in February predicted a
“below trend” increase of 2.5 percent for GDP in 2013, down
from an estimate of 2.75 percent in November, as mining
investment peaks this year and the Australian dollar’s strength
weighs on manufacturing and exports.  First-Home Buyers  Demand for housing from first-home buyers remains
lackluster, keeping potential purchasers up the chain from
taking on more debt and boosting credit growth, Jarman said.
Lack of new construction has pushed dwelling investment as a
proportion of GDP down by 1.5 percentage points in the past
decade, he wrote.  First-home buyers accounted for 14.4 percent of all  home
loans  in February, compared with 17.4 percent a year earlier,
according to the statistics bureau.  Building approvals  rose a
seasonally adjusted 12.8 percent in the 12 months to Feb. 28,
government data show.  “To bank on dwelling investment making a large
contribution to GDP is therefore to bet against a clearly
defined trend,” Jarman said. Building approvals would have to
rise 20 percent to lift dwelling investment by more than 10
percent and GDP by 0.5 percent this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  