-- Lawmakers Fault U.S. Agencies for Lapses in Boston
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   S t e v e   G e i m a n n
-- 2013-04-29T19:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/lawmakers-fault-u-s-agencies-for-lapses-in-boston.html
A trip to  Russia  by Tamerlan Tsarnaev, one of two brothers accused in the  Boston Marathon
bombings , may have escaped scrutiny because U.S. agencies didn’t
share information, lawmakers said yesterday.  Representative Mike McCaul, a Texas Republican and chairman
of the House  Homeland Security  Committee, said he wanted to know
why agencies including the FBI, which knew of earlier Russian
concerns about Tsarnaev, didn’t take a fresh look when Tsarnaev
traveled to Russia last year.  McCaul said he wants to know if the Department of Homeland
Security, which was aware of the trip, notified the FBI.  “Because when he comes back from Russia, he’s clearly
radicalized,” McCaul said on “Fox News Sunday.” As a result,
he and his brother carry out “the greatest terrorist attack
since 9/11,” he said.  In the aftermath of the April 15 bombings that killed three
people and wounded more than 260, U.S. lawmakers said
investigators have told them Tamerlan, 26, and his brother,
Dzhokhar, 19, were schooled in radical Islam and terrorist bomb-
making online.  The Russians’ warning to the U.S. in 2011 about Tamerlan
stemmed from two secretly recorded phone calls between him and
his mother, according to a U.S. official who asked not to be
identified because of the continuing investigation. Russian
authorities didn’t tell that to the U.S. until after the
bombing, the official said.  Putin Call  President  Barack Obama  in a telephone call today thanked
President  Vladimir Putin  for Russia’s “close cooperation” in
the case. The two also discussed security for the 2014 Olympics
in Sochi, Russia, according to a White House statement.  As part of the bombing probe, the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  wants to interview family members including the
parents, who are in Russia, said a person familiar with the
investigation who asked not to be identified. Friends,
associates and others who were part of the suspects’ lives are
also being sought for interviews, the official said.  Authorities are examining whether the suspects acted alone
or had help, and so far haven’t found evidence that they had
help, said the official.  FBI agents today were at the home of Tamerlan’s wife,
Katherine Tsarnaev, as part of the investigation, Jason Pack, an
agency spokesman, said in an e-mail. He declined to comment
further, saying the bureau can’t discuss specific aspects of the
case.  Hearings Planned  McCaul said Congress will hold hearings on whether the FBI
and Central Intelligence Agency did all they could to prevent
the attack.  “We’re going to have to up our game,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” broadcast. “How could you miss the fact that the guy
you were -- you were informed by a foreign intelligence service
you have a radical in your midst.”  The younger Tsarnaev, now being held at a federal prison
west of  Boston  for inmates needing medical care, is charged with
using and conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction in the
double bombing. Tamerlan Tsarnaev died in an April 19 shootout
with police.  The FBI, at the request of Russia’s domestic intelligence
service, conducted a three-month review of Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s
activities in 2011. The FBI checked the tip thoroughly “and did
not find terrorist activity, domestic or foreign,” White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said April 22.  Recorded Conversation  Russia declined to cooperate when the FBI sought more
specific information, according to Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican and chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee.  Since the bombing, Russia has turned over information to
U.S. authorities, including details of a secretly recorded
telephone conversation with Tsarnaev’s mother and her son, the
 Associated Press  reported. In the 2011 conversation, one of the
bombing suspects “vaguely” discussed jihad with the mother, AP
reported, citing officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Russian authorities probably know more than they’ve told
the U.S., Representative Adam Schiff, a California Democrat on
the House Intelligence Committee, said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” program.  “If they were up on this -- on the mother or someone
related to the mother and listening, there’s got to be a basis
for why they went up on her electronically or why they went up
on one of her affiliates or associates,” he said. “We haven’t
received that information from the Russians. I think they do
know more than they’re telling us.”  ‘Absolute Failure’  Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican, on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” criticized the FBI for not having visited
Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s mosque or interviewed the imam after being
alerted by the Russians. He said it was an “absolute failure”
that the FBI didn’t notify New York authorities sooner that the
bombers had considered an attack in  New York City  after Boston.  King repeatedly called for authorities to more closely
track the Muslim community. “The element is from within the
Muslim community,” he said.  Meanwhile, McCaul and Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia
Democrat, said the use of a type of bomb common in Pakistan and
 Afghanistan  and detonating the device with a toy-car remote may
signal the brothers had help.  “The way they handled these devices and the trade craft
leads me to believe that there was a trainer,” McCaul said.
“Where is that trainer or trainers?”  ‘Advanced’ Bomb  Manchin, speaking on “Fox News Sunday,” said he has seen
the online magazine Inspire, which is affiliated with al-Qaeda,
showing how to build a device and the Boston bomb was more
sophisticated.  “I think they were a little bit more advanced than what
the website would have allowed a person to be,” he said.  Manchin also said the agencies questioning Dzhokhar
“pulled the trigger too soon” on letting him invoke his right
to an attorney.  “I think there’s more to be had there,” he said. “But I
would have liked that process of him being interrogated to go
further than reading Miranda rights as quick as they did.”  Former CIA Director  Michael Hayden  said on CNN’s “Fareed
Zakaria GPS” broadcast that he was surprised Dzhokhar Tsarnaev
was read his rights “so quickly,” and “the people doing the
interrogation were surprised as well.”  Still, Schiff said that “it looks like” the FBI got the
information they needed to ensure public safety prior to the
Miranda rights reading.  “Already, I think the statements that the suspect made are
going to be challenged by the defense team,” he said. “And
while the priority has to be on making use of any information
that could protect the public, it’s also valuable to be able to
admit those into evidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Geimann in Washington at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  