-- Babcock Gets Another Shot at $22.8 Billion Nuclear Award
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-05-01T01:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/babcock-gets-another-shot-at-22-8-billion-nuclear-award.html
(Corrects size and scope of Babcock work in third
paragraph in story published April 29.)  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  may get a
chance to recover its biggest U.S. government contract after a
federal agency said Bechtel Group Inc.’s new 10-year, $22.8
billion agreement was improperly awarded.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, which arbitrates
contract disputes, today sustained protests filed by  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Babcock and a group that includes  Jacobs
Engineering Group Inc. (JEC)  and  Fluor Inc. (FLR)  The GAO recommended
reopening the competition.  The work contributed “slightly more than half” the $59.7
million in operating income reported last year by Babcock’s
technical services unit, said Jenny Apker, vice president of
 investor relations . That unit contributed about 17 percent of
the company’s total operating income.  “The decision means Babcock will likely get a second shot
at keeping the contract for the long term,” said Brian Friel, a
government-contracts analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “It also
means they’ll get to keep billing for their work while the
Energy Department decides how to proceed.”  Babcock  rose  2.6 percent to $27.15 in  New York , the biggest
gain since Feb. 27.  The Energy Department didn’t properly evaluate cost savings
proposed by the bidders when it awarded the contract for nuclear
site management and construction, Ralph White, the GAO’s
managing associate general counsel for procurement law, said in
a statement.  New Competition  The department’s National Nuclear Security Administration
“failed to meaningfully assess the majority of each offeror’s
proposed cost savings, and based its source selection decision
on the unsupported assumption that all cost savings proposed by
every offeror would be achieved,” according to the statement.  Josh McConaha, a spokesman for the nuclear security agency,
said officials were reviewing the GAO’s decision. “We’re going
to take some time before settling on our path forward,” he said
in an e-mail.  Babcock and its partners “believe the GAO’s decision
supports our concerns about the initial award of this
contract,” E. James Ferland, Babcock’s chief executive officer,
said in a statement.  ‘Strong Team’  Bechtel officials were confident that the nuclear security
agency had made the correct decision in awarding the deal to
their company, said Jason Bohne, a spokesman for the San
Francisco-based contractor.  “We’ve got a strong team and we brought them a credible
and innovative solution,” Bohne said in a phone interview.
“We’re happy to provide more information.”  The contract was awarded Jan. 8 to Bechtel’s team, which
includes Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
Arlington, Virginia-based  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  It
consolidates Babcock’s two largest federal contracts, Friel
said.  The work involves operating nuclear sites in Oak Ridge,
Tennessee, and near Amarillo, Texas. It also includes
construction of a uranium processing plant at the Oak Ridge
location and an option to eventually operate a third nuclear
site near Aiken,  South Carolina , according to the GAO statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  