-- Balfour Cuts Profit Forecast on U.K. Construction Woes
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-04-29T07:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/balfour-cuts-outlook-for-profit-as-u-k-construction-slides.html
Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY) , the U.K.’s
largest construction company, said operating profit will be 50
million pounds ($78 million) less than predicted this year amid
sluggish demand in its home market.  Chief Executive Officer Andrew McNaughton has taken charge
of U.K. construction operations and is implementing a
substantial revamp to cut costs, the London-based company said
in a statement. The stock declined as much as 12 percent, the
biggest drop since November.  Balfour Beatty faces declining profit margins amid a lack
of building work in Britain. While the U.S., German and Canadian
economies are back above their pre-recession levels, U.K. gross
domestic product remains 2.6 percent below its peak in the first
quarter of 2008. It means Britain remains mired in its longest
peacetime slump since at least 1920, according to the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research.  “The fall in earnings will be compounded by worries about
the balance sheet and dividend,” said London-based Liberum
Capital analyst Joe Brent. “The regional construction demand is
clearly weak and the supply chain is under pressure.”  The stock declined as much as 28.60 pence to 217.80 pence
and was down 8.9 percent as of 8:21 a.m., valuing the company at
1.5 billion pounds. Before today, the company had declined 10
percent this year, underperforming the 2.9 percent gain of the
Bloomberg EMEA Engineering & Construction Index.  Declining Margins  The company in November forecast that profitability will
drop “slightly” as it hasn’t been able to negotiate lower
prices with suppliers to reflect market conditions.  Senior ministers in U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government voiced caution about the country’s economy even after
official data last week showed Britain avoided a triple-dip
recession with stronger-than-expected growth in the first
quarter.  “Change in procurement trends, which we have previously
highlighted, have persisted, allowing customers to impose
increasingly stringent conditions onto contractors,” Balfour
Beatty said today. “In these extremely tough conditions, our
U.K. construction business has been concurrently implementing a
substantial organizational restructuring in order to streamline
the business.”  Operations outside Britain are broadly in line with
expectations, with improvements in the U.S.,  Asia  and  Middle
East  offsetting a 10 million-pound profit decline from rail
operations in  Germany  and “weakness” in professional services
in  Australia , Balfour Beatty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  