-- Banco Santander Names Javier Marin as CEO After Saenz Quits
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-29T16:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/banco-santander-names-marin-as-ceo-after-alfredo-saenz-resigns.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest
bank, named Javier Marin as chief executive officer, turning to
a leader from a younger generation after Alfredo Saenz resigned.  Marin, 46, is senior executive vice president of the bank
and head of the global insurance, asset management and private
banking unit, the Santander, Spain-based bank said in a  filing 
to regulators today. Saenz will also quit the 16-member  board .  Chairman  Emilio Botin , 78, is turning to a former personal
aide to lead the day-to-day operations at the bank, which
quadrupled its assets by acquiring  lenders  from the U.K. to
 Brazil (SANB11)  during Saenz’s 11-year tenure. Saenz, 70, who Botin
called the “best CEO in banking,” stepped down before the Bank
of Spain decided whether he could continue in his post after a
legal case dating back almost 20 years.  “It will be good to have someone younger but who clearly
has the backing and trust of Botin and can keep moving the bank
forward,” said Mauro Guillen, a professor of international
management at the Wharton School at the  University of
Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia and co-author of a 2008 history of
Santander. “This is an interesting moment.”  Santander  shares  closed up 2.6 percent to 5.56 euros in
Madrid today, paring declines this year to 8.9 percent and
valuing the lender at 60.3 billion euros ($79 billion). Saenz
had no personal comment to make on his decision to resign, a
spokesman for the bank said in a phone interview.  Personal Aide  A graduate of  Spain ’s Papal University of Comillas, where
he studied law and business studies, Marin joined Santander in
1991 and became Botin’s “technical secretary” or personal aide
four years later, a bank spokeswoman said.  He became CEO of Santander’s private banking unit Banif in
2001 and added oversight of the lender’s asset management
business in 2009 and insurance in 2010. In his role as head of
private banking, Marin had the task of dealing with the
aftermath of the 2008 Bernard Madoff scandal, which left 2.3
billion euros of Santander client balances at risk. Santander
offered customers preferred shares with an annual payout of 2
percent as compensation for their Madoff-related losses.  “It is a bit surprising that they’ve chosen someone
apparently without experience running one of the big retail
divisions and so Marin is a bit of an unknown quantity,” Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  London ,
said in a phone interview. “Many investors, though, will take
the view that Emilio Botin is the one who takes the big
decisions and makes strategy and he is still there.”  Potential Successors  Marin’s experience in the bank and the fact that he has
Botin’s confidence makes him a “clear candidate” for the CEO
job, said Guillen.  Board member Juan Rodriguez Inciarte, 60, a board member
whom some people might have identified as a possible CEO
candidate, is more suited to his current role planning strategy,
said Guillen. Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, a former rising star at
Santander and once considered a potential successor to Saenz,
quit the bank in 2010 to become CEO of London-based  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   Ana Patricia Botin, 52, Botin’s eldest daughter, took over
from Horta-Osorio running Santander’s U.K. and may still
eventually take over from her father as chairman of the bank,
said Guillen. “She is perfect where she is,” he said.  ‘Extraordinary Achievements’  While the Bank of Spain holds Saenz in the highest esteem,
his resignation is positive and it will help strengthen the
financial system, a spokesman for the regulator, who asked not
be identified in line with its policy, said in a phone interview
today. Santander, in a statement, praised the “extraordinary
achievements” of Saenz, who earned 8.2 million euros last year
and has an 88 million-euro pension.  The  Supreme Court  in Madrid ruled in February that a
government pardon granted to Saenz in 2011 went too far by
saying that a criminal record didn’t affect his ability to work
in banking.  The legal proceedings involving Saenz cast a shadow over
the executive and the bank since 2009 when he was convicted in a
case dating back to 1994. The case relates to a lawsuit stemming
from his tenure as chairman of Banco Espanol de Credito SA, now
a retail banking unit of Santander.  Banesto, as the lender is known, sued a group of
businessmen to recover loans in 1994. The defendants filed
counter-complaints of false accusation, which a judge decided to
investigate, and Saenz was held responsible because he approved
the filing of the initial lawsuit.  ‘Professional Virtue’  According to Spanish banking regulations, “professional
virtue” is a prerequisite for those working in the banking
industry and can be lost by anyone with a criminal record. The
Economy Ministry said earlier this month it would widen the
criteria for evaluating the “honor” of bankers, a step that
some commentators said might give the Bank of Spain more room to
maneuver as it considered cases such as that of Saenz.  “The board of directors expressed its recognition of and
gratitude for Alfredo Saenz’s extraordinary achievements since
joining the group and, in particular, as chief executive,” the
bank said in a statement. Saenz joined the bank in 1994 when
Santander acquired Banesto.  “Saenz has had these legal issues but I think he has been
a great banking professional,” said Alvaro Cuervo, director of
the University College of Financial Studies in  Madrid . “When a
company skips a generation in management, as Santander is doing,
it does give the opportunity for dynamism and modernity and that
can be positive.”  Among other changes announced today, the bank named Matias Rodriguez Inciarte, who heads Santander’s risk committee, as
second vice chairman of the board, replacing Saenz.  Guillermo de la Dehesa, an independent director, becomes
third vice chairman and takes over from Manuel Soto as head of
the audit and compliance committee. Soto leaves the board and
will be replaced by Juan-Miguel Villar Mir while Isabel Tocino
joins the board’s executive committee, Santander said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  