-- Bank of America and Citigroup Biggest Lenders to Coal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-29T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/bank-of-america-and-citigroup-biggest-lenders-to-coal.html
  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were the top three financiers of
the coal industry last year, according to a report today from
three environmental groups.  The three banks helped underwrite bonds or loans totaling
$8 billion for mountaintop removal coal-mining operations and
power plants, or 38 percent of the total $20.8 billion
investment for such activities last year, according to the
fourth annual Coal Finance Report Card from the Rainforest
Action Network, BankTrack and the  Sierra Club .  Total investment in the U.S. coal industry sank 50 percent
from 2011 as banks sought to reduce their exposure to a fuel
that’s the largest source of  greenhouse gases , said Ben Collins,
an analyst at San Francisco-based Rainforest Action Network and
a lead author of the study.  “Banks are becoming more aware of the harms caused by coal
and the risks associated with an industry in decline,” Collins
said in an interview. “The decline in investment reflects their
due diligence.”  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , helped
arrange $3.03 billion for coal miners or plants last year, down
48 percent from 2011, according to the report. Citigroup
followed with $2.75 billion and then JPMorgan with $2.17
billion.  The results contrast with banks’ efforts to increase
lending to clean-energy projects and reduce their in-house
carbon footprints.  Globally, Citigroup was the leading bank last year in terms
of investments in clean energy and improving its environmental
impact in a ranking released by Bloomberg Markets magazine.
JPMorgan ranked third greenest-bank, while Bank of America came
in 23rd.  Jennifer Kim, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment. Tyler Daluz, a spokesman for Citigroup, and Britney
Sheehan, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mailed requests for comment on April 26..  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  