-- Barclays Libor Trial Delayed Until 2014 to Allow for Appeal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-04-29T12:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/barclays-libor-trial-delayed-until-2014-to-allow-for-appeal.html
The first U.K. trial over
allegations of fraud related to manipulation of benchmark
 interest rates  was delayed until next year to allow  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
an opportunity to have an appeals court dismiss the case.  A six-week trial won’t take place until April 2014, after
appeal judges have ruled, Judge Julian Flaux said at a London
court hearing today.  Barclays, which is being sued by affiliates of Guardian
Care Homes Ltd. over swap contracts linked to the London
interbank offered rate, appealed a decision by Flaux allowing
Libor fraud claims to be included in the case. That ruling was
contradicted by another London judge who refused earlier this
year to allow an Indian company to add Libor allegations to a
similar suit against Deutsche Bank AG.  More than a dozen lenders are being investigated by
regulators worldwide for rigging Libor and related rates.
Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($450 million) last year
and censured by regulators who found evidence it had tried to
fix the benchmark.  Barclays has obtained permission from the court of appeal
to challenge Flaux’s ruling on the Libor claims, the bank said
in an e-mailed statement.  The postponement “allows for Barclays’ appeal to be heard
and enables Guardian Care Homes to consider the large volume of
documents Barclays has disclosed,” Guardian spokesman Toby
Pellew said in an e-mail.  The Barclays appeal will be heard alongside the similar
case brought by an Indian real estate developer against Deutsche
Bank, Pellew said.  Unitech Ltd. (UT) ’s bid to add Libor fraud to its
swap claim against Deutsche Bank was rejected by Judge Jeremy Cooke in February.  “Clearly Mr. Justice Cooke, although he was being very
polite, disagreed with my approach” in granting permission to
include the Libor claims, Judge Flaux said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  