-- Bayer to Buy Conceptus to Add Contraceptive Procedure
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-04-29T21:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/bayer-to-buy-conceptus-to-add-contraceptive-procedure.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  agreed to buy  Conceptus
Inc. (CPTS)  for about $1.1 billion in cash to add a permanent
contraception device to complement the German company’s
offerings in women’s health.  Conceptus holders will receive $31 a share in cash, the
companies said in a statement today. The price is 20 percent
above the April 26 closing level for  Mountain View , California-
based Conceptus of $25.90. Conceptus rose the most in a year in
U.S. trading.  Revenue for Conceptus’s Essure contraceptive, a pair of
flexible metal and fiber coils inserted in the fallopian tubes,
jumped 22 percent in the first quarter. The planned acquisition
comes at a time when sales of Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer’s
Yaz and Yasmin oral birth-control pills are falling because of
competition from low-priced copies. Bayer also sells the Natazia
pill and intrauterine devices such as Mirena.  “They have been quite strong in this area,” said Odile Rundquist, an analyst with Helvea SA, in a telephone interview.
“Now with generic competition for Yaz, they could offset a
decline in that franchise. It’s complementary.” She has an
accumulate rating on Bayer stock.  Conceptus rose 20 percent to $30.96 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since April 30, 2012. Bayer shares rose
0.4 percent to 79.57 euros in  Frankfurt . The company plans to
begin a tender offer for Conceptus within 10 business days, and
expects to complete the purchase by midyear, subject to U.S.
antitrust approval, according to the statement.  ‘Strong Multiples’  The purchase values Conceptus at 44.8 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than twice the average
multiple paid for health-care products companies with market
values of $500 million or more in the past year.  Conceptus shares had moved above Bayer’s offer price in
trading before U.S. exchanges opened, indicating some investors
were speculating on a higher bid.  “Those are pretty strong multiples,” Chris Cooley, an
analyst with Stephens Inc., said in a telephone interview. “I
wouldn’t anticipate someone trying to outdo $1.1 billion in
cash.”  Conceptus agreed not to solicit competing bids, and the
company will pay Bayer a $37.3 million termination fee if it
accepts a higher offer, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  No Surgery  Guenter Forneck, a spokesman for Bayer, declined to comment
on the prospect of a higher bid.  “The board of directors of Conceptus conducted a thorough,
robust and formal process. For various reasons, the board
concluded that the transaction with Bayer was the most
compelling,” the company said in a statement.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised Bayer on the
purchase, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Conceptus.  Bayer will probably need to promote Essure, expanding its
global reach, to justify the price of the acquisition,  Alistair Campbell , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in a
telephone interview.  U.S. regulators approved the device in 2002. It provides
permanent contraception, much in the way tubal ligation does.
Unlike that procedure, though, it requires neither surgery nor
general anesthesia.  A doctor can insert the coils via the vagina and the uterus
in a 10-minute procedure. Once in place, the devices elicit
tissue growth that will block the fallopian tubes within a few
months, preventing sperm from reaching an egg. More than 750,000
women have undergone the procedure, according to Conceptus.  Profitable Quarter  “Conceptus truly has a unique proposition in the women’s
health-care arena with the Essure technology,” Cooley said.
“As different methodologies of  birth control  become
increasingly available, it’s likely to receive greater use.”
Cooley has an equal-weight, or hold, rating on Conceptus shares.  Conceptus today reported a first-quarter profit of $1.9
million, compared with a loss of $2.8 million a year earlier.
Sales rose 17 percent to $34.1 million.  Bayer’s Yaz and Yasmin contraceptive sales declined 16
percent to 206 million euros in the quarter, the company said
this month. The German drugmaker also has paid to settle
lawsuits brought by consumers who say they suffered blood-clot
injuries from the pills. Bayer had 1.19 billion euros ($1.56
billion) of litigation expenses in 2012 for Yasmin and Yaz.  Acquisition Strategy  “Bayer is committed to augmenting its organic growth with
strategic bolt-on acquisitions,” Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said in the statement. “The acquisition of Conceptus
represents an excellent fit for our health-care business --
specifically in the  United States , the world’s most important
health-care market.”  Conceptus was founded in 1992 and sold shares in an  initial
public offering  in 1996. The closing stock price April 25 was a
record high.  The acquisition is the first that Bayer has announced of a
publicly traded company since October, when it agreed to buy
vitamin maker Schiff Nutrition International Inc. for about $1.1
billion. Bayer walked away from the deal after a higher bid from
 Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc. (RB/)   For Related News and Information:
Bayer Misses Estimates as Plastics Plunge Blunts Drug Impact  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  