-- RTL Shares Decline With Frankfurt Debut After Bertelsmann Sale
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-04-30T07:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/bertelsmann-raised-1-8-billion-in-rtl-stake-sale-to-fund-growth.html
RTL Group SA (RTL) ,  Europe ’s biggest
broadcaster, fell on its first day of trading in  Frankfurt  today
and after owner Bertelsmann SE sold a 17 percent stake to fund
acquisitions and accelerate growth.  Bertelsmann, Europe’s largest media company, raised 1.4
billion euros ($1.8 billion) after selling 25.5 million RTL
shares at 55.50 euros apiece, it said yesterday. The sale
reduced its holding in the Luxembourg-based broadcaster to 75.1
percent from 92.3 percent, assuming full placement of an over-
allotment option. RTL’s stock dropped 2 percent to 55.40 euros
at 9:41 a.m.  For RTL, a listing in Germany -- its biggest market --
means getting better access to shareholders. Bertelsmann Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Rabe plans to spend as much as 3
billion euros on acquisitions over three years as the
Guetersloh, Germany-based company seeks to reduce its reliance
on Europe and traditional media outlets.  “Bertelsmann’s stake reduction is a positive,” Ian Whittaker, an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  London , said in a
note. “By taking its stake down to 75 percent, RTL will now
have a credible free float size of around 2.2 billion euros,
which will increase its appeal to investors.” Liberum raised
its recommendation on RTL to buy from hold.  ‘X Factor’  RTL’s shares traded at a price-to-earnings ratio of 14.3,
compared with ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG’s 18.4 and Modern Times
Group AB’s 13.3. The stock is also listed in Luxembourg.  “Our goal is to make Bertelsmann a faster growing, more
digital and more international company in the years ahead.”
Rabe said in a statement.  Revenue at RTL, which produces TV shows including
“American Idol,” “The X Factor” and “Family Feud,” rose 4
percent last year to a record 6 billion euros.  Germany ’s benchmark DAX Index gained 16 percent in the 12
months through yesterday and was trading close to its highest
level in more than 5 1/2 years.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender, said yesterday
it will raise as much as 4.8 billion euros by selling shares and
subordinate instruments in order to strengthen its capital
ratios.  Daimler AG (DAI)  this month sold its remaining 7.5 percent
stake in Airbus SAS parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. for 2.2 billion euros to focus on its car and truck
businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  