-- MBIA Loses Bid for Ruling on Countrywide Loan Repurchase
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-30T21:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/mbia-loses-bid-for-ruling-on-countrywide-loan-repurchase.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  failed to win a pretrial
ruling against   Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Countrywide Financial
unit in a lawsuit claiming the mortgage lender breached its
obligations to buy back loans.  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten in
 Manhattan  rejected bond insurer MBIA’s argument that it had
already shown Countrywide should have to buy back loans that
MBIA claims were riskier than represented. MBIA guarantees
payments to investors that bought securities backed by pools of
the lender’s loans.  There are “sufficient facts in dispute” about the loans
to preclude ruling in MBIA’s favor at this point in the
litigation, Bransten said.  MBIA fell 4 percent to $9.46 at the close of New York
trading after earlier dropping as much as 8.9 percent. Bank of
America fell 0.6 percent to close at $12.31.  While the rejection was a “disappointment” for MBIA, the
insurer gained a “huge win” with Bransten’s decision that New
York law instead of Delaware law governs its claim that Bank of
America is liable as Countrywide’s parent company,  Mark Palmer ,
an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, said in a research note.  “Taken as a whole, we think Judge Bransten’s rulings sent
a very strong message to BAC about how difficult it would be for
it to win at trial,” wrote Palmer, who has a “buy” rating on
MBIA.  ‘Materially Defective’  MBIA, based in Armonk, New York, sued Countrywide in 2008
seeking to recover losses tied to the lender’s loans that were
packaged into securities. It claimed in court papers that at
least 56 percent of the loans at issue in the case were
“materially defective.” Both MBIA and Bank of America were
seeking rulings in their favor ahead of a trial.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
ruling.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for MBIA, said yesterday that
the company had no immediate comment.  Bransten also ruled in MBIA’s favor that loans don’t need
to be in default in order to be repurchased and that the
insurer’s potential recovery isn’t limited to repurchases and
may include compensatory damages.  MBIA had asked the court to find that  Bank of America ,
which acquired Countrywide in 2008, is liable for Countrywide’s
alleged misconduct. The bank sought a ruling that it isn’t
liable. Bransten refused to give either company a victory on the
issue of so-called successor liability.  “There are disputed facts in the record regarding the
substance of the transaction and the integration of
Countrywide’s assets,” the judge wrote.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  