-- Biogen MS Pill’s Early Sales May Help It Beat Estimates
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-04-29T20:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/biogen-ms-pill-s-early-sales-may-help-it-beat-estimates.html
The introduction of  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB) ’s multiple sclerosis pill, Tecfidera, outstripped the
initial sales of competing drugs from  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Sanofi (SAN) ,
suggesting the treatment may beat estimates for the year.  Total prescriptions more than doubled this week to 730 from
332 last week, according to a Wells Fargo report today.
Tecfidera, also known as BG-12, was approved March 27 by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and analysts had  estimated  it
may generate $3.4 billion in sales by 2017.  “Holy mother of all launches,” wrote  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst with ISI Group Inc., in a note to clients today.  The data indicate U.S. sales of Tecfidera this year could
be greater than $450 million, exceeding the $240 million to $300
million expected by analysts and investors, according to
Schoenebaum. It took rival Gilenya, made by Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis, 22 weeks to reach that many prescriptions and
Tecfidera’s use has already surpassed Aubagio, from Paris-based
Sanofi, Schoenebaum wrote.  The drug is Biogen’s first oral offering for MS, a central
nervous system disease that affects an estimated 2.1 million
people worldwide, according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis
Society . The Weston, Massachusetts-based company also sells
Avonex, an injection, and Tysabri, an infusion.  Biogen has climbed 22 percent since March 27,  outpacing 
increases in the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index of 10 percent and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of 2 percent. They gained 4.7
percent today to $223.61 at the close of trading in New York.  “Getting up on Monday mornings has always been difficult,
but it just got easier,” wrote Ravi Mehrotra, an analyst with
Credit Suisse, in a research note last week. “Every Monday, we
now have the prospect of waking up to U.S. Tecfidera scrip
data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  