-- BlackRock’s Keefe Picks Google Shares Over Apple: Tom Keene
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-04-29T20:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/blackrock-s-keefe-picks-google-over-apple-on-youtube-tom-keene.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  shares will beat  Apple (AAPL) 
Inc. because the company faces less competition and rising
advertising revenue from businesses such as YouTube,  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) ’s Tim Keefe said.  Google’s costs will fall as search and advertising products
improve, according to Keefe, a managing director and fund
manager for the 30-stock  BlackRock Flexible Equity Fund. (BMCAX)  Google,
the owner of the world’s most popular search engine, is the
fund’s second-biggest  holding , according to a March 31  statement 
from BlackRock. The fund does not hold shares of iPhone maker
Apple, he said.  “We own some other things in technology that we think
might do better and that is Google,” Keefe said on a radio
interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene.
Google has “a lot of  cash flow  and has really high barriers to
entry. It can control its own destiny.”  Apple has fallen 19 percent to $430.12 this year amid
concern the company is facing slower growth and increased
competition from rivals such as Samsung Electronics Co. Google
reported this month that first-quarter profit topped analysts’
estimates as advertisers increased spending on mobile and video
promotions. Shares of the Mountain View, California-based
company have surged 16 percent to $819.06 in 2013.  At least 15 percent of Google’s advertising revenue comes
from mobile and the YouTube video-sharing service, up from about
5 percent two years ago, according to Martin Pyykkonen, an
analyst at Wedge Partners Corp.  Japan Airlines  Japan Airlines Co.,  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  and oil refinery Phillips 66 are among the other
investments in the Flexible Equity Fund. The fund bought JAL
after the nation’s second-largest carrier exited bankruptcy and
re-listed its stock in 2012, Keefe said. The shares have jumped
28 percent in 2013, compared with the 8.6 percent advance in the
MSCI EAFE Index of stocks in Europe, Israel and Asia.  “We’re trying to find things that have slipped through the
cracks,” Keefe said today. “If you think May and June are
going to look like April and March and that we’re going to
continue in this straight up bull market, your listeners are
probably better off in an ETF.”  “But if you think, as I do, that the world continues to be
a dangerous place, that there’s still more debt in the system
than there was pre-2008, then we want to have the flexibility to
go into a lot of different ideas,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  