-- BNP Paribas Like SocGen Braces for French Eldorado End
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-04-30T09:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/bnp-like-socgen-braces-for-french-eldorado-end-as-economy-slumps.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE) 
and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , which spent much of the European-crisis
years fixing operations outside  France , are now counting the
cost of the economic slump at home.  After shrinking units, reinforcing capital and seeking more
stable funding sources for their businesses in the so-called
euro-area periphery, the banks -- which report first-quarter
results starting this week -- are contending with slowing
lending growth, rising bankruptcies and doubtful-loan losses in
France, their biggest market for deposits and revenue.  With French economic growth stalled over the last two years
and joblessness at a record high, the total retail-banking
revenue at the country’s top five lenders -- including Groupe
BPCE and Credit Mutuel-CIC -- last year declined for the first
time in two decades, and 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) in
operating profit from such business may vanish by 2015,
according to Munich-based  Roland Berger  Strategy Consultants.  “It’s the end of an Eldorado,”  Fabrice Asvazadourian , a
senior partner in Paris for Roland Berger, said in an interview.
“It’s an industry that was accustomed to growth, and now
there’s a sudden, sharp brake.”  Revenue at the five banks’ French branch networks last year
fell about 1 percent on average to 54 billion euros, a Roland
Berger study in March shows. Such revenue may slide 1.2 percent
on average annually through 2015, according to the study.  ‘Under Attack’  BNP Paribas, which was 0.9 percent higher at 42.35 euros as
of 11:43 a.m. in Paris, had fallen 0.6 percent this year before
today. Societe Generale, which traded 2.6 percent higher at
27.20 euros, had tumbled 4 percent. Both underperformed the
benchmark CAC 40 index’s 6.3 percent rise this year. Credit
Agricole advanced 17 percent this year to 7.13 euros.  A “transformation” of the retail banking business may be
in the cards, said Jean-Francois Sammarcelli,  Societe Generale ’s
deputy chief executive officer, who oversees French  consumer
banking . The number of branches -- higher than the European
average -- may be reduced, banking analysts said.  “Retail-bank profitability is under attack,” said  Thomas
Rocafull , financial-services director at Paris-based advisory
firm Sia Conseil. Higher  capital requirements , competition
between banks and the deteriorating macroeconomic environment
are dragging down bank profits, Rocafull said.  Rising provisions for bad loans are also eroding French
retail-banking earnings, even though corporate default levels
are lower relative to those in  Spain  and  Italy .  Slowing Growth  French  corporate bankruptcies  rose 1.7 percent in the year
to end-January, according to Bank of France figures released
this month. Provisions for non-performing debt may rise by about
5 to 10 basis points this year for French banks’ retail
networks,  Natixis (KN)  SA analyst Alex Koagne said.  While French growth has lagged behind  Germany ’s over the
past two years,  Europe ’s second-largest economy didn’t enter a
spiral of austerity-driven recession like Italy, and, unlike
Spain, didn’t suffer a real-estate bubble or banking crisis.  “In terms of corporate defaults, it’s not the same
situation as in Spain and Italy,” said  Damien Leurent , who
oversees the financial sector at Deloitte France.  French unemployment  at 10.6 percent remains lower than in
Spain and Italy and lending is still rising. Mortgages, the
biggest slice of French loans, are up, Bank of France data show,
although property prices near record highs, new taxes and
macroeconomic concerns have made households reluctant to borrow
to buy homes even at rates that are at a record low.  Bank Profits  Loans to non-financial clients stood at 1.95 trillion euros
at the end of March, an annual 1.5 percent increase, Bank of
France data show -- slower than the 4.7 percent a year earlier.  The effects of the cooling retail business may be evident
when first quarter results are released.  BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank, may report a 1.37
billion-euro first-quarter net income on May 3, according to the
average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
compares with 2.87 billion euros a year earlier, when it
included the sale of a stake in property company Klepierre SA.  Societe Generale, which reports results on May 7, may post
a first-quarter profit of 342.6 million euros, according to the
average of seven analysts’ estimates. That’s below year-earlier
profit of 732 million euros.  Credit Agricole , also set to
publish earnings on May 7, may report a 328.3 million-euro
first-quarter profit, according to the average of four analysts’
estimates. That compares with 252 million euros a year before.  Retail Reliance  Officials at Societe Generale, BNP Paribas and Credit
Agricole declined to comment on the retail-banking business
trends ahead of results.  At Credit Agricole, while the listed bank was unprofitable
over the past two years as it booked Greek losses, net income at
its regional-banking branch networks last year rose 3.4 percent
to 3.54 billion euros. Profits at its LCL branch network fell
1.8 percent in 2012 to 663 million euros. France’s largest bank
by branches gets about two thirds of its deposits from its
domestic retail network.  Societe Generale’s French retail bank posted more profits
than its corporate and investment bank both in 2011 and 2012.  BNP Paribas’s retail pretax profit in its core countries --
France, Italy,  Belgium  and Luxembourg -- fell 1.2 percent last
year to 4 billion euros, while its corporate-and-investment
banking earnings shrank 21 percent to 2.99 billion euros.  Preserving profits at consumer-banking networks is crucial
for French banks with the business providing a buffer during the
financial crisis against volatile investment-banking earnings.  Asset Sales  Until the sovereign debt crisis took hold, French banks used
stable domestic retail-banking profits to expand their
investment-banking franchises at home and abroad.  French banks spent $165 billion in acquisitions in the
decade following the 1999 creation of the euro, with deals
mostly in France and euro-area countries, including Italy and
Belgium, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sovereign-debt crisis prompted Credit Agricole and
Societe Generale to exit  Greece  and to sell some international
businesses to bolster capital.  Societe Generale in March got $1.97 billion selling a
majority stake in its Egyptian unit. BNP Paribas in December
agreed to sell its Egyptian unit to Dubai-based Emirates NBD
PJSC in a $500 million deal.  While they dodged the worst of the sovereign crisis thanks
in part to the  European Central Bank ’s three-year funds to the
region’s lenders, France’s three largest banks shrank risk-
weighted assets by 128 billion euros last year and cut hundreds
of investment-banking jobs to comply with stricter capital rules
and respond to a funding drought caused by Europe’s debt crisis.  Reassessing Operations  Now French lenders are reviewing their core operations.  Societe Generale’s Sammarcelli said in February that the
branch networks face a “major rupture,” adding that shutting a
few “dozen” branches may be part of the “transformation.”  Loan-books may shrink 5 percent on average between now and
2015 and at least 1.8 billion euros in revenue is under threat
because of tightened rules on payments, including the effect of
the bank reform imposing ceilings on fees for lower-income
clients, Roland Berger estimates.  President  Francois Hollande , elected last year on a pledge
to be tough on finance, is pushing through a law to segregate
banks’ riskiest activities, including proprietary trading. The
law would also limit fees banks charge on overdrawn accounts and
checks in measures meant to protect lower-income clients.  Shrinking Business  “The risk is to have a counter-productive effect,”
Deloitte’s Leurent said. “It might modify the map of bank
networks, with possibly branch closings in disadvantaged
regions.”  In 2011, the  banks employed  about 370,000 people, 70 percent
of them in retail banking, according to the latest numbers from
the French Banking Federation. The banks have about 38,000
branches in France.  France’s largest retail banks may shrink their workforce by
10,000 this year by reducing recruitment and replacing fewer
people who retire, Roland Berger’s Asvazadourian estimated.  The lenders may also reduce branches by 2 percent on
average over the next years since France has 600 bank branches
per million inhabitants, higher than the European average of 450
branches, he said.  “Networks are very dense, especially in Paris and large
towns,” said SIA Conseil’s Rocafull. “There is room for
optimization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 