-- BOE Says Clearinghouses Need Plans to Assign Losses in a Crisis
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-04-29T11:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/boe-says-clearinghouses-need-plans-to-assign-losses-in-a-crisis.html
Clearinghouses should have detailed
explanations how they will assign losses to members in the event
of a default that depletes the company’s emergency funds,
according to a  Bank of England  paper on financial stability.  Central counterparties can’t rely on voluntary agreements
between members to absorb losses and there may be “coordination
problems or practical difficulties in arranging this within a
short period of time,” David Elliott, an analyst in the BOE’s
Financial Stability department, said in the  report  published in
 London  today.  So-called loss-allocation rules offer clearinghouses “a
way to protect their participants from the additional costs,
disruption and uncertainty of an insolvency, and allow
continuity of systemically important clearing services,” said
Elliott, an analyst in the BOE’s Financial Stability department.  The Group of 20 nations has ordered a global overhaul of
rules governing derivatives contracts, mandating the use of CCPs
by traders. Regulators have sought tougher rules for over-the-
counter derivatives since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and the rescue of American International Group
Inc., two of the largest traders of credit-default swaps.  Plans for assigning losses could include provisions for
tearing up open contracts between members, according to the BOE
paper. The move would help the clearinghouse to stem potential
losses by “limiting the gains otherwise payable by the central
counterparty to the clearing members with positions opposite to
those of the defaulter.”  Clearinghouses such as London’s  LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  and Eurex
Clearing operate as central counterparties for every buy and
sell order executed by their members, who are required to post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said in an
article this month that regulators need legal powers to allow
them to commandeer clearinghouses that are close to failure.  Watchdogs responsible for financial stability “need the
power to take control of a central counterparty that is no
longer viable, or doomed to become unviable, and where there is
no reasonable prospect of its recovery,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  