-- Boeing Jet Chief Making 787 Amends Builds on Japan Ties
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-04-30T00:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/boeing-making-787-amends-in-japan-gets-personal-with-conner-ties.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s commercial jet chief
is going back to his roots in sales to help buff the
planemaker’s image in Japan after the grounding of the 787
Dreamliner.  No country felt the 787’s absence more keenly than Japan,
home to almost half the global fleet parked in January to repair
overheating lithium-ion batteries. So Boeing Commercial
Airplanes President Ray Conner was aboard April 28 when  ANA
Holdings Inc. (9202)  flew its first Dreamliner since making the fixes.  Japanese companies from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to  Sony Corp. (6758)  to
ANA prize long-term commitments, and CEOs typically spend
decades rising through the ranks instead of hopscotching among
employers as many U.S. counterparts do. That offers Conner, 57,
a chance to build on ties he forged as a salesman in Japan more
than a decade ago, working with ANA and  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)   “If there’s any country they need to go to to support the
787, it’s Japan,” said Geoff Tudor, a principal analyst at
Japan Aviation Management Research, who previously worked at
Japan Airlines for 38 years. “The relationship between ANA and
JAL and Boeing run deep. Boeing is very conscious of the fact
that Japan has been a huge customer of their airplanes since the
mid-’60s.”  That adds to the urgency of retaining dominance in a market
where the two biggest airlines, JAL and ANA, rely on Chicago-
based Boeing rather than  Airbus SAS (EAD)  for their wide-body jets,
the biggest and most-expensive models in airline fleets.  ‘Shows Respect’  Conner was Boeing’s sales chief before being named to lead
the commercial business last year after the surprise resignation
of  Jim Albaugh .  “It’s better if he does visit,” said  Ryota Himeno , an
analyst at Barclays Securities Japan Ltd. “It shows respect for
their launch customer.”  ANA’s weekend flight at  Tokyo ’s Haneda airport underscored
that respect: ANA wasn’t the first airline to get a Dreamliner
airborne again. A day earlier, Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise
flew a 787, with Boeing Marketing Vice President  Randy Tinseth 
representing the company.  ANA’s passenger service with the Dreamliner will resume
June 1, CEO Shinichiro Ito said. Japan Airlines is also planning
to restart 787 flights in June, the Tokyo-based airline’s
President Yoshiharu Ueki told reporters on April 26.  Replacement Planes  Regulators grounded the global 787 fleet on Jan. 16 after
 lithium-ion batteries  on a JAL jet in  Boston  and an ANA plane in
Japan overheated and melted. That forced ANA, JAL and the other
six airlines with 787s in service to rush for replacement planes
and defer plans to add new routes.  Ending the grounding was important for Boeing, because it
allowed the planemaker to resume deliveries from a backlog of
840 Dreamliners, which start at a list price of $206.8 million.
Proving that the 787 can fly safely also would help ease any
questions among prospective future buyers.  Boeing has  rallied  22 percent this year, beating the 12
percent advance for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 , as investors bet
that the battery fix would be successful. The shares fell 1
percent to $91.90 yesterday in  New York .  ANA is the biggest Dreamliner customer, with orders for 66.
JAL has ordered 45 and was once the largest buyer of Boeing’s
747s. ANA has received 17 Dreamliners, compared with seven for
JAL, out of 50 that were affected by the global grounding.  Ten teams totaling more than 300 people are in place
worldwide to rework the Dreamliners already in use, with
multiple groups in Japan,  Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman, said
earlier this month. “ANA’s got the most aircraft and so that’s
the greatest need,” said Ken Morton, a Boeing spokesman in
Tokyo.  Personal Friendships  Conner has worked for Boeing for his entire career of more
than 35 years. His first trip abroad was to Japan, about 25
years ago, he told the U.S.-Japan Council luncheon in October.
He said he has made hundreds of trips to the country and built
personal friendships while deepening Boeing’s business
relationship with customers and suppliers.  He said after the April 28 ANA flight that Boeing will
discuss compensation with individual airlines for costs
associated with the “long” Dreamliner grounding. As is
Boeing’s custom, he didn’t give details on those talks.  ANA said in January that the grounding of the fleet cut
sales by 1.4 billion yen ($14 million) that month alone. JAL
said last month that flight cancellations would cut sales by 1.1
billion yen through the end of March.  Rebuilding Reputation  Conner’s experience and ties may be crucial in rebuilding
Boeing’s reputation in  Japan , where loyalty is highly valued.  Kazuo Hirai took over as Sony’s CEO last year after joining
Sony Music Entertainment Japan Inc. in 1984. Toyota’s Akio Toyoda became president in 2009, a quarter-century after joining
the company founded by his grandfather. ANA’s Ito started with
the airline in 1974.  Japan’s transport minister, Akihiro Ohta, signaled his
appreciation for Conner’s personal approach last month after the
two met in Tokyo while the battery fix was still in the works.  “We met and he mentioned words of apology first, and gave
us an explanation of their proposal,” Ohta said in Tokyo. “I
felt that the CEO was tackling the issue in a very holistic
manner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  