-- Boston Bomb Prosecutor Guides Terror Case, Seeks Dialogue
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-04-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/boston-bomb-prosecutor-guides-terror-case-seeks-dialogue.html
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Aloke
Chakravarty  surveyed a  Boston  courtroom packed with supporters
of a  Massachusetts  man convicted of providing material support
to terrorists and conspiring to commit murder in a foreign 
country.  The defendant, Tarek Mehanna, was found guilty of helping
al-Qaeda by promoting holy war online. His supporters heard
tough words last April from the prosecutor, who asked for a 25-
year prison term to deter Muslims from turning radical.  “They’re watching this case because what the defendant
represents is the harm of homegrown violent extremism,”
Chakravarty said. “It’s the metastasization of this perverted
interpretation of a great faith to motivate other people to take
up arms against a country who is providing them protection.”  Today, Mehanna is serving a 17 1/2-year sentence, as
Chakravarty begins the prosecution of Boston Marathon bombing
suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Tsarnaev, 19, is charged with joining
his older brother Tamerlan, 26, both immigrants of Chechen
descent, in planting two bombs near the finish line on April 15,
killing three people and injuring more than 260. The elder
brother died after a police shootout. Dzhokhar was captured
after a daylong manhunt that shut down Boston.  Chakravarty, born in the U.S. of Indian descent and a co-
leader of the team prosecuting Tsarnaev, also works outside the
courtroom to foster better relations between the government and
Muslims.  Online Learning  The Tsarnaevs were schooled online in radical Islam and
terrorist bomb-making, said Maryland Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger, the top Democrat on the House
Intelligence Committee.  The brothers found bomb-making information in Inspire, an
online magazine affiliated with the al-Qaeda terrorist
organization, according to Ruppersberger. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev,
wounded in the throat, communicated “through writing and
nodding,” in his hospital bed, the congressman told reporters.  Tsarnaev told investigators he and his brother intended to
drive to  New York  to set off more explosives in Times Square,
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said April 25. Bloomberg is the majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of  Bloomberg News .  Chakravarty, 40, was at Tsarnaev’s bedside for the formal
notification of the charges against him, including using weapons
of mass destruction.  Another assistant U.S. attorney prosecuting the case,
William Weinreb, spoke on the government’s behalf. Both men work
under Carmen Ortiz, the Massachusetts U.S. attorney, in the
anti-terrorism and national security unit.  Capital Crimes  If convicted, Tsarnaev might face execution under federal
law. Any federal cases that include potential capital crimes are
reviewed by U.S. prosecutors, and eventually by U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder.  Chakravarty, known as Al, has joined other officials in
meeting with Muslims through a program known as “Bridges,”
which seeks to use monthly dialogue to open channels of
communication.  “Al’s a talented guy, he’s a committed guy,” said Kurt
Schwartz, the Massachusetts undersecretary of  homeland security 
and emergency management. “A human side to a prosecutor who
understands the world and relationships is a good thing.”  Edward Davis, Boston’s police commissioner, said that since
the bombings he has been contacted “by many Muslim families who
are concerned about how people are perceiving this.”  “This is not a situation where people should be
vilified,” he said. “This is the acts of people who are fringe
players.”  No Sleep  Chakravarty, Davis said, “was in the middle of this right
from the get-go. He was at the command post every time I walked
in there. I don’t think he slept at all.”  Investigators are examining whether the brothers were
prompted by people or organizations outside the U.S. The wars in
Iraq and  Afghanistan  were a motivating factor behind the Boston
attack, said a U.S. official briefed on Tsarnaev’s interrogation.  The older brother traveled for six months in  Russia  last
year and visited the republics of Dagestan and Chechnya, where
Islamic separatist movements oppose the government in Moscow.
U.S. investigators traveled to the region this week.  Chakravarty is a graduate of  Johns Hopkins University  in
Baltimore and  Emory  University School of Law in Atlanta. He
previously was a prosecutor in  Middlesex County , Massachusetts,
the state attorney general’s office and the  Justice Department 
in  Washington .  UN Prosecutor  He also previously served as a prosecutor for the  United
Nations  at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia. At the Justice Department, Chakravarty was an
assistant general counsel at the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and an adviser at the Office of Intelligence Policy and Review.  Chakravarty declined to comment for this story through
Christina Sterling, a spokeswoman for Ortiz.  He secured convictions in cases including that of Muhammed
Mubayyid, a software engineer from Shrewsbury, Massachusetts. A
jury convicted Mubayyid of concealing the nature of a tax-exempt
charity used to promote Islamic jihad and fighters known as
mujahedeen. He was sentenced to 11 months in prison.  Michael C. Andrews, Mubayyid’s attorney, continues to
litigate with Chakravarty after an appeals court reinstated a 
jury's conviction on one count that the judge had reversed.  “He has a pleasant, easygoing manner outside the courtroom,
but he’s a true believer and he’s very aggressive in his
prosecutions,” Andrews said.  ‘True Believer’  Chakravarty also prosecuted Muhammad Masood, the onetime
spiritual leader of the Islamic Center of  New England . Masood, a
native of  Pakistan , was sentenced to probation after pleading
guilty to lying to immigration officials while trying to obtain
permanent residency in the U.S. His attorney, Norman Zalkind,
declined to comment on Chakravarty.  Mehanna was convicted at a two-month trial that included
informant testimony and evidence from his computer and online
postings. Prosecutors said he translated terrorist materials
from Arabic into English, including a manual titled “39 Ways to
Serve and Participate in Jihad.”  Mehanna traveled to  Yemen  in 2004 in a failed mission for
training to kill U.S. soldiers, prosecutors said.  At Mehanna’s sentencing hearing, Chakravarty quoted a
letter to the judge from a friend of Mehanna who said
Massachusetts Muslims worship in 40 mosques, Islamic centers and
prayer halls served by only two resident scholars, or imams.  Internet Guidance  The imams are immigrants who don’t fully understand U.S.
society, leading many Muslims to seek Internet guidance from
scholars in  Saudi Arabia ,  Egypt  and Yemen, the letter-writer
said.  “Some scholars are mainstream; others walk a dangerous
path,” according to the letter. “It’s very hard for some to
distinguish between the two because some scholars present a
moderate view of Islam and slowly pull people into a more
radical version.”  At the hearing, Mehanna, then 29, denied he was a terrorist
and said he was exercising his constitutional right to free
speech in criticizing U.S. treatment of Muslims abroad. He
showed a photo of a 14-year-old girl he said was raped and
killed by U.S. soldiers and asserted they were the terrorists.  Mehanna is appealing his conviction. His supporters say
that the prosecutors improperly criminalized his religious and
political speech because of his support of violent Islamic
insurgencies overseas.  Combative Side  Mehanna said the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  tried to
turn him into an informant and he refused -- prompting
Chakravarty to show his combative side.  “What the defendant just said about having been approached
by the FBI on multiple occasions and his characterizations are
categorically false,” Chakravarty told the judge.  “You’re a liar,” Mehanna said. “Sit down. You’re a liar.
You’re a liar.”  “I’ll let your honor assess his contrition,” Chakravarty
said.  “You’re a liar,” Mehanna said. “Sit down.”  “Mr. Mehanna, why don’t you tell us who these people are
who were attempting to --” Chakravarty said. The judge
interrupted.  “Sorry, your honor,” Chakravarty said. “But to highlight
the position, he still possesses information that he is trying
to reinvent his own story.”  Mehanna’s lawyer, J.W. Carney, objected, saying, “This is
not the forum for this.”  Recess, Then Sentence  The judge agreed. He took a recess before returning to
sentence Mehanna, noting his “apparent absence of remorse.”  Mehanna, he said, “expressed concern about violence to
those whom he regarded as truly innocent, but it was also plain
that he had no qualms about the killing by explosive device or
by beheading of persons whom he regarded as supporting” U.S.
military action in  Muslim countries .  The friend of Mehanna who wrote the letter was Mazen
Ramadan, 30, an electronic medical records specialist whose
father built the Worcester Islamic Center in Massachusetts.  Chakravarty “kind of took what I was saying out of
context,” he said.  “He had a point that he was trying to prove, and he was
really trying to drive that point home,” Ramadan said. “He is
very good at what he does. To me, he was just a lawyer doing
what he was doing. He absolutely brought a lot of energy and
fervor to the courtroom.”  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Boston federal court
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 