-- BP’s ‘Serious Breaches’ Risked Explosion at Norway Oil Platform
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-04-29T14:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/bp-s-ula-oil-leak-could-have-been-major-accident-norway-says.html
An oil and gas leak at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Ula
field could have caused a deadly explosion, Norwegian regulators
said. They ordered the company to review maintenance procedures
after discovering “serious breaches.”  An estimated 125 barrels of oil and 1,600 kilograms (3,520
pounds) of gas leaked at the North Sea platform in September
because of corroded bolts in a valve,  Norway ’s  Petroleum Safety
Authority , or PSA, said today in a statement. While no one was
injured, production stopped for 67 days.  “The incident had the potential to become a major
accident,” the PSA said. “A number of lives might have been
lost and substantial material damage caused.”  BP, which operated the well that caused the worst U.S. oil
spill in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2010, had already been ordered by
Norway to review maintenance management for aging installations
after a fire at the Valhall platform in 2011. BP needs to assess
whether measures put in place after the fire require further
improvement by Sept. 1, the PSA said today.  BP had found seepage from the valve six months before the
accident and already decided the equipment needed replacing
during a scheduled maintenance shutdown in 2013, the PSA said in
its report on the incident. BP should have responded better
because they had dealt with similar corrosion at the same
platform in 2008, it said.  The Ula investigation “has identified a number of serious
breaches of the regulations” and shows that “deficiencies
still exist in the maintenance system,” the authority said.  Insufficient Documentation  While the breaches are mainly related to BP’s procedures
for identifying and  managing risk , they also include
insufficient documentation for parts such as the valve involved
in the leak, PSA spokesman Oeyvind Midttun said in a phone
interview from Stavanger on Norway’s west coast.  “We have improvement potential,” BP spokesman Jan Erik
Geirmo said by mobile phone. The PSA’s conclusions “closely
match our own inquiry when it comes to the fundamental cause of
the incident. We take note of the orders and discrepancies that
the authority points out, and the work to comply has already
begun.”  An earlier maintenance inspection had shown “light
seepage” on the valve, and improvement work was planned at the
next shut-down, Geirmo said. BP’s risk assessment of the
inspection findings was in this case “insufficient,” he said.  A police investigation into the leak at Ula is still on-
going, the head of the Rogaland District police’s  North Sea  and
Environmental section, Aaslaug Hoegemark, said by phone from
Stavanger.  “Though we have found some serious discrepancies and BP
has a lot to work with going forward, we remain confident that
the company is able to manage its business in a good manner and
in line with Norwegian regulations,” said the PSA’s Midttun.  BP operates the Ula field with an 80 percent share, while
Dong Energy A/S owns the remaining 20 percent. The field
produced 15,700 barrels of oil equivalent a day in February,
according to the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  