-- Brazil Swap Rates Decline After Inflation Report; Real Weakens
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-04-29T18:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/brazil-swap-rates-decline-after-inflation-report-real-advances.html
Brazil ’s swap rates fell as an
April gauge of inflation was lower than economists forecast,
spurring speculation that the central bank will limit increases
in borrowing costs.  Swap rates due in January 2015 declined three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.25 percent at 3:52 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. The real slid 0.3 percent to 2.0046 per dollar.  The Getulio Vargas Foundation reported today that its IGP-M
index of wholesale, construction and consumer prices rose 7.30
percent in April from a year earlier after climbing 8.06 percent
in the prior month. The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a 7.35 percent increase.  “The IGP-M inflation indicator was well-behaved,”  Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Gradual Investimentos in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “The data suggest a more
dovish attitude to come in monetary policy.”  The central bank’s policy committee voted 6 to 2 on April
17 to increase the target lending  rate  to 7.50 percent from a
record low 7.25 percent, saying that “the high level of
inflation” and its “resilience” required a response.  Swap rates tumbled the day after the April meeting as the
increase in borrowing costs was less than some analysts had
forecast. A survey by Bloomberg showed that 18 of 58 analysts
had projected an increase of 50 basis points.  Consumer prices  rose at an annual rate of 6.59 percent in
March, exceeding the 6.50 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s preferred range for the first time since November 2011.
The target is 4.50 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Hamilton’s Comment  Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s director for economic
policy, said last week the monetary authority may have to step
up the pace of increases in borrowing costs to curb inflation.  The real rallied to a level stronger than 2 per dollar on
April 26 for the first time in eight days as initial public
offerings for companies including BB Seguridade Participacoes
SA, the insurance unit of  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , lured foreign
investors to Brazil’s economy.  “The real was boosted last week by a combination of IPO-
related inflows and central bank monetary policy director
Hamilton’s comments that seemed to open the door for an
acceleration of the tightening cycle,”  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin
America currency strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto,
said in an e-mailed note to clients. “But the range for the
time being appears to be 1.95-2.05.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  