-- Breyer Leaving Dell Board After Facebook, Wal-Mart Exits
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-04-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/breyer-leaving-dell-board-following-exits-at-facebook-wal-mart.html
Accel Partners’ James Breyer,
already leaving the boards of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , won’t seek re-election as a director at computer maker
 Dell Inc. (DELL)   Breyer, a director since 2009, will serve until Dell’s
annual meeting, the Round Rock, Texas-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Dell, which has agreed to be taken private
in a $24.4 billion buyout by Silver Lake Management LLC and
founder  Michael Dell , didn’t provide a date for the meeting.  Following Facebook’s announcement of the departure last
week, Breyer said that he would focus on other responsibilities,
including his role with the governing body of Harvard
University. Breyer is leaving the corporate boards after a
multiyear tenure on each. He’ll use the extra time to focus on
Accel’s investments and seek new potentially successful
startups, a person familiar with his thinking said. The moves
are not health-related, said this person, who asked not to be
identified because the reasons are private.  Facebook said on April 26 that Breyer, who personally made
hundreds of millions of dollars from an early bet on the social-
networking site, was leaving the board. Wal-Mart said earlier in
the week that Breyer won’t stand for re-election to the
retailer’s board.  Breyer, 51, remains a director at  News Corp. (NWS) , and Model N
Inc., a business-software maker that first sold shares to the
public in March. Breyer, who joined Palo Alto, California-based
Accel in 1987, also backed video-technology provider Brightcove
Inc., online marketplace Etsy Inc. and digital-media streaming
company RealNetworks Inc.  In addition to Accel, Breyer runs  Breyer Capital , an
investment firm he founded in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  