-- BYD to Produce Electric Buses in California in U.S. Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-29T14:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/byd-prepares-to-make-electric-buses-in-california-in-u-s-push.html
BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese automaker
partially owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , is
preparing to make electric buses in  California  as the company
seeks to bolster its visibility in the U.S.  The  company  will open facilities in Lancaster, California,
on May 1 that will assemble electric buses, Marketing Director
Sherry Li said. BYD’s  K9 , which is 12 meters (39 feet) long, can
run 155 miles (249 kilometers) when fully charged, which can
take as little as three hours, according to the company.  Production in the world’s largest economy may help BYD,
which has had three consecutive annual profit  declines , to
capitalize on  Buy America  government provisions that subsidize
purchases of U.S.-made products for public transportation
projects. Efforts to expand in the U.S. have yet to bear fruit,
with revenue in the country accounting for less than 2 percent
of its total last year.  “It certainly allows them an opportunity to penetrate into
the U.S. market, especially in California, where electric buses
are very popular,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an automotive
consultant with Rebel Three Media & Consultants in Cos Cob,
 Connecticut . “While strategically it’s a very positive move,
it’s very high risk as they don’t have a contract. If they don’t
have a contract, it’s certainly a very risky proposition.”  Outside China  BYD, based in Shenzhen, is betting on public transportation
to help boost its electric-vehicle business, though mainly in
China. As of last year, 200 of the company’s K9s and 800 of its
e6 electric taxis were running on Shenzhen’s roads, according to
the company. BYD also has K9 and e6 vehicles in trial operations
in Changsha, Xi’an, Shaoguan and Baoji as part of a goal to have
its vehicles nationwide.  Outside of  China , BYD’s K9 bus is running trials in the
U.S., Spain, Hungary, Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands. It
has won orders from the Netherlands, Israel, Uruguay, Colombia
and Canada. In January, BYD received approvals to sell its
electric buses without any restriction in European Union
countries, according to the company.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported on BYD’s plans to
begin assembling electric buses in the U.S.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  