-- Cablevision Agrees to Sell Clearview Theaters to Bow Tie Chain
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/cablevision-agrees-to-sell-clearview-theaters-to-bow-tie-cinemas.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the New
York-area cable operator, agreed to sell most of the Clearview
theater chain to closely held Bow Tie Cinemas, making Bow Tie
the largest exhibitor in the metropolitan New York area.  Bow Tie , owner of 22 U.S. theaters with 177 screens, will
more than double in size become the eighth-largest chain to 388
screens, the companies said yesterday in a statement. Terms
weren’t disclosed.  Bow Tie will make “substantial” investments in the
Clearview sites, including digital projectors and 3-D gear, so
the cinemas can show Hollywood’s biggest releases, according to
the statement. Studios are phasing out film prints in favor of
satellite-distributed digital copies to save on shipping costs.  Cablevision, based in Bethpage,  New York , said in May it
was considering its options for Clearview. Bow Tie is based in
Ridgefield,  Connecticut , and is still run by the family that
founded the company more than 100 years ago, according to the
statement.  The agreement calls for Bow Tie to manage the Ziegfeld
Theatre in New York, although Cablevision will retain ownership,
the companies said. The company plans to make New York’s Chelsea
Cinemas its Manhattan flagship.  Cablevision rose 1.3 percent to $14.99 yesterday in New
York. The shares are little changed this year. The company plans
to let the leases expire on the remaining five locations,
according to Kelly McAndrew, a spokeswoman.  Williams Mullen acted as legal adviser to Bow Tie Cinemas
and Anchin, Block & Anchin acted as financial adviser. Citigroup
Inc. acted as financial adviser to Cablevision and Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP provided legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  