-- California Schools Win as Taxes $4.5 Billion Over Budget
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-04-29T03:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/california-schools-win-as-taxes-4-5-billion-over-budget.html
California’s 6 million public
schoolchildren stand to be big winners as a surge in personal-
income tax revenue has put the state about  $4.5 billion  ahead of
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s forecast.  The figure is an estimate of collections for the fiscal
year that began July 1 through the end of this month, from the
nonpartisan  Legislative Analyst’s Office . Since 1988, the state
constitution has required that schools get a  minimum percentage 
of the state budget -- currently about half.  The extra money comes after California, with almost 13
percent of U.S. public-school students, saw its revenue plummet
20 percent in 2009, the end of the longest recession since the
1930s. The number of full-time teachers fell by 32,000 between
2007 and 2012, according to the analyst’s office.  “Having the opportunity for some additional funds will
allow us to really make inroads in programs for students that we
haven’t had the luxury to think about in a long time,” said
Steven Ladd, superintendent of the Elk Grove Unified School
District near Sacramento,  California ’s fifth largest. “Every
educator in the state has a tremendous list of needs and pent up
demand.”  Brown persuaded voters in November to impose the highest
statewide  sales tax  in the U.S., at 7.5 percent, and to boost
levies on annual income starting at $250,000 -- reaching 13.3
percent on those making $1 million or more, the nation’s highest
rate. Those increases were calculated into the governor’s
forecast.  January Surge  Income-tax revenue for the most populous U.S. state surged
$5 billion above estimates in January. At the time, the
analyst’s office  said  the increase might have come from high-
income earners who cashed out investments at year’s end, before
federal tax rates increased, and might be followed by a
corresponding drop in April or May.  But after subtracting refunds to taxpayers, almost  $12.7
billion  was collected through April 26, four days before the end
of the month, the analyst’s office said. Brown, a 75-year-old
Democrat, had projected $13.3 billion in April.  Brown’s budget office warned that it is still possible that
much of the additional revenue in January was an idiosyncrasy
from early tax payments.  “We don’t yet know how much of this is associated with
high-income individuals accelerating income into 2012 because of
uncertainty over federal  tax policy  at the end of last year,”
said H.D. Palmer, Brown’s budget spokesman. “While it is
certainly a welcome development, we are urging people to
exercise an abundance of caution on how this revenue can be
used.”  Brown’s budget office also isn’t sure yet if some of the
surge in January came from residents who paid some of their
higher state taxes early.  Brown Interpretation  Exactly how much will go to schools isn’t known and can
depend on how Brown chooses to interpret the formula approved by
voters. In about two weeks, the governor will release an update
to his budget proposal for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
when he will detail how the extra money should be spent.  Under the formula used by Brown and the Legislature for the
current budget, almost all of the windfall should go to schools,
said Edgar Cabral, a school-finance authority with the analyst’s
office.  “For every billion that comes in, roughly $950 million
will go to” schools, he said. Yet California law “only tells
the state how much to provide. It doesn’t tell the state what to
do with the money or how it should be allocated.”  In January, Brown proposed a budget that he said would
leave the state with an $850 million surplus by the end of the
next fiscal year, in June 2014. That plan increased school
funding by $2.7 billion more than this year.  He also has proposed the broadest overhaul of how the state
doles out money for schools in 25 years, seeking to send more to
districts where the majority of students are poor and learning
English as a second language.  Opposition  His plan has met with opposition from fellow Democrats, who
say it would harm poor children struggling in districts where
the majority aren’t low-income or learning to speak English.  “Considering the fact that K-12 education took significant
hits during the recession, bringing additional revenue back on
line and using them in the manner the governor has proposed is a
good thing,” Palmer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  