-- California City, Underwriter Misled Investors, SEC Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-04-29T21:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/california-city-underwriter-misled-investors-sec-says.html
U.S. regulators accused
Victorville,  California , and underwriters of lying to investors
by inflating property values backing $13.3 million of municipal
bonds to redevelop a closed air force base.  The Securities and Exchange Commission in a complaint filed
today in federal court said assistant City Manager Keith Metzler
and underwriter Kinsell, Newcomb & DeDios doubled the value of
four hangers at the Southern California Logistics Airport to $65
million so it could borrow more money against the property,
formerly George Air Force Base.  The SEC also said that Carlsbad, California-based Kinsell
Newcomb misused $2.7 million of the bond proceeds to keep the
company afloat. The city and the airport authority contend the
SEC complaint is “not supported by evidence,” spokeswoman
Monica Petersen said in a statement. Kinsell, Newcomb didn’t
retain any of the bond proceeds, Jeffery Kinsell said in a
statement.  “Financing redevelopment projects by selling municipal
bonds based on inflated valuations violates the public trust as
well as the antifraud provisions of the federal securities
laws,” George Canellos, co-director of the SEC’s Division of
Enforcement said in a statement. “Public officials have the
same obligation as corporate officials to tell the truth to
their investors.”  The city of 115,000 is located 85 miles (137 kilometers)
northeast of Los Angeles. The Southern California Logistics
Airport Authority, whose redevelopment powers are controlled by
the city, sold tax-increment bonds to help finance redevelopment
on and around the air base, which was closed by the federal
government in 1992. Such bonds are secured by and repaid from
property-tax increases attributable to gains in the assessed
value of property due to development.  According to the complaint, when the city tried to borrow
$68 million in 2007 to cover a $50 million deposit on a turbine
for a power plant at the base, it couldn’t match the debt-
service ratio demanded by investors. That forced the city to
borrow $42 million instead and use all the attributable property
value increase available to back any additional bonds.  So the city borrowed $35 million in short-term notes in
February 2008 and then sold the $13.3 million two months later
to repay a portion of that loan. In borrowing documents provided
to investors for that bond, the city claimed the hangers were
worth $65 million, the SEC said.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. City of
Victorville, 13-cv-00776, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  