-- Canadian Dollar Gains as Stimulus Bets Fuel Risk-Asset Appetite
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-29T21:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/canadian-dollar-rises-as-stimulus-bets-fuel-risk-asset-appetite.html
The Canadian dollar rose to a two-
week high versus its U.S. peer amid gains in crude oil, the
country’s largest export, and speculation the U.S. will maintain
stimulus and the European Central Bank will cut interest rates.  The currency fell against the dollars of fellow commodity
exporters  Australia  and New Zealand before data tomorrow
forecast to show Canada’s gross domestic product grew 0.2
percent in February, matching January’s pace. Italy ended a two-
month political stalemate as Prime Minister Enrico Letta was
sworn in. Investors bet the Federal Reserve will decide this
week to keep buying bonds under quantitative easing and the ECB
on May 2 will lower its benchmark interest rate. Stocks rose.  “Ahead of the Fed and ahead of the ECB, we see some
strength both in the euro and the Canadian dollar,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , by phone from Toronto. “For the Canadian dollar, one
can look at the pickup in crude-oil pricing as well as the
pickup in equities, along with the inference the Fed will remain
steady on quantitative easing.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.5 percent to
C$1.0112 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto and touched
C$1.0108, its strongest level since April 12. One loonie buys
98.84 U.S. cents.  The Australian dollar rose 0.2 percent to C$1.0466 and the
New Zealand dollar gained 0.5 percent to 86.63 Canadian cents.  Canada ’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  were little
changed, yielding 1.7 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent
security maturing in June 2023 increased 4 cents to C$98.17.  Oil Rises  Futures on crude oil gained 1.5 percent to $94.42 a barrel
in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks
advanced 0.7 percent, and Canada’s benchmark S&P Toronto Stock
Exchange Index added 0.8 percent.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
against its U.S. peer reached the lowest level in two weeks. The
three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate ended the day
at 1.0075 percent, the lowest point since April 12. Risk
reversals measure the premium on options contracts to sell
Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  “There’s no particular reason for the loonie to out-
perform, I just think it’s going higher with all commodity
currencies and risk assets generally,” said Greg T. Moore, a
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from
Toronto. “The positioning doesn’t really reflect what’s going
on with the fundamentals, and that reflects this GDP print.”  Canadian GDP  Canadian GDP grew 0.2 percent in February, the same as a
month earlier, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast before
the nation’s statistics agency reports the data tomorrow.  GDP in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner, grew at a
2.5 percent annual rate last quarter, less than the 3 percent
estimated by economists, the Commerce Department said April 26.  Household purchases in the U.S., which account for about 70
percent of the economy, rose less than forecast in March, adding
0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent gain the prior month, a Commerce
Department report showed today in  Washington .  The Fed, which meets April 30-May 1, is purchasing $85
billion of bonds a month to put downward pressure on borrowing
costs to spur economic growth and lower unemployment.  The ECB will cut its record-low  main refinancing rate  by a
quarter-percentage point to 0.5 percent, a Bloomberg survey of
economists forecast.  ‘Western Alternative’  “I think people looking to diversify out of the U.S., and
looking for a North American or Western alternative, Canada
still does hold up pretty well, despite mixed to weak economic
numbers recently,” said Don Mikolich, executive director of
foreign exchange sales at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
“With the ECB potentially cutting rates by 25 basis points and
removing the rate advantage over other currencies, I think
Canada could be a beneficiary.”  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart reached 5.81 percent, the
lowest level since February. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  The loonie fell 1.3 percent in the past 12 months against
nine developed-nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar gained 1.4
percent, New Zealand’s currency climbed 7.4 percent and the
greenback rose 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  