-- Venezuela Charges Capriles Ally Over Post-Vote Violence
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-04-29T21:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/capriles-ally-to-face-charges-in-wake-of-election-violence.html
Venezuela’s government charged an
ally of presidential runner-up Henrique Capriles Radonski for
inciting violence in the wake of April 14 elections in which the
public prosecutor said nine people died.  Antonio Rivero, a retired general who served as head of the
state-run emergency response unit before joining the opposition
in 2010, was charged today with instigation and association to
commit crimes, the public prosecutor’s office said in an e-
mailed statement.  Violence erupted after the late Hugo Chavez’s handpicked
heir,  Nicolas Maduro , was declared the winner of an emergency
election with 50.6 percent of the vote. Maduro refused
Capriles’s request for a full recount of the ballot and accused
him of inciting a coup. Capriles has refused to take part in an
audit by the electoral council after his request to be able to
cross check electoral registry books against votes cast was
declined.  In a  video  distributed by the government last week, Rivero,
who quit his government post after criticizing Cuban involvement
in the armed forces, is shown offering advice at what appears to
be a confrontation between students and police in Caracas. In
the video, which was edited by the government, it’s unclear
whether Rivero is instructing the students to use or discard
bottles and stones. At the end of the minute-long clip, he
appears to instruct the students to do “everything under the
direction of Capriles.”  Leopoldo Lopez, leader of Rivero’s Voluntad Popular party,
said April 27 that Rivero was encouraging students to protest
peacefully.  Rivero’s arrest follows the April 24 detention of U.S.
citizen Timothy Tracy after the government accused him of spying
and funding violence by students. Tracy, who according to his
lawyer was making a documentary film about political divisions
in  Venezuela , was charged with conspiracy, use of false
documents and criminal association.  A Caracas court ordered Rivero held at the headquarters of
the national intelligence service in the Venezuelan capital, the
public prosecutor’s office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  