-- Capstone Acquires BHP’s Arizona Copper Mine
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-04-29T20:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/capstone-buys-bhp-s-pinto-valley-copper-mine-for-650-million.html
Capstone Mining Corp. (CS) , the owner of
copper mines in Mexico and  Canada , agreed to buy BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s Pinto Valley mine and a railroad in the U.S. for $650
million in cash, marking its biggest acquisition.  Capstone is expected to complete the purchases in the
second half of 2013, the Vancouver-based company said today in a
statement.  Capstone is pushing ahead with its ambition of becoming a
mid-size copper producer by exploiting a so-called buyers’
market for assets held by the world’s largest metals and mining
companies. BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, and  Rio
Tinto (RIO)  Group are among sellers seeking to shore up earnings and
cut costs after more than $60 billion of writedowns in the
industry.  “This acquisition gives Capstone our third producing mine
with a long mine life and is consistent with Capstone’s strategy
of building an intermediate copper producer focused in the
Americas,” said Chief Executive Officer Darren Pylot.  Pinto Valley is projected to produce 130 million pounds to
150 million pounds of copper in concentrate and about 10 million
pounds of copper cathode a year, as well as molybdenum and
silver, according to the statement.  Including by-products, Capstone will produce copper at a
cash cost of about $1.80 a pound. Copper futures for July
delivery climbed 1.3 percent to settle at $3.2265 a pound on the
Comex in  New York .  BHP Divestitures  BHP (BHP)  shareholders will probably respond well to the company
disposing of smaller assets like Pinto Valley, which have been
taking up “too much management time and too much peripheral
capital,” said Vincent Pisani, a Melbourne-based analyst at
Shaw Stockbroking Ltd. “It’s taken some time, but I think BHP
are finally getting it,” he said.  The Pinto Valley deal takes BHP’s divestments to $5 billion
during the last 12 months, according to a BHP statement today.  BHP suspended mining at Pinto Valley in February 2009 and
said operations began again in the last quarter of 2012.
Capstone, which is also acquiring the related San Manuel  Arizona 
Railroad, said BHP had spent $194 million on equipment and
infrastructure to enable operations to resume.  Asset Sales  BHP may potentially sell assets worth $25 billion and
London-based  Rio Tinto  $10 billion, Deutsche Bank AG analysts
said in a note last month.  Scotia Capital Inc. provided financial advice to Capstone
and its directors on the deal, according to Capstone’s
statement. Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP and Davis, Graham &
Stubbs LLP provided legal advice, the company said.  BHP rose 0.9 percent to 1,832 pence at the close in  London .
Capstone fell 3.4 percent to C$2 in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
David Stringer in Sydney at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  