-- Chafee Says He’ll Sign Rhode Island Bill Legalizing Gay Marriage
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-04-29T21:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/chafee-says-he-ll-sign-rhode-island-bill-legalizing-gay-marriage.html
Rhode Island  Governor Lincoln Chafee said he will sign a bill legalizing same sex- marriage as
soon as this week, providing an economic boost to the state and
a resolution of an issue whose “time had come.”  “There were no deals, no trades,” Chafee, a 60-year-old
Republican-turned-independent, said today in an interview at
Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York . Lawmakers didn’t want
to be on the wrong side of history, he said.  The state senate’s passage of same-sex marriage last week
marked a signature achievement of Chafee’s tenure. After winning
election in 2010, he drew criticism when he broached the subject
in his inaugural address. The measure was put to a vote and
passed in the face of opposition from Democratic Senate
President Teresa Paiva Weed three months after the House
approved it. A House committee will reconcile some language
revisions tomorrow, with a full vote set for the following day,
Chafee said.  The governor had argued for the measure using
competitiveness as a selling point. Rhode Island was at a
disadvantage as the only New England state without gay marriage,
he said, citing a correlation between tolerance and economic
prosperity.  “Some people think that means florists and weddings, and
in fact I don’t mean that at all,” he said. “I mean it in a
broader universe of a place that is welcoming to the younger
generation, the creative generation, entrepreneurs.”  Uphill Battle  Chafee served as a U.S. senator from 1999 to 2007, when he
switched his affiliation to independent, citing the  Republican
Party ’s turn to the right.  He faces an uphill fight to re-election next year, when he
probably will face both Republican and Democratic challengers.
He acknowledged that his lack of “party apparatus as a natural
defense” makes it more difficult and said he’s still evaluating
a run as a Democrat.  “Being a solo practitioner, as an independent, I enjoy the
status, but the practical realities sometimes are reason to
think about options,” he said.  A February poll by  Brown University  showed Chafee’s
approval rating is 26 percent, among the worst for any sitting
governor.  He said he’s “fully cognizant” of his approval ratings.  “You do your job and let the chips fall where they may,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  