-- Chenavari Said to Target $1 Billion Europe Direct Lending Funds
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-04-29T14:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/chenavari-said-to-target-1-billion-europe-direct-lending-funds.html
Chenavari Credit Partners LLP is
raising as much as $1 billion for its European direct lending
funds as banks cut loans to small and medium-sized companies and
real estate developers, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter.  Chenavari,  whose assets under management soared almost 100
times to $3.75 billion from $40 million five years ago, is
seeking to deliver net annual return of about 12 percent for the
strategy, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Chenavari is among asset managers seeking to fill the
lending gap left by European banks under pressure to sell assets
and cut non investment-grade lending to meet stricter capital
rules. Small and medium-sized companies in  Europe  require an
estimated 100 billion euros ($131 billion) of debt funding a
year, according to a Societe Generale SA research report this
month.  The credit hedge fund firm based in London hired Mike
Henebery, Jerry Wilson and Darren Gibson from Palio Capital
Partners LLP in February to expand its existing direct lending
business, according to a  statement.   Chenavari has invested more than $500 million in direct
lending and the pool can be increased to as much as $1 billion
by early 2014, the people said.  Officials at Chenavari declined to comment.  Fund Performance  Chenavari was founded in 2008 by Loic Fery, former global
head of credit markets at Calyon. It invests across European
asset-backed securities, corporate debt, European bank
regulatory capital credit, and real estate financing, according
to its website.  It took over the management of Lyxor Asset Management’s
credit derivatives funds in November 2009, increasing its assets
to $2.4 billion at the time.  The $850 million Chenavari Multi Strategy Credit Fund
generated about a 4.6 percent return at the end of March for the
euro-denominated MS2 class. The $390 million Chenavari Toro
Capital I that invests in asset-backed securities, delivered an
8.5 percent return at the end of the first quarter. The European
real estate debt strategy earned 3.7 percent, while the
Regulatory Capital strategy garnered 3.1 percent, after earning
36.9 percent in 2012, according to the firm’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  