-- China Plans to Raise Stock Investment Levels by Equity Funds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-29T04:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/china-plans-to-raise-stock-investment-levels-by-equity-funds.html
China ’s securities regulator plans
to raise the minimum proportion equity funds should have in
shares, a move that may drive investments into the worst-
performing major Asian  stock market  in the past year.  A stocks fund will be defined as one that holds more than
80 percent of its assets in equities, according to revised
industry  rules  posted on the China Securities Regulatory
Commission website. That compares with 60 percent now. The CSRC
also plans to amend its rules so that a fund’s total assets
can’t exceed 140 percent of its net assets.  “It will definitely be positive for the stock market” in
the long run, said  Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head of Asia
equity research at ABN Amro Private Bank, which oversees about
$207 billion. “But this is a multi-year project and it’s still
in its early days. I am still cautious on China stocks, as we
may see downgrades in some company earnings.”
  Chinese stock markets are shut for public holidays and will 
reopen on May 2. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has
tumbled more than 10 percent from its 2013 high on Feb. 6 amid 
signs that the economy’s recovery is stalling. The nation’s 
industrial profits growth fell in March from the first two 
months, as banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. cut their estimates for full-year expansion.   Historically, stocks funds invest 80-90 percent of their
holdings in equities, and currently 13.5 percent of the funds
invest less than 80 percent, the  Securities Times   reported  on
April 27, citing an unidentified CSRC spokesman. The  South China
Morning Post  said the change of rule could theoretically inject
200 billion  yuan  ($32 billion) into the market, without citing
anyone.  Fifth-Largest Market  China’s domestic stock market is valued at $3.06 trillion,
making it the world’s fifth largest, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The CSRC is soliciting comments and suggestions on the
proposed changes until May 26.  Separately, a CSRC spokesman said in a press conference on
April 26 that overseas strategic investors, or Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investors, aren’t  selling  shares on a large scale,
even as they downgraded their view of the Chinese economy and
market, according to the Securities Times.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  