-- Clegg Says Cameron Appeasing Extreme Segment of Tories
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-29T14:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/clegg-says-cameron-appeasing-extreme-segment-of-tories.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  attacked his coalition partner, Prime Minister  David Cameron , for backing policies designed to appeal to the
“extreme” wing of his Conservative party.  Writing before local-government elections this week, Clegg,
the Liberal Democrat leader, accused Cameron of abandoning
“compassionate” Conservatism in favor of playing to elements
in his party that want to cut welfare payments, abandon
environmental policies and withdraw from the European Convention
on  Human Rights  to deport a radical Islamic cleric,  Abu Qatada .  “The Tories are pulling to the right in an attempt to
appease their base,” Clegg wrote on the  Lib Dem Voice  blog
today. “Compassionate conservatism has been sidelined. So-
called benefits scroungers have been back in the firing line,
along with the European Convention on Human Rights. The blue
team used to claim to have gone green, yet have now publicly
denounced the importance of environmental protections.”  With national elections two years away, the coalition
partners are increasingly highlighting their differences. Last
week, Cameron strengthened his team to give a greater Tory focus
to government policy. Clegg also attacked the opposition Labour
Party today for tacking to the other extreme.  “By offering anger rather than hope, Labour are steadily
becoming a party of protest,” Clegg said, an echo of a warning
from former Labour Prime Minister  Tony Blair , who told current
leader  Ed Miliband  in an article published on April 11 he risks
remaining in opposition.  “They are making the classic mistake of opposition,
talking only to themselves rather than setting out a positive
vision for the nation,” Clegg said of Labour today.  “Their
absence of ideas only confirms that they cannot be trusted on
the biggest challenge of our time: fixing the mess in the
economy they helped create.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  