-- Coca-Cola HBC Sees Margin Rebound as Bottler Makes London Debut
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-04-29T15:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/coca-cola-hbc-sees-margin-rebound-as-bottler-makes-london-debut.html
Coca-Cola HBC AG, the soft-drink
bottler that switched its primary listing to the  London  Stock
Exchange today, expects profitability to rebound this year as
sugar and oil prices rise at a slower pace than previous years.  Commodity costs will increase at a “low single-digit”
pace, after climbing 14 percent in 2011 and 6 percent in 2012,
Chief Executive Officer Dimitris Lois said in an interview at
the London bourse. Cost reduction measures such as consolidating
some office processes will also boost margins, helping offset a
slowdown in revenue growth, Lois said.  Rising prices for commodities have presented an additional
challenge for food and drink makers in recent years as they
struggle to contend with weakening consumer demand. Coca-Cola
HBC’s operating margin declined to 6.4 percent of sales in its
2012 fiscal year from 10.8 percent in 2007. Lois said today that
he expects the margin to return to levels seen before the
European financial crisis, without giving a timeframe. European
markets show few signs of stabilization, he also said.  “It’s a bit of a challenge,” the CEO said. “At some
stage this year we’ll be able to look back and say that probably
the worst is behind us, but it’s still a tough year.”  Coca-Cola HBC shares traded at 1,737 pence at 4:17 p.m. on
their first day of London trading, giving the company a market
value of about 6.1 billion pounds ($9.5 billion). The bottler
said in October it would move its primary listing from  Athens  to
London, fleeing the epicenter of  Europe ’s debt crisis. It also
switched its domicile to Zug, Switzerland.  ‘Quite Complex’  The listing process was “innovative and quite complex,”
and “made the company known to a wider audience who aren’t
particularly knowledgeable about the Coke bottling system,”
Lois said. The move will make Coca-Cola HBC eligible for
inclusion in London’s benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  in September.  Cost reduction measures such as consolidating finance and
human resources into one center will reduce expenses by about 65
million euros this year, Chief Financial Officer Michalis Imellos said in the same interview.  Revenue, excluding currency shifts, will grow at a slower
pace than last year’s 2 percent, Lois said, as austerity
measures in the Eurozone weigh on improvements elsewhere. He
declined to comment on whether the volume of products sold would
increase after being unchanged last year.  Coca-Cola HBC operates in countries with lower per-capita
consumption of sparkling drinks than the rest of the Eurozone,
which will help in boosting volume growth, Lois said.  Russia, Nigeria  Coca-Cola HBC buys concentrate from Coca-Cola Co. and
blends, bottles and sells the products in European  countries 
including Greece and  Italy . Lois said he’s optimistic about the
 emerging markets  of  Russia  and Nigeria this year. Sales of Coca-
Cola in Russia were helped by a government ban on selling beer
at freestanding kiosks, he said.  “We still have a lot of consumers to recruit,” Lois said,
noting that per-capita consumption in most of its markets for
sparkling beverages is lower than the Eurozone average. He cited
Italy, one of the country’s biggest markets, which has a 20
percent lower per-capita consumption of sparkling beverages than
 Serbia , and 40 percent lower consumption than  Bulgaria .  The company expects to sell bonds in the next six-to-nine
months, the CEO said, as it seeks to refinance about 1 billion
euros of debt due by 2014. Coca-Cola HBC will sell  bonds  in
euros and seek an average debt maturity of about 5 years. It’s
not looking to raise money for acquisitions and isn’t interested
in buying Coca-Cola’s German bottling operations, Lois said.  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., another bottler of the
bestselling soft drink, said April 25 that it let a right to buy
Coca-Cola’s German bottling operations lapse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  