-- Copper Declines for Second Day on U.S., China Demand Concerns
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-04-29T01:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/copper-declines-for-second-day-on-u-s-china-demand-concerns.html
Copper dropped for a second
straight session amid concern that lower-than-forecast growth in
the U.S. and  China , the world’s biggest consumers of the metal,
will damp demand. Zinc and lead retreated.  Copper for delivery in three months lost as much as 0.7
percent to $6,980 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange and
was at $7,008.25 by 10:23 a.m. in Seoul. Prices slumped 2.1
percent on April 26, the most in more than a week. The contract
for July delivery fell 0.2 percent to $3.1805 a pound on the
Comex in  New York . Markets in China are closed for a three-day
holiday through May 1.  The U.S. economy grew 2.5 percent in the first quarter,
lower than forecast in a survey, Commerce Department data showed
last week, while manufacturing gauges for China and the euro
area were weaker than estimated by analysts. Growth in Chinese
industrial companies’ profits slowed in March, adding to
evidence the nation’s economic recovery is losing steam. Copper
inventories tracked by the LME increased for a  13th week , daily
figures showed last week.  “The weaker-than-expected U.S. GDP data is still weighing
on the market,” Lelia Kim, a metals trader at Tong Yang
Securities Inc., said by phone from Seoul today. “Given the
growth picture in China remains weak, we don’t expect much
improvement in Chinese buying right after the holidays. Trading
will be also thin while China is closed.”  The  U.S. economy  was expected to grow 3 percent, according
to the median estimate of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Net income of Chinese industrial companies increased 5.3 percent
from a year earlier to 464.9 billion  yuan  ($75 billion), down
from a 17.2 percent pace in the first two months, the National
Bureau of Statistics said on its website on April 27.  China’s top leaders said the country must guard against
financial risks and boost consumption, according to a Politburo
Central Committee statement released last week through the
official Xinhua News Agency.  On the LME, aluminum and tin were little changed, while
nickel gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  