-- Corn Futures Jump Most Since June on Slow U.S. Seeding
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-04-29T18:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/corn-climbs-to-one-week-high-before-planting-report-wheat-gains.html
Corn futures jumped the most in 10
months as rain and frigid weather slowed the pace of planting in
the U.S., the world’s top exporter. Wheat and soybeans rose.  Farmers  sowed  4 percent of corn crops as of April 21,
trailing the five-year average pace of 16 percent, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said April 22. The agency will update
its weekly crop progress today. Much of the Midwest from
 Missouri  to  Michigan  had double the normal  rainfall  in the past
two weeks, and the region will remain wet and cool through May
7, T-Storm Weather LLC in  Chicago  said in a report.  “The weather is wetter, and little planting is likely to
occur with most farmers still working to apply fertilizer and
prepare fields for seeds,”  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C
Trading Inc. in Fowler, Indiana, said in a telephone interview.
“The risk is that this weather doesn’t break and planting
delays become more severe in May,” increasing the risk of crop
damage during summer heat, Gerlach said.  On the Chicago Board of Trade, corn futures for July
delivery surged by the exchange limit of 40 cents or 6.5
percent, to $6.5975 a bushel at 1:14 p.m., the highest for a
most-active contract since April 1.  A close at that price would
mark the biggest gain since June 25.  Corn futures for December delivery, after the harvest,
jumped as much as 36 cents, or 6.9 percent, to $5.60.  Iowa Rainfall  Iowa, Illinois and  Indiana  probably will have the wettest
April ever, T-Storm Weather said. Fields from northern  Louisiana 
to Michigan may get as much as 2 inches (5.1 centimeters) of
rain in the next six days, increasing planting delays for most
of the central U.S., the forecaster said.  Corn rose as some traders unwound bets on a price slump,
Gerlach said. In the week ended April 23,  hedge funds  increased
net-short  positions  by 14 percent to 197,224 futures and option
contracts, the most since the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission started reporting the data in June 2006, agency data
showed on April 26.  On the Kansas City Board of Trade, wheat futures for July
delivery advanced 3.2 percent to $7.7475 a bushel. A close at
that price would mark the biggest increase since Nov. 27.
Earlier, the grain reached $7.79, the highest since March 28.  Wheat Tour  Growers, grain traders and industry analysts are touring
fields this week in  Kansas , the biggest U.S. producer of the
winter variety. Drought conditions and freezing temperatures
three times this month across most of the central and southern
Great Plains will cut U.S. yields to 43 bushels an acre from
47.2 bushels a year earlier, Berwyn, Pennsylvania Planalytics
Inc. said today in a report.  “Very poor winter wheat-condition ratings and a late
emergence from dormancy have seen many make substantial cuts”
to estimates, Chris Gadd, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
 London , said in a report.  In Chicago, wheat futures for July delivery rose 3.3
percent to $7.155. A close at that price would mark the biggest
gain since April 3. Earlier, the price reached $7.1975, the
highest since April 15.  Soybean futures for July delivery advanced 2 percent to
$14.09 a bushel. Earlier, the price reached $14.1075, the
highest since March 28  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat, USDA data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 