-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Drop to Three-Year Low
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-29T21:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-drop-to-three-year-low.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk dropped to a three-year low as more Americans signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes last month.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.4
basis points to a mid-price of 76.8 basis points at 5:19 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
has  declined  for seven straight sessions, reaching the lowest
level since January 11, 2010.  An index of  pending home sales  increased 1.5 percent in
March after a revised 1 percent decline the previous month that
was larger than initially reported, a release from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . Economists
 forecast  a 1 percent jump, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. Investors may use measures of the economic
strength to gauge whether companies will struggle to repay their
debt.  “It seems like people don’t really care about the
macroeconomic or earnings environments,” Noel Hebert, chief
investment officer at Concannon Wealth Management, which
oversees about $250 million of assets from Bethlehem,
 Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview. “We’re still in
this game where people think central banks will keep printing
money ad infinitum.”  McDonald’s Debt  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The  European Central Bank  will cut its  benchmark interest
rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent on May 2, according to the
majority of economists in a Bloomberg survey, while the  Federal
Reserve  may consider renewing its commitment to bond-buying at a
two-day meeting starting tomorrow.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. climbed 0.2 percent in March
after a 0.7 percent gain the month before, while incomes
increased less than forecast and inflation cooled to the lowest
level in more than three years.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain by
sales, plans to raise $500 million with a sale of 30-year bonds.  The company intends to issue the securities to fund general
corporate purposes, according to a person familiar with the
offering who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t
set. McDonald’s debt is rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service
and an equivalent A at  Standard & Poor’s .  J.C. Penney Swaps  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index declined 11.9 basis points to 370.3 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The cost to protect against a default by  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) 
declined as the retailer received a $1.75 billion term loan
commitment from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as it works to boost
liquidity.  Credit swaps tied to Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney’s debt
declined 1.3 percentage points to 11.5 percent upfront at 3:13
p.m., according to CMA, the data provider owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. that compiles prices quoted by dealers. That means it would
cost $1.15 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of obligations.  The five-year loan will be secured by real estate and an
interest in other assets of the retailer, J.C. Penney said today
in a statement. The proceeds will be used for working capital
and to discharge the company’s 7.125 percent notes due in 2023.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt tightened 3.9 basis points to 521 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  