-- Cost of Doing Business in Russia Can Be Prison
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-04-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/cost-of-doing-business-in-russia-can-be-prison.html
Back in Soviet days, trading for a
profit was considered a crime. If government prosecutors have
their way in the case of opposition activist Alexei Navalny,
 Russia  -- purportedly a market economy -- could be imprisoning
someone for such “speculation” again.  The first of two criminal cases against Navalny, whose
campaigning against official corruption has made him a nemesis
of President Vladimir Putin, entered the trial stage in the city
of Kirov last week.  Prosecutors have charged Navalny and a businessman named
Pyotr Ofitserov with stealing 16 million rubles ($530,000) worth
of lumber from a now-bankrupt state-owned company called
Kirovles in 2009. Navalny was then working as an unpaid adviser
to the Kirov governor with a brief to root out corruption. The
felony charge carries a maximum prison sentence of 10 years.  Ofitserov, an acquaintance of Navalny’s, set up a company
in Kirov called VLK, hoping to make money selling lumber. The 16
million rubles is the entire amount of VLK’s sales for the
duration of its brief history. The prosecutors claim that
Navalny used his job with the governor’s office to channel
Kirovles sales though VLK, forcing the state-owned company to
sell at a loss to enrich the intermediary. There is no evidence,
however, that VLK was getting the timber for less than the going
market rate. The defense has submitted evidence that VLK paid
Kirovles 14 million rubles for the lumber.  Navalny and his brother Oleg, a postal official, face
similar allegations in another case that has not yet gone to
trial. A cargo-delivery company set up by the Navalnys received
55 million rubles ($1.8 million) for services rendered to the
Russian branch of the French cosmetics company Yves Rocher, but
outsourced the work to a different operator for 31 million
rubles ($1 million). Investigators say that the profit was made
illegally, because Oleg Navalny used his job with the Russian
postal service to drum up business for a firm that had no
resources to do what it promised.  The cases have attracted attention both for their political
motivation and for their troubling portrayal of the normal
business activities of an intermediary as a felony. “It is time
for the people on the Forbes rich list to take to Red Square
with signs saying ’The Navalny Case Is a Case Against Me,’”
Maxim Mironov, an economist at the IE Business School in  Madrid ,
 wrote  on Slon.ru. “If one looks at them closely, both the
Kirovles case and the postal case regard as a crime the
principle ’buy cheap, sell dearly.’ And this is the basic
principle of the market economy.”  Russia’s billionaires have not picketed Red Square yet, if
only because the court decisions in the cases against Navalny
are widely believed to be predetermined. Putin  made  his opinion
known during a 5-hour call-in session last week, in comments the
trial judges are highly unlikely to have missed: “People who
fight against corruption must be absolutely honest themselves,
otherwise this turns into mere self-promotion and political
campaigning. Everyone must be equal before the law, and no one
should have the illusion that if one yells ’Stop thief!’, then
he himself is allowed to steal.”  Even to some Putin loyalists, the cases against Navalny are
uncomfortably anti-business. “We are looking at a civil-law
contract: Goods have been supplied and paid for,” former finance
minister Alexei Kudrin, who regularly advises the president on
economic matters,  wrote  on his site. “The prosecution’s case
casts doubt on the foundations of Russia’s market economy,
including the right to make deals freely. The case gives off a
sense of time travel. It’s as if we were not living in 2013 but
in a Soviet planned economy.”  Navalny had a chance to flee Russia before the trial
started, but has chosen to stay and go to prison if convicted.
Navalny’s stated goal is to run for president one day, and he
believes emigration would destroy his long-term chances at a
political career.  For lumber trader Ofitserov, who has no political
ambitions, the case is a career-ending disaster. All he can hope
for is regime change. “Thousands of entrepreneurs are in jail on
trumped-up charges, and they do not even know any opposition
figures,” Ofitserov  wrote  on Facebook. “Anyone, even you, could
be put on trial like me. Being law-abiding will not help.”  Last year, Putin announced that he wanted Russia to rise
from 118th to 20th place in the World Bank’s Doing Business
ranking, which rates countries by business climate. He even
signed a decree setting this ambitious goal for 2018 and
specifying that Russia was to be in 50th place by 2015. Russia
advanced to 112th place in the 2013 rankings.  Putin’s goals are clearly overly optimistic. A single case
like Navalny’s, by criminalizing normal business activity, can
negate any progress Russia might make in improving its tax
system or regulatory practices. Who cares about the ease of
doing business when one can be sent to jail for the very act of
making a profit?  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 