-- Deadhead Drops Out in Garson’s ‘Down the Up Escalator’
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-04-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/deadhead-drops-out-in-garson-s-down-the-up-escalator-.html
The hard-luck stories in Barbara
Garson’s “ Down the Up Escalator: How the 99 Percent Live in the
Great Recession ” fall into two sections: people who have lost
their jobs and people who have lost their homes.  Somehow, though, it’s not a gloomy book (at least not on
the surface). Garson writes less about the terrible things that
have happened to Americans since the crash than about the
resigned/resourceful ways they’re coping.  Take Michael, a young Indiana Deadhead who has settled with
such easygoing hopelessness into the new economy that he’s given
up even looking for a job he might advance in.  His father works a miserable 50-to-60-hour week as a
supervisor at the distribution center of a big-box retailer
that, after 35 years, is trying to force him out so it can hire
a younger, cheaper replacement.  “I’m not going to live that way,” Michael tells Garson. It
makes her think about acquaintances from her own generation who
made the choice to drop out.  “Michael and his friends seem to have arrived at the hippie
ethic from another direction,” she observes. “They don’t have
the option of well-paying, steady jobs. But they do have the
option of not feeling bad about that.”  Turning to the foreclosure crisis, Garson interviews a wide
range of home losers, from victims of shady financial-services
companies to speculators whose bets went bad.  Bank Ethics  What she’s most struck by is the change that’s come over
mortgage holders who believed -- or started off believing --
that repaying their loans was a matter of conscience and duty
even when they found themselves owing more than their property
was worth. Some of them came to realize that the corporate banks
they were dealing with operated under a different set of ethics
than their own.  The subject of a chapter titled (and not ironically) “An
Upright Man” describes the tormenting process of applying for a
loan modification -- the repeated demands for documents already
submitted and similar “baroquely embellished procedures”
seemingly designed to “give people just enough hope to keep them
paying on the mortgage as long as humanly possible.”  When -- finally -- their application was denied, he and his
wife stopped paying. “After having tried to work with the bank
for a year and a half,” he says, “I know that we were not
irresponsible. I know we’re not deadbeats.”  Applauding Scofflaws  Part of Garson wants to applaud holders of underwater
mortgages who have worked up the nerve to stop making payments
to a system that’s suckering them. Another part isn’t so sure.  “This crisis,” she worries, “is fraying our national ethic
about debt. I wonder if it applies only to bank debt, and I
wonder if the lawlessness will be lasting.”  After moving jobs overseas, she notes, U.S. corporations
are now abandoning the domestic market for foreign sales. “The
companies that wrote us off as workers now write us off as
consumers. If you’re not a worker, not a consumer and you don’t
earn significant income from investments, then you don’t have
much of a place in capitalist society,” she says.  Garson uses her engaging stories of plucky individuals to
open the floor to a deeply unnerving question: Have the crash
and other changes to the economy that keep widening the gap
between rich and poor created an America in which most Americans
no longer have a place?  “Down the Up Escalator” is published by Doubleday (276
pages, $26.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on whiskey and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 