-- Diamondback Says It Was Victim of Ex-Manager’s Crimes
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-29T22:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/diamondback-capital-says-it-is-victim-of-ex-manager-s-crimes.html
Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
one of the  hedge funds  raided by the FBI in 2010, is seeking $39
million in restitution from former fund manager  Todd Newman ,
saying it’s a victim of his insider-trading scheme.  Newman, 48, was convicted of conspiracy and securities
fraud by a federal jury in New York in December. Prosecutors
said he was part of a group of fund managers, analysts and
insiders at technology companies who swapped inside information
in a scheme that reaped $72 million in illicit profits.  The hedge fund, which closed in December, is asking for the
restitution, claiming its goodwill and reputation were
“tarnished,” Prosecutors called the request “unprecedented.”  The loss of a $26 million management fee and investor
redemptions are “direct damage Newman’s criminal conduct
inflicted,” according to  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Diamondback.  “It is impossible to return Diamondback fully to the
position it was in prior to Nov. 22, 2010, when Todd Newman’s
 insider-trading  scheme led to an FBI raid on Diamondback’s
offices,” said Peter Neiman, a partner at Wilmer Hale LLP who
is representing the fund. “Diamondback is also entitled to
recover for the direct damage Newman’s criminal conduct
inflicted on its goodwill and business reputation.”  Newman Sentencing  Newman is scheduled to be sentenced May 2 by U.S. District
Court Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan . Sullivan will rule
separately on the restitution request, which the fund is making
under the federal Mandatory Victims Restitution Act, Neiman
said.  Prosecutors said April 26 that Diamondback’s request was
“unprecedented,” saying the fund hadn’t explained how it was
foreseeable to Newman at the time he was committing his crimes
that, if the offenses were detected, it would lead to a large-
scale withdrawal of investor funds.  Vickram David, head of  investor relations  at Diamondback,
said in an affidavit to the court that before the raids, the
fund had been growing rapidly -- with the prospect of having as
much as $8 billion under management. The searches triggered a
“massive wave” of investor redemption of about $1.3 billion,
more than 30 percent of the fund’s assets under management on
Feb. 15, 2011  ‘Dramatic Events’  “Based on my regular communications with investors at that
time, it is clear to me that the withdrawals were entirely
driven by the dramatic events,” David said.  “Investor reaction was immediate,” he said. “Over the
week following the search, I spoke to nearly all of our
investors. Uniformly, they expressed enormous concern at the
suggestion in the search warrant (and in related press stories)
that Newman had engaged in insider trading. Many investors
immediately requested their money back.”  Newman was convicted of an insider trading in December in a
scheme to trade on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  using illicit tips
provided by analysts and insiders at technology companies who
swapped inside information.  Like Diamondback, other firms have sought such restitution
from their former employees after insider-trading prosecutions.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. obtained a $6.2 million restitution
payment from former director  Rajat Gupta .  Morgan Stanley (MS)  won a $10.2 million judgment for insider
trading by ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC fund manager Joseph F.
“Chip” Skowron. Both Skowron and Gupta were convicted at trial
and are appealing their cases and the restitution orders.  Prosecutors said in court filings that Diamondback’s
request was unique because it seeks restitution for “massive
investor redemptions,” which Morgan Stanley and other firms
whose employees were convicted of insider trading haven’t
sought.  Diamondback said in December it was closing, saying it had
received requests from investors to withdraw about $520 million,
or 26 percent, of its assets.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  