-- Dollar Touches Week Low Against Euro Before Fed Starts Meeting
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-04-30T06:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/dollar-remains-lower-versus-majors-before-fed-jobs-kiwi-slides.html
The dollar touched the lowest in
more than a week versus the euro before the  Federal Reserve 
begins a two-day meeting amid bets it will maintain its
quantitative easing bond purchases for the foreseeable future.  The greenback is set for its first monthly drop since
January ahead of a U.S. report tomorrow forecast to show private
employers added the fewest jobs in six months. The yen is set to
complete a seventh monthly decline as an advance in Asian
equities boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  New
Zealand ’s dollar slid versus its Australian counterpart after
data showed home-building  approvals  in the smaller nation
unexpectedly decreased last month.  “The dollar is being sold with weakening U.S. economic
indicators and talk of prolonged quantitative easing,” said
Yasuhiro Kaizaki, the vice president of global markets at
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. in New York. “The Fed may
become a little bit more cautious about its assessment on the
economy.”  The greenback lost 0.1 percent to $1.3111 per euro as of
6:51 a.m. in  London  after touching $1.3121, the weakest since
April 19. It has fallen 2.2 percent this month. The yen was
little changed at 97.79 per U.S. currency, having dropped 3.8
percent since the end of March. It slid 0.1 percent to 128.18
per euro, set for a 5.8 percent decline in April.  The yen’s seven months of slides against the dollar will
match the stretch that ended in March 2001 as the longest since
a nine-month losing streak that was completed in January 1996.  Jobs Growth  The Fed is buying $85 billion of bonds each month in its
third round of QE to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.
While Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after the previous meeting
on March 20 that further labor-market gains were needed to
consider reducing monetary easing, minutes showed officials
discussed slowing the pace of buying.  Private employment rose by 150,000 in April after gaining
158,000 the previous month, data from the Roseland, New Jersey-
based ADP Research Institute will probably show tomorrow,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . U.S. payrolls increased by 150,000 workers after
an 88,000 gain in March, a separate survey forecasts before a
May 3 Labor Department report.  So far this year, the dollar has climbed 0.6 percent versus
the euro and 13 percent against the yen. The Asian nation’s
currency has slumped 11 percent versus the euro, as
unprecedented stimulus measures announced by the  Bank of Japan 
on April 4 spurred investors to sell the yen.  Japan Output  Japanese  industrial output  grew less than estimated,
bolstering the case for continued BOJ action. Data from the
trade ministry today showed production climbed 0.2 percent in
March, less than the median 0.4 percent forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  Demand for the yen was sapped as the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index of stocks rose 0.9 percent.  “With very few risk-off catalysts, yen buying is unlikely
to prevail in the market,” said  Marito Ueda , the senior
managing director at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin company
in  Tokyo . “Yen weakness will stay here as a trend” amid the
BOJ’s monetary easing, he said.  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, slid against
most major peers after the statistics bureau said home building
approvals fell 9.1 percent in March compared with the median
forecast for an increase of 2 percent.  The “unambiguously weaker-than-expected” data spurred
selling of the  New Zealand dollar  versus Australia’s currency,
said  Mike Jones , a foreign-exchange strategist at  Bank of New
Zealand  in Wellington.  The kiwi weakened 0.2 percent to NZ$1.2102 per Australian
dollar and was little changed at 85.66 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  