-- Drake & Scull Gains to 8-Month High Amid M&A Talk: Dubai Mover
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-04-29T11:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/drake-scull-gains-to-8-month-high-amid-m-a-talk-dubai-mover.html
Drake & Scull International (DSI)  PJSC
rose to the highest level in eight months amid speculation
builder  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  may buy a stake in the company, a
prospect denied this month by Arabtec’s chief executive officer.  The shares of Drake & Scull, which supplies engineering
services to the  construction industry , climbed 1.1 percent to
91.5 fils, the highest close since August. About 146 million
 shares traded , the most since June 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock surged 13 percent in the last
three days. Arabtec, the biggest publicly traded construction
company in the United Arab Emirates, rose 0.5 percent. The
benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.3 percent.  There are “rumors that Arabtec is to buy a 25 percent
stake of Drake & Scull to complete the business chain,” said
Tariq Qaqish, head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal
Capital PSC. Arabtec bought a stake in Dubai-based interior
designer  Depa Ltd. (DEPA)  in February.  Arabtec Chief Executive Officer Hasan Ismaik said April 16
that the company has no plans to buy a stake in Dubai-based
Drake & Scull. Drake & Scull “is not a target of acquisition by
anyone,” Zeina Tabari, chief corporate affairs officer, said by
phone April 9, responding to questions about a surge in the
company’s share price.  Arabtec’s external spokesman referred to the CEO’s earlier
comments, when contacted by Bloomberg News today. A spokesman
for Drake & Scull didn’t respond to a call to his mobile.  Drake & Scull said April 16 it won projects valued at 1.1
billion dirhams ($299 million) in  Saudi Arabia , Qatar and  Abu
Dhabi  in the first quarter and “is poised for significant
growth in the second quarter as projects award momentum
increases in these markets.” The company said in March it
expected “significant” growth in projects this year.  Drake & Scull shares have gained 30 percent this year,
matching the surge in Dubai’s benchmark index. Four analysts
recommend investors buy the shares,  five say hold  and five sell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  