-- Heat, Spurs Sweep NBA Playoff Series as Celtics Defeat Knicks
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-29T05:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/heat-spurs-sweep-nba-playoff-series-as-celtics-defeat-knicks.html
The  Miami Heat  and  San Antonio
Spurs  moved into the second round of the National Basketball
Association playoffs by completing first-round sweeps, while the
Boston Celtics kept their season alive with a 97-90 overtime win
against the  New York Knicks .  The defending NBA champion Heat defeated the Milwaukee
Bucks 88-77 yesterday to win their best-of-seven Eastern
Conference series 4-0. The Heat won all four games by at least
11 points and used a 19-5 fourth-quarter scoring run yesterday
to break open a two-point game.  “This is the first step in our journey, hopefully a long
journey,” Heat coach  Erik Spoelstra  said at a news conference.
“It was gratifying to get something we haven’t done before with
this group: to close out a team 4-0.”  LeBron James finished with 30 points, eight rebounds and
seven assists for Miami, which won without  Dwyane Wade , and next
faces the Chicago Bulls or Brooklyn Nets. The Bulls hold a
three-games-to-one lead and can win their best-of-seven first-
round Eastern Conference series with a victory tonight in
Brooklyn, New York.  The Spurs ended the Los Angeles Lakers’ season last night,
winning 103-82 behind 23 points from  Tony Parker .  Dwight Howard 
was ejected during the third quarter for the Lakers, which were
outscored by an average of 18.8 points, the fourth-biggest
differential in a best-of-seven NBA playoff series.  San Antonio, the second seed in the Western Conference,
will face the Golden State Warriors or  Denver Nuggets  in the
second round. The Warriors beat the Nuggets 115-101 last night
in Oakland, California, as Stephen Curry scored 22 of his 31
points in the third quarter.  Today’s Games  There are two NBA playoff games today in addition to the
Bulls-Nets matchup. The Oklahoma City Thunder, the top seed in
the West, seek to complete a four-game sweep as they visit the
Houston Rockets, and the Atlanta Hawks host the Indiana Pacers
as they look to even their Eastern Conference series 2-2.  The Heat, the No. 1 seed in the East, failed to sweep their
opening-round playoff series the previous two years, with Game 4
losses.  James helped prevent that from happening again, scoring
seven points in a fourth-quarter run that pushed Miami’s lead
from 69-67 to 88-72 with 2 minutes, 41 seconds remaining.  “Anytime they tested us, we were able to withstand that
and bounce back,” James said.  No Wade  Ray Allen  had 16 points and Udonis Haslem added 13 for the
Heat, which played without Wade because of bone bruises on his
right knee. Wade, an All-Star guard, had missed only one other
post-season game in his career.  The Celtics avoided elimination by outscoring the Knicks
13-6 in overtime after blowing a 59-39 second-half lead.  Jason Terry  scored the final nine points for Boston,
including a three-pointer that snapped an 88-88 tie with 1:31
left, denying the Knicks their first playoff series win since
2000.  “The heart of a champion was what kept us going,” Terry
said in a televised interview. “They’re a great team, but we’re
not done yet. It’s a long series.”  Paul Pierce  had 29 points and eight rebounds to lead the
Celtics, while  Jeff Green  contributed 26 points and  Kevin Garnett  had 13 points and 17 rebounds for the home team.  Carmelo Anthony scored 36 points for New York, though he
missed 25 of 35 shot attempts.  Raymond Felton  supplied another
27 for the Knicks, who shot 34.4 percent.  New York leads the best-of-seven series by three games to
one and can secure its first playoff series win in 13 years with
a victory at Madison Square Garden in New York on May 1. No team
has ever won a seven-game series in the NBA playoffs after
losing the first three games.  Lakers Exit  The Spurs never trailed in sending the Lakers to their
first opening-round playoff exit since 2007.  The Lakers were without three starters, including  Kobe Bryant , because of injury, and trailed by as many as 25 points.
They had 21 turnovers to San Antonio’s eight and Howard was
ejected from the game early in the third quarter after picking
up two technical fouls.  “It wasn’t a fair fight,” Spurs coach  Gregg Popovich  told
reporters. “When you’re a competitor, you want to compete on an
even basis, and the Lakers weren’t able to do that.”  The Warriors moved a step closer to the second round by
sending the Nuggets to their 11th loss in their past 12 road
playoff games. Curry broke open a four-point game by scoring 22
points in the final 6:22 of the third quarter.  Jarrett Jack added 21 points and hit 8-of-9 shots for
Golden State, which shot 56 percent from the field, and can
close out the series with a road win tomorrow.  “As a team, we played aggressive all night, finished the
job and now we’ve got to try to do it in Denver,” Curry said.
“We’re excited to get the win and we look forward to Tuesday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  