-- EDF Can Prolong Fessenheim Reactor With Safety Work, ASN Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-29T14:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/edf-can-prolong-fessenheim-reactor-with-safety-work-asn-says.html
Electricite de France SA , the
biggest operator of nuclear reactors, has to carry out safety
work on Unit 2 of its oldest atomic plant at Fessenheim so it
can better withstand a serious accident, according to the safety
regulator.  The reactor’s concrete base has to be strengthened and an
alternative source of coolant must be added, the  Autorite de
Surete Nucleaire  said in a statement. The request follows a
once-a-decade inspection of the reactor and is similar to work
EDF has started on Unit 1 of the plant that was also ordered by
the watchdog.  The ASN said it has “no objections” with EDF continuing
to operate Unit 2 as long as the work is carried out by the end
of the year.  “EDF will carry out the work imposed by the ASN within the
stipulated deadlines,” the utility said in a statement. Some of
the work on Unit 2 will be carried out during a planned outage
in July.  EDF, operating all of  France ’s 58 reactors, was ordered by
ASN to thicken the base of the 900-megawatt Unit 1 at Fessenheim
in the east of the country after a meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima
in 2011. The concrete at the two reactors, which began operating
in 1977, is thinner than at other plants and the regulator said
it would be shut unless the slab was strengthened to withstand
earthquakes.  EDF is pushing ahead with the work on Unit 1 even though
President Francois Hollande has slated the plant to be shut by
the end of 2016 as part of his pledge to lower the country’s
reliance on atomic power.  The ASN has said thickening the base of the reactors has
never been carried out before. EDF has had to take special
precautions to protect workers from radioactivity.  The ASN carries out in-depth inspections on each of the
country’s nuclear reactors every decade to decide whether they
can continue operations. EDF Chief Executive Officer Henri
Proglio has said he would like the plants to operate for 60
years while the ASN has declined to give an opinion on this.  EDF has also had to reinforce the Fessenheim plant against
flooding because it is near the Alsace Canal  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  