-- El Pais Owner Said to Plan $3.8 Billion Debt Restructuring
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-04-29T12:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/el-pais-owner-said-to-plan-3-8-billion-debt-restructuring-1-.html
Promotora de Informaciones SA (PRS) , the
publisher of El Pais newspaper, wants to reorganize the terms of
about 2.9 billion euros ($3.8 billion) of debt, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Prisa, as  Spain ’s biggest media company is known, plans to
propose terms of the restructuring to lenders as soon as next
month, the person said, asking not to be identified because the
deliberations are private.  The unprofitable media company is reopening talks as about
1.28 billion euros of  loans  near an initial maturity date in
March 2014, according to its latest annual  report . Shares of
Prisa have fallen about 40 percent in the past year as newspaper
readership and advertising decline and the euro-area’s fourth-
largest economy endures a six-year economic slump and rising
unemployment.  “The company needs this restructuring and the market was
waiting for this deal to happen but we still need to see the
results of the agreement and conditions imposed by banks,”
 Pedro Oliveira , an analyst at Banco BPI in Porto, Portugal, said
by telephone today.  An official at Madrid-based Prisa declined to comment when
contacted by  Bloomberg News  today.  Prisa shares  were  unchanged at 21.5 euro cents at 2:07 p.m.
in  Madrid , valuing the company at 218.6 million euros.  Reducing Debt  Prisa said earlier this month it was still holding talks
with several companies to sell literature business Alfaguara as
well as other assets as it seeks to reduce debt. Any deal will
be announced after a binding agreement is reached, the company
said. Prisa’s  net loss  was 255 million euros last year, compared
with 451 million euros a year earlier.  The Spanish advertising market is poised to fall about 11
percent compared with a year earlier, said Eduardo Madinaveitia,
a director for media research at Zenith Media in Madrid. It’s
now at levels seen in the mid-1990s, he said.  “We’ve gone through six difficult years already and the
outlook for advertising still remains very challenging after the
first quarter,” Madinaveitia said in a phone interview last
week. “April was also horrible. It’s just a complete
disaster.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  