-- Tele Columbus Said to Revive Sale to Tap German Cable Demand
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-29T15:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/tele-columbus-said-to-revive-sale-to-tap-german-cable-demand.html
Tele Columbus Group,  Germany ’s
third-biggest cable company, is reviving its search for a buyer
to tap demand for cable assets in Europe’s largest economy,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  The company’s management is preparing materials for
potential buyers in a process that may kick off in the coming
months, said the people, asking not to be identified because the
talks are private. Tele Columbus, which is owned by creditors
after restructuring its debt, is working with the investment bank
 Rothschild (ROTVALF)  to find a buyer, one of the people said.  The cable operator is returning to the market as companies
looking to sell combined Internet, phone and television services
snap up fixed-line assets across Europe. An earlier attempt to sell
Berlin-based Tele Columbus, which serves more than 2 million
customers mostly in the city and eastern Germany, to  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  was blocked by regulators in February.  “With the natural buyer out of the picture, Tele Columbus
will probably be more difficult to sell,” said Malte Raether,
an analyst at M.M. Warburg in Hamburg. The company could be a
target for private-equity investors or John Malone’s  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA) , he said.  Called Off  Hannes Lindhuber, a Tele Columbus spokesman, declined to
comment on the resumption of a sales process.  The company in May 2012 agreed to be bought by Kabel
Deutschland, Germany’s largest cable company, for 603 million
euros ($790 million). In rejecting the transaction, the Federal
Cartel Office said the deal would strengthen the nationwide
oligopoly held by Kabel Deutschland and Unitymedia KabelBW GmbH.  Phone companies such as  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  are working to overhaul their fixed-line networks to
boost broadband speeds. In the last auction in 2012, Tele
Columbus also attracted interest from Deutsche Telekom and
Unitymedia KabelBW, owned by Liberty Global, people familiar
with the process said at the time.  Shares of Kabel Deutschland have gained more than 50
percent over the past 12 months. The company itself is a
takeover target for Vodafone and Liberty Global, people familiar
with the matter said earlier this year.  Liberty Global agreed in February to acquire U.K. cable
provider  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  and more recently purchased a 12.7
percent stake in Dutch cable company Ziggo NV.  Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  is considering a sale of its fixed-
line assets in Germany, people familiar with the discussions
said last week. The unit, held by Telefonica Deutschland Holding
AG, has about 2.4 million broadband customers in the country.  Tele Columbus in February  reported  2012 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 94.2 million
euros on sales of 237 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  