-- Eletropaulo Plans Biggest Brazil Smart Grid to Fight Power Theft
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-04-29T19:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/eletropaulo-plans-biggest-brazil-smart-grid-to-fight-power-theft.html
Eletropaulo Metropolitana de
Eletricidade de Sao Paulo SA ,  Brazil ’s biggest power distributor
by market value, will invest 72 million reais ($36 million)
through 2015 in the country’s largest smart-grid project to help
curb electricity theft.  Eletropaulo will install 60,000 meters that use wireless
technology to remotely monitor power consumption in all
residential, commercial and industrial buildings in Barueri, a
Sao Paulo suburb, President Britaldo Pedrosa Soares said today
at an event announcing the project.  The wireless devices will let Eletropaulo identify clients
that are stealing power and cut them off remotely, without
sending employees to check meters in person, Soares said. The
AES Corp. unit, which loses 3.8 percent of its power to thieves,
expects the meters to pay for themselves in about eight years.  “We did all the studies and this investment made sense,”
Sidney Simonaggio, vice president of operations at Eletropaulo,
said at the event. “The idea is to replicate this project in
other areas.”  Eletropaulo, based in Sao Paulo, will invest 37 million
reais from funds it’s required under Brazilian law to spend on
research and development, Soares said. The rest will come from a
rate increase that will be determined later.  Eletropaulo hasn’t decided what technology to use. It will
announce by the end of June the required technical
specifications and plans to begin installing meters next year
that let customers manage their power consumption. The company
also will install a basic model designed to detect theft for
about 2,100 low-income families starting in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  