-- Hellenic Petroleum Selling Debut Bond as Frigoglass Hires Banks
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-04-29T15:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/hellenic-petroleum-selling-debut-bond-as-frigoglass-hires-banks.html
Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE)  increased the
size of its debut bond while Greek refrigerator equipment
supplier  Frigoglass SA (FRIGO)  is also planning its first note sale, as
investors seeking riskier assets boost demand for securities
from Europe’s most indebted nation.  Greece ’s largest refiner is now looking to raise 500
million euros ($654 million) from four-year bonds, following an
initial offering of 400 million euros, according to people
familiar with the deal. Frigoglass has hired banks to arrange
investor meetings and a bond sale may follow, the Athens-based
company said in a  statement  on its website today.  Confidence in Greece is returning after the country’s
parliament passed a bill that includes firing 15,000 workers, a
condition set by international lenders to unlock 2.8 billion
euros of aid. Yields on speculative-grade company bonds fell to
a record 5.22 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Euro High Yield Constrained Index.  “Investors are seeing plenty of reasons to move into these
Greek securities, one of them being the scramble for yield,”
said  Suki Mann , London-based head of credit strategy at Societe
Generale SA. “The market is also choosing to see Greece getting
its next aid tranche as a positive.”  Hellenic Petroleum’s bonds, which are expected to price
today, will yield 8 percent, according to the people, who asked
not to be identified because the terms are private. Alpha Bank,
Credit Suisse Group AG, Eurobank, HSBC Holdings Plc and NBG
Securities are managing the sale.  ’Green Shoots’  Vasilis Tsaitas, a spokesman for Hellenic Petroleum in
 Athens , declined to comment because a formal announcement will
be made after the deal has priced.  Hellenic Petroleum is the first Greek company to sell bonds
since  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  sold 700
million euros of five-year securities in January.  Frigoglass has hired Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. and HSBC
to arrange the investor meetings, the company said in the
statement. It would be the first bond sale for the supplier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fact that there are Greek companies that can tap the
market is significant,” said Gabriel Sterne, an economist at
Exotix Ltd., a London-based brokerage. “These kinds of deals
may be a precursor of green shoots appearing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  