-- Empire State Building IPO Opponents Seek to Block Buyout
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-29T13:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/empire-state-building-ipo-opponents-seek-to-block-buyout.html
Investors opposed to a deal to take
New York’s Empire State Building public asked a judge to block a
plan by the family that controls the iconic skyscraper to buy
them out for $100 a share.  New York State Supreme Court Justice O. Peter Sherwood
began hearing arguments from the objectors today in  Manhattan .
He has previously said he could throw out the votes the Malkin
family has already received approving the plan if he determines
the buyout provision is illegal.  The  proposal  for the second-biggest initial public offering
of a U.S. real estate investment trust on record has faced
challenges by investors, and both sides are fighting to bring
the few remaining votes to their side.  Peter Malkin, Malkin Holdings LLC’s chairman, and his son
Anthony, its president, said on April 3 that shareholders
representing about 75 percent of the skyscraper’s 3,300
ownership units had voted in favor. They need 80 percent to move
ahead and have been calling holdouts individually to urge their
support.  The Malkins said last month they would leave voting open
until Sherwood rules on the $100-a-share buyout or until May 2,
when the judge is set to hold a hearing on a $55 million class-
action settlement that’s opposed by some of the tower’s
investors.  $1 Billion  Empire State Realty Trust Inc., as the new company would be
called, is seeking to raise about $1 billion for the REIT, which
would include the 102-story tower and 20 other properties the
Malkins supervise. Only the 2006 debut of Santa Monica,
California-based  Douglas Emmett Inc. (DEI)  was bigger in the industry,
at $1.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The dissidents say a conversion to a REIT would mean giving
up a reliable income stream that should rise when renovations at
the skyscraper are finished. The Malkins have said their plan
would give unit-holders liquidity, regular dividends and greater
growth opportunities. Some investors are also questioning more
than $300 million in shares the Malkins would potentially
receive under the deal.  At the end of 2012, the skyscraper was about 69 percent
occupied, with such tenants as LinkedIn Corp., the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and Coty Inc., according to the
building’s annual report.  Investors have claimed that the $100 buyout provision
coerces them to vote in favor of the REIT because their units
are potentially worth more than $300,000 each.  ‘Fair Value’  Holders are entitled under New York state law to the “fair
value” of their shares, regardless of how they vote, Stephen
Meister, an attorney representing opponents of the class-action
settlement tied to the plan, said in a March 15 court filing. He
said it’s obvious “that $100 is not the fair value of a
participation worth thousands of times that nominal sum.”  Opponents can avoid being bought out if they change their
vote to “yes” within 10 days after receiving written notice
that the 80 percent approval has been achieved, a time frame
Meister called “impermissibly short.”  In defending the proposal, Thomas E.L. Dewey, an attorney
representing Malkin Holdings, said the dissenters “misrepresent
essentially every relevant fact concerning the allegedly
punitive buyout” and have provided no evidence that any unit-
holder has been coerced. The provision is necessary to prevent
small minorities from thwarting the wishes of most investors,
according to Dewey. It was fully disclosed and agreed upon when
the partnership was formed in the 1960s, he said.  The opponents are connected with a group who have “waged a
campaign of distortion and misrepresentation against the
transaction,” Dewey wrote in an April 8 court filing. “These
individuals will do or say anything to stop, delay or
complicate” the offering.  The case is Meyers v.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) ,
650607/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  