-- Equiduct Obtains New Funding as Venue Assures Its Future
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-04-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/equiduct-obtains-new-funding-as-venue-assures-its-future.html
Equiduct Systems Ltd. obtained
funding from new investors including BNP Paribas SA and
Winterflood Securities, assuring the future of the trading venue
after its shareholders considered closing the business.  BNP Paribas Securities Services, KBC Securities,  Viel &
Cie. (VIL)  and Winterflood will join  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  and the
Berlin bourse as shareholders, Artur Fischer, interim chief
executive officer of the technology company said in an
interview. Fischer declined to disclose the terms of the deal,
saying the company now has enough funding to survive until it
breaks even.  “Equiduct reached out to its members for support,”
Fischer said. “With a mutualized ownership structure, which is
also reflected in the new board composition, a tremendous
commitment from existing stakeholders, the introduction of new
partners and additional funding, we expect to be well positioned
to invest in and grow out the Equiduct offering.”  Fischer said the platform is seeking a new chief executive.  Equiduct, a trading platform for retail brokers, was owned
by Citadel Investment Group, Knight and the Berlin exchange. The
business named Peter Randall chief executive in December 2009
when it sought to take market share from incumbent exchanges
such as Deutsche Boerse AG, London Stock Exchange Group Plc and
NYSE Euronext. Randall left in February this year and was
replaced by Fischer, a board member of the alternative-trading
system’s parent company.  Citadel, which is closing its direct-execution services
business in  Europe , had demanded clarity on Equiduct’s future,
two people familiar with the matter said on Feb. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  