-- Merkel Aide Brushes Off French Socialists’ Criticism of Germany
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-04-29T11:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/merkel-aide-brushes-off-french-socialists-criticism-of-germany.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
spokesman brushed off reports of an attack on her austerity
policy by  France ’s ruling Socialists, saying she only deals with
French leaders such as President  Francois Hollande .  “Only government action counts,” Steffen Seibert told
reporters in Berlin today. “The rest is mood music.” He
declined further comment on “something that individual French
Socialists wrote in a paper.”  The Socialist paper, cited by news outlets such as  Agence
France-Presse  and the Financial Times, condemned Merkel’s
austerity-led policies aimed at stemming the euro-area debt
crisis that began in Greece in 2009. French voters elected
Hollande in 2012 on an anti-austerity platform, testing French-
German ties.  The attack on Merkel was “inappropriate” and underlines
the “despair” of the French Socialists in trying to tackle the
country’s economic and financial problems, said Andreas Schockenhoff, a lawmaker for Merkel’s  Christian Democrats .  Hollande’s government “can’t distract from the profound
structural reforms” France needs to undertake, Schockenhoff,
the party’s parliamentary spokesman for European and foreign
affairs, said in an e-mailed statement.  German-French friction points include Merkel’s call to
counter recession and debt by boosting competitiveness in all
euro-area countries. The two governments haven’t agreed on a
“common vision” yet, Seibert said.  “Work is continuing” on that project, which “we can
maybe also present to our European partners,” Seibert said. A
European Union summit on June 27-28 is the target date for an
agreement, though it’s “an arduous process,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  