-- Erste Profit Misses Estimates on Central Europe Loans
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-04-29T08:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/erste-profit-misses-estimates-on-central-europe-loans-1-.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s third-biggest bank, reported first-quarter profit that
missed analyst estimates as weak credit demand and low rates
contributed to a decline in interest income. The shares fell.  Net income dropped 49 percent to 176.2 million euros ($230
million) as gains from hybrid bond buybacks a year earlier
weren’t repeated and net interest income, Erste’s biggest
revenue source, fell by 7.2 percent, the Vienna-based bank said
in a statement today. The profit compared with a median 185
million-euro estimate in a  Bloomberg survey  of 11 analysts.  “This is a solid result against the backdrop of limited
economic growth and continuously declining interest rates,”
Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said in the statement.
“The improvement in the performance of our Romanian subsidiary
is especially remarkable,” he said, adding that it was “close
to break-even.”  Erste, trailing only  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  among banks operating in Europe’s ex-communist
bloc, has promised investors to bolster earnings this year,
mostly by making its debt-ridden Romanian unit profitable again.
A shrinking economy has pushed almost a third of its loans in
the Black Sea country into delinquency.  Shares Decline  Erste shares fell 0.6 percent to 23.98 euros at 10:21 a.m.
in Vienna. The 40-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index  rose 0.8 percent. Erste trades at 0.70 times book
value, less than the 0.83 average of the Bloomberg  index’s
members .  The bank paid six times book value when it agreed to buy
Banca Comerciala Romana, the nation’s biggest lender, for 3.75
billion euros in 2005 and has made several writedowns since.  Net interest income, the difference between the interest
the bank charges borrowers for loans and what it pays for
deposits, declined to 1.24 billion euros from 1.34 billion euros
a year earlier.  The loan book shrank 1.2 percent in March from the end of
last year to 130.3 billion euros, driven by  Hungary , the
neighboring country to  Austria  mired in recession where Erste
owns the second-biggest bank. The sale last year of financial
assets that are not part of its main business also weighed on
Erste’s interest income.  Treichl said in February that he will cut costs and lower
provisions for bad debt in the entire group by at least 10
percent to offset declining lending revenue, as growth slowed in
central and eastern Europe.  General administrative expenses declined by 1.5 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier to 931.2 million euros,
after job cuts in Romania and Hungary lowered the payroll.  Romania Improvement  The net loss of Erste’s Romanian business narrowed by 95
percent to 3.6 million euros in the three months to March,
helped by a 42 percent reduction in bad debt charges, Erste
said. Delinquent loans as a share of total lending in the
country still increased and stood at 30 percent, mostly because
the loanbook shrank.  The better performance in  Romania  helped reduce loan-loss
provisions for the entire group. They declined by 31 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier to 402.2 million euros,
slightly better than analysts had forecast. They dropped 22
percent from December.  “Provisions are better than expected mainly due to
Romania, which may offset the market disappointment on weaker
net interest income,” Eleni Papoula, an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in  London  who recommends selling Erste shares, said by e-
mail.  Fifteen of 30 analysts  recommend  buying Erste’s shares,
with three saying sell them, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average 12-month price estimate is 26.32 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  