-- Europe Should Rethink Austerity
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-29T22:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/europe-should-rethink-austerity.html
European Union governments are
starting to relax their austerity-first approach to economic
policy. Better late than never; we’ve been  advising  them to do
just that for months. It’s a shame the new thinking, however
welcome, is too limited and incoherent.  Europe’s economy continues to deteriorate. Business and
 consumer confidence  plunged by an unexpectedly large amount in
April. The debts of the euro area’s most beleaguered economies
are still rising despite all the belt-tightening.  Last week,  Spain ’s government said it would need two extra
years to bring its  budget deficit  below the EU target of 3
percent of gross domestic product. The alternative would have
been another round of tax increases and spending cuts, even as
the  unemployment rate , now 27 percent, continues to rise. Rather
than bringing a rebuke from Brussels or Berlin, the announcement
was calmly accepted. On the same day, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble , the country’s leading austerity exponent,
and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  announced  plans  to
develop a joint program for investment in Spanish companies.  Commenting on Spain’s fiscal target, Schaeuble said, “If
the economy deteriorates, you don’t reinforce the economic
downturn through deeper cuts.” Who knew?  Italy’s new government is discussing a plan to scrap a
property tax on first homes, which proponents say would cost 8
billion euros ($10 billion) in forgone revenue. Not long ago,
that would have drawn stern censure.  France  has announced that
its deficit target will slip, too, and Schaeuble said Germany is
 open  to permitting this.  Vicious Circle  “France’s labor costs are too high,” he said. “France is
aware of that; that can’t be changed overnight, this must be
done step by step and if that’s credible, one can be more
flexible on the question of which deficits have to be achieved
in which year.”  It’s a good thing that  Europe  seems ready to break the
vicious circle of recession, higher debt, fiscal tightening and
further recession. Still, refraining from what Schaeuble calls
“reinforcing the downturn” through deeper cuts is only a start.
A coordinated fiscal relaxation across the euro area is also
needed, led by Germany and the other stronger economies. Also
indispensable are further measures to control the danger -- not
to be discounted -- that too much fiscal easing in debt-stressed
countries such as Spain and Italy will renew last year’s market
turmoil.  This week, Italy’s government sold long-term  bonds  at a
yield of just under 4 percent, the lowest since Europe’s debt
crisis escalated in 2010. For this, thank the commitment the
 European Central Bank  made last year under its new president,
 Mario Draghi , to do “whatever it takes” to hold the  euro system 
together. But rates this low shouldn’t be taken for granted. The
markets have panicked before, and they’re capable of panicking
again. Remember that many euro-area economies still have
unsustainable debt trajectories.  The ECB’s calming promise therefore needs bolstering, not
with self-defeating commitments to severe austerity in crippled
economies, but with fiscal burden-sharing, monetary stimulus and
real progress on structural economic reforms. (Spain’s
unemployment is high not just because demand has been crushed
but also because its labor market is broken.)  The ECB has an early opportunity to remind markets that it
means to keep its promise: It should cut its benchmark  interest
rate  when its policy council meets this week.  Monetary policy , however, can only do so much, and Europe’s
weakest economies can’t safely ease fiscal policy as much as
their plight requires without the support of Europe’s strongest
economies.  Slipping Targets  Support must entail more than allowing fiscal targets to
slip. Europe began a discussion in 2011 and 2012 about
collective fiscal policy and fiscal burden-sharing. It made
little progress before Germany’s impending election snuffed it
out. That conversation urgently needs to be revived.  For the moment, the EU has taken a proposal for a common
resolution fund for distressed banks -- the fiscal component of
its promised banking union -- off the table to assuage  Germany ’s
electoral sensitivities. That plan is needed to guard against a
sudden further setback in Europe’s prospects and to put the euro
area finally back on the path to growth. Europe still has a lot
of rethinking to do.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 