-- European Steelmakers Say LME Rules Creating Metal Shortages
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2013-04-29T12:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/european-steelmakers-say-lme-rules-creating-metal-shortages-1-.html
London Metal Exchange rules
governing the release of stockpiles are creating shortages and
raising prices for consumers at a time of abundant supply, the
European steel industry’s lobby group said.  Buyers can wait as long as 400 days to get zinc, used to
galvanize steel, even as supply exceeds demand, the Brussels-
based group said in a report posted on its website. The lines
are forming because the metal is stuck behind orders from the
same warehouses for aluminum, inventories of which are near a
record. There should be minimum delivery rates for each metal in
each warehouse, Eurofer said.  The bourse, bought by  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) 
last year, has sought to ease the backlogs by increasing the
amount of metal that some warehouses must deliver and setting
separate rules for tin and nickel. The changes failed to stop
increases in the premiums consumers are paying to secure supply,
Eurofer said. The current rules benefit producers and investors
while harming consumers, the group said.  “The LME rules applied to affiliate warehouses pose
serious concerns about the real availability of metals,”
Eurofer said in its report. They are “preventing natural market
principals of demand and supply and are helping small category
of actors in creating artificial shortage of material while
negatively impacting a whole range of consumers in the
downstream processing chain.”  Eurofer Members  Eurofer’s members include  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s
largest steelmaker,  Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V) ,  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Tata Steel
Europe Ltd.,  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and a unit of U.S. Steel Corp. They
produce a combined 190 million metric tons of steel a year.  Warehousing companies include Pacorini, owned by Glencore
International Plc, and Metro, operated by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Glencore in Baar,
 Switzerland , and Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman for Goldman in
London, declined to comment. Miriam Hewyood, a spokeswoman for
the LME, said the exchange has no comment.  The LME monitors about 700 warehouses globally, governed by
rules that allow metal to be delivered against the bourse’s
futures contracts. The network was designed to absorb supply
during gluts and release inventories when shortages emerge,
Eurofer said. Instead, traders are increasingly using the system
for financing purposes, the steel group said.  The financing deals typically involve a simultaneous
purchase of metal for nearby delivery and a forward sale to take
advantage of a market in contango, when later-dated contracts
cost more than those with nearer dates. To be profitable, the
spread must exceed storage, financing and insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in  London  at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  