-- Europe’s Top-Performing Stock Index Not Enough to Stay in Dublin
-- B y   C o r m a c   M u l l e n
-- 2013-04-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/europe-s-top-performing-stock-index-not-enough-to-stay-in-dublin.html
Ireland’s stock index is the best
performer in western  Europe  this year. That’s not enough to stop
some of its biggest companies from defecting.  DCC Plc (DCC) , which distributes everything from fuel to
Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox game consoles, will quit the Dublin
market and its shares will only trade in  London  starting May 3.
It follows United Drug Plc, Greencore Group Plc and  CRH Plc (CRH) 
across the  Irish Sea  in an attempt to broaden their appeal.  “A lot of investors just weren’t looking at Greencore
before the move and now that’s changed,” Alan Williams, chief
financial officer at Greencore, which merged with U.K. food
company Uniq Plc in 2011, said in an interview. “For us, there
was a compelling case and we have no regrets.”  London has long been a magnet for overseas companies
seeking access to a deeper pool of money. The Irish exchange,
led by Deirdre Somers, is fighting back, saying there’s no need
for companies to leave and that share performance is driven by
earnings and acquisitions rather than listing location.  Dublin’s ISEQ index gained 14 percent in euros since Jan.
1, while the country’s bonds are the top performers in the world
along with  Spain  because of renewed confidence in Ireland as it
edges toward exiting the bailout it sought in November 2010.  “There is no alchemy in index inclusion,” Somers, who
took over the Dublin-based exchange in 2007, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Research indicates that companies on
the Irish market have one of the most international investor
bases of any European markets.”  Latest Blow  The departure of three of the top 20 companies on the Irish
market, coupled with CRH shifting its primary listing to London,
is the latest blow for the exchange, founded in 1793 and
controlled by the country’s securities firms.  Even after this year’s advance, the benchmark index has
 dropped  61 percent as the financial crisis took its toll since
the height of the country’s  Celtic Tiger  boom.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , now 99.8 percent state-owned,
dropped out of the main market to join the Enterprise Securities
Market in 2011, while the state took over and liquidated Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., the lender that pushed the nation to the brink
of bankruptcy. The capitalization of the main Irish index, which
peaked at 132 billion euros ($173 billion) in 2007, now stands
at 55.8 billion euros. The number of companies listed on the
exchange has dropped to 50 from 76 since 2002.  Greencore Exit  Greencore moved to a sole listing in London last year after
buying Uniq and changing the currency for reporting earnings to
sterling from euros. About 90 percent of its sales are in the
 U.K. (GNC)  The move gave Greencore access to a “much deeper pool of
liquidity,” said Williams.  After its shares dropped 10 percent on the day the company
announced the move, the stock recovered to beat the FTSE
SmallCap Index by 45 percentage points until March 2012 when it
joined the index. Since then, it has outperformed the measure by
seven percentage points and its European food peers by five
percentage points, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The inclusion in U.K. indexes means the stocks can be
bought by funds that track them, making it attractive for Irish
companies to move listings, said Mark Murnane, head of trading
at Dublin-based spread-betting firm  Shelbourne Markets .  “They can be headquartered and tax resident here so get
all those positives,” Murnane said. “Yet by listing in the
U.K. or U.S., they get a whole new level of coverage from
analysts, come onto new fund managers radars and ultimately
broaden the shareholder base.”  Trailing Ireland  CRH (CRH) , the world’s second-largest maker of construction
materials, led the way, moving its primary listing to London in
December 2011, a year after Ireland was forced to seek its
package of international rescue loans.  The stock rose 4 percent on Nov. 8, the day of the
announcement, and by the time it joined the FTSE 100 Index in
December, it had outperformed the benchmark by six percentage
points. Since then, the stock has traded about in line with the 
index and underperformed the Irish market. Its 35 percent total 
return since announcing the listing has been bettered by the 
ISEQ’s 48 percent advance.   A spokeswoman for CRH declined to comment for this story, 
as did officials at DCC.  “It’s a futile activity to focus on the pots on money in
tracker funds,” said Linda Hickey, head of corporate broking at
Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The ‘big bang’ impact of FTSE
inclusion results in a handful of active investors selling out
on ‘D day’, replaced by passive ones.”  Hellenic Bottling  It’s not only Irish companies who have been drawn to
London. Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. SA,  Greece ’s largest
company by market value, moved its primary listing from the
Athens market to London. Russia’s Evraz Plc, the steelmaker
part-owned by billionaire  Roman Abramovich , and Polymetal
International Plc, a silver and gold miner, are among the
Russian companies who moved their main listings to Britain.  Yet Somers, the Irish stock market chief, argues that
companies lose as much as they gain by swapping euro-oriented
shareholders for those in London.  “It is difficult to see how replacing one set of passive
investors with another could be advantageous to a company,”
said Somers. The Irish exchange “provides a euro quotation,
ISEQ and Eurostoxx inclusion for companies enabling access to
these significant pools of institutional funds which track
European markets excluding U.K.”  What’s more, the three departed companies had a higher than
average international shareholder base before they moved their
listings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor Base  Nine percent of CRH’s institutional shareholders were
classified as Irish in April 2011 compared with 5 percent for
Greencore and 12 percent for  United Drug. (UDG)  The average figure for
the top 20 companies listed on the ISEQ was 15 percent.  Since the move, the proportion of Ireland-based investors
dropped to 2 percent for CRH and 1 percent for United Drug,
compared with 12 percent for the ISEQ 20. Greencore’s percentage
of Irish institutional shareholders has remained stable at about
6 percent. Most of the new interest comes from U.K. investors.  “I struggle with the argument that U.K. FTSE benchmarked
investors are somehow ‘better owners’ of a company’s stock than
other international investors,” Hickey at Goodbody said.
“Companies would be better served focusing on expanding their
U.S. and Canadian shareholder base.”  For now, the exchange may have stemmed the flow. Paddy
Power Plc, the country’s largest bookmaker, and Kerry Group Plc
have both ruled out quitting the index anytime soon.  “If you look at some of the people that have moved I know
they moved on the basis they felt that their shares were
undervalued,” Gavin Slark, chief executive officer at Grafton
Group Plc, the Dublin-based building product supplier, said last
month. “I’d rather concentrate on what we can do in the
business rather worrying about external factors like that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cormac Mullen in Dublin at 
 cmullen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  