-- Level Global Will Pay $21.5 Million in Insider-Trading Case
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-04-29T20:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/level-global-pay-21-5-million-over-sec-insider-trading-claims.html
Level Global Investors LP  agreed
to pay more than $21.5 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims
that it engaged in repeated insider trading in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and
 Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  securities.  The settlement with the Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge-
fund advisory firm follows 2012 cases against the firm’s
founder, Anthony Chiasson and a former analyst, Spyridon “Sam”
Adondakis, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a
complaint filed today at U.S. District court in  Manhattan .  “The insider trading at Level Global was hardly an
isolated event -– it occurred repeatedly, and involved multiple
companies and multiple quarterly announcements,” Sanjay Wadhwa,
senior associate director of the SEC’s  New York  office, said in
a statement. “This settlement serves as another reminder that
the SEC will hold hedge-fund managers accountable when their
employees violate the securities laws.”  A phone call to Andrew Levander, an attorney for Level
Global at Dechert LLP, wasn’t immediately returned.  The SEC is pursuing its insider-claims against Chiasson,
who was convicted in December in a parallel criminal proceeding,
the agency said in a statement. Adondakis previously pleaded
guilty to related criminal charges and settled the SEC’s claims,
which also involved six other defendants, some of whom worked at
Diamondback Capital Management. The investigation has also
involved former employees of SAC Capital Advisors LP.  According to the SEC, during 2008 and 2009, Adondakis
passed confidential information about Dell and Nvidia’s revenue
and profit margins to Chiasson, who used it to execute trades on
behalf of Level Global funds. In 2011, following news reports of
the government’s  insider trading  investigation, Level Global
announced it would close its business. It is currently in the
process of winding down, the SEC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  