-- Fiat First-Quarter Profit Falls on Chrysler Earnings Drop
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-04-29T16:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/fiat-first-quarter-profit-falls-as-european-drop-worsens.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian automaker
that controls Chrysler Group LLC, said first-quarter profit fell
23 percent on costs for new Jeep model rollouts.  Trading profit, or earnings before interest, taxes and one-
time items, declined to 618 million euros ($809 million) from
806 million euros a year earlier, the Turin, Italy-based company
said today. That missed the 691 million-euro average of six
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  First-quarter profit at the U.S. automaker fell 27 percent
to 593 million euros ahead of the introduction of new Jeep
Compass and Cherokee sport-utility vehicles. Sergio Marchionne,
chief executive officer for both automakers, said today he’s
leaning toward a primary listing in New York once the Italian
carmaker buys the 41.5 percent Chrysler stake it doesn’t own.  “It’s the most efficient capital market I can get my hands
on,” Marchionne said on Chrysler’s earnings call when asked
about the likelihood of a main listing in New York and a
secondary listing in Milan after the combination.  Fiat stuck to a target to increase full-year profit to
between 4 billion euros and 4.5 billion euros from 3.81 billion
euros in 2012, even after the European auto market plunged 9.7
percent in the first quarter. The automaker expects deliveries
in the region to decline 3 percent to 5 percent in 2013.  Shares Drop  “Guidance is overly optimistic given the weaker-than-
expected start to the year in terms of trading profit --
particularly in the case of Chrysler,” David Arnold, an autos
specialist with Credit Suisse in  London , said today in a note to
clients.  The shares  declined  6 cents, or 1.2 percent, to 4.64 euros
as of the close of trading in Milan. The stock has gained 22
percent this year, valuing the carmaker at 5.8 billion euros.  The first-quarter loss in Europe narrowed 24 percent to 157
million euros as the Italian company reduced sales and
administrative costs. A 43 percent profit gain to 80 million
euros at super-car brand Ferrari also boosted earnings.  Marchionne plans to combine Fiat and Chrysler to forge an
automotive group to challenge  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  by purchasing the Chrysler stake owned by the United Auto
Workers’ retiree health-care fund, or VEBA.  The two sides are in court disputing the price for a
portion of the shares Fiat is seeking to buy by exercising
options it has. The Italian carmaker may end up paying more than
its currently offering, the Delaware judge overseeing the case
suggested last week.  Financing Talks  Financing talks with banks on Chrysler are under way and
Fiat may get additional loans to buy the holding, people
familiar said last week. The Italian carmaker is approaching
banks to refinance a 1.95 billion-euro credit line before the
deal, people familiar said last month.  Italy ’s biggest manufacturer may pay as much as $3.5
billion for the rest of Chrysler, UBS estimates. The carmakers
are likely to be a single company by June of next year, when
Marchionne will complete his 10th year as head of the Italian
group, the CEO said earlier this month.  Fiat isn’t alone in grappling with a declining European
market. Volkswagen, the region’s largest carmaker, last week
reported a 26 percent drop in first-quarter operating profit.
 Daimler AG (DAI)  said weaker results at Mercedes-Benz caused earnings
before interest and taxes to tumble 56 percent. The declines
show that the effects of Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis have
spread beyond countries pushing through austerity measures.  Europe Woes  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s first-quarter pretax loss in the region
more than tripled to 462 million euros as the U.S. automaker
moves to eliminate 6,200 jobs and close three production sites.
Ford’s cuts are part of industrywide plans to shut five plants.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s revenue in the period fell 6.5
percent to 13 billion euros. The company is eliminating 11,200
jobs in  France  and closing a factory near Paris, where workers
have staged strikes over the restructuring plans.  Instead of shutting additional factories in Italy, after
closing one in Sicily at the end of 2011, Marchionne plans to
fill underutilized plants with more upscale models, such as the
Maserati Quattroporte sedan and the Alfa 4C sportscar.  Marchionne’s turnaround plan for Fiat in  Europe  calls for
16 upscale cars, including an Alfa Romeo sport-utility vehicle,
a small SUV from Chrysler’s Jeep brand and six models at the
luxury Maserati division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  