-- Forget Scotch, Rye Whiskey Comeback Packs 100-Proof Punch
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-04-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/forget-scotch-rye-whiskey-comeback-packs-100-proof-punch.html
Ask people to name a rye whiskey
label, and they’ll probably squint and mumble, “Uh, Canadian
Club?” (Which is a blended whiskey, not a rye, according to the
U.S. Standards of Identity.)  Yet over the last couple of years, rye has become the
hottest “new” whiskey around, despite its being America’s first
colonial spirit, long before bourbon was ever distilled.  “When we first came back on the market with our Michter’s
Rye in the 1990s, we were turned down by distributors,” says
Joseph J. Magliocco, President of  Michter’s Distillery  in
Louisville,  Kentucky , which had gone bankrupt in 1989. “Now,
we’re completely sold out of our 10 and 25-year-old ryes, and
our Chinese importer tells us it’s selling in Hong Kong bars for
$150 per ounce!”  This new fame was a long time coming. After Prohibition,
rye competed well enough with bourbon, but by the late 1970s all
“brown goods,” including bourbon, Scotch, and brandy, were in
free fall, and replaced by more popular “white goods” like vodka
and rum. “The word ‘rye’ on a bottle was a negative for years,”
says Magliocco.  The renewed interest in bourbon in the 1990s brought a
flood of new small batch and signature bourbons onto the market,
spurring others to fill a niche market for smoother, small-batch, aged ryes that are now being made in Kentucky,  New York ,
 Pennsylvania ,  California ,  Virginia ,  Illinois  and  Indiana .  Pernod Ricard  According to Fred Minnick, who writes for the  Whiskey
Advocate  blog,  Seagram (VIV) ’s Lawrenceburg, Indiana, distillery was
acquired in 2001 by  Pernod Ricard. (RI)  When it said it would close
it in 2006, the distillery was left with a couple thousand
barrels of rye whiskey with nowhere to go.  Small brands started popping up and buying the Indiana
juice.  “Bartenders got hold of it and loved it for making whiskey
sours, old fashioneds and Manhattans, said Minnick.  “Then the Japanese and English, who love American whiskeys,
started bringing cases back with them on the plane, so now
there’s incredible interest in the international market for rye.
In fact, a lot of rye grain is now coming out of  Europe .”  When the Sazerac label introduced its “small batch” rye 10
years ago, it was “a real gamble,” according to Kris Comstock,
marketing director of  Buffalo Trace , Sazerac’s distillery: “Now
there’s such a proliferation of info through social media and
online that American whiskeys are booming.”  Rum Whiskey  The new ryes are largely distinguished by their barrel
finishing.  Angel’s Envy  master distiller Lincoln Henderson, 74, 
with his son Wes and grandson Kyle, is finished in Caribbean rum
whiskey casks.  “We had to come up with cool ideas,” says Lincoln. “So I
tasted hundreds of different rums, then sought out the barrels
that the ones I liked were aged in. So we take a 95 percent rye
whiskey and age it in those barrels. The natural spiciness of
rye collides in a beautiful way with the molasses and rum
flavors.”  Their first bottling will be released in mid-May and by
2014 their rye will be distributed in 27 states.  I tasted a wide array of ryes -- with a splash of water --
and found them a far cry from the raw, stinging stuff of the
past. Here are some of my favorites.  Redemption ($30)   A 92-proof beauty, made from 95 percent rye sourced from
Indiana. The nose bolts out of the glass before you even sniff
it. It’s very smooth, broadens on the palate, with a mild finish
but little bite.  Rittenhouse  100 Proof Bottle in Bond Straight Rye ($24)  Though made in Kentucky, this is a “Pennsylvania-style” rye
named after David Rittenhouse, first director of the  U.S. Mint .
Even with its high proof, this is a silky, creamy whiskey with a
seductive, slow burn. Not meant for diluting in a cocktail.  Sazerac Rye ($30)  One of five Sazerac ryes, this 90-proof crisp style has
lots of flavor components and hints of molasses and cinnamon,
and it goes down very easily. An ideal base for rye cocktails.  Colonel E.H. Taylor, Jr. Straight Rye ($70)  Another  Sazerac  rye, it’s pricey and shows off breeding
through a mating of rye and malted barley. While light in color,
it has a briary cut to it that may remind you of a single-malt
Scotch.  Michter’s  10 Year Old ($70)  Michter’s U.S. No.1 Single Barrel Straight Rye is
impressive enough for its depth and layers of true rye flavors.
The 10-year-old shows just how strikingly American whiskey can
compete with the finest Scotches and Cognacs out there. If you
want complexity, a nip of oak and smoke, this is well worth
seeking out and worth every penny it costs.  Knob Creek Rye ($41)   Another blockbuster at 100 proof, this has plenty of spice
notes and gets vanilla from its charred oak barrels.  WhistlePig  ($70)  Aged ten years and 100 proof from 100 percent rye, Whistle
Pig is currently made from Canadian rye finished in bourbon
barrels in  Vermont . It’s got plenty of spice, some anise and
caramel, and it’s gaining favor and distribution beyond the  New
England  and the Mid-Atlantic states.  Willett  4 Year Old Single Barrel Rare Release ($36)  Ready for a 110-proof rye? This is a surprisingly very
smooth whiskey indeed, with little burn, and has a lush, sweet
element to it. The company has a Franco-American colonial
history and opened its distillery in 1935.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  John Mariani 
on drink and  Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 