-- French Citizen’s Bail in Bribe-Probe Case Opposed by U.S.
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-29T17:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/french-citizen-s-bail-in-bribe-probe-case-opposed-by-u-s-.html
Frederic Cilins, a French citizen
charged with obstructing a U.S. grand jury investigation into
bribes paid to win mining rights in  Guinea , should be denied
bail, prosecutors said.  Cilins, who is in custody in  Florida , submitted a false,
unsigned affidavit in support of his bid to win release on bail,
the government said in a filing yesterday in federal court in
Jacksonville, Florida. The papers provide additional details of
the government’s case against Cilins.  Cilins said in the affidavit he is the sole owner of two
limited liability companies that hold Florida properties being
proposed for use as security for a bond, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Kelly Karase said in the filing. Instead, the LLCs are owned by
Cilins and two other men, Michael Noy and Avraham Lev Ran, who
are tied to Cilins’s alleged crime, Karase said.  “There is simply no reason to believe that either of these
individuals would want the defendant to attend a trial at which
their own activities will be the subject of inquiry,” Karase
said in the filing.  Karase, who said Cilins presents a “grave risk of
flight,” argued that he should be denied bail. Cilins is
expected to appear in court in Jacksonville today.  Cilins is accused of offering to pay a witness to lie to a
grand jury and to turn over documents for him to destroy,
according to an indictment filed last week in federal court in
 Manhattan .  The case is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-mj-00975, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  The Florida case is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-mj-01087, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  