-- George Bush’s True Legacy? A Republican Party in Denial
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-04-29T22:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/george-bush-s-true-legacy-a-republican-party-in-denial.html
George W. Bush , who united almost
all Republicans during most of his time in national politics,
now divides them. Most Republicans view his presidency
 favorably , and cheer his recent rise in the public’s esteem. A
vocal group of conservatives, though, thinks of the Bush
presidency as a wrong turn -- a turn toward big government that
the party needs to repudiate.  The dedication of Bush’s presidential library last week
reheated this long-simmering debate, which the party is no
closer to settling than it was when Bush left office in January
2009.  Veterans of the  Bush administration  shouldn’t get carried
away celebrating his recovery in the polls. The NBC/Wall Street
Journal  poll  has been asking people for years which party they
trust most to handle various issues. It shows that voters trust
Republicans less on taxes, the economy, controlling spending and
reducing the deficit than they did before Bush became the leader
of the Republican Party. The only issue on which Republicans do
better than they did in the late 1990s is health care, and that
improvement is entirely the result of the post-Bush debate over
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care plan.  Bush’s critics forget something, too: The Republican Party
was already in poor shape when he took control. It had lost two
presidential elections in a row to  Bill Clinton . Republicans had
taken Congress in 1994 because the public didn’t want unified
Democratic control of the government. But the defeat of
Congress’s attempts, under House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , to
restrain Medicare spending and shut down Cabinet departments had
left the party without any clear direction. Democrats
outnumbered Republicans by  almost as much  as they  do now .  Broader Agenda  To be competitive in 2000, Bush had to distance himself
from the Gingrich image. He adopted a softer tone than other
Republicans, made clear that he was no enemy of the government
programs that voters like, and broadened the party’s agenda to
include revitalizing charity rather than just railing against
federal spending. He also joined the rest of his party in
supporting a new prescription-drug benefit for senior citizens.  So it isn’t surprising that the federal government expanded
on Bush’s watch. Bush clearly hoped, though, that his presidency
would turn the country more conservative. The people would
reward Republicans for governing successfully, he thought.
Americans would become more free-market-oriented as a
restructured Social Security made them more self-reliant. An
influx of Hispanics would join the conservative coalition after
he reformed immigration. And so on.  By midway through Bush’s second term, it was clear that
this strategy was a dead end. The U.S. military was losing in
 Iraq , and Republicans weren’t willing to admit it, let alone
change policy. (Eventually, Bush did change course, with the
surge, but by then the public had made up its mind.) The economy
wasn’t delivering rising wages for most people. The government
wasn’t demonstrating competence in responding to disasters such
as  Hurricane Katrina .  Congressional Republicans  were more
concerned with staying in power -- and covering up their
colleagues’ scandals -- than in reforms to address any of these
issues. No wonder they got the boot in the 2006 elections. When
a recession and then a financial crisis hit before the 2008
elections, voters punished the Republicans a second time.  Seeking Purity  The failure of the Bush project led many conservatives to
think that what Republicans needed, above all, was to purify
their resistance to big government. The events of 2008-2010 --
bailouts, huge deficits, Obama’s health-care overhaul --
reinforced this idea. In the 2010 elections, the new tack seemed
to work: The public reacted against unchecked Democratic power
in  Washington  by giving the House back to Republicans.  Yet the political circumstances that moved Bush to adopt
his strategy hadn’t fundamentally changed. Voters were willing
to give Republicans the ability to act as a check on big
government in 2010 as they had been in 1994. But in 2012, as in
1996, voters wanted Republicans to stand for more than hostility
to government before they would trust the party with a governing
majority.  They were especially suspicious of granting such power to
Republicans, given their dismal record in office under Bush. The
public doesn’t primarily see Bush’s failure the way
conservatives do: as a matter of overspending. Republicans
turned on Bush’s spending but never reckoned with the Iraq
debacle or the middle-class stagnation of the past decade. They
didn’t even do much to offer an alternative to the Democratic
narrative about the origin of the economic crisis.  Conservatives rejected Bushism without demonstrating any
understanding of why it was adopted in the first place, or why
it was rejected. That’s George W. Bush’s political legacy: a
weakened  Republican Party  unable to face its flaws.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  