-- German Stocks Climb on Italy Election, Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-04-29T14:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/german-stocks-climb-on-italy-election-stimulus-optimism.html
German stocks  rose to their highest
in more than two weeks as  Italy  formed a new government and
investor optimism grew that central banks will maintain economic
stimulus measures at meetings this week.  Deutsche Bank AG added 1.6 percent.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  gained
3.6 percent after Europe’s biggest carmaker said it will perform
better than the overall market. Allianz SE and  Munich Re  climbed
as a gauge of insurance companies advanced on the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 0.6 percent to 7,863.26 at 4:20 p.m. in
Frankfurt, its highest level since April 11. The gauge is
heading toward a monthly gain of 0.8 percent, after adding 4.8
percent last week as the U.K. avoided a triple-dip recession and
investors speculated the  European Central Bank  will cut  interest
rates . The broader HDAX Index climbed 0.5 percent today.  “The markets are moving higher on optimism of a European
Central Bank interest-rate cut later this week and the potential
positive outcome of a new government in Italy being put in
place,” Ion-Marc Valahu, co-founder and  fund manager  at
Clairinvest in Geneva, said in a telephone interview. “There
are also talks from the European Union on softening the bias
towards austerity.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 45 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  In Italy, Enrico Letta was sworn in as prime minister
yesterday, ending a political deadlock after February’s
inconclusive elections. Letta formed an alliance with  Silvio Berlusconi , who has pledged to undo some parts of previous
premier  Mario Monti ’s budget-cutting measures.  Economic Sentiment  Economic confidence  in the euro area fell in April more
than forecast. An index of executive and consumer sentiment
dropped to 88.6 from a revised 90.1 in March, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest since
December. Economists had predicted a decline to 89.3, according
to the median estimate in a  Bloomberg News survey.   The ECB may lower its interest rate to 0.5 percent at a
meeting on May 2, according to the median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The  Bank of England  will keep its
interest rate unchanged at a policy meeting next week, a
separate survey of economists showed.  Stocks extended gains as a Commerce Department report
showed that U.S. household purchases climbed 0.2 percent in
March, following a 0.7 percent gain a month earlier. Economists
on average had called for spending to be little changed.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  starts a two-day policy
meeting tomorrow after data last week showed the world’s largest
economy expanded in the first quarter less than forecast.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, gained 1.6 percent
to 32.86 euros, as a gauge of European lenders advanced on the
Stoxx 600.  Volkswagen added 3.6 percent to 153.45 euros. “We expect
that the Volkswagen group will outperform the market as a whole
in a challenging environment,” VW said in a statement. The
carmaker reiterated that operating profit will about equal the
1.14 billion euros posted last year.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the largest manufacturer of
luxury cars, increased 1.6 percent to 69.70 euros. A gauge of
auto stocks climbed the most on the Stoxx 600.  HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest cement
maker, rose 1.2 percent to 54.02 euros. Davy raised its
recommendation on the shares to neutral from underperform.  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer, increased 0.7 percent
to 111.75 euros. Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer,
increased 1.2 percent to 150.70 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@blomberg.net  