-- German Inflation Rate Plunges to Lowest in More Than Two
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-04-29T13:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/german-inflation-rate-plunges-to-lowest-in-more-than-two-years.html
Germany ’s inflation rate slumped to
the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in April, just days before
the  European Central Bank  is due to decide on  interest rates .  The inflation rate in  Europe ’s largest economy, calculated
using a  harmonized  European Union method, fell to 1.1 percent
from 1.8 percent in March. That’s the lowest since August 2010.
Economists predicted a slowdown to 1.7 percent, according to the
median of 19 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey . Prices
dropped 0.5 percent in the month.  “Today’s data lay the groundwork for the ECB to cut
interest rates this week,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at
NordLB in Hanover. “Inflation in the euro area will slow faster
than expected, and with economic sentiment worsening it will
play into the hands of those arguing for lowering borrowing
costs.”  ECB policy makers, who are due to convene on May 2 for
their monthly meeting, have signaled they’re open to reducing
interest rates to stimulate growth and get the 17-nation euro
economy out of recession. Economists brought forward
expectations for a cut after gauges of manufacturing and
services activity for April underscored weakness in output.  Economic Confidence  Economic confidence in the euro area decreased more than
economists forecast in April, the European Commission in
Brussels said today, a week after the Bundesbank cast doubt on a
first-quarter recovery in Germany.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on April 19 that economic
risks are still on the downside and that the situation hasn’t
improved this month.  Some 44 of 70 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast policy makers will cut interest rates this week. The
 benchmark rate  is already at a historic low of 0.75 percent.  Germany’s weaker-than-forecast reading may push euro-area
inflation lower than economists predict. In a survey conducted
before today’s data, they estimated the rate would fall to 1.6
percent from 1.7 percent last month. The EU’s statistics office
in Luxembourg will publish that report at 11 a.m. tomorrow.  Risks to the outlook for inflation “continue to be broadly
balanced,” Draghi said after the last rate decision on April 4.
The ECB in March cut its inflation projection for 2014 to 1.3
percent from 1.4 percent and predicted annual consumer-price
gains will average 1.6 percent this year. It aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent.  For Germany, the Bundesbank forecasts inflation will
average 1.5 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2014. Germany’s
non-harmonized rate fell to 1.2 percent in April from 1.4
percent in March, today’s report showed.  “German inflation has reached its low point and should
start rising again next month,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an
economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “But we won’t see
inflation rates above 2 percent before next year. Moderate price
pressures give the ECB room to act.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  