-- Gilead Fails FDA Approval for 2 HIV Drugs in 4-in-1 Pill
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-29T20:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/gilead-fails-fda-approval-for-2-hiv-drugs-in-4-in-1-pill.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  failed to win
U.S. regulatory approval to sell as separate products two HIV
medicines that are part of its four-in-one pill Stribild.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cited “deficiencies in
documentation and validation of certain quality testing
procedures and methods,”  Foster City , California-based Gilead
said today in a statement. The company said it’s working with
the FDA to address the agency’s questions.  The two drugs, elvitegravir and cobicistat, are intended to
be used to help treat patients who have failed other medicines
or to boost the potency of certain HIV-treatment regimens. The
compounds are components of Stribild, a once-daily tablet
approved by the FDA in August that combines four drugs into one
pill. Two of the medications were already FDA-approved as
Gilead’s Truvada.  Gilead fell less than 1 percent to $51.09 at the close in
New York. The company almost doubled in the past 12 months.  Gilead’s Atripla, which combines three drugs in one pill,
is the best-selling HIV treatment with $3.6 billion in sales
last year. Elvitegravir and cobicistat individually may generate
an estimated $363 million and $262 million in 2016, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Elvitegravir interferes with an enzyme HIV needs to
multiply. Gilead said in a July statement that its research
found the drug works as well as Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck & Co.’s twice-daily Isentress, approved in 2007.  Cobicistat enhances the potency of widely prescribed
protease inhibitors such as  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Reyataz
and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Prezista. New York-based Bristol Myers
and New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J each have licensing
agreements with Gilead to develop pills containing combinations
of their drugs and cobicistat.  Cobicistat worked as well in a clinical trial on adults who
hadn’t taken HIV medication before as  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) ’s boosting
agent Norvir, Gilead said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  