-- Greeks Bet Ship Rout Ending With Most Orders Since 2008: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-04-30T12:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/greeks-bet-ship-rout-ending-with-most-orders-since-2008-freight.html
Greek shipping companies, the
owners of one in six merchant vessels, are ordering the most new
 iron-ore  carriers since 2008, betting the five-year rout in
charter rates may be nearing an end.  The companies ordered 12 Capesizes last quarter, the most
since the beginning of 2008, according to data from Golden
Destiny SA, a shipbroker in Piraeus,  Greece . Freight swaps,
traded by brokers and used to bet on future transportation
costs, anticipate rates will almost triple by the fourth
quarter. Stock in Athens-based  Diana Shipping Inc. (DSX) , which owns
33 vessels, will climb 6.5 percent in a year, the average of 11
analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Ship prices plunged to the lowest in almost a decade in
2012 and charter rates tumbled 99 percent since 2008.
Construction costs are now so low that owners will probably
order $250 billion of new vessels by 2016, according to Pareto
Shipping AS, an Oslo-based research company. The Bloomberg Dry
Ships Index of 12 companies rallied 9.4 percent this year, while
the price of a new Capesize climbed for the first time in 33
months in March.  “Greek owners tend to have an instinct for these things,”
said Dominic Meredith Hardy, an analyst at Galbraith’s Ltd., a
166-year-old shipbroker in  London . “The fact we are seeing more
buying is certainly a sign that sentiment is turning. They are
sensing an opportunity.”  Worst Recession  Capesizes are earning about $4,900 a day, compared with
$229,000 at the peak in 2008. The slump was caused by record
ordering in 2007 and 2008, just before the global  economy 
entered its worst recession since World War II. The fleet’s
expansion is now slowing and Capesize charter costs will advance
to an average of $17,500 a day next year, according to nine
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The orders by Greek owners, who have more merchant vessels
than companies from any other nation, are twice last year’s
total, according to Golden Destiny’s data. Shares of Diana
Shipping advanced 29 percent to $9.45 this year and will reach
$10.06 in 12 months, the estimates show. The company plans to
acquire a ship each month through 2014, Executive Vice President
Ioannis Zafirakis said by phone yesterday.  Diana Shipping has the third-largest weighting in the
Bloomberg Dry Ships Index, while  Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd. (2343) 
ranks first. Shares of Hong Kong-based Pacific Basin, which has
a fleet of 148 ships, will advance 6.5 percent in a year,
according to the average of 19 forecasts. The average Capesize
is about 286 meters (938 feet) long and 46 meters wide, carrying
more than 150,000 metric tons of iron ore.  Commodity Trade  Though the fleet is still expanding, growth will slow and
seaborne commodity trade will expand 6 percent annually until
2016, Nicolai Hansteen, an analyst at Pareto, told a conference
in Copenhagen on April 17. Dry-bulk shipping, which hauls
cargoes from grains to coal to iron ore, probably will have the
biggest share of the predicted $250 billion of vessel orders,
according to Pareto. Capesize prices are the lowest ever when
adjusted for inflation, Hansteen said.  The rebound may be curbed by the existing fleet’s size and
by Chinese economic growth that’s the second-slowest this
decade, even at an 8 percent annual pace. The nation is the
biggest global importer of iron ore and coal, which generate the
most demand for dry-bulk shipping.  Chinese  steel mills  may need less iron ore because they
have stockpiled the most supplies in at least three years.
Inventories of steel reinforcement bars are the highest for the
time of year since at least 2010, according to data from
Shanghai Steelhome Information, an industry research company.  Order Book  It takes about two years for a Capesize to be delivered
once ordered, according to Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at
Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo. Supply of the vessels almost
tripled in the eight years through 2012, according to data from
 Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker. Iron-ore shipments
increased 87 percent to 1.1 billion tons annually in that span
as  coal  cargoes expanded 65 percent to 1.06 billion tons.  Orders for new vessels now come to 15 percent of the
existing fleet, compared with a record 100 percent in 2008,
according to data from IHS Fairplay, a Redhill, England-based
maritime research company. Some orders probably have been
canceled and the actual number is likely even lower, according
to Hansteen at Pareto.  John Fredriksen , the world’s richest shipping investor, is
also spending billions on establishing a fleet of new, fuel-
efficient vessels, including ore carriers.  Frontline 2012 Ltd. (FRNT) ,
in which he is the biggest shareholder, had four new Capesizes
on order at the end of last year.  Frontline 2012 ordered its new ships from STX Jinhae in
 South Korea  and at  China ’s Longxue and Jinhaiwan yards. Chinese
shipbuilders accounted for 48 percent of Capesizes on order at
the start of April and  Japan  ranked second with a 42 percent
share, according to data from Clarkson.  Merchant Fleet  The glut in dry-bulk freight is mirrored across the
merchant fleet. The ClarkSea Index, an overall measure of costs
for shipping, averaged $9,600 a day last year, the lowest on
record, Clarkson data show. As much as 90 percent of trade moves
on vessels, according to the Round Table of International
Shipping Associations.  Prices of new Capesizes probably have fallen far enough to
reflect supply and demand, according to Will Fray, a senior
analyst at Maritime Strategies International Ltd., a London-
based freight-forecasting company. A new ship in China costs $47
million, down from as much as $99 million in 2008, according to
London-based Clarkson.  The Greek orders for  vessels  are mostly from companies that
are closely held, rather than publicly traded, according to
Golden Destiny. Diana Shipping said April 9 it was buying a
secondhand Capesize for $27 million.  Anticipated Revival  The shipping company will report a net loss of $14.8
million for this year before earning $890,000 in 2014 and $43.8
million in the following year, according to the averages of 17
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Diana Shipping’s
planned vessel purchases are because the company anticipates a
rebound in rates, Zafirakis said in the phone interview.  “The Greeks traditionally are more successful than most,”
said  David Webb , a director at Arrow Chartering (U.K.) Ltd., who
correctly predicted rallies in freight rates in 2011 and 2012.
“They are punting at what they think is the complete bottom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  