-- Hong Kong Invites Li’s Dockers for Talks to End Port Strike
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-04-29T10:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/li-s-striking-port-workers-cut-demands-as-replacements-hired-1-.html
Hong Kong’s government made a
renewed effort to end the longest strike at the city’s container
terminal after workers at billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s docks scaled
back demands for a 23 percent wage increase.  The labor department invited the Union of Hong Kong Dockers
to talks tomorrow, where contractors of Li’s Hongkong
International Terminals Ltd. will be present, employees’ union
representative Wong Yu-loy said. Earlier talks aimed at defusing
the four-week dispute failed after the workers rejected a 7
percent pay raise.  The terminals are operating at 90 percent of capacity and
the delays faced by ships for berthing have been cut after the
hiring of temporary workers, Canning Fok, chairman of Li’s
Hutchison Port Holdings Trust, said in  Singapore . The biggest
industrial action ever faced by Li,  Asia ’s richest man, led at
least 100 ships to skip  Hong Kong  in favor of nearby ports,
threatening the city’s reputation as a trade hub for  China .  The industrial action was “pretty much over” after an
April 1 court order prohibited workers from demonstrating at the
docks, Fok said today. The port operator has received interest
for jobs at terminals from outsiders, said Gerry Yim, Chief
Executive Officer of Hutchison Port Holdings.  Contractors at Li’s terminals in the world’s third-busiest
container port hired workers to cut the waiting time for ships
on average to 20-to-25 hours last week, compared with about 60
hours when the strike started.  ‘Nonsense’  Suggestions that the strike is over is “nonsense” and
it’s the biggest weapon for the workers to seek a fair treatment,
said Ho Wai-hong, another representative of the Union of Hong
Kong Dockers.  The workers are willing to drop an earlier demand of a 23
percent pay increase, Lee Cheuk-yan, the general secretary of
the Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Unions, said by phone.  “It’s open to discussions,” Lee said by phone on April 27.
Workers would still want an increase in the “double digits,”
he said.  About 450 dock workers, mostly crane operators and
stevedores, walked out on March 28, demanding higher wages and
better working conditions. Some of the strikers have also
surrounded Li’s 70-story Cheung Kong Center building in the
city’s Central district, spurring a court battle with Li over
their right to protest.  Hongkong International Terminals is owned by  Hutchison Port
Holdings Trust (HPHT) , whose largest shareholder is Li’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  Hutchison Port, along with partner  Cosco Pacific
Ltd. (1199) , dominates half of the capacity at Hong Kong, the third-
largest container port behind Shanghai and Singapore.  Street Rally  The Union of Hong Kong Dockers said 3,000 people took part
in a rally April 26 at the Government House, the official
residence of the city’s chief executive, while the police said
600 people participated,  Radio Television Hong Kong  reported.  The striking workers represent about 12 percent of 3,500 to
3,800 contract staff Hutchison Port hires in Hong Kong,
according to its latest  annual report . They earn HK$55 an hour,
less than the HK$60.70 they were paid in 1995, the union said.
The workers took a pay cut in 2003 during the severe acute
respiratory syndrome, or SARS, outbreak.  Some workers were told they will lose their jobs on April
19 as Global Stevedoring Service Co., one of the contractors
which employs them, decided to wind up operations because it
wasn’t able to meet the salary demands.  Hutchison said it received interest from non-dock workers,
including taxi drivers and security guards, to work at terminals
and is training job applicants to drive cranes, Yim said.  Waiting Times  The daily financial loss caused by the strike has been
“significantly” cut in the past two weeks, Hongkong
International said in an April 23 statement, without elaboration.
The daily loss was narrowed to HK$2.4 million ($309,000) on
April 5 from HK$5 million, it said.  Li’s Hutchison Whampoa won a court order barring the
workers from entering Cheung Kong Center to demonstrate,
according to a company statement and RTHK. The court will hear
arguments on May 3 over the workers’ right to protest in and
around the building.  Cheung Kong Center is home to offices of companies
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  