-- Ibovespa Rises as Petrobras Earnings Top Estimates
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-29T21:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/ibovespa-rises-as-petrobras-earnings-top-estimates.html
The Ibovespa rose the most in one
week as oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the  heaviest-
weighted  stock on  Brazil ’s benchmark gauge, soared after posting
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Petrobras’s results prompted Bank of America Corp. to
recommend buying the stock. The MSCI Brazil/Energy index was the
best performer among 10 industry groups. Smiles SA, the
frequent-flier unit for airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes
SA, surged in its first day of trading following an initial
public offering last week.  The Ibovespa gained 1.2 percent to 54,887.25 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, paring this year’s drop to 10 percent,
the steepest decline among major emerging markets. Thirty-eight
 stocks  advanced on the index today while 28 retreated. The real
weakened 0.4 percent to 2.0073 per dollar.  “The Brazilian stock market is one of the worst performers
in the world this year, partially because companies such as
Petrobras are facing some serious issues, and today we’re seeing
a rebound,” Alexandre Ghirghi, a portfolio manager at Metodo
Investimentos, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “The Ibovespa has
potential to gain further if we also see some good news on the
macro front. The focus now is on inflation.”  Consumer stocks including cosmetics maker Natura Cosmeticos
SA gained after a measure of inflation slowed more than
forecast. The  IGP-M price index  of wholesale, construction and
consumer prices rose 7.30 percent in the year ending on April
20, according to the Getulio Vargas Foundation. That was less
than the median estimate of 7.35 percent among economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Petrobras Results  Natura added 2 percent to 49.09 reais.  Petrobras reported first-quarter  net income  of 7.69 billion
reais, or 59 centavos a share, more than the 57-centavo average
of 11 analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares jumped 5.5 percent to 20.35 reais.  “Petrobras’s results should be an important factor to help
boost investors’ sentiment toward the stock,” Oswaldo Telles, a
Sao Paulo-based analyst at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento
SA, wrote in a note to clients today.  Iron-ore producer Vale SA rose 1.1 percent to 32.02 reais,
while competitor  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  jumped 8.2 percent
to 2.38 reais.  Valor Economico  reported that the government
shelved a plan to raise a mining tax to as much as 6 percent
from 3 percent. The newspaper, citing Energy Minister Edison Lobao, said it is now considering an increase to no more than 4
percent.  Smiles Debut  Lobao’s press office didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment about Valor’s report. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month
Price Commodity Index added 1 percent as copper advanced amid
speculation that efforts by central banks to boost their
economies, coupled with signs of improving in the U.S housing
market, will underpin demand for industrial metals.  Oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA gained 19
percent to 2.17 reais, the biggest one-day jump since September
2008, paring this year’s plunge to 50 percent.  Smiles rallied 6 percent to 23 reais after saying on April
25 it was raising as much as 1.13 billion reais by selling
shares for 21.70 reais each in an initial public offering.  BB Seguridade Participacoes SA, Banco do Brasil SA’s
insurance unit, declined 2.4 percent to 16.60 reais in its
trading debut after raising 8.5 billion reais in the world’s
biggest IPO this year. Four companies held initial share
offerings in Brazil this month, the most since 2007, raising a
combined 11 billion reais, excluding the so-called greenshoe
option for underwriters to buy additional shares.  The Ibovespa  trades  at 11.2 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 10.5 for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 9.04 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.67 billion reais this year
through April 25, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  