-- Microsoft Pays Higher Rate to Beat Apple Sale: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-04-29T16:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/microsoft-pays-higher-rate-to-beat-apple-sale-corporate-finance.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is paying higher
yields on new bonds than in a November sale after it beat the
planned return of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to the credit market after an
absence of almost two decades.  The company, one of four U.S.-based businesses with the
highest ratings from Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s, issued $1.95 billion of dollar-denominated debt last
week with a weighted average coupon of 2.41 percent, exceeding
the 2.33 percent for similar bonds it sold five months earlier
even with interest rates at about the same level. The latest
sale came two days after Apple said it would use debt to help
fund a $55 billion addition to a plan to return cash to
shareholders.  “Microsoft paid a little more than they otherwise would,
given the looming Apple issuance,” said Noel Hebert, the chief
investment officer at Concannon Wealth Management, which
oversees about $250 million of assets from Bethlehem,
 Pennsylvania . “The higher coupons are likely a fair trade to
get in front of the new Apple paper, which will have to get
digested.”  While the world’s largest software maker has a higher
 credit rating  than Apple,  growth  at the Redmond, Washington-
based company has stagnated for more than a decade. After
generating enough free cash flow in 1999 to buy Apple twice
over, Microsoft’s $27.5 billion of funds earned in the last 12
months now accounts for about 60 percent of the amount  produced 
by its Cupertino, California-based competitor.  Euro Record  Even as European investors simultaneously awarded the
Windows 8 designer an unprecedented 2.625 percent 20-year coupon
on its first ever euro-denominated debt, it cost Microsoft more
to place dollar notes with buyers who are expecting potential
Apple issuance through 2015 to be more than 25 percent of
outstanding U.S. investment-grade technology bonds.  Tony Imperati, a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment
on whether Apple influenced the timing of Microsoft’s debt
offering. Steve Dowling of Apple declined to comment on a
potential bond sale by the iPhone maker, which last sold
convertible debt in 1996 and straight bonds in 1994.  Apple asked Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG
to arrange phone interviews with fixed-income investors today in
advance of a potential deal, according to a person familiar with
the offering who asked not to be identified because the terms
aren’t set.  The Windows maker “wanted to front-run them so they didn’t
overpay after Apple once all the accounts got filled,” Nikhill Patel, an analyst at San Antonio-based Frost Investment Advisors
LLC, which oversees $9 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“With $55 billion in total issuance over three years, from a
highly rated and highly regarded technology company such as
Apple, it’s a lot for the market to stomach.”  Higher Coupons  Microsoft sold $450 million of 1 percent, five-year bonds,
$1 billion of 2.375 percent debt due 2023 and $500 million of
30-year securities with a coupon of 3.75 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Those notes had higher coupons and
wider spreads that those linked to similar portions of bonds the
company issued Nov. 2.  The 10-year debt that Microsoft sold in November was sold
with a 2.125 percent coupon at a 47 basis-point spread, while
the corresponding maturity in last week’s sale was priced at a
relative yield of 70 basis points. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Yields on 10-year  U.S. Treasuries (USGG10YR)  were 1.71 percent on
April 25, when the new bonds were sold, compared with 1.72
percent on Nov. 2, the date of the previous issue.  Yields on
investment-grade bonds fell to 2.69 percent from 2.77 percent
over that span, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Index.  ‘Scarce Credit’  Microsoft also raised 550 million euros ($716 million) in
its latest sale, an offering for which demand from European
money managers, insurance companies and pension funds reached 7
billion euros.  “It has the benefit of being a scarce credit in quite a
wide universe,” said Craig Veysey, the head of fixed income at
Sanlam Private Investments Ltd. in  London , part of the Sanlam
Group, which oversees $72 billion of assets. “The U.S. dollar
issuance from Microsoft didn’t have the same scarcity value as
the euro tranche.”  Apple is poised to exploit scarcity value as it prepares to
finance part of a $100 billion shareholder reward package with
debt.  Nike Inc. (NKE) , which before last week hadn’t sold new bonds
since 2003, raised $1 billion with 10- and 30-year securities on
April 23 that pay less that Microsoft even though the sporting-
goods company is ranked four levels lower, with an A1 grade from
Moody’s and A+ at S&P.  Apple Offerings  With Microsoft, “people can probably get a pretty decent
fill and may already have enough exposure,” Lon Erickson, a
Santa Fe, New Mexico-based money manager at Thornburg Investment
Management Inc. who oversees about $6 billion of taxable fixed-
income assets, said in a telephone interview. “They don’t
necessarily need to go into the market full force like they
would with something like Nike or, clearly, Apple.”  Microsoft’s sale may precede a series of Apple offerings
that CreditSights Inc. estimates could be between $15 billion
and $20 billion annually over the next three years. Using bonds
to finance the additional cash Apple plans to use to enrich
shareholders stands to swell the $187 billion market for U.S.
investment-grade technology debt by about 30 percent, Bloomberg
data show. Apple is rated Aa1 at Moody’s and AA+ by S&P.  ‘Always Better’  “Presumably the same investors that are going to play in
the Microsoft deal are going to play in Apple, and diversity is
always better,” said Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  While Apple’s 39 percent stock  plunge  from its September
high reflects investor concern that the company’s pace of sales
growth is slowing amid accelerating competition in mobile
devices from Samsung Electronics Co., Microsoft is contending
with its own challenges.  The company reported no growth in Windows sales in its
latest quarter, after accounting for upgrades sold in the past,
and is struggling to end its reliance on traditional computing
as consumers and businesses flock to mobile devices. Its bond
prices imply a rating of A1, data from Moody’s Analytics show.  Cost controls and sales of business and server software
have helped boost profit beyond analyst estimates and blunt the
impact of plummeting personal computer shipments amid weak
demand for Microsoft’s newest operating system. While last
week’s offering cost more than Microsoft’s previous sale, its
average coupon was still below the average 2.95 percent for its
$16.9 billion of  bonds outstanding , Bloomberg data show.  “They may have had to pay up for it a little bit in order
to entice people to come into this in addition to waiting to buy
Apple,” Thornburg’s Erickson said. “At the same time, it’s
quite cheap money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  