-- Millennial Media Luring Yahoo on Mobile-Ad Boom: Real M&A
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-04-30T20:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/millennial-media-luring-yahoo-on-mobile-ad-boom-real-m-a.html
Millennial Media Inc. (MM) , the seller
of advertising space on smartphones that went public last year,
is now 47 percent cheaper for companies such as  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  that want to expand their share of the market.  The $550 million company’s  shares  fell this month to their
lowest level since going public after forecasting sales growth
of about 55 percent this year, slower than analysts had
projected. With Baltimore-based Millennial Media still the
biggest independent U.S. mobile-ad services provider, it could
draw interest from technology companies that want to secure a
bigger foothold in one of the fastest-growing segments in
digital advertising, said Telsey Advisory Group LLC.  Spending in the U.S. for ads on mobile devices may reach
$7.3 billion this year, up from $4.1 billion in 2012, according
to research firm EMarketer Inc. Given Millennial Media’s market
position and expertise, Needham & Co. said its stock has fallen
more than is justified and that might attract companies such as
Yahoo or Amazon.com Inc. IPOPlaybook.com said Microsoft also may
be among potential suitors, while Falcon Point Capital LLC said
even No. 2 mobile-ad seller  Facebook Inc. (FB)  could pursue the
company to strengthen its offerings to advertisers.  Millennial Media is “at a depressed level, so now would be
the right time to buy,” Kerry Rice, a San Francisco-based
analyst at Needham, said in a telephone interview. “Mobile is,
and is going to be, a very important space for advertising. It
would have to be someone interested in furthering their mobile-
advertising strategy.”  Stock Decline  Max Nelson, a spokesman at Millennial Media, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Millennial Media  helps website owners and application
developers sell mobile advertising to companies. Its competition
includes Google Inc., the market leader according to EMarketer,
and Apple Inc.  The company’s stock almost doubled on its first day of
trading following its March 2012 initial public offering before
declining as sales growth slowed and companies such as Facebook
and Twitter Inc. expanded their mobile-ad efforts.  On Feb. 20, the stock dropped a record 38 percent after
Millennial Media forecast 2013 sales of $270 million to $280
million, below the $288.75 million projected by analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s estimate
puts it on track for revenue growth of about 55 percent this
year, trailing its annual gains of 71 percent or more since
2008.  “The growth fantasies for Millennial are diminished,”
Karsten Weide, program vice president of digital media and
entertainment at IDC in San Mateo,  California , said in a phone
interview.  Mobile Appeal  The  stock , which touched a low of $6.05 on April 1, closed
yesterday at $6.94, down almost half from its $13 IPO price.
Today, Millennial Media shares fell 0.1 percent to $6.93.  Even with its growth slowing, Millennial Media is still the
biggest independent mobile-ad provider in the U.S. and is
projected to keep growing in an industry that’s booming. That
could appeal to a buyer, said Michael Mahoney, senior managing
director at Falcon Point in San Francisco.  “Everybody wants a slice of this business,” Mahoney said
in a phone interview. “These guys have a workable way to
address mobile ads, and in the next five years that’s going to
be a big deal. I definitely think they are a potential target.”  Yahoo, the largest U.S. Web portal, could be drawn to
Millennial Media as a way to speed up its growth in mobile ads,
said Needham’s Rice. The $27 billion company has been focused on
growing its mobile revenue, partly through acquisitions of
companies such as app makers Summly and Jybe Inc.  Seeking Targets  Yahoo’s Chief Executive Officer Marissa Mayer said on the
company’s April 16 earnings call that the company would continue
to look for acquisition targets “that we can integrate quickly
and easily into our business.” She said she expects that by
2015, more people will access the Internet on mobile devices
than on personal computers, presenting “a tremendous
opportunity for us.”  “If Yahoo doesn’t ramp up their mobile business, that’ll
make their future very difficult,” said IDC’s Weide. “I’d
imagine they’d be looking at Millennial to grow this business
more quickly and save time to market. They have a lot of cash;
they could afford Millennial.”  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale, California, had more than $5
billion in  cash  and equivalents at the end of the first quarter.  Amazon Add-on  Amazon could also seek to acquire Millennial Media to round
off its offerings in mobile-ad services, Needham’s Rice said.  “They’ve got some good mobile products, and this would be
an intriguing add-on,” Rice said.  The Seattle-based company already sells tablets, and lets
developers serve ads into apps for the Kindle Fire, Kindle Fire
HD and Android phones and tablets. The world’s largest Internet
retailer, with a market value of $114 billion and  cash and
equivalents  of almost $8 billion at the end of the first
quarter, also was working on a smartphone last year, two people
with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Microsoft, the Redmond, Washington-based software developer
with a market value of $272 billion, may wish to acquire
Millennial Media to shore up its position in mobile advertising,
where it lags behind rivals such as Google.  “Microsoft has been desperately trying to figure out how
to move into the mobile space, and it has tremendous
resources,” Tom Taulli, who analyzes acquisitions for Los
Angeles-based IPOPlaybook.com, said in a phone interview.
Microsoft had more than $74 billion in  cash  and equivalents at
the end of March.  Facebook Attraction  Even Facebook, operator of the largest social-networking
service, could pursue Millennial Media so that it can offer more
options to advertisers interested in reaching mobile users,
Falcon Point’s Mahoney said.  The Menlo Park, California-based company, with a market
value of $65 billion, began selling mobile-ad services last year
and is now the No. 2 provider, according to EMarketer. At the
end of last year, Facebook had nearly $10 billion in  cash  and
equivalents.  Representatives for Yahoo,  Amazon (AMZN) , Microsoft and Facebook
said they couldn’t comment on speculation.  While Millennial Media may attract buyers,  management  may
be reluctant to consider a sale at the company’s diminished
stock price, Needham’s Rice said.  “If they continue to perform well and meet expectations,
the stock will ultimately bounce back,” Rice said.  Sell Out?  Still, even as Millennial Media is  projected  to keep
growing, its share of mobile-ad services is poised to shrink
amid increased competition, IDC’s Weide said.  With larger rivals looming, Millennial Media might do well
to consider a takeover offer, said Taulli at IPOPlaybook.com. He
estimates the company could command its IPO price of $13 a share
in a deal, which would represent an 87 percent premium to
yesterday’s close.  “They are going up against some big players,” Taulli
said. “If I had an opportunity, I’d probably sell out to one of
the big players. I don’t think there’s a lack of buyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  