-- Time Warner Cable Names AOL’s Minson CFO as Esteves Departs
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-04-30T20:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/time-warner-cable-hires-aol-s-minson-as-cfo-as-esteves-departs.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-
largest U.S. cable provider, said it hired former  AOL Inc. (AOL)  Chief
Operating Officer Arthur Minson as chief financial officer,
replacing Irene Esteves, who is departing.  The board replaced Esteves, 54, with Minson, 42, who will
take over as CFO on May 2. In a statement yesterday, Chief
Executive Officer Glenn Britt said Esteves had played “a
significant role in the management of the company” since she
joined in 2011.  Minson returns to Time Warner Cable, where he was deputy
CFO before leaving for AOL. He reported then to Rob Marcus, who
is now Time Warner Cable’s COO and is the top candidate for the
CEO job when Britt retires at the end of the year, a person
familiar with the situation said in February.  Nathalie Burgos, a spokeswoman at Time Warner Cable,
declined to comment on the reason for Esteves’s departure.  “It’s definitely a surprise, but I don’t think there are
going to be huge changes in how the company views its capital
allocation,” said Amy Yong, an analyst at Macquarie Securities
in  New York . “Artie has worked with Rob before and is familiar
with his thinking.”  Time Warner Cable has fallen 3 percent this year,
underperforming the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which has
gained 12 percent, through yesterday. The New York-based company
is changing its operating strategy to cut down on promotional
giveaways, forcing customers to pay more for the services they
want, Marcus said in an interview last week.  Minson Compensation  Minson served as AOL’s CFO since 2009 after leaving Time
Warner Cable before becoming COO in June. He’s also held senior
finance positions at  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ,
according to the statement.  Minson will earn an annual base salary of $900,000 and a
cash bonus with a target amount of $1.35 million, prorated for
2013, according to a company filing. Minson will also receive a
$500,000 signing bonus and a special equity award of $2 million.  Time Warner Cable fell less than 1 percent to $93.89 at the
close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  