-- India’s Rupee Advances on Optimism Fed Policy Will Spur Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-04-29T05:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/india-s-rupee-advances-on-optimism-fed-policy-will-spur-inflows.html
India ’s rupee rose on speculation
U.S. policy makers will maintain this week economic stimulus
measures that have spurred fund flows into  emerging markets .  The  Federal Reserve  will start a two-day policy meeting
tomorrow after a government report last week showed the world’s
largest economy expanded less than analysts forecast. The
 Reserve Bank  of India will lower its  repurchase  rate to 7.25
percent from 7.5 percent at a May 3 review, according to 22 of
26 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Three see no change and one
predicts a cut to 7 percent. Global funds bought a net $11
billion of Indian stocks this year, exchange data show.  “Bad U.S. data means that the Fed will probably stay
accommodative for longer and continue with its bond purchases,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
Singapore.  The rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 54.2775 per dollar as of
10:48 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.14 percent.  The rupee’s gains will be limited on concern Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram will struggle to pass bills
allowing more foreign investment due to lawmaker disagreements,
according to Westpac.  Political Hurdles  Parliament was adjourned on April 26 for a fourth day amid
protests after India’s federal investigation agency said
government officials vetted its report on alleged graft in the
allocation of coal mines. This raises hurdles to passing laws
permitting more foreign investment in industries including
insurance, and damps confidence in the rupee, said Cavenagh.  “The rupee will stay rangebound in the near term as
investors will be watching how the political scene unfolds,” he
said.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.26 per
dollar, compared with 55.38 on April 26, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.10 versus 55.19. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  