-- Indonesia May Adopt Single Price in Reducing Fuel Subsidies
-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 2013-04-29T09:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/indonesia-may-adopt-single-price-in-reducing-fuel-subsidies.html
Indonesia  may raise fuel prices to
the same level across all categories instead of revising them by
vehicle type in its bid to curb subsidies, a presidential
spokesman said.  The government is “leaning toward” a single price for
subsidized fuel, Julian Aldrin Pasha told reporters today at the
presidential palace. An alternative plan would require private
car users to pay about 6,500 rupiah (67 U.S. cents) per liter,
while the price for motorcycles and public transport vehicles
would remain at 4,500 rupiah.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is seeking fuel-subsidy
cuts to free up more funds for infrastructure and to spur
expansion. The government limited the use of partially
subsidized diesel in January after protests derailed plans to
raise prices in 2012. Assistance must be reduced for those who
can afford paying for fuel at full market price and maintained
for those who can’t, Yudhoyono has said.  “The blanket increase is better in terms of
implementation,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Indonesia’s
economy should be able to adjust to it and the central bank may
raise its benchmark rate in third quarter.”  Indonesians are expecting a single subsidized fuel price
and are ready for it, Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources
Jero Wacik told reporters in Jakarta today.  Motorcycles, Public Transport  While there is “thought of responding” to this
expectation, Yudhoyono still wants to protect motorcycle and
public transportation users, Wacik said. The price for
subsidized fuel wouldn’t be increased to 6,500 rupiah per liter,
he said, adding the government is calculating the appropriate
level.  Yudhoyono may announce the policy tomorrow, Armida Alisjahbana, state minister for national planning and
development, told reporters today. The president said in March a
new policy could be fleshed out within weeks.  Yudhoyono, who can’t run for president next year after
serving two terms, struggled to win support from within his own
coalition for last year’s proposed fuel-price increase. He has
said that Indonesia should review its subsidy bill and use the
savings to boost infrastructure, calling for fiscal prudence.  Standard & Poor’s said this month that a delay in
structural reforms, especially rationalization of energy
subsidies, is a constraint in Indonesia’s credit quality.  Subsidy Allocation  In his annual budget announced in August, the president
allocated 274.7 trillion rupiah for energy subsidies, compared
with 184.4 trillion rupiah for capital spending. The country
spent 211.9 trillion rupiah on fuel subsidies in 2012.  Consumer price gains quickened to 5.9 percent last month
from a year earlier and Bank Indonesia has held  borrowing costs 
for 14 meetings. While gross domestic product has risen above 6
percent for the past nine quarters, the economy expanded in the
three months through December at the slowest pace in more than
two years as exports fell amid a decline in commodity prices.  “From a market perspective, I think you could see a knee
jerk initial negative reaction as a higher inflation premium is
priced in,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a regional economist at
Barclays Plc. in  Singapore , referring to the single-price option.
“After that, as the market absorbs that this is good for the
fiscal situation, it’s good for the current account, I think it
will ultimately be positive for markets as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agus Suhana at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  