-- Hindustan Unilever Rises as Profit Beats Estimates: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-04-29T12:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/hindustan-unilever-profit-beats-estimates-on-raw-material-costs.html
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian
unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company,
climbed the most in nine months in Mumbai trading after fourth-
quarter profit beat analyst estimates.  Shares of Hindustan Unilever rose 7 percent, the biggest
gain since July 2012, to 497.35 rupees at the close in Mumbai.
It had the biggest percentage gain on the benchmark S&P BSE
Index today.  Volume of local sales at Hindustan Unilever expanded 6
percent in the quarter, compared with a 5 percent pace in the
three months ended December. The company is investing to
strengthen its brands after sales expanded at the  fastest pace 
in three quarters, Chairman Harish Manwani said.  “These results are good,” said Nitin Mathur, a Mumbai-
based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank. “The sales
growth is tapering off but the margins are improving and that’s
a good thing.”  Net income  rose  15 percent to 7.87 billion rupees
($145 million) in the three months ended March, exceeding the
7.6 billion-rupee  median  of 33 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company lowered some soap prices in the quarter after
raw material costs declined, according to Chief Financial
Officer Sridhar Ramamurthy.  Material Costs  Prices of  palm fatty acid distillate , an ingredient used to
make soaps and detergents, had declined about 44 percent at the
end of March from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Spot contract rates for palm fatty acid distillate
 fell  to $529.5 per ton in  Malaysia  as on March 29, the data
shows.  Raw materials  account for about half of the company’s
costs, according to Sachin Bobade, an analyst at Brics
Securities Ltd.  Sales at Hindustan Unilever, a unit of Unilever based in
 London  and Rotterdam, rose 13 percent to 63.7 billion rupees in
the fourth quarter from 56.6 billion rupees, it said in a
statement today. That compared with the 63.9 billion-rupee
 median  of 34 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand is growing at a slower pace for “discretionary”
products, Ramamurthy said on a conference call today. A pickup
in demand is expected in the next two quarters, he said.  “In the short term, I think we are facing some
challenges,” Ramamurthy said. “In the medium-to long-term, the
prospects for the fast-moving consumer goods sector are
certainly very good.”  The company’s sales in the soaps and detergents segment
rose 13 percent, aided by its Dove, Lux and Lifebuoy brands. It
cut some soap prices during the quarter, passing on lower
commodity prices to consumers, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  