-- Intuitive Trial Witness Says Robotic Surgery Hastened Death
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   G u t h r i e   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-29T22:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/intuitive-robot-patient-s-death-hastened-by-surgery-doctor-says.html
The stress and complications from a
lengthy prostate operation assisted by an  Intuitive Surgical
Inc. (ISRG)  robot hastened a patient’s death from heart disease, a
doctor testified.  Fred Taylor might have lived five more years, and had a
much better quality of life, had he never suffered the
consequences of the botched robotic procedure in 2008, John S.
MacGregor, a cardiologist and professor of medicine at
 University of California , San Francisco, told a jury as a state
court trial entered its third week in Port Orchard,  Washington .  “A number of complications put stress on his heart and his
body in general,” MacGregor said. “I think the prostatectomy
and the aftermath of his prostatectomy accelerated his
cardiovascular disease and hastened his death.”  The case brought by Taylor’s widow against Sunnyvale,
California-based Intuitive, whose robots were used in more than
300,000 U.S. operations last year, is the first to go to trial
over claims that the company marketed its da Vinci surgical
system too aggressively.  Josette Taylor alleged in her complaint that Intuitive’s
training was simplified to sell more robots, which led to errors
in removing her husband’s prostate gland. He died of  heart
disease  in 2012 at age 71.  Heart Attacks  Taylor’s autopsy indicated he suffered a number of heart
attacks in the last several years of his life, MacGregor said.
It’s possible that Taylor suffered a heart attack the day after
his Sept. 9, 2008, robotic procedure, MacGregor said, answering
questions from the plaintiff’s attorney Richard Friedman. Blood
enzyme tests measuring heart muscle damage rose dramatically the
day after surgery when compared to pre-surgery tests, MacGregor
told the jury.  Taylor was heavily sedated and was put on a ventilator
following surgery, so he wouldn’t have noticed symptoms of a
heart attack, MacGregor said. Taylor’s heart attack may have
gone unnoticed by intensive care unit staff because a heart-
monitoring machine picks up only on irregular heart rhythms,
said MacGregor, who is on staff at San Francisco General
Hospital Medical Center.  Before prostate surgery, Taylor suffered high-blood
pressure, elevated cholesterol and diabetes, and he had
undergone by-pass surgery for clogged arteries in 2002.  Taylor’s Prescriptions  Lawyers for Intuitive have argued that Taylor never should
have been a candidate for robotic surgery because of his
obesity, and that he didn’t regularly take his prescriptions to
control his heart-disease risks.  Under cross examination by defense attorney  Jeffrey
Johnson , MacGregor agreed that Taylor’s out-of-control diabetes,
morbid obesity and his family history of cardiac disease risks
put him at greatest risk for eventual death from coronary artery
disease. Defense lawyers had previously said that medical
records indicate Taylor’s health conditions were better
controlled when Taylor was in a hospital or a rehabilitation
facility.  Intuitive said it faces 26 lawsuits from people alleging
injuries tied to its da Vinci surgical system, according to a
regulatory filing this month. The company also has entered into
agreements with some plaintiff lawyers temporarily suspending
the statutory deadline for filing suits for other patients who
say they were hurt by robotic surgery, it said. Intuitive has
seen a “substantial increase” in such claims, according to the
filing.  Surgical Tools  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  After seven hours of trouble with robotic surgery on Taylor
in September 2008, urologist Scott Bildsten and other doctors
turned to traditional surgery and then emergency care to repair
a rectal laceration. Bildsten had performed 100 successful
prostatectomies using a traditional procedure and hadn’t used
the da Vinci system on a patient unassisted.  Bildsten testified last week that while Intuitive deemed
him ready after one day of the company’s training and two
supervised operations, he now knows he needed more training to
perform the robotic surgery unassisted.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical
Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of Washington, Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Guthrie in Port Orchard, Washington, at
 freepsg@gmail.com ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  