-- IPO Rebound Masks Worst Selloff: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-05-02T14:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/ipo-rebound-to-5-year-high-masks-worst-selloff-corporate-brazil.html
(Corrects price-to-book ratio for Biosev in fifth
paragraph of story published April 29.)  The busiest month for Brazilian
initial public offerings in five years saw  Banco do Brasil SA 
and Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA raise cash by selling
stakes in units amid the worst stock decline in emerging markets
this year.  Four companies raised 11 billion reais ($5.5 billion) in
IPOs this month, excluding the so-called greenshoe option for
underwriters, the most since six companies went public in
October 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Banco do Brasil,
 Latin America ’s  biggest bank  by assets, said April 25 it raised
8.5 billion reais by selling shares of its insurance unit in the
world’s biggest IPO this year. Gol airlines sold stock in its
Smiles frequent-flier program, raising 1 billion reais.  The rebound in share sales after only three companies went
public last year, the fewest since 2003, comes as Brazil’s
benchmark Ibovespa index is suffering the biggest selloff among
major  emerging markets . Demand for shares in Smiles and Banco do
Brasil’s  BB Seguridade Participacoes SA (BBSE3)  was probably helped by
the parent companies being well known in the local market and
probably isn’t a sign that investors have more confidence in
Brazilian stocks, said Gustavo Mendonca, an economist who helps
manage 1 billion reais at Saga Capital in Rio de Janeiro.  ‘Unfavorable View’  “There’s still an unfavorable view for Brazilian stocks in
the market -- the fundamentals haven’t changed,” Joao Pedro Brugger, a portfolio manager at Leme Investimentos, said by
telephone from Florianopolis, Brasil. He hasn’t bought shares in
any IPO this year. “Things being sold weren’t exactly cheap.
Price-wise, there are more interesting options in the market,”
he said.  Biosev SA (BSEV3) , the sugar-cane processor taken public by Louis
Dreyfus Holding BV on April 15, trades at 0.8 times its book
value, matching the ratio for Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the
heaviest weighted stock on the Ibovespa. That compares with an
average price-to-book value, or the ratio of a stock’s price
divided by the book value per share, of 1.1 times for the
benchmark equity gauge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Three of the four companies that held IPOs so far this year
and have started trading have fallen since their offerings.
Biosev sank 14 percent in its trading debut on April 23, the
biggest first-day drop in Brazil since 2008, even after pledging
to buy back shares for the same price plus interest if the stock
is trading lower than the IPO level one year after the sale.
Alupar has  dropped  3.7 percent from its IPO price since shares
started trading on April 24.  Benchmark Drops  Press officials at Banco do Brasil, Alupar and Gol all
declined to comment on the results of their offerings, saying
they are in a so-called quiet period. Biosev didn’t respond to a
phone call on April 26 seeking comment.  Smiles rose 6.8 percent to 23.17 reais at 10:36 a.m. in Sao
Paulo in its trading debut. BB Seguridade fell 3.5 percent to
16.40 reais.  The  benchmark index  has declined 10 percent this year, the
most among 19 major emerging-market exchanges.  Concern that  Brazil ’s economic recovery will falter and
that government intervention will curb earnings growth in some
industries are preventing the Ibovespa from rebounding, Saga
Capital’s Mendonca said.  “The number of deals in such a short period of time, for
me, is more of a coincidence,” Mendonca said in a telephone
interview. “Some of them were also not typical IPOs, but
instead companies that are already listed, that everybody knows,
and that were selling stakes in their subsidiaries. That lessens
risks a bit.”  Intervention  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration last year
announced measures to force companies to cut electricity prices,
lending costs and mobile-phone bills in an attempt to boost
growth that slowed in 2012 to 0.9 percent, the second-worst
performance in 12 years. Gross domestic product is forecast to
expand 3.1 percent this year, the median estimate among 40
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The government last week announced tax cuts for companies
including petrochemicals and ethanol producers, a sign that
Brazil’s attitude toward business could be changing, Citigroup
Inc. analysts said.  “These events suggest the tide of worry over state
intervention in business is ebbing,” Sao Paulo-based analyst
 Stephen Graham  and Nicolas Riva in  New York  wrote in the note to
clients dated April 24. “The government has been more careful
in announcements and is consulting more with business.”  Quick Cash  Offerings such as those held by Gol and Banco do Brasil
last week may not be good for the companies in the long run
because they are giving up stakes in profitable businesses to
raise cash quickly, said Saulo Sabba, a portfolio manager at
Faros Investimentos in Rio de Janeiro.  Gol, the world’s most indebted airline, will use the
proceeds of Smiles’ IPO to pay off debt. BB Seguridade’s deal
will give “more capital room” for Banco do Brasil, the
lender’s Chief Executive Officer, Aldemir Bendini, said in an
interview on April 3.  “Actually if things were better for them, they probably
wouldn’t be doing those sales,” Sabba said in a telephone
interview. “So, in a sense, we can’t really say that all those
IPOs are happening because things are good. In some cases, it’s
actually the opposite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  