-- Iran Seen Storing Oil at Sea as Refineries Carry Out Maintenance
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-04-29T13:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/iran-seen-storing-oil-at-sea-as-refineries-carry-out-maintenance.html
Iran  is storing crude oil on board
tankers off its coast, according to IHS Fairplay, a maritime
researcher that collates data on vessel movements.  There are 11 tankers anchored for 28 days or more with
cargoes, Richard Hurley, a senior maritime data specialist at
Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay, said by e-mail April 25.
Ten are very large crude carriers that can hold 2 million
barrels and the other is a Suezmax with half that capacity.  Iran stored oil on tankers in the second quarters of 2008,
2010 and 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg at the
time. Refineries in the Northern Hemisphere normally carry out
maintenance during the period, curbing demand for imports.
European buyers are barred from buying the Persian Gulf state’s
cargoes because of sanctions that began July 1.  “Some Iranian crudes are heavier grades and therefore have
only a limited number of Asian refineries able to use them,”
Dag Kilen, a shipping analyst at Fearnley Consultants A/S in
Oslo, wrote in an e-mail. “When these perform maintenance, the
Iranians have struggled to sell the volumes.”  An official in the office of Ahmad Qalebani, the managing
director of the National Iranian Oil Co., referred questions to
the public relations department, which in turn referred the
matter to the news relations department. Officials there didn’t
immediately comment after three phone calls and an e-mail.  The U.S. and 27-nation European Union imposed sanctions on
Iran over its nuclear program, which they say is aimed at
producing an atomic weapon. The government in Tehran says it is
for civilian purposes. The nation’s revenues from oil fell 27
percent last year, the U.S. Energy Department said April 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  