-- Mississippi Man Charged in Obama Ricin Plot Faces Judge
-- B y   M a r t y   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-04-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/mississippi-man-charged-in-obama-ricin-plot-faces-judge.html
A Mississippi owner of a martial-
arts studio charged over the weekend in connection with the
mailing of letters containing ricin to President  Barack Obama 
and a U.S. senator may face a life term if convicted.  The arrest April 27 of J. Everett Dutschke, 41, who also
faces unrelated state charges for child molestation, followed
the government's dismissal last week of its case against Paul
Curtis, 45, an Elvis impersonator from Corinth, Mississippi,
initially accused in a probe of the letters’ provenance.  Dutschke, of Tupelo, is charged with developing, producing
and possessing a biological agent for use as a weapon, said
Oxford, Mississippi U.S. Attorney Felicia Adams. He is to appear
in court today before U.S. Magistrate Judge S. Allan Alexander
in Oxford.  Christi McCoy, an attorney for Curtis, said in an April 22
preliminary hearing that her client may have been framed for the
mailings by Dutschke, with whom Curtis had a long-running feud.  Curtis was arrested earlier this month after envelopes
allegedly sent to Obama, a Democrat, and  Mississippi  Senator
Roger Wicker, a Republican, were intercepted and found to
contain “a suspicious granular substance” that tested positive
for ricin. The letters were signed “I am KC and I approve this
message,” according to the criminal complaint.  The case fell apart after an FBI agent testified at a
preliminary hearing that searches failed to turn up any trace of
ricin at Curtis’s home, as well as in his vehicle and the homes
of his ex-wife and parents. An analysis of his personal computer
also found nothing related to ricin, the FBI said.  Federal scrutiny quickly turned to Dutschke.  ‘Missing Pieces’  The letters to Obama and Wicker were postmarked April 8 and
both read in part: “No one wanted to listen to me before. There
are still ‘Missing Pieces’ Maybe I have your attention now even
if that means someone must die.”  Ricin is made from castor beans and has been used
experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s
harmful and potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, according
to the CDC.  At a press conference after Curtis’s release from custody,
McCoy said the idea that her client was framed is “very diabolical,
very frightening.”  Body Parts  Curtis, who said he loves his country and would never
threaten the president, stated he will return to performing,
aiding his favorite charity --the Save A Life Foundation -- and
finding a publisher for his book, “Missing Pieces,” a novel he
said exposes a black-market in human body parts.  Curtis and Dutschke have known each other for many years
and Dutschke at one point had a business relationship with
Curtis’s brother, McCoy said at the hearing.  McCoy told Judge Alexander that the dispute between Curtis
and Dutschke was over “who is the biggest liar and is putting
false information on their website.”  She said Dutschke was arrested this year on child
molestation charges and may have thought Curtis was somehow
involved with “the girls coming forward” to authorities.  Child Molestation  Dutschke was indicted on three counts of child molestation
by the Lee County grand jury, according to state court records
in Tupelo. The incidents involving fondling of minor girls
allegedly occurred from 2007 to this year, according to the
indictment. He faces two to 15 years in prison on each count if
convicted.  After Curtis’s release from custody last week, the FBI
searched Dutschke’s home and business. Several phone calls to
Dutschke’s home weren’t answered and no one came to the front
door when a reporter visited on April 24.  Dutschke’s attorney, Lori Nail Basham of Fulton,
Mississippi, hasn't responded to messages left at her office.  Inquiries with Wicker’s staff turned up previous letters to
his Washington office with the sign-off “this is Kevin Curtis
and I approve this message,” according to court papers.  A third, similar letter with a suspicious substance was
sent on April 8 to a judge in Lee County, where Curtis lives,
the agents said in the affidavit.  All three letters, which had no return address, were on
yellow paper and bore  Memphis ,  Tennessee , postmarks, the agents
said. Letters sent from northern Mississippi, usually bear a
Memphis postmark, according to the affidavit.  Ricin Poisoning  Ricin poisoning symptoms depend on the purity, route of
exposure and the dose. Initial symptoms from inhalation occur as
early as four to six hours after the exposure, and include
difficulty breathing and a cough, according to the CDC.  The symptoms can progress rapidly to fluid within the lungs
and eventually respiratory failure. Deaths from the poison
usually happen within 36 to 72 hours. While no antidote exists,
doctors can counteract the effects of the poisoning by helping
victims breathe or giving them fluids.  The case is U.S. v. Dutschke, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Mississippi (Oxford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marty Russell in federal court in Oxford, Mississippi,
at  marty.russell56@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  