-- Letta Wins Final Confidence Vote to Install Italy Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-30T13:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/italy-s-letta-plans-to-follow-eu-budget-rules-prepares-tax-cuts.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
won the final confidence vote needed to install his government
before taking his economic growth plan to Berlin to meet German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  The ballot gives  Italy  a working government more than two
months after inconclusive elections and helped push bond yields
to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years. Merkel and Letta hold a
press conference at 6 p.m.  Letta, 46, garnered 233 of 311 possible votes in the Senate
today after a discussion of his program that reaffirms Italy’s
commitment to budget discipline and calls for tax cuts for
business, consumers and homeowners. The plan, a compromise among
the three parties backing the government, lacked details about
how Letta would fund the tax reductions.  “It’s clear that this government will have a difficult
balancing act to perform,” said  Riccardo Barbieri , chief
European economist at Mizuho International Plc.  Berlusconi Threat  Tensions were apparent today when Letta’s coalition
partner, former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , threatened to
withdraw his support if the new government didn’t abolish an
unpopular property tax on primary residences. Letta announced
yesterday he would suspend the next payment due in June and
review the levy.  The suspension of the tax known as IMU reflects the
influence of Berlusconi who placed the levy at the center of his
anti-austerity election campaign. Letta will have to balance the
demands for stimulus from Berlusconi, 76, and Letta’s Democratic
Party against the budget discipline required by the European
Union.  Letta has also said the government would seek to avoid a
scheduled 1 percentage point increase in the value added tax to
22 percent due in July. He proposed reducing payroll levies, and
said tax breaks to favor the hiring of young people will also be
considered.  The promises may require savings of about 10 billion euros
($13 billion), according to Barbieri.  Bonds Advance  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 2 basis points to 3.89
percent at 1:42 p.m. in Rome, after earlier touching to the
lowest rate since October 2010. The difference between yields on
similar maturity German bunds narrowed 1 basis point to 2.7
percentage points.  Letta came to power this week after uniting his Democratic
Party and Berlusconi’s People of Liberty to end the
parliamentary deadlock caused by the Feb. 24-25 the elections.  He inherits an economy struggling through its second year
of recession and saddled with the second-largest debt load in
the euro area, after  Greece . Letta, who emerged as a leader in
Parliament only last week, is taking over from  Mario Monti , who
guided Italy through the  European debt crisis  by raising taxes
and prodding Merkel into endorsing collective action in the
European Union.  “In  Europe  and internationally, Italy will find strategies
to boost growth without compromising the necessary process of
restructuring of public finances,” Letta said yesterday in the
Chamber, Italy’s lower house of parliament.  Monti’s Austerity  In his 17 months in office, Monti bolstered Merkel’s
campaign for austerity in Europe by making deficit reduction the
focus of his policies. While Letta serves at the head of the
same parliamentary coalition that supported Monti, the new
premier has faced more pressure to challenge EU rules and repeal
austerity as Italy’s recession deepens.  “We believe Europe will die if we only have restructuring
and only rigor,” Rosy Bindi, a lawmaker and the outgoing
 Democratic Party  chairwoman, said yesterday in the Chamber.  Popular discontent with the economy was highlighted April
28 when two police officers were shot outside of the prime
minister’s office in Rome. The 49-year-old assailant told
investigators he wanted to shoot politicians after losing his
job during the economic slump.  Social tension has been on the rise as unemployment at 11.5
percent, remains near the highest in more than 20 years, with
the economy probably in its eighth quarter of  contraction . Letta
must win the trust of Italian voters who repudiated Monti’s
austerity in the February elections. Italians gave a quarter of
their votes to the upstart Five Star Movement, which calls into
question euro membership and pushes the government to demand
more leeway from the EU.  Letta also set out a plan to reduce the cost of government
that included the abolition of provinces and the elimination of
double salaries for lawmakers who serve as Cabinet ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  