-- Italian Business Confidence Fell in April on Political Gridlock
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-04-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/italian-business-confidence-fell-in-april-on-political-gridlock.html
Italian business confidence fell as
February’s inconclusive elections left the nation’s parties
struggling to build a government strong enough to confront the
country’s recession.  The manufacturing-sentiment  index  dropped to 87.6 in April,
from a revised 88.6 the previous month, Rome-based national
statistics institute Istat said today. Economists had predicted
a reading of 88.9, according to the median of 8 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. The index is based on a poll of about
4,000 businesses.  Italy ’s political stalemate came to end this week as Enrico Letta, the third-youngest Italian premier since World War II,
tapped rival political parties and non-politicians to build his
21-member Cabinet. His new government was sworn in yesterday and
he will make his first address to Parliament at 3 p.m. in Rome,
before facing confidence votes in both houses to install the new
administration more than two months after the February vote.  Cabinet Posts  Letta named a record seven women, including former EU
Commissioner Emma Bonino as foreign minister. He also appointed
Bank of Italy’s Director General Fabrizio Saccomanni as finance
minister. Saccomanni worked under Mario Draghi when he was Bank
of Italy Governor before Draghi left to become president of the
European Central Bank.  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly rose in April as the
gridlock that left Italy without a new cabinet moved to an end.
Earlier this month, the Bank of Italy said in a report that the
economy contracted“less sharply” in the first quarter than in
the previous three months. Italy’s budget deficit fell last year
to the European Union limit for the first time since 2008 as
austerity policies offset the effects of the economic slump,
official EU figures showed on April 22.  Still, industrial output fell more than economists expected
in February as export growth failed to make up for the falling
domestic demand, Istat said April 10.  The business confidence index declined in April as
executives grew pessimistic about the outlook for orders and
production, today’s report showed. Istat originally reported a
business confidence index at 88.9 in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  