-- Italian Corporate Bad Loans Rising on Slump, Central Bank Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-04-29T15:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/italian-corporate-bad-loans-rising-on-slump-central-bank-says.html
Italian banks ’ corporate loan book
will worsen this year as the euro region’s third-biggest economy
remains mired in its longest recession in two decades, according
to the nation’s central bank.  Non-performing loans as a proportion of total corporate
lending will keep rising, the  Bank of Italy said  in a report on
the country’s financial stability. The central bank in November
forecast the deterioration would end in the first half.  “Leading indicators suggest that a further deterioration
is under way,” the report said without providing a new estimate
on when the trend will be reversed. The deterioration,
especially in “the construction sector,” is mainly linked to
the decline in the economy, the central bank said.  Italy ’s economy probably will contract for an eighth
straight quarter at the end of June, though the downturn in the
first three months eased as exports limited the drop in
industrial production, the central bank said on April 17. Still,
firms and households are struggling to repay their debts amid
concerns about the recession’s length and rising unemployment.
Both the Rome-based bank and the Italian government expect gross
domestic product to fall this year, by 1 percent and 1.3 percent
respectively.  Those forecasts compare with a contraction of 1.8 percent
projected by Mooody’s Investors Service and 1.5 percent
estimated by the  International Monetary Fund .  Austerity, Profitability  The austerity measures passed by former Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s government last year allowed for “progress in the
field of the public finances,” the  Bank of Italy  said in
today’s report. As Italy’s deficit fell to within the European
Union’s target of 3 percent of GDP last year, the nation’s
credibility among international investors rose.  “Since the spring of 2012 there has been a recovery in net
purchases of Italian  government securities  by non-resident
investors,” according to the central bank’s report.  Still, the tax increases and public spending cuts deepened
the recession by reducing the available income of households and
the companies’ investments.  Italian banks’ non-performing loans rose 18.6 percent in
February from a year earlier as the loans to private sector fell
1.3 percent, the Bank of Italy said April 9.  Italian lenders’ profitability will be low in 2013, today’s
report said. It added that the main risk faced by the country’s
banks would be a cut in Italy’s credit rating and the consequent
reduction in the value of assets they used as collateral with
the  European Central Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  