-- Junk Sales Near Record as Tata Steel Joins Bharti: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-04-29T05:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/junk-sales-near-record-as-tata-steel-joins-bharti-india-credit.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  joined  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  selling  junk bonds  overseas as demand for relatively
higher yields pushes issuance of non-investment grade debt by
Indian companies close to a record.  The nation’s biggest steelmaker sold S$300 million ($243
million) of 10-year Singapore dollar notes at 4.95 percent on
April 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bharti, the country’s
largest mobile-phone operator, borrowed $1.5 billion in two
tranches at 5.125 percent in March. The bonds mark the first
speculative-grade international issuance by Indian companies
since a record $1.85 billion raised in 2011, the data show.  Junk bond sales almost tripled to $14.5 billion in  Asia 
excluding  Japan  last quarter from a year earlier as the region’s
millionaires joined global investors in driving demand. Yields
on Asian dollar-based speculative debt have fallen to 6.73
percent from 9.15 percent a year ago, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes, while Bloomberg-compiled data
show  India ’s top-rated companies pay 8.83 percent to sell 10-
year rupee notes.  “Tata Steel and Bharti are very well-known among overseas
investors,” said Bharat Shettigar, Singapore-based senior
credit analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, the top arranger of
overseas bonds for Indian companies this year. “The reception
has been quite good. Given that yields in India continue to be
relatively high, there’s an opportunity for companies to tap the
international market.”  Record Start  Mumbai-based Tata Steel is ranked BB by  Standard & Poor’s 
and Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the second- and third-
highest junk ratings, respectively. Billionaire Sunil Mittal’s
Bharti is  assessed  BB+ by S&P, the top non-investment grade
rating. The company based in  New Delhi  sold its maiden dollar-
denominated bonds last month.  The junk bonds sold by Tata Steel and Bharti account for
about 22 percent of the $8 billion raised so far in 2013 by
Indian companies, led by state-backed issuers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the best start to a year on record
and follows a slump in dollar borrowing costs to record lows as
central banks from the U.S. to  Europe  and Japan print money to
boost global growth.  Average dollar  yields  for local issuers touched an all-time
low of 3.805 percent on March 18 and are at 3.92 percent, HSBC
Holdings Plc indexes show. A similar  gauge  for all Asian debt is
at 3.48 percent. Global high-yield debt returned 1.8 percent
this month, compared with 0.28 percent in March, according to
Barclays Plc indexes.  Steel Plant  Tata Steel and Bharti’s borrowing costs are higher than the
3.25 percent coupon on investment-grade dollar notes sold by
Mumbai-based  State Bank  of India this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The nation’s biggest lender by assets
raised $1 billion selling notes maturing 2018.  Chief Financial Officer Koushik Chatterjee said in February
that Tata Steel plans to raise as much as 130 billion rupees
($2.4 billion) in the next six months to partly fund a 6 million
metric-ton mill to be built in phases, the first of which will
be completed by August 2014.  The alloy maker needs to repay $9.3 billion bonds and loans
by the end of this decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company raised $547 million selling 4.5 percent
convertible notes in 2009. Most of Tata Steel’s net debt of
$10.5 billion was taken to fund the $12.9 billion acquisition of
steelmaker Corus in January 2007.  Wealthy Asians  Wealthy Asians are looking beyond equity markets and have
moved as much as 25 percent of their investments into fixed
income from 5 percent previously, Gordon French, HSBC’s head of
global markets for Asia Pacific, said in an interview in  Hong
Kong  last month. There were 3.37 million millionaires in the
Asia-Pacific region in 2011, more than in  North America  for the
first time, according to a June report by Capgemini SA and RBC
Wealth Management.  Still, demand for Indian junk bonds may be limited to the
biggest borrowers and smaller issuers may find it difficult to
raise funds, Hemant Dharnidharka, the head of credit research at
SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore, said by telephone April 25.  REI Agro Ltd., a New Delhi-based rice producer, postponed
the sale of five-year dollar bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the details are private. The company, through its unit Ammalay
Commodities JLT, was marketing the notes at about 12 percent,
another person said. REI’s Chief Financial Officer Ranjan Majumder declined to comment when reached by telephone April 26.  Default Risk  The cost of insuring the debt of State Bank, considered a
proxy for the sovereign, using five-year credit-default swaps
fell 26 basis points since Dec. 31 to 200, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets.  Default risk has ebbed after Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government in September began opening up industries including
aviation and retailing to foreigners and cut taxes on companies’
overseas debt to boost investment and economic growth. Singh’s
biggest policy push in a decade was complemented by monetary
easing by the  Reserve Bank  of India, with two interest-rate cuts
this year.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will lower the RBI’s
7.5 percent repurchase rate 25 basis points at a May 3 review,
according to 22 of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Singh
and Subbarao’s policies have helped India’s sovereign bonds
rally the most among the four-largest  emerging markets .  Government Debt  Indian debt returned 4.7 percent in 2013, beating a 1.8
percent gain on Chinese notes and 3.6 percent on Russian bonds,
according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. Brazilian
securities lost 3.7 percent.  The yield on 10-year government notes in India dropped 31
basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, this year to 7.74
percent today. The securities touched a 33-month low of 7.738
percent on April 23 and offer an  extra  yield of 608 basis points
over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries. The rupee has climbed 1.2
percent to 54.34 per dollar in 2013.  “The government’s trying to drum up investment
opportunities and is determined to implement wide-ranging
economic reforms to help improve the funding situation in
India,” said Desmond Soon, a Singapore-based  fund manager  at
Western Asset Management Co., which managed $461.9 billion of
assets globally as of Dec. 31. “There’s a bit of a window for
companies that aren’t state-backed to tap international
markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  