-- Keystone Pipeline Support Enlists Oil Firms to U.S. Jews: Energy
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-04-29T14:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/keystone-pipeline-support-enlists-oil-firms-to-u-s-jews-energy.html
Almost 50 groups representing
everything from  oil companies  to American Jews have stepped up
their Washington spending as the proposed Keystone XL oil
pipeline proves to be a bonanza for lobbyists.  The  American Petroleum Institute , a Washington-based oil
industry trade group, increased its lobbying spending on all
issues, including Keystone, to $2.1 million in the first three
months of the year from $1.8 million during the same period a
year earlier, Senate records show. The American Jewish Committee
lobbying costs rose to $40,000 from $30,000.  They are among 48 groups that disclosed in filings last
week that they were lobbying on Calgary-based  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed $5.3 billion pipeline, which would bring oil
derived from tar sands in Alberta, Canada, to the U.S. Gulf
Coast. Others include construction equipment manufacturers such
as  Deere & Co. (DE) , labor unions such as the Laborers International
Union of North America, and environmental groups such as the
League of Conservation Voters -- and the government of Canada.  “Because it’s such a high-profile issue and it has such
symbolism, it’s become a full-employment program for K Street,”
said  Bill Allison , editorial director at the Sunlight
Foundation, a Washington-based watchdog. Many lobbyists have
offices on K Street in the District of Columbia.  Oil Companies  All but two of the groups -- the League of Conservation
Voters and Greenpeace -- appear to be in support of the
pipeline. That includes oil companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Royal Dutch Shell PLC (RDS/A)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , which all
registered as lobbying on the issue, according to the disclosure
reports filed with the  U.S. Senate . All own refineries in the
Gulf Coast that could benefit from the Keystone oil, according
to Oil Change International, a Washington-based advocacy group
that opposes the pipeline.  Some of the top lobbying firms in the U.S. are involved.
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP counts Shell among its
clients. Podesta Group Inc. lobbies for  BP PLC. (BP/)  The BGR Group
lobbies for  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   “The vast array of lobbyists engaged on Keystone owes
partly to the immense geographic and policy-topic spread of the
pipeline,” said  Rogan Kersh , a lobbying expert and provost of
Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. “Many
interest groups can’t afford to let a major issue like this go
by without putting their oar in.”  The pipeline “runs across a large swath of the U.S., and
it engages constituents from both private and public-advocacy
sectors: engineering, construction, environmental, wildlife,
energy, transportation, and many others,” Kersh said.  ‘Vast Array’  In addition, the president’s inaugural committee received
millions of dollars in contributions from corporations and
unions lobbying on Keystone, Federal Election Commission filings
show.  Chevron gave $1 million while Exxon Mobil contributed
$250,000. Four unions donated a total of $1.1 million: the
United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing
and Pipe Fitting Industry, the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
and the laborers.  Other advocates that have registered to lobby for the
pipeline include the American Jewish Committee, better known for
its support of the state of Israel and on behalf of Jews
worldwide.  Reduce Dependence  Keystone would help reduce “U.S. dependence on oil from
hostile or unstable foreign sources,” said Kenneth Bandler, a
spokesman for the New York-based committee. “The Keystone XL
pipeline is vital toward strengthening America’s energy
security, and also important for our relations with Canada, our
dependable, democratic ally and neighbor.”  Obama sided with Nebraska’s Republican governor, David Heineman, and initially rejected the pipeline because its
original route took it through the state’s Sand Hills region, a
national natural landmark. TransCanada shifted the route and
filed a new application for approval, which is under review by
the State Department, which is involved because the pipeline
crosses an international border. A decision is expected by the
end of the year.  Advocates and opponents continue to hire lobbyists, hold
rallies and send letters to convince the administration to make
a final decision in their favor.  Alberta Lobbying  The Canadian province of Alberta hired two firms in March,
Mehlman Vogel Castagnetti Inc. and Rasky Baerlein Strategic
Communications Inc., to promote Keystone, according to Justice
Department filings. Bruce Mehlman is a veteran of President
 George W. Bush ’s administration; Alex Vogel formerly worked for
then-Senate Majority Leader  Bill Frist , a Tennessee Republican;
and David Castagnetti was the congressional liaison for current
Secretary of State  John Kerry ’s 2004 presidential campaign.  Rasky Baerlein’s chairman is Larry Rasky, who served as a
spokesman for Vice President  Joe Biden ’s two presidential
campaigns. An associate vice president, Ron Eckstein, formerly
wrote speeches for Nevada Democratic Senator  Harry Reid , the
current majority leader.  Alberta Premier Alison Redford has made four trips to
Washington to lobby on Keystone. Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall
has also visited.  The Canadian government is also lobbying, though its
efforts have been hindered by a labor dispute involving its
diplomats. They’re not working more than the 7.5 hours required
by their contracts nor answering phones after 5 p.m. EDT,
according to Tim Edwards, president of the Professional
Association of Foreign Service Officers.  Getting ‘Yes’  The president of the petroleum institute,  Jack Gerard , told
 Bloomberg Radio  on April 23 that he believed Obama would approve
the pipeline this year following a new environmental study.  “We’re working to get the president to ‘yes,’ whatever it
takes,” said John Kerekes, midwest regional director for API.
“The process will be inside baseball, and inside the
administration. It’s a different lobbying approach altogether.”  Unions supporting the project as a way to create jobs were
rallying at AFL-CIO headquarters in Washington April 24.  “This is about making sure the president and the State
Department evaluate this based on the actual record,” said
David Mallino, the laborers’ union legislation director.  “The
record is clear that this is in the national interest.”  The pipeline project has vaulted to the top of the list of
priorities for the union, he said. It could employ “several
thousand laborers” through two construction seasons, he said.  20 Jobs  Estimates for construction and manufacturing employment
range from 2,500 to 20,000, depending on assumptions of how much
of the project’s budget will be spent in the U.S. According to
State Department estimates, the number of full-time jobs once
the pipeline is built could be as few as 20.  Environmentalists still hope to scuttle the project. They
filed more than 1 million critical comments with the U.S. State
Department and have run ads opposing the pipeline.  “It’s increasingly clear that this pipeline simply is not
in our national interest and we continue to hope the president
will reject it,” said Tiernan Sittenfeld, a senior vice
president for government affairs at the Washington-based League
of Conservation Voters, whose home page prominently features a
picture of some of the thousands of anti-pipeline demonstrators
marching in Washington in February as it exhorts visitors to
“Stop the dangerous Keystone XL  tar sands  pipeline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  