-- Kion Owners Goldman, KKR Said to Line Up Banks for IPO
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-04-29T10:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/kion-owners-goldman-kkr-said-to-line-up-banks-for-ipo.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  have lined up banks to handle the planned initial public
offering of Kion Group GmbH, the world’s second-largest maker of
forklifts, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was added to the list of financial
institutions that already includes owners Goldman Sachs and
KKR’s equity capital markets arm as well as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
plans are private. The IPO will probably happen before July if
markets remain stable and Wiesbaden, Germany-based Kion may sell
as much as 25 percent of its stock, they said.  The forklift maker  posted  earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and some items of 747 million euros
($977 million) last year. The owners are seeking a valuation of
about 10 times estimated 2013 Ebitda, according to the people.
That would lead to a valuation of at least 7.5 billion euros as
Kion predicts earnings will rise this year.  Kion was part of German industrial-gas maker  Linde AG (LIN) 
before a 4-billion euro buyout in 2006. Sales increased 8.2
percent to 4.7 billion euros last year even as global demand for
industrial trucks dropped by 3.1 percent, as the company
benefited from orders in China, where Kion is the largest
overseas forklift-maker.  Representatives for Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank, KKR and
Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  Chinese Investment   Companies in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa raised $6.8
billion in IPOs this year, about double the figure for the same
period in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
year’s biggest deal was from Germany, where apartment landlord
 LEG Immobilien AG (LEG)  raised 1.3 billion euros in January.  KKR and Goldman sold 25 percent of Kion to Weichai Power
Co., China’s biggest maker of heavy-duty trucks, in August to
help trim debt. Kion also sold 70 percent of its hydraulics unit
to the Chinese firm. The moves brought Kion 738 million euros in
investment from Weichai.  Kion trails  Toyota Industries Corp. (6201) , an affiliate of Toyota
Motor Corp., in the global forklift market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  