-- Kodak in $2.8 Billion Spinoff Accord With Pension Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-04-29T18:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/kodak-reaches-2-8-billion-pact-with-pension-for-spinoff.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt
photography pioneer, will spin off imaging businesses to its
U.K.  pension plan  in a deal that settles $2.8 billion in claims
against the company.  Kodak’s personalized- and document-imaging businesses will
be spun off for $650 million to the pension plan, Kodak’s
largest  creditor  in the bankruptcy case, the company said today
in a statement.  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, said it plans to file
its plan tomorrow to reorganize and exit court protection. The
spinoff accord settles about $2.8 billion of claims by the
pension plan against Kodak, it said in the statement.  “It’s quite a precedent” for a U.K. pension plan to
acquire a business from a U.S. company, Steven Ross, chairman of
Kodak’s U.K. plan, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t
think it’s been done.”  Kodak said this month that it had a deal to sell the
document-imaging business, which includes scanners, to Japanese
office-equipment company  Brother Industries Ltd. (6448)  for about
$210 million. Kodak today withdrew its request filed in court to
auction the assets with Brother leading the bidding.  Kodak is selling businesses to shrink and fund its shift
into commercial printing and packaging after filing for court
protection in January 2012. The personalized-imaging business
includes retail photo kiosks and photographic paper.  Stable Owner  Ross said the U.K. pension plan is “a very stable long-term owner of assets.”  “We’ll put in place a strong governance structure and
appoint the right executive board to run the business going
forward,” he said. “We’ll exercise our rights as shareholders
in a responsible manner.”  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London
at   bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  