-- N.Z. Dollar Gains Versus Peers on Rate Bets Before Housing Data
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-04-29T06:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/n-z-dollar-gains-versus-peers-on-rate-bets-before-housing-data.html
New Zealand ’s dollar climbed versus
most of its major peers before data forecast to show building
permits rose to a five-year high, after the central bank said a
housing boom could force it to raise  interest rates .  The nation’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, held its longest
stretch of weekly gains in two years against the so-called
Aussie dollar on bets the spread to the Reserve Bank of
Australia’s benchmark rate will narrow. New Zealand’s currency
extended a weekly advance against the greenback after data
showed the  U.S. economy  grew less than expected. Australian bond
yields fell to the lowest since November.  “You have a situation where the inflation outlook is no
constraint on the RBA, and in New Zealand, you’ve got a central
bank that is increasingly concerned about the impact of
housing,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “The risks of Aussie-kiwi
challenging NZ$1.20 are rising.”  The  New Zealand dollar  gained 0.5 percent to 85.19 U.S.
cents as of 4:47 p.m. in Sydney, extending a 0.7 percent gain
last week. It was little changed at NZ$1.2123 per Australian
dollar. The Aussie gained 0.5 percent to $1.0328.  Australia’s 10-year government bond  yield  fell as much as
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.08 percent,
the lowest since Nov. 19.  New Zealand housing approvals probably rose 2 percent in
March to the  highest  level since April 2008, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before
the figures are released tomorrow.  Housing Boom  “The Bank does not want to see financial or price
stability compromised by housing demand getting too far ahead of
supply,”  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler
said April 24 in a statement following the central bank’s
decision to keep borrowing costs  unchanged  for a third meeting.  Benchmark interest rates are 2.5 percent in New Zealand and
3 percent in Australia. Swaps show traders expect a 10 basis-
point  increase  in New Zealand interest rates over 12 months,
compared with 55 basis points of  cuts  in Australia, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG indexes.  The RBA next sets policy on May 7, after leaving the
 overnight cash rate  unchanged for three straight meetings.  Australia’s  consumer price index  rose 0.4 percent in the
first three months of this year from the prior quarter, a report
showed on April 24.  ‘Live’ Meeting  “The May 7 RBA meeting is ‘live’ after last week’s low CPI
outcome, and we expect that this week’s data will further
highlight the softness in the domestic economy,” National
Australia Bank Ltd. analysts, led by Global Head of Research
 Peter Jolly , wrote in a note to clients today.  A report tomorrow may show private sector credit rose 0.3
percent in March from the previous month, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Australian government bond yields fell along with the  U.S.
dollar  after data showed the world’s largest economy grew more
slowly than expected in the first quarter. Gross domestic
product expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate, the Commerce
Department said on April 26, compared with the 3 percent gain
estimated by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The South Pacific nation’s bonds returned 1.4 percent in
April, the best gain among sovereigns with three AAA ratings
after  Sweden , and are headed for the biggest rise in 11 months.  Central banks are investing in riskier assets and
currencies including the Australian and Canadian dollars as
alternatives to lower-yielding U.S. Treasuries, according to a
survey of reserve managers earlier this month by  Central Banking
Publications  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   ‘Sovereign Interest’  “The significance of the Australian dollar in the
portfolios of the reserve managers has grown significantly, and
that means there will be sovereign interest in buying every
dip,” Jesper Bargmann, regional head of spot trading for major
currencies at RBS, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today.  Australia will collect A$12 billion ($12.4 billion) less
 tax revenue  in the year to June 30 than forecast by Treasury in
October, placing pressure on the federal budget, Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  said in a speech today in Canberra.  Gillard’s ruling  Labor party , trailing in polls ahead of an
election in September, is attempting to boost economic
credentials damaged when a slump in tax revenue forced her in
December to abandon a pledge to return the budget to surplus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  