-- Nasdaq OMX Recasts Smaller Stock Exchange to Draw ETF Volume
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-04-29T23:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/nasdaq-omx-recasts-smaller-stock-exchange-to-draw-etf-volume.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  is recasting
one of its three  stock exchanges  as a venue focused on exchange-
traded funds and similar products, according to the company.  It will adopt trading rules used on Nasdaq Stock Market and
another equity exchange it owns for Nasdaq OMX PSX, the New
York-based company said in an announcement today. It also plans
to introduce incentives for member firms to provide competitive
quotes in exchange-traded products and make more shares
available to investors.  Firms supplying bids and offers that meet specified quoting
thresholds can get bigger trading rebates than other
participants, Nasdaq OMX said in a  notice  on its website today.
The exchange also plans to add a so-called lead market-maker
program to spur competition, it said.  “PSX is a key piece of our larger strategy to better
service the ETP industry with a platform designed to incent
high-quality liquidity, market incentive programs and ETP
specific functionality,”  Eric Noll , executive vice president of
transaction services in the U.S. and U.K. for Nasdaq OMX, said
in the announcement.  The plan for Nasdaq OMX PSX echoes the structure at NYSE
Euronext, which has a specific venue, NYSE Arca, geared toward
exchange-traded products. Nasdaq OMX told the Securities and
Exchange Commission that its previous model, which used rules
that sought to reward larger orders, was “only marginally
successful in garnering market share.” The exchange had 0.74
percent of average daily U.S. equities trading this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The SEC  approved  its
new structure on April 25.  The PSX exchange introduced a market in 2010 that assigned
a larger share of incoming trade requests to firms supplying
bigger orders at a specific price. When it restarts trading on
May 1 it will match orders according to what’s called price-time
priority, in which orders first in line at a specific price
trade before those that followed them.  Unlike NYSE Arca, the PSX venue doesn’t list securities. It
has no plans to do so, Nasdaq told the SEC in its March filing.  The exchange will allow member firms to register as market
makers and will introduce new order types, or sets of
instructions that specify how a buy or sell request will be
handled by the market, it said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 