-- Nokia Invests in High-Resolution Cameras to Woo Apple Buyers
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-04-30T10:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/nokia-invests-in-high-resolution-cameras-to-woo-apple-customers.html
Nokia Growth Partners , the venture-
capital arm of  Nokia (NOK1V)  Oyj, plans to invest in  California  startup
Pelican Imaging as the phonemaker seeks to win back customers
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Android devices with cameras that give
greater depth and ease of splicing together images.  The Pelican investment is part of a push to differentiate
Nokia as it tries to stimulate demand in its Lumia smartphones,
which run Microsoft Corp.’s Windows software, to reverse falling
sales and recover market share.  Lumia sales rose to 5.6 million in the first quarter, up
from 4.4 million in the previous three months. Still, Apple and
Android-based devices control more than 90 percent of the
smartphone market to Espoo, Finland-based Nokia’s 3 percent,
according to researcher  Strategy Analytics . Imaging quality is
one of the top three reasons to buy or return a phone, and as
Nokia phones are known for their cameras, it’s seen as a good
leverage point, according to Nokia Growth Partners.  Array cameras, which use multiple optics and mesh the data
into one image, “are on the cusp of being commercialized and
Pelican does software for that,” Bo Ilsoe, a partner at Nokia
Growth Partners, said yesterday in a phone interview from
California. “It’s very complicated to do this algorithmically
and Pelican is one of the companies that has mastered this
technology.”  Nokia Growth Partners has been tracking Mountain View-based
Pelican since soon after its founding in 2008, Ilsoe said.
Pelican also counts Globespan Capital Partners, Granite
Ventures, InterWest Partners and IQT among its private-equity
investors, according to its  website .  Image Investments  Nokia, which bought Lund, Sweden-based imaging-software
maker Scalado last July, released the 41-megapixel 808 PureView
last year and is incorporating the technology in smartphones
including the flagship Lumia 920. Nokia Growth Partners has also
invested in  Menlo Park , California-based image-sensing
technology company  InVisage Technologies Inc.  and micro-optics
maker  Heptagon , headquartered in  Singapore , to bolster its
capabilities.  Nokia  shares , which have fallen more than 80 percent since
the iPhone was introduced in 2007, were unchanged at 2.53 euros
at 1:48 p.m. in Helsinki trading after climbing as much as 1.6
percent today. The shares have dropped 14 percent this year.  Nokia Growth Partners has around $600 million under
management. It’s made two other investments from its latest $250
million fund. Typical investments are between $4 million to $7
million and are usually capped at about $15 million. It expects
to invest in as many as six other companies this year, Ilsoe
said.  “Over the next three to five years, mobile enterprise and
advertising will be areas we’ll continue to invest around,” he
said. “We build a portfolio and a better in-depth understanding
of ecosystems by having this approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  