-- Nonlisted REIT Group Issues Value-Disclosure Guidelines
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-29T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/nonlisted-reit-group-issues-value-disclosure-guidelines.html
A trade group that represents real
estate investment trusts that aren’t publicly traded issued
guidelines for the industry to improve and speed up the
disclosure of the REITs’ valuations.  The Investment Program Association today recommended that
net asset value be used as the basis for the reporting of per-
share valuation, the Ellicott City, Maryland-based group said in
a statement. Using that method would standardize an industry
practice that has been disparate, said Kevin Hogan, chief
executive officer of the association.  “It’s part of the maturing process,” Hogan said in a
telephone interview. “This truly was a collaborative effort
from our industry over the last two years.”  The group recommended that each nontraded REIT hire a
third-party appraiser to determine values for the company’s real
estate in the first year it’s required to do so, and at least
every second year afterward, to eliminate any perception of
conflict of interest. Nontraded REITs, which don’t trade on a
stock  exchange , are created by companies that run them and often
manage other REITs as well.  Existing U.S. securities regulations require nontraded
REITs to provide valuations 18 months after they’re done raising
money. Under those rules, it can be four and a half years or
more after the initial share purchase before an investor gets a
valuation of the REIT’s investments, according to the Investment
Program Association. The group’s recommendations would cut
investors’ waiting time in half, it said.  Founding Sponsors  Nontraded REITs typically are managed by a founding
sponsor, which earns fees for services such as overseeing
properties and making acquisitions. The REITs raise money
through share sales and buy properties with the proceeds, with a
requirement that they eventually return money. Until then,
shares are generally illiquid and investors collect dividend
payments.  The Investment Program Association’s members include
American Realty Capital, a sponsor of nontraded  REITs . The New
York-based company raised $2.6 billion last year, the most of
any nontraded-REIT sponsor, according to data from Blue Vault
Partners LLC, a Cumming, Georgia-based company that tracks the
industry.  The association’s membership also includes sponsors of
investment vehicles in the oil, gas and equipment-leasing
industries. Nontraded REITs are the largest category among more
than 150 members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  