-- OCBC Profit Beats Estimates as Fees Offset Shrinking Margin
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-04-30T01:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/ocbc-quarterly-profit-falls-less-than-estimated-on-fee-income.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ’s
profit fell less than analysts estimated last quarter as an
increase in fees and commissions outweighed narrowing net
interest margins at Southeast Asia’s second-largest lender.  Net income declined 16 percent from a year earlier to S$696
million ($564 million), the Singapore-based bank said in a
statement today. That exceeded the S$640 million average of four
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Fee-generating businesses and profit growth from countries
such as Malaysia and  Indonesia  helped Chief Executive Officer
Samuel Tsien deliver better-than-estimated results as he
grapples with Singapore’s slowing economy, diminished demand for
borrowing and shrinking loan profitability. The bank’s net
interest margin narrowed, while provisions for bad debts fell.  “Fees and commissions were driven by  wealth management ,
and we expect this segment to continue to be strong this year,”
said Ken Ang, an analyst at Phillip Securities Pte. “The
magnitude of the decrease in net interest margin was quite
significant.”  The stock rose 0.1 percent to S$10.93 as of 9:03 a.m. in
Singapore trading. The  shares  have climbed 12 percent this year,
compared with a 6.6 percent gain for the benchmark Straits Times
Index.  Higher Fees  OCBC’s net fees and commissions climbed 15 percent in the
quarter to S$316 million on the back of higher wealth and fund
management income and loan-related fees. Non-interest income,
excluding a S$56 million gain booked in the first quarter of
last year, dropped 14 percent to S$676 million, led by declines
in trading income and profit from life assurance.  Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. (GE) , the lender’s insurance unit,
said last week that first-quarter profit decreased 21 percent
from a year earlier to S$207.5 million.  Singapore’s banks have the lowest net interest margin in
 Southeast Asia  at 1.94 percent, according to the latest data
compiled by Bloomberg. OCBC’s net interest margin contracted to
1.64 percent in the quarter from 1.86 percent a year earlier,
owing to Singapore’s low interest-rate environment and a “re-
pricing” of existing housing loans, the bank said.  Net interest income, the difference between what the bank
makes from lending and pays on deposits, declined 4 percent to
S$912 million as growth in loans was overshadowed by the
declining lending margins.  Loan Growth  OCBC’S loan book grew 10 percent to S$149 billion.  Loan
growth (SILBTOY%)  in Singapore during the first two months of the year
averaged 19 percent, cooling from 27 percent a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. March loan data aren’t
yet available from the Monetary Authority of  Singapore .  The bank set aside S$21 million as provisions for loans and
other losses, a 79 percent decrease from a year earlier. Its
core equity Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio was 16.2 percent.  “Business momentum is strong, and asset quality remains
sound,” Tsien said in the statement. “We will devote
additional resources to strengthen the group’s regional
franchise to tap on the higher economic growth potential in our
key overseas markets.”  Singapore’s gross domestic product shrank an annualized 1.4
percent in the three months through March 31 from the previous
quarter, when it rose 3.3 percent, the Trade Ministry said on
April 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  