-- Hollande to Trim French Capital Gains Taxes to Woo Entrepreneurs
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-04-29T17:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/hollande-to-trim-french-capital-gains-taxes-to-woo-entrepreneurs.html
French President Francois Hollande
said he will lower capital gains taxes to clear up what he
called a “misunderstanding” after he raised levies last year.  Levies on capital gains, now mainly taxed as ordinary
income, will be reduced by 50 percent for assets held for more
than two years and by 65 percent after eight years. A more
favorable regime is planned for venture capitalists and business
owners who sell to shift into retirement, at a total cost of
between 200 million euros ($262 million) and 300 million euros a
year, Hollande’s office said.  “I want to address the misunderstandings of last autumn,”
Hollande told entrepreneurs gathered at the Elysee Palace. “Our
tax regime should discourage speculation and compensate
investment and risk taking.”  Today’s plan follows up on a capital-gains exemption given
to entrepreneurs last October when a protest movement among
small-business owners using the pigeon as its symbol gathered
more than 34,000 signatures. The reversal came as Hollande was
struggling to reduce  France ’s budget deficit and revive an
economy that has been stalled for about two years.  Hollande is making the renewed push to support business at
a time when French jobless claims have jumped to an all-time
record of 3.22 million and the Socialist president’s own
popularity has slumped.  In a nod to concerns about excessive European austerity
being expressed by members of his own party, Hollande said he
understood the deficit-cutting effort has slowed growth in
France in the wake of the euro zone debt crisis, though he also
said that France itself needs to address its economic problems.  French ‘Weakness’  “We have our own weakness: our competitiveness has
deteriorated, we’ve lost market share and our trade deficit is
more than 60 billion euros,” he said. “It’s not sustainable.
It’s up to us and us alone to put our economy in order after so
many years of laxity.”  Hollande said today that he’d also expand the range of
spending by companies that can qualify for research and
development credits and that he intends to overhaul rules on
French savings plans to shift more funds into equity investment
in small companies.  “Let’s not forget the obvious: it’s companies that create
wealth, growth and employment,” Hollande said. “Our society
needs to celebrate success in all its forms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  