-- Chinese Companies Drop in Hong Kong on Slower Growth
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-04-29T08:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/hong-kong-stocks-swing-after-slower-chinese-industrial-earnings.html
Most  Hong Kong   stocks  fell, with an
index of Chinese companies dropping for the first time in four
days, as slower growth in industrial companies’ profits added to
signs the world’s No. 2 economy is losing steam.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , the country’s biggest producer of the
metal, fell 4.2 percent and  China  Coal Energy Co., the second-
largest coal producer, slumped 6.2 percent after saying it
expects a drop in first-half profit. China Resources Power
Holdings Co., the No. 1 Chinese electricity producer by value in
Hong Kong, rose 1.8 percent after China Electricity Council said
the nation’s power use may rise.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
traded in the city declined 0.5 percent to 10,785.58 at the
close, its biggest drop since April 23. About nine stocks fell
for every seven that gained on the Hang Seng Composite Index,
the city’s broadest equity measure. Mainland equity markets are
closed through May 1 for public holidays. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.2 percent, with trading volume 21 percent
less than the 30-day intraday average.  “There’s definitely some weakness in the Chinese
economy,”  Adrian Mowat , chief  Asia  and emerging-market
strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said on Bloomberg Television
today. Stimulus measures by the government aren’t generating the
growth he would expect. “It sounds like the central bank
governor wants to take away the stimulus before the economy’s
got going. The Chinese stock market’s in a very difficult
position at the moment,” he said.  Volume Slips  The  Hang Seng Index  declined 5.4 percent from a Jan. 30
high through April 26 amid disappointing economic data from
China, the outbreak of a new bird-flu virus and renewed concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis. Year-to-date, Hong Kong’s benchmark
index is the second-worst performer among developed markets.  The measure traded at 10.8 times  estimated earnings  on
April 26, compared with a five-year average of 12.7 and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s multiple of 14.4, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Growth in Chinese industrial company profits slowed in
March. Net income increased 5.3 percent from a year earlier,
down from a 17.2 percent pace in the first two months, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its website on April 27.
Profit in the first quarter rose 12.1 percent, it said.  Measures of industrial goods, energy and materials
companies had the  three biggest declines  among the Hang Seng
Composite Index’s 11 industries.  Tianneng Power International
Ltd. (819) , a maker of storage batteries, tumbled 8.2 percent to
HK$4.79. Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co.,
China’s second-biggest construction equipment maker, sank 5.1
percent to HK$7.66.  Energy, Materials  China Coal Energy slumped 6.2 percent to HK$5.91, the
 steepest drop  in the Hang Seng Index, after saying it expects a
decline in first-half profit on low coal prices.  Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co., China’s third-largest producer of the fuel by market
value, retreated 4.4 percent to HK$8.07 after the stock was cut
to neutral from buy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Jiangxi Copper fell 4.2 percent to HK$14.92 after saying it
expects its first-half profit will slump by more than 50 percent
on current or lower copper prices, and after the London Metal
Exchange Index of industrial metals slid 2.3 percent on April
26.  “Right now the sentiment is not too poor, but people will
still be cautious,” said  Alex Wong , a Hong Kong-based director
at Ample Capital Ltd. “Overall, the resources sector in China
is very weak as commodity prices remain weak.”  Electricity Producers Gain  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent today. Most shares in the U.S. dropped on April 26,
paring a weekly gain, after data showed the world’s largest
economy grew less than economists forecast in the first quarter
and amid disappointing earnings reports.  Gross domestic product expanded at a 2.5 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, trailing the 3 percent estimate of 86
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Utilities had the  biggest gain  among the Hang Seng Index’s
four industry groups. China Resources Power increased 1.8
percent to HK$25.40, while  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , the
publicly traded unit of China’s largest electricity producer,
climbed 1.8 percent to HK$8.87.  China’s power consumption is expected to rise by 2.51
trillion kilowatt hours to 2.53 trillion in the first half of
this year, China Electricity Council said in a statement on its
website.  Hang Seng Index futures were little changed at 22,560. The
HSI Volatility Index gained 3 percent to 16.07, indicating
traders expect a swing of 4.6 percent for the equity benchmark
in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  