-- Hong Kong Peg to Yuan Is Still ‘Many Years’ Off, Greenwood Says
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-04-29T06:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/hong-kong-peg-to-yuan-is-still-many-years-off-greenwood-says.html
Hong Kong’s dollar peg shields the
local economy from external shocks and it will be “many years”
before a switch to a  yuan  link can be considered, according to
John Greenwood, architect of the city’s exchange-rate system.  “At the time being, the  renminbi  is not fully convertible
and therefore it’s not suitable for the Hong Kong dollar to peg
to,” Greenwood, chief economist of Invesco Asset Management,
said in a speech in Hong Kong today. “The Hong Kong dollar
linked exchange-rate mechanism requires a fully convertible
currency as anchor currency.”  The city’s dollar peg was adopted in 1983 when negotiations
between China and the U.K. over returning the city to Chinese
control triggered capital outflows and Greenwood suggested a
currency board system to stabilize the exchange rate. He has
been a member of the currency board operations committee of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority since 1998.  The Hong Kong dollar’s value is kept at around HK$7.8
versus the greenback. In 2005, policy makers committed to
limiting the currency’s decline to HK$7.85 and capping gains at
HK$7.75. It would be unwise to switch to a peg versus a basket
of currencies or to allow to the Hong Kong dollar to float,
Greenwood said, adding that the existing system works well.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority injected almost $14
billion between October and December as the local currency’s
move to HK$7.75 obliged it to buy U.S. dollars in the foreign-
exchange market. Signs of a pickup in China’s economy and
monetary easing in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  had spurred
capital inflows into the city.  Ackman’s Bet  The  Hong Kong dollar  traded at HK$7.7640 versus its U.S.
counterpart as of 2:23 p.m. in the city. It has weakened 0.16
percent this year. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards traded
at HK$7.7533.  All but one of the 20 analysts polled by Bloomberg News in
November, including Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said they expected the city’s fixed exchange-rate system to last
for at least five more years.  William Ackman , founder of Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, told a conference in September 2011 that the
easiest way for Hong Kong to allow an appreciation would be a
reset of the peg at HK$6 versus the U.S. currency followed by a
switch to a yuan link over three to six years. The hedge-fund
manager said in October 2012 that he was keeping the wager.  Such a bet has so far been a losing trade as Hong Kong
officials repeatedly pledged to keep an exchange-rate system
that survived the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s and
the global recession in 2009. K.C. Chan, the city’s secretary
for financial services and the treasury, said in January Ackman
won’t realize his bet.  Yuan Controls  China  ended its currency peg to the dollar in July 2005
after keeping the exchange rate stable for a decade. HSBC
Holdings Plc forecast in March the yuan will become fully
convertible within five years. Interest-rate liberalization is
necessary before capital controls can end and policy makers are
making “slow” progress on this front, Greenwood said.  The yuan strengthened to a 19-year high at 6.1616 per
dollar on April 26 after the People’s Bank of China set a record
reference rate for the currency amid signs capital inflows are
gathering pace. The spot rate in  Shanghai  is allowed to diverge
a maximum 1 percent on either side of the daily fixing.  PBOC Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  said April 18 that the yuan’s
trading band would be widened “in the near future.” The last
revision, which doubled the maximum permitted divergence from
the reference rate, was announced on April 14, 2012. The yuan
ended last week at 6.1650 per dollar, 0.9 percent stronger than
the PBOC’s fixing on April 26. China’s financial markets are
closed April 29 to May 1 for a holiday.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was 0.05 percent
stronger today at 6.1635 per dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It touched 6.1617 on April 26, the strongest level
since trading began in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  