-- Hospital Stocks Rally as Medicare Tempers Budget Cut Blow
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-04-29T20:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/hospital-stocks-rally-as-medicare-tempers-budget-cut-blow.html
HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  led hospital
stocks higher after the U.S. government proposed new Medicare
payment rates that would soften the blow of  federal budget  cuts.  HCA, the largest for-profit hospital company in the U.S.,
gained 5.5 percent to $40.37 at the close in  New York  in its
biggest increase since Nov. 7.  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services  said 
April 26 that it plans a net raise in payments to acute-care
hospitals of 0.8 percent beginning Oct. 1. Investors were
expecting no change to as much as a 1 percent decrease,
according to Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies & Co.  “This increase is significantly better than most
investors’ expectations,” Tanquilut said today in a note to
investors. “We believe that downside risk for hospital stocks
has been eliminated and that the only remaining factor that
investors will focus on is the Jan. 1, 2014, implementation of
the Affordable Care Act’s key components.”  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , the second-largest U.S.
hospital chain, rose 3.6 percent to $45.09, its biggest jump
since Feb. 13.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the No. 3 hospital
operator, gained 6.5 percent to $43.84.  The agency, known as CMS, proposed raising payments 0.8
percent for services that elderly and disabled patients receive
after being admitted to acute-care hospitals. Long-term care
hospitals that treat patients after they’re discharged from
acute-care centers would see a 1.1 percent increase.  Budget Cuts  Medicare, the U.S. government’s health-care program for the
elderly and disabled, pays more than $100 billion a year to
hospitals. The proposed payment changes would raise payouts for
hospital care by about $53 million next year, including programs
that aim to discourage hospitals from readmitting patients soon
after they are discharged and to punish hospitals that too
frequently spread infections to patients.  CMS also lessened the effect of a mandatory budget cut
related to the Affordable Care Act. The agency proposed a 0.8
percent cut for “coding recovery,” which according to
Tanquilut, was less than half the reduction in some investors’
projections.  “We are pleased that in today’s rule CMS has used its
discretion to dampen the impact of certain congressionally-
mandated policies,” Rick Pollack, executive vice president of
the American Hospital Association, said in a statement. “CMS’s
proposal has provided hospitals with additional time to manage
enormous changes to patient care delivery.”  A final rule on the fiscal 2014 payments is scheduled to be
issued by Aug. 1. The changes affect about 3,400 acute care
hospitals about 440 long-term care hospitals for discharges on
or after Oct. 1, 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  