-- U.K. Stocks Climb Amid Optimism ECB Will Cut Rates
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-04-29T15:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/most-u-k-stocks-gain-on-optimism-ecb-will-lower-rates.html
U.K. stocks  climbed, sending the
FTSE 100 Index close to a four-week high, amid mounting optimism
that central banks from Europe to the U.S. will maintain
stimulus support when they meet this week.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  rallied to its highest price
since 2001 after reporting earnings that beat analysts’
estimates and raising its interim dividend.  Schroders Plc (SDR)  also
advanced.  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY)  sank the most in five months as the
U.K.’s largest construction company cut its profit forecast.  The FTSE 100 rose 31.6 points, or 0.5 percent, to 6,458.02
at the close in London, its highest level since April 2. The
 equity benchmark  added 2.2 percent last week amid speculation
the  European Central Bank  will cut  interest rates  at its meeting
on May 2. It has advanced 0.7 percent so far in April, heading
for its longest stretch of monthly gains since 1984.  “The ECB cutting rates this week just sends a signal that
monetary policy will stay exceptionally easy,”  Bob Parker , who
helps oversee about $400 billion as senior adviser at Credit
Suisse Asset Management, told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television in London. “Is it just symbolic? The answer is
probably yes.”  The broader FTSE All-Share Index climbed 0.4 percent today,
heading for its longest stretch of monthly gains since 1962.
Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.6 percent. The volume of shares
changing hands in FTSE 100-listed companies was 17 percent lower
than the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Interest Rates  The ECB will lower its  interest rate  at a meeting this
week, according to economists in a Bloomberg survey. A report
last week showed that manufacturing and services output
contracted in the euro area.  The U.S. Federal Reserve starts a two-day policy meeting
tomorrow following a Commerce Department publication that showed
the world’s largest economy expanded in the first quarter less
than forecast. The  Bank of England  meets next week.  Stocks extended gains after a report showed that  consumer
spending  in the U.S. rose in March more than economists had
projected. Household purchases, which account for about 70
percent of the economy, climbed 0.2 percent, a Commerce
Department release showed today in Washington.  Aberdeen Asset Management jumped 8 percent to 450.5 pence,
for the biggest advance on the  FTSE 100. (UKX)  Scotland’s biggest fund
manager posted first-half revenue and earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates and a 13 percent jump in assets under
management to 212.3 billion pounds ($328.9 billion). The  company 
also increased its interim dividend to 6 pence from 4.4 pence a
year earlier.  Schroders, Henderson  Schroders and  Henderson Group Plc (HGG) , rival fund managers,
added 2.2 percent to 2,338 pence and 2.4 percent to 165.6 pence,
respectively.  Bellway Plc (BWY)  gained 3 percent to 1,377 pence after analysts
at both Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Jefferies Group LLC raised
the U.K. housebuilder to buy. Jefferies cited the government’s
help-to-buy program, saying it has the potential to kickstart a
recovery in housing.  Balfour Beatty tumbled 9.5 percent to 222.9 pence after the
construction company said that operating profit will fall short
of its previous prediction by 50 million pounds because of
sluggish demand in its home market.  The company forecast in November that profitability would
drop as it failed to negotiate lower prices with suppliers to
reflect market conditions.  Carillion Plc (CLLN) , a U.K. construction and services provider,
retreated 5.9 percent to 272.7 pence.  Reed Elsevier Plc lost 1.8 percent to 761.5 pence.
Citigroup Inc. downgraded the owner of the LexisNexis database
and New Scientist magazine to neutral from buy. The shares have
rallied 18 percent year to date. The brokerage identified
changes to the funding of academic publishing as a risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  