-- Emerging Stocks Rise as Easing Outlook Fuels Energy Gain
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-29T22:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/most-emerging-stocks-gain-on-stimulus-speculation-htc-surges.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
paring a monthly decline in the benchmark index, as energy
companies rose on speculation monetary stimulus from  India  to
 Europe  and the U.S. will bolster economic growth.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian unit of the world’s
second-biggest consumer-goods company, and Brazilian oil
producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA both climbed at least 5.5
percent as earnings beat estimates. Russian stocks fell as coal
producer OAO  Mechel (MTL)  slumped in Moscow, while VTB Group jumped
the most since February.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.5 percent to
1,027.42 in  New York , trimming its decline in April to 0.7
percent. The  European Central Bank  and India’s policy makers may
cut  interest rates  this week, according to the majority of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The U.S. Federal Reserve opens
a two-day meeting tomorrow amid bets it will consider renewing
its commitment to bond buying.  “Central bank accommodation and the perception that this
will continue longer than people were worried about are
supportive of markets today,”  Michael Holland , who oversees
more than $4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co., said in a
phone interview in New York.  Nine out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose as a measure of energy company stocks added 1 percent. The
broad gauge has lost 2.6 percent this year, compared with a 9.7
percent increase in the MSCI World Index of developed-country
stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades at 10.7 times 12-
month  projected  profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 14.3
times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Housing Data  Emerging stocks also gained as data showed that more
Americans than forecast signed contracts in March to buy
previously owned homes. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index
exchange-traded fund climbed 1 percent to $42.68. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, dropped 0.3 percent to 18.93.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa advanced for the first time in three days
as Petrobras, which has the biggest weighting on Brazil’s
benchmark gauge, soared 5.5 percent. OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, the oil producer controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista , surged 19 percent, posting the
steepest jump on the emerging-markets gauge and paring this
year’s loss to 51 percent.  The Mexican IPC index closed little changed as homebuilder
Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB  plunged  12 percent to a record low.  Russian Stocks  Russia ’s Micex Index dropped 0.7 percent, after jumping 2.5
percent last week. Mechel slid 0.8 percent.  American depositary
receipts  of Russia’s biggest producer of steelmaking coal soared
7.1 percent in New York after the company signed a loan pact
totaling $1 billion with OAO Gazprombank.  VTB Group gained 3.8 percent in Moscow. Yields on Russia’s
ruble-denominated debt dropped to a record on speculation a
proposal by the  Finance Ministry  to transfer windfall oil cash
to the budget will curb the need to sell new bonds.  Indian stocks advanced 0.5 percent, with the benchmark S&P
BSE India Index poised for its first increase in three months.
Hindustan Unilever jumped 7 percent.  Most Hong Kong stocks fell as slower growth in industrial
companies’ profits added to signs the world’s No. 2 economy is
losing steam. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index declined 0.5
percent. Mainland equity markets are closed through May 1 for
public holidays.  Jiangxi Copper Co., the country’s biggest producer of the
metal, fell 4.2 percent and  China Coal Energy Co. (1898) , the second-
largest coal producer, slumped 6.2 percent after saying it
expects a drop in first-half profit.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 284 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  