-- Total Offers Forties Crude; Angola Cuts Exports to 9-Month Low
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-04-29T16:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/total-offers-forties-crude-angola-cuts-exports-to-9-month-low.html
Total SA failed to sell a cargo of
 North Sea  Forties as an extra shipment was added to the May
loading program. Gunvor Group Ltd. bid unsuccessfully for
Russian Urals blend even as it bid at the highest level in
almost six months.  Angola,  Africa ’s second-largest oil producer, will cut
exports in June to 51 cargoes, one less than in a preliminary
plan and the lowest in nine months, according to a final loading
program obtained by Bloomberg News. Nigeria postponed five Bonny
Light crude cargoes to June from May.  North Sea  Total offered Forties for loading May 17 to May 19 at a
discount of 25 cents a barrel to Dated Brent without finding a
buyer, a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the
Platts pricing window showed. That compares with an April 24
trade at minus 40 cents.  Mercuria Energy Trading SA was bidding for the grade
loading May 22 to May 26 at 25 cents less than the benchmark,
according to the survey.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days narrowed by 4 cents to a discount of 36 cents a
barrel to Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for June settlement traded at $103.44 a barrel on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window, compared
with $103.11 in the previous session. The July contract was at
$103.15 at the same time today, a discount of 29 cents to June.  Forties lot F0523 will load from May 28 to May 30,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter, who asked
not to be identified because the information is confidential.  Mediterranean/Urals  Gunvor bid unsuccessfully for Urals loading May 18-22 at 70
cents less than Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Rotterdam,
the Platts survey showed. That compares with an April 19 trade
at minus $1.20 and is the narrowest since Nov. 1, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
shrank by 3 cents to 25 cents a barrel, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. In northwest Europe, the  discount  was at $1.07 a
barrel compared with $1.13 at the close of the previous session.
That’s the smallest since Feb. 1, the data show.  OAO Surgutneftegas sold four Urals cargoes for loading in
May from Baltic ports to Eni SpA and China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Co., known as Unipec, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The company also issued a tender to sell three more May-
loading cargoes, the people said, asking not to be identified as
the information is confidential.  Iraq will ship 42 cargoes of Basrah Light crude from the
 Persian Gulf  in May, six less than this month, a loading program
obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.  About 66.7 million barrels of the blend will be exported
from the Basrah Oil Terminal, according to the plan. That
equates with 2.15 million barrels a day this month and compares
with average daily shipments in April of 2.29 million barrels.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend rose 10 cents to $3.31 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s the most since April 12.  Angola will ship 49 million barrels, or 1.63 million
barrels a day, the plan showed. That compares with 56.7 million
barrels, or 1.83 million barrels a day, in May and is the least
since September, when daily exports were 1.63 million barrels,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria will now ship three cargoes of Bonny Light crude in
May, the lowest in more than three years, according to revised
loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News.  Shipments of Bonny in May will total about 92,000 barrels a
day compared with 112,867 barrels planned for June and is the
lowest since Oct. 2009.  Equatorial Guinea  plans to keep exports of its Aseng crude
unchanged at two cargoes in June, a loading program obtained by
Bloomberg News shows.  One was for 950,000 barrels and the other is 650,000
barrels, according to the plan. The country will also ship three
consignments of its Zafiro blend and two of Ceiba, earlier
schedules showed.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. bought 3 million barrels of crude
for loading in June via a tender, said four traders who asked
not to be identified because the information is confidential.  Indian second-largest state refiner purchased about 1
million barrels of  Algeria ’s Saharan Blend for loading June 5 to
June 15 from BP Plc and about 2 million barrels of  Angola ’s
Nemba crude for loading June 1 to June 10 from Vitol Group, two
of the traders said.  PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state-owned oil company, is
seeking to buy low-sulfur crude for delivery in July to its
Balikpapan and Cilacap refineries, said two people with
knowledge of the tender. They asked not to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  