-- How Sarah Palin Is Right About Washington
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-04-29T22:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/how-sarah-palin-is-right-about-washington.html
We call it the “nerd prom,” hoping
that a dose of irony will inoculate us. But there’s no use
denying it: The White House Correspondents’ Association’s  annual
dinner  is a deeply narcissistic event.  I realize I’m jumping on the bandwagon late here -- and any
bandwagon that carries both Tom Brokaw and Sarah Palin is by
definition crowded. This year it got so full that the current
officers of the association started to sound like Miss America
wishing for world peace: All they wanted to do, they said, was
raise money for  scholarships for  aspiring journalists.  An inordinate amount of time was spent congratulating
themselves for having raised more than $100,000 for journalism
students. The return on investment is laughable. The weekend
costs media organizations millions of dollars.  The emphasis on charity came after Brokaw elevated the
criticism of the dinner by saying last year on “Meet the Press”
that the evening reached a breaking point for him when  Lindsay Lohan , invited by  Fox News , became the night’s center of
attention. Not unexpectedly, Sarah Palin  chimed in  this year on
Twitter that we were a bunch of clowns throwing ourselves a
“pathetic” party.  Feeling Pain  This emphasis on charity was always misplaced. I much
preferred the original rationale for the dinner, which was for
members of the press and government officials to share a meal in
formal clothes and pinching footwear -- the better for them to
feel each other’s pain.  Suspect to begin with, that purpose has long been subsumed
by competition for celebrity guests who travel a red carpet,
with groupies cheering them on and journalists from E! and
“Entertainment Tonight” breathlessly interviewing them.
Celebrities no longer have to have some thin connection to
 Washington . What connection could members of the cast of
“Downton Abbey” possibly have?  If we wonder why the evening induces rage in some quarters,
 look at  the posse of Korean bodyguards surrounding Psy, whose
dream is to be profiled on “60 Minutes” but who nonetheless fled
behind a curtain to avoid one more journalist asking for his
photograph. (For his children, of course. The pictures are
always for the kids.) At least he didn’t smash a phone, as  Sean Penn  once did.  You don’t need a billion views on YouTube, or talent, to be
invited to an all-expenses-paid weekend. I will stand for hours
in three-inch heels to talk to Governor  Chris Christie  of  New
Jersey  for a few minutes. Is that how recording artist and
fragrance-endorser Katy Perry (not to pick on her; she sat at
Bloomberg’s table) wants to spend a Saturday night? If she’s
like most celebrities, she’s willing so long as it comes with
airfare, a four-star hotel, lavish pre- and post-parties and
swag bags that mimic the Oscars.  Any celebrity will do. The dinner descended from self-
parody to self-loathing this year in its search for attention,
inviting the cast of A&E’s “Duck Dynasty,” a show for those who
like hunting fowl and hating Washington. By being the most
ridiculous guests, they won the award for being most mentioned.  For evidence of how seriously we take the celebrity
content, look at Politico’s tip sheet for its reporters,
 published by Gawker . It gives guidance to reporters on the care,
feeding and questioning of  Hollywood stars . Apparently the
premise is that Washington reporters know full well how to suck
up to the CIA director, but not necessarily how to pander to the
guy who plays him on TV. All the questions were along the lines
of: “You play a [description of character] on [name of
program/movie]. How does that affect the way you see stories
such as the [current news event]?”  Not Funny  The heart of the evening is a monologue by a hired
comedian. (This year it was  Conan O’Brien .) The president goes
first, however, reading jokes written for him by speechwriters
who could be doing other things. President  Barack Obama , like
 George W. Bush  before him,  has mastered  the self-deprecating
joke. Even when the lines -- from the president or the
professional -- aren’t funny, we all chuckle indiscriminately,
because none of us wants to fail the exam or lose the student-
council election. We fail to notice we have become what we used
to criticize.  The criticism that the dinner constitutes an exchange of
favors between the political, celebrity and journalistic classes
misses the point. The politicians see the dinner mostly as an
obligation. The celebrities see it mostly as a disappointment. A
few years ago comedian Larry David attended. When he was asked
to come again he said no, adding that you have to be a dinner
virgin to attend in the first place.  George Clooney  said he was
surprised when his car pulled up to a hotel: He thought the
White House Correspondents’ Association Dinner was at the White
House, not in a basement ballroom with 2,500 other people. I
don’t think he was joking.  The better criticism of the dinner is financial, not
political: While hundreds of our colleagues have lost their jobs
and news budgets have been slashed, we are spending a king’s
ransom to create the illusion that we are important.  For many years, I wanted so badly to be invited to the
dinner that, long after I got on all the right lists, I was
blind to how earnest and self-congratulatory it was. So
depending on how you look at it, my history either undermines my
credibility or bolsters my authority. (I prefer to take the
latter view.)  Either way, my conclusion is the same: More than anything
else, what this weekend shows is that we in the news media have
forgotten our mission to afflict the comfortable and comfort the
afflicted. Please, next year, could we take all the money we
spend on parties and give it to causes worthier than our own?  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 