-- Lloyds Seen Reporting the End of Era for Surging Impairments
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-04-29T08:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/lloyds-seen-reporting-the-end-of-era-for-surging-impairments.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, may signal the end of an era of surging
loan impairments and provisions for improperly sold insurance
when it reports first-quarter earnings this week.  Pretax profit  rose to 864 million pounds ($1.3 billion) in
the first quarter from 288 million pounds a year ago, according
to the median estimate of three analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey. The bank will release the results at 7 a.m. tomorrow.  Loan impairments probably fell to about 1.1 billion pounds
in that period from 1.7 billion pounds a year ago, with the
London-based bank seen avoiding further provisions for payment
protection insurance, the analysts said. That would mark the
lowest quarterly impairments since 2008. The lender said today
it sold its Spanish consumer banking operations to Banco
Sabadell SA for as much as 104 million euros ($136 million).  “It looks like Lloyds has turned a corner on impairments
as they’ve come down a long way from their peak,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital Ltd. in Liverpool,
 England , with a buy rating on the shares. “It also looks like
we’re past the worst on PPI as well.”  Lloyds rose 0.5 percent to 53.16 pence at 9:16 a.m. in
London. The shares have increased 11 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 38 billion pounds. By comparison,
the Stoxx 600 Banks Index has advanced about 4.6 percent.  Lloyds’s return to profitability has been hampered by about
6.8 billion pounds of redress for improperly sold loan insurance
and 12.1 billion pounds of losses tied to the real estate
collapse in Ireland. The lender, 39 percent owned by the British
government, posted its third annual loss in 2012.  ‘Good Job’  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, may still
find it difficult to return the bank to the private sector even
after cleaning up its balance sheet and cutting costs as low
global interest rates and tougher regulatory requirements
continue to undermine earnings.  “Horta-Osorio is doing a good job on costs and a good job
on rebuilding the business,” said Christopher Wheeler, an
analyst at Mediobanca SpA in  London . “But they still haven’t
got enough capital, and there are a number of other
uncertainties remaining on the horizon for them.”  At  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the British lender that’s cutting 3,700
jobs as part of an overhaul, pretax profit excluding losses on
the valuation of debt dropped 25 percent to 1.79 billion pounds
in the first quarter from a year earlier. That missed the 2.1
billion-pound estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Lloyds Revenue  Analysts said Lloyds’s net interest margin, the difference
between earnings on loans and the cost of funding, remained
under pressure in the first quarter. Margins probably fell to
1.94 percent from 1.95 percent a year ago,  Mark Phin , an analyst
at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd., wrote in a note to clients.
That’s below the bank’s forecast of 1.98 for 2013.  Revenue probably declined 4 percent to 4.63 billion pounds
in the first quarter, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts including
Carla Antunes-Silva said in a note.  British  banks  are struggling to revive earnings while
meeting demands for higher capital buffers to help avoid future
bailouts. The Bank of England last month called on lenders to
raise 25 billion pounds of additional capital to cover bigger
potential losses on commercial real estate, possible fines for
mis-selling and stricter risk models.  Lloyds is currently weighing a sale of its Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership unit to boost capital, four people with
knowledge of the talks said last week. The bank last month sold
a 20 percent stake in wealth manager  St James’s Place Plc. (STJ)   Spanish Sale  Today, Lloyds announced the sale of its Spanish consumer
and private-banking operations to Banco Sabadell, saying it was
“rationalizing its international presence.” The bank will
receive around 1.8 percent of Banco Sabadell’s shares, valued at
84 million euros, which it agreed to hold on to for at least two
years, and a further 20 million euros in cash may be payable
within five years. The sale will result in a 250 million-pound
loss on disposal, according to Lloyds.  The U.K. lender is planning an initial public offering for
632 branches, a disposal required by the European Union
following its 2008 bailout, after Co-Operative Bank Plc pulled
out of an agreement to buy the assets. Co-Op cited the worsening
economic outlook and tougher regulatory requirements for the
decision.  Lloyds is also still being investigated by regulators
worldwide as part of the probe into the rigging of benchmark
interest rates. The bank is probing two money-markets traders
over their alleged role in the rigging of interest rates, three
people familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Barclays was fined 290 million pounds for manipulating
Libor in June.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the U.K.’s
largest state-owned lender, received a fine of $612 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  