-- Toyota Sees Slower U.S. Sales in April on Fleet Cutback
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-04-29T21:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/toyota-sees-slower-u-s-sales-in-april-on-fleet-cutback.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which led
first-quarter U.S. gains among large overseas carmakers, expects
little growth for its namesake brand in April after trimming
fleet sales, said U.S. Group Vice President Bill Fay.  Combined sales of Toyota, Lexus and Scion cars and trucks
grew 8.7 percent this year through March, compared with a year
ago. Sales of Toyotas to car-rental companies and businesses
were about 14 percent of the brand’s U.S. volume in March,
according to data from Urban Science, an industry consulting
firm in  Detroit .  “We’re going to sell less fleet this year, as a division,
than last year -- probably 8,000 or 9,000 units less” in April,
Fay said in an April 26 phone interview. “Our business will
probably end up looking kind of flat, year over year, because of
fleet coming down.”  Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, wants sell more than
2.2 million vehicles in the U.S. this year, about a 6 percent
increase and the most since 2008. That target and Toyota’s plan
for Camry to remain the top-selling U.S. car for a 12th
consecutive year are under pressure as the Toyota City, Japan-
based company faces the best American cars in a generation.  Industrywide sales in April should expand about 5 percent
from a year ago, Fay said. “The market will continue to be
pretty good,” albeit slower than the industry’s 6.4 percent
increase in the first quarter, he said.  Toyota’s focus is boosting more profitable sales to
individuals, rather than fleets, for the remainder of the year,
Fay said. Automakers are to report U.S. April sales on May 1.
Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance,  California .  Camry, Prius  Camry sales shrank 4.3 percent in the first quarter amid
tougher competition from  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s new Fusion sedan,
Honda Motor Co.’s redesigned Accord and  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co.’s new
Altima sedan.  “We’re still very optimistic to stay on our plan, which is
to sell over 400,000 Camrys,” he said. “At the end of the day
people see the new Fusion and like it and the Accord is doing
well. Our goal, in spite of better competition, is for Camry to
stay No. 1.”  While U.S. sales of Toyota’s Prius hybrids fell 8.4 percent
in the quarter, “our goal is to continue to grow that family,
grow that brand,” Fay said. Prius U.S. sales totaled 236,659
last year, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  To counter the first-quarter decline, a new marketing
campaign for Prius starts in May, mainly with online promotions,
and builds up with new television advertisements in June, he
said.  “We have a plan for it, to give it some more attention as
the year goes on,” Fay said, without elaborating.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts rose 0.9 percent to
$116.54 at the close yesterday in  New York . They have risen 25
percent this year, compared with a 12 percent increase for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  