-- Pakistan Terrorist Attacks Before General Elections: A Timeline
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-04-29T10:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/pakistan-terrorist-attacks-before-general-elections-a-timeline.html
Following is a list of terrorist
attacks before the general elections scheduled for May 11.  April 29: A roadside bomb blast kills 8, injures more than 40 in
 Peshawar , capital of  Pakistan ’s northwestern Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa
province.  April 28: A bomb strapped to a bicycle exploded outside the
office of independent candidate Nasir Khan Afridi in Peshawar,
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, killing three and injuring 20.  April 28: An election convoy of Awami National Party was
targeted with a remote-controlled bomb, leaving one dead and 13
injured in Swabi, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.  April 28: A time bomb went off near election offices of
candidates Awami National Party Khursheed Begum and independent
Noor Akbar Khan in Kohat town of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province,
killing five and injuring 23.  April 27: Two attacks within minutes of each other near
Muttahida Qaumi Movement’s office in Karachi left at least three
dead and 27 injured.  April 27: A bomb exploded at a corner meeting of Pakistan
Peoples’ Party in Karachi killing at least two and injuring 15.  April 26: A bomb attack on an election rally in Pakistan’s
commercial hub of Karachi killed nine people and injured 24,
police said. Attack targeted  Awami National Party  election
candidate Bashir Jan.  April 26: Hand grenades are hurled and rockets are fired at a
rally of nationalist party Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam (F) in Bolan
district, Baluchistan.  April 25: Bomb fitted into motorcycle explodes in front of
Muttahida Qaumi Movement’s office in Karachi, killing 6 and
injuring 8.  April 25: A hand grenade is hurled at the election office of
Pakistan Peoples’ Party in Nushki, Baluchistan, injuring two
people.  April 24: Five bombings in the southwestern city of Quetta in
two days kill six and injure 52.  April 23: Bomb attack in Karachi near a roadside camp of the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement kills 2 and hurts 15.  April 23: Pakistani police find a car packed with explosives
near the Islamabad residence of former military ruler  Pervez Musharraf , where he is being kept under house arrest.  April 17: Awami National Party’s Farooq Khan escapes unhurt
after a bomb blast targeted his vehicle in the northwestern city
of Charsadda.  April 16: A bomb blast near a political rally for the Awami
National Party in Peshawar kills at least eight people and
injures 40.  April 16: A roadside bomb targeting a regional chief from former
premier  Nawaz Sharif ’s party kills at least four, including the
son and brother of Baluchistan provincial president Sardar
Sanaullah Zehri.  April 14: Syed Masoom Shah, an election candidate of the Awami
National Party, is injured along with three other people in a
blast at a rally in Charsadda. In another incident, a local
leader of the same party is shot dead in the northwestern Swat
Valley.  April 11: Fakhrul Islam, a candidate of the Muttahida Qaumi
Movement, is killed in a gun attack in Hyderabad.  April 3: Adnan Aslam, a candidate from the Pakistan Peoples’
Party, is killed in a gun attack in Karachi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween A. Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  