-- Paschi Gets Investor Backing to Sue Former Managers Over Swaps
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e
-- 2013-04-29T17:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/paschi-gets-investor-backing-to-sue-former-managers-over-swaps.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
won investor approval to sue former managers over derivatives
that hid more than 700 million euros ($916 million) of losses
and are at the center of a fraud probe by prosecutors.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola told investors at
the bank’s annual general meeting in Siena today that the  swaps 
are now fully reflected in the bank’s accounts and “there are
no more losses that aren’t booked correctly.” He declined to
disclose more about the swaps, citing the criminal probe.  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, filed a suit against
former General Manager Antonio Vigni and Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari  in Florence on March 1, alleging they used the swaps to
hide losses.  The derivatives backfired because they included a money-
losing bet by Monte Paschi on Italian  government bonds . The
lender has pledged about 2.8 billion euros as additional margin
on the transactions, according to an April 24 company filing.  The lender is also seeking 1.2 billion euros in damages
from Deutsche Bank AG and  Nomura Holdings Inc., (8604)  claiming the two
colluded with the former managers to devise the derivatives.  The derivatives “should never have been put together,”
Monte Paschi said in a report to shareholders released on March
29. Nomura and Deutsche Bank “were perfectly aware of the
context, the illicit objectives” of Monte Paschi’s former
executives, the company said in the report. A lawyer for Mussari
declined to comment. Vigni’s lawyer didn’t immediately return
calls to his mobile telephone.  An Italian judge rejected on April 26 a request by
prosecutors to seize as much as 1.95 billion euros of assets
linked to the derivatives held by Nomura.  Prosecutors are now returning assets seized from the
Japanese lender after a judge rejected their key allegations of
usury and fraud, a court filing shows.  There was no fraud because Monte Paschi’s senior managers
were aware of the transactions and their implications, Judge Ugo
Bellini wrote. Prosecutors can appeal the decision within 10
days at the Siena court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sergio Di Pasquale in Milan at 
 sdipasquale1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  