-- Paulson Reinsurer Lags Peers in Sales in First Year
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2013-04-29T14:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/paulson-reinsurer-lags-peers-in-sales-in-first-year.html
Billionaire  John Paulson ’s Bermuda
venture, which positions its owners to avoid taxes on hedge fund
earnings by routing money through a reinsurer, sold about 3
percent as much coverage as competitors in its first year.  Pacre Ltd., set up by top executives at Paulson’s New York
hedge fund firm, collected about $11 million of premiums in the
year ended March 31, or 2.3 percent of  shareholders’ equity ,
according to  results released  last week. The average ratio for
13 publicly traded Bermuda reinsurers is about 68 percent.  Hedge fund insurers are gaining in popularity, with three
Bermuda ventures last year investing a combined sum of about
$1.7 billion with the U.S. managers who set them up,  Bloomberg
News  reported this year. The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service   said 
a decade ago that some insurance companies based in  tax havens 
may be hedge funds in disguise, and shouldn’t qualify for the
tax benefits the  insurance industry  enjoys.  While insurers may earn investment income, they need to be
“primarily” in the business of underwriting risk in order to
qualify for the tax advantages, the IRS said in its 2003 notice.
The notice didn’t quantify how much insurance is enough.
Reinsurers sell coverage to other insurers.  Paulson executives set up Pacre last April with $450
million of their own money, and an established Bermuda
reinsurer,  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR) , contributed $50 million. The
initial capital was invested in Paulson & Co. hedge funds.  Disaster Coverage  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, declined to comment.
Validus Chief Executive Officer Ed Noonan, in an April 26
interview, labeled as “nonsense” the idea that Pacre is a tax
dodge.  Pacre specializes in selling protection against the most
unlikely natural disasters. Because of the remote chance of
triggering its policies, the venture collects only a small
amount of premiums compared with the amount of protection it’s
selling, Noonan said on a conference call last year.  Pacre planned on selling policies in its first year that
would provide $170 million in protection for clients, or about a
third of the reinsurer’s capital, Noonan said on the call. That
amount would only be needed if Pacre had to pay out on every
policy in full, according to Noonan.  The capital that Pacre holds is necessary to meet
regulatory requirements and maintain a “strong”  credit rating ,
Validus said in a written statement. Pacre has a financial-
strength rating of A- from A.M. Best Co.  Investment Risk  “Pacre takes on a lot of risk underwriting the business,”
Noonan said in the interview. “We also take on a lot of risk in
the investment portfolio, much more so than other insurers or
reinsurers. You can’t take on that much risk on both sides of
the  balance sheet  and write the type of premiums that you would
write in a traditional reinsurer.”  In its first year, Pacre experienced zero insurance losses,
according to last week’s disclosures.  Pacre’s sales are dwarfed by other Bermuda reinsurance
startups. Validus collected net written premiums of 48 percent
of shareholders’ equity in 2006, its first full year of
operations. For Allied World Assurance Co. in 2002, the ratio
was 56 percent.  Other hedge fund-backed reinsurers’ plans called for
selling more coverage than Paulson.  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Re,
and  Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point Reinsurance Ltd., both of which
started underwriting in Bermuda last year, targeted premiums of
30 percent and about 19 percent of equity in their first year,
according to brokerage reports reviewed by Bloomberg. Neither is
publicly traded.  Tax Rates  Cayman Islands-based  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , which
counts New York hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  as chairman,
sold about 53 percent last year.  Ordinarily, hedge fund investors pay either the 39.6
percent tax rate for ordinary income or the 20 percent long-term
capital gains rate, depending on how frequently securities are
traded, plus an extra 3.8 percent health-law surcharge. By
routing money through a Bermuda reinsurer, which in turn puts
assets into a hedge fund, investors can defer taxes until
selling the stake. They then pay the lower capital gains rate.  So far, the Paulson Bermuda venture probably hasn’t
generated any tax savings compared with direct bets in  hedge
funds , because the investments have lost money. The hedge fund
stakes, bought for $500 million last April and June, were valued
at about $475 million as of March 31, according to  Validus
disclosures.   Paulson’s taxes have been in the news for other reasons
this year. In March, Bloomberg News reported Paulson was
considering moving to  Puerto Rico  to lower his tax bill. He said
four days later he wouldn’t set up permanent residence on the
island.  Last week, he was scheduled to present a new fund to
investors that would enable them to defer or avoid taxes on
gains, according to an invitation obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net . 