-- Pentagon Using China Satellite for U.S.-Africa Command
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-30T16:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/pentagon-using-china-satellite-for-u-s-africa-command.html
A U.S. lawmaker is questioning the
Pentagon’s decision to use a Chinese commercial satellite to
provide communications for its Africa Command.  Use of China’s  Apstar-7  satellite was leased because it
provided “unique bandwidth and geographic requirements” for
“wider geographic coverage” requested in May 2012 by the U.S.
Africa Command, according to Lieutenant Colonel Monica Matoush,
a Pentagon spokeswoman.  Apstar-7 is operated by  APT Satellite Holdings Ltd. (1045)  The
state-owned China Aerospace Science & Technology Corp. holds 61
percent of Hong Kong-based APT, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Pentagon contract was disclosed without details
at an April 25 House Armed Services Committee hearing during
questioning from Representative Mike Rogers of  Alabama , chairman
of the panel that oversees space programs.  The contract “exposes our military to the risk that China
may seek to turn off our ’eyes and ears’ at the time of their
choosing,” Rogers, a Republican, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “It sends a terrible message to our industrial base
at a time when it is under extreme stress” from the automatic
budget cuts known as sequestration.  The Defense Information Systems Agency and the  Africa 
Command “made an informed risk assessment of operational
security considerations and implemented appropriate transmission
and communications security and information assurance
measures,” Matoush, of the Pentagon, said in an e-mailed
statement. She said the security of “all signals to and through
the Apstar-7 satellite are fully protected with additional
transmission security.”  U.S. Company  The satellite’s services were leased under a one-year,
$10.6 million contract through the government solutions unit of
a U.S. company, Harris CapRock Communications. The Fairfax,
Virginia-based unit is one of 18 companies under an established
contract the Defense Information Systems Agency uses for
specialized commercial satellite services.  While the Apstar-7 lease expires May 14, the agency has the
option to extend it for as long as three more years.  Rogers said he was “deeply concerned a low-level DoD
agency was able to enter into a contract with a Chinese company
to use a Chinese satellite launched by a Chinese missile,
seemingly with no input from the political appointees in DoD.”  Representative John Garamendi, a California Democrat, said
the Chinese satellite lease confirms his suspicion that there’s
a lack of coordination among the Pentagon offices that oversee
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, his
spokesman, Matthew Kravitz, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Urgent Need  Douglas Loverro, the Pentagon’s top space policy official,
told the House panel last week that the Apstar-7 lease was the
only one available to support an urgent “operational need, but
we also recognize that we need to have a good process in place
to assure this” type of decision “is vetted across the
department.”  “We recognize that there is concern across the community
on the usage of Chinese satellites to support our warfighter,
and yet” officials recognize commanders “need support and
sometimes we must go” to “the only place that we can get” the
service, he said.  Steve Hildreth, a military space policy expert with the
nonpartisan Congressional Research Service, said in an e-mail
that U.S. officials have told him “a very high percentage of
U.S. military communications use commercial satellites on a
regular and sustained basis.”  “The U.S. military does not have major concerns with this
arrangement,” he said.  Commercial Market  Frank Slazer, vice president for space of the Aerospace
Industries Association, said the Pentagon uses commercial
satellite providers for the bulk of its non-classified
telecommunications requirements, “especially in areas where we
do not have a big military presence like Africa.”  The lease “underscores the limitations” of not investing
enough U.S. money in non-classified military satellite programs
and “depending only on the commercial market for national
security telecom requirements,” said Slazer, whose Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group lobbies for the defense industry.  The U.S.- China  Economic and Security Review Commission said
in its 2012 annual report said China is “the most threatening
actor in cyberspace” as its intelligence agencies and hackers
use increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to U.S.
military computers and defense contractors.  Chinese hackers are moving into “increasingly advanced
types of operations or operations against specialized targets,”
such as sensors and apertures on deployed U.S. military
platforms, according to the report.  Chinese officials have denied responsibility for
cyberattacks and said their country is often the victim of such
intrusions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  