-- Peugeot Unions Back Job-Cuts Plan as European Deliveries Decline
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-04-29T15:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/peugeot-unions-back-job-cuts-plan-as-european-deliveries-decline.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, received the backing today from a
majority of its unions to move forward with a plan to eliminate
11,200 jobs and close a French factory.  Five of the six main Peugeot unions favored the proposal to
cut 17 percent of the carmaker’s French workforce and the
shutter a plant on the outskirts of Paris, Franck Don, the head
of the CFTC union at Peugeot, said today in a text message.
Eighteen of the 20 workers representatives at the works council
approved the plan, he said.  The approval ends a nine-month long effort to push through
the reorganization, which the automaker first announced last
July. A French court ruled last week against a legal effort by
some labor leaders at the automaker to block the restructuring.  Peugeot, which reported a 576 million-euro ($754 million)
operating loss in 2012, said last week that first-quarter
revenue fell 6.5 percent to 13 billion euros as the European
market sinks for a sixth straight year. The region’s car sales
may drop 5 percent in 2013, the automaker forecasts.  A Paris court on April 26 rejected a bid by two Peugeot
unions that sought to block the reorganization on the basis that
the severance packages accompanying the job cuts were
insufficient for employees and that the legal framework for such
measures hadn’t been respected by the carmaker.  Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said
last week that the Aulnay site near Paris, scheduled to be shut
next year, may be closed as early as 2013 as strikes disrupt
production. A further contraction in  Europe ’s auto market in
2014 may also make new savings measures necessary, he said.  Manufacturing at Aulnay has been hampered since January
because of a strike by the CGT labor union. The plant is now
making 40 to 50 vehicles a day, Anne-Laure Desclesves, a Peugeot
spokeswoman at the site, said today by phone. The factory’s
daily capacity is 250 cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  