-- PGNiG Board Dismisses CEO After Gazprom Gas Pipeline Row
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-04-29T14:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/pgnig-board-dismisses-ceo-after-gazprom-gas-pipeline-row.html
Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA ,  Poland ’s biggest gas distributor, dismissed
Chief Executive Officer Grazyna Piotrowska-Oliwa following a row
over OAO Gazprom’s pipeline expansion plans.  The supervisory board of the state-controlled company,
known as PGNiG, also fired Deputy CEO Radoslaw Dudzinski in
charge of sales at today’s meeting, Prime Minister Donald Tusk
said at a news conference. Earlier this month Tusk dismissed
Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski for failing to inform him
about a deal that a company in which PGNiG holds a stake signed
with the Russian natural gas exporter.  “The supervisory board has started a contest to pick new
management,” Tusk said.  Gazprom and Poland’s Europol Gaz SA on April 4 signed a
memorandum to study a proposed 15 billion cubic-meter pipeline
called Yamal-Europe 2 from  Russia  via Poland to Slovakia,
bypassing Ukraine. Tusk and Budzanowski weren’t aware of the
deal, even though the plan was known to PGNiG, the prime
minister said April 19.  Poland wants to cut dependence on gas imports from Russia
via more links with other European Union members, liquefied
natural gas imports and domestic output. The government won’t
participate in any plan that would to isolate Ukraine by
building an alternative pipeline that bypasses Poland’s eastern
neighbor, Tusk said on April 5.  PGNiG shares dropped 1.7 percent to 5.31 zloty at 4:05 p.m.
in Warsaw, falling for a second day and valuing the Warsaw-based
company at 31.4 billion zloty ($9.9 billion).  Piotrowska-Oliwa, appointed as PGNiG’s CEO in March 2012,
had planned to increase the company’s gas output by 41 percent
by 2015 and raise spending on shale gas exploration in Poland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  