-- Poland Doubles 2014 Budget-Deficit Forecast on Slowdown
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-04-29T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/poland-doubles-2014-budget-deficit-forecast-on-slowdown.html
Poland more than doubled its 2014
 budget-deficit  forecast as the slowdown in the European Union’s
largest eastern economy curbs revenue, the nation’s updated EU
convergence report showed.  The shortfall will amount to 3.3 percent of gross domestic
product, compared with 1.6 percent forecast in last year’s
report, according to the Finance Ministry document obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The government also cut its  economic-growth 
projection for next year to 2.5 percent from 3.2 percent.  Poland’s economy expanded at the slowest pace since 2009
last year as the euro-area debt crisis sapped demand from its
main trading partners and  consumer spending  stalled amid rising
unemployment. The convergence program, which presents plans to
narrow the deficit in line with European Union requirements, is
due to be discussed at a Cabinet meeting in Warsaw tomorrow.  “Slower-than-forecast economic growth has contributed to a
significant worsening in cyclical conditions for the management
of macroeconomic policy,” according to the document. “Public-
finance consolidation” must be “coupled with balanced economic
growth” as the debt crisis deepens “in some of the euro-area
members.”  Poland is planning additional budget-cutting measures after
its deficit narrowed to 3.9 percent last year, less than
planned, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said last week. The
government will seek to narrow the gap to 3.5 percent this year
as economic growth slows further to 1.5 percent, he said.  EU member states have to keep their deficits under 3
percent or else present a plan to do so. Offenders may lose
access to development funds. The European Commission, the EU’s
executive, has granted Poland leeway of about 0.5 percentage
point on its targets to account for the cost of a pension
overhaul.  The updated program assumes that the pace of expansion will
pick up to 3.8 percent in 2015, helping the deficit decline to
2.7 percent.  Public debt  will rise to 55.8 percent of economic
output this year before it falling to 55.7 percent in 2014,
according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  