-- Polish Justice Minister Gowin Fired on Embryo Controversy
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-04-29T14:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/polish-justice-minister-gowin-fired-on-embryo-controversy.html
Prime Minister Donald Tusk
dismissed Justice Minister Jaroslaw Gowin for alleging German
scientists were buying Polish embryos for medical experiments.  Marek Biernacki will succeed him as justice minister, Tusk
said at a news conference in Warsaw today. Tusk initially had
backed Gowin after he assured the premier that comments he made
in a television interview were “manipulated” by a newspaper.  “Gowin has focused too much on the political aspect of his
job,” Tusk said. “I don’t have time to explain ministers’
comments every week.”  The move could spark defections from Tusk’s  Civic Platform 
party and cost the ruling coalition its parliamentary majority
at a time when the European Union’s largest eastern economy is
battling to avert its steepest slowdown in 12 years.  Civic Platform and its junior partner, the Polish Peasants
Party, have 235 lawmakers in the 460-member parliament. In 2011,
Tusk became  Poland ’s first post-communist prime minister to win
re-election.  Tusk said he was “certain” the government’s parliamentary
majority will stay intact and Gowin “never suggested” he would
leave the party. Biernacki, a Civic Platform lawmaker and former
interior minister, represents a “similar set of values” to
Gowin, he said.  “It’s always been Civic Platform’s aim to avoid stirring
up radical shifts and ideological emotions,” Tusk said.  Tusk’s relations with his minister had grown tense since
Gowin and 45 Civic Platform lawmakers in January voted with the
opposition against proposed legislation allowing civil
partnerships for unmarried heterosexual and homosexual couples.  ‘Personal Opinion’  Gowin called the proposal, modeled after French civil
partnerships, “unconstitutional” during a parliamentary
debate. That drew a rebuke from Tusk, who said the minister was
expressing his “personal opinion.” He also threatened to fire
him before backing off.  Gowin is the second minister to leave the government this
month. Tusk dismissed Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski on
April 19 for failing to inform him about a pipeline-expansion
deal with OAO Gazprom.  The dismissal comes after parliament this month approved a
package of reforms by Gowin that eases access to 50 legal
professions including notaries, attorneys and legal councils.  “I used my time well,” Rzeczpospolita newspaper cited
Gowin as saying on April 26. “On the one hand, you have my
words that some may find controversial. On the other, there are
my achievements from the past year and a half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  