-- Rate Bets Fuel Longest Rally Since 2009 in Europe Default Swaps
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-04-29T15:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/rate-bets-fuel-longest-rally-since-2009-in-europe-default-swaps.html
The cost of insuring against
default on European corporate debt fell for a seventh day amid
optimism Italy will end nine weeks of political deadlock and the
 European Central Bank  will cut  interest rates  this week.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell five
basis points to a two-year low of 100.5 at 4 p.m. in  London . The
decline, which signals improvement in perceptions of  credit
quality , is the longest since September 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta may finish installing a
government today two months after voters rejected the previous
administration’s budget-cutting agenda. ECB policy makers will
cut the benchmark rate to 0.5 percent when they meet on
Thursday, according to the majority of economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  “We’ve bought into the rumor, which is something positive
happening on the Italian front and an ECB rate cut,” said
Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in London.
“It’s going to be sell the fact.”  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings also
dropped for a seventh day, falling 19 basis points to 409.
That’s the longest streak since September, when the measure fell
for nine days.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers fell seven basis points to 153 and the
subordinated index declined 10 to 243.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.1 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  