-- U.S. Sees First Debt Reduction Since 2007 as Revenue Rises
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-29T20:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/treasury-says-it-will-pay-down-35-billion-in-debt-this-quarter.html
The  U.S. Treasury Department (USGG10YR) 
projected it will reduce government debt this quarter for the
first time in six years as tax receipts exceed forecasts and
spending diminishes.  The pay-down in net marketable debt was estimated at $35
billion in the April-June period, compared with a projection
three months ago for net borrowing of $103 billion, the
department said in a statement today in  Washington . Treasury
officials also see net borrowing of $223 billion in the quarter
starting July 1. The estimates set the stage for the
department’s quarterly refunding announcement on May 1, when
debt issuance plans will be released.  A sustained economic expansion and across-the-board
spending cuts known as sequestration may help deliver the first
net decline in debt since 2007, when the government lowered
borrowing by $139 billion before the global financial crisis
spawned the worst recession since the 1930s. While the economy’s
strength is helping boost  tax revenue , total U.S. public debt
outstanding is approaching $17 trillion.  “This is a substantial revision,” said Thomas Simons, a
government debt economist at Jefferies LLC in New York. Still,
“it is possible that Treasury will take a wait-and-see approach
in evaluating the sustainability of the recent surge in tax
receipts before making adjustments” to debt auctions, he said.  After the announcement, yields on 10-year Treasury notes
were little changed at 1.67 percent.  Cash Balances  The Treasury said its forecasts assume a cash balance of
$75 billion for the end of the current quarter. In the three-month period that ended March 31, the Treasury borrowed $349
billion, more than $331 billion estimated in February, the
department said.  At the May 1 refunding, coupon auction sizes should be
unchanged from the prior quarter, said Shyam Rajan, an interest-rate strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York ,
one of the 21 primary dealers obligated to bid at U.S.
government debt auctions.  Larry Dyer, a U.S. interest-rate strategist with HSBC
Holdings Plc in New York, another of the primary dealers, agreed
that the Treasury will maintain coupon size. “The Treasury will
try to keep consistent supply,” he said. “This is a bit of a
blip in terms of the longer-term numbers.”  Stronger Housing  In a statement released with the borrowing needs
announcement, Alexander Gelber, the Treasury’s acting assistant
secretary for economic policy, said a recovery led by the
private sector “continues to solidify.” He cited a stronger
housing market and an improved labor market.  “Businesses are well-positioned to increase their level of
investment as domestic demand strengthens and global economic
conditions improve,” Gelber said in the statement.  The  U.S. economy  grew less than forecast in the first
quarter as a drop in defense outlays undercut the biggest
increase in  consumer spending  in two years. Gross domestic
product rose at a 2.5 percent annualized rate following a 0.4
percent fourth-quarter advance, according to data from the
Commerce Department issued April 26 in Washington.  Receipts in the six months through March totaled $1.2
trillion, up 12.4 percent from the October-March period a year
earlier, according to Treasury data. Individual income-tax
payments advanced 14.7 percent, while corporate profit taxes
gained 18.6 percent, the data showed.  Fiscal Debate  Congress has suspended the nation’s $16.4 trillion debt
limit through May 18. Lawmakers will be debating proposals to
raise the ceiling in the coming months to ward off the
possibility of a U.S. default.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said April 16 Congress
should “extend the debt limit to remove any uncertainty” and
declined to estimate when the ceiling would be reached.  The Treasury may have more time than economists previously
estimated before the government’s debt limit is reached as
changes in  tax policy  and the economic rebound’s boost federal
revenue.  The date the nation hits the ceiling on borrowing authority
could be pushed back as far as mid-September to Sept. 30 from a
previous estimate of late August to mid-September, Steve Bell,
senior director of economic policy at the Bipartisan Policy
Center in Washington, said in an interview last week.  A later deadline would give Congress more time to debate
lifting the cap and postpone any vote until after the August
recess. The Treasury uses so-called extraordinary measures to
push the deadline further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  