-- Treasury 10-Year Yield at Almost 2013 Low as U.S. Spending Slows
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-04-29T21:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/treasuries-little-changed-before-jobs-factory-data-this-week.html
Treasury 10-year-note yields rose
from almost the lowest this year as U.S. personal spending
slowed last month, signaling reduced economic growth and
underpinning demand for the securities.  The benchmark 10-year Treasuries were little changed as a
report showed household purchases rose 0.2 percent in March,
compared with a 0.7 percent increase the previous month. The
yield dropped on April 26, by the most in two weeks, as a report
showed the U.S.  economy  expanded less than economists predicted.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  will release a statement after
a two-day meeting in Washington ending May 1. Treasury announced
it will pay down the federal debt this quarter for the first
time since 2007.  “The slow-growth theme is well entrenched in the psyche of
investors,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income
strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “By extension, it
means the Fed will remain fully engaged past the third quarter
and yields will stay low. The market is waiting to see what will
come from the Fed’s statement on Wednesday.”  The benchmark 10-year  notes  yield increased one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.67 percent at 5 p.m. New
York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield
fell to as low as 1.64 percent on April 23, the least since Dec.
12. The 2 percent note due February 2023 declined 2/32 or 63
cents to 102 31/32.  The yield on the 30-year bond rose two basis points to 2.88
percent.  Less Debt  The Treasury projected it will pay down debt this quarter
as tax receipts exceed forecasts and spending diminishes. The
pay-down in net marketable debt was estimated at $35 billion in
the April-June period, compared with a projection three months
ago for net borrowing of $103 billion, the department said in a
statement today in  Washington .  “Our projections remain that coupon auction sizes should
be unchanged,” said Shyam Rajan, an interest-rate strategist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, one of the 21 primary
dealers obligated to bid at U.S. government debt auctions.  Treasury officials projected net borrowing of $223 billion
in the quarter starting July 1. The estimates set the stage for
the department’s quarterly refunding announcement on May 1.
Congress has suspended the nation’s $16.4 trillion debt limit
through May 18. Lawmakers will be debating proposals to raise
the ceiling in the coming months to ward off the possibility of
a U.S. default.  Treasury will announce the size of three securities sales
on May 1. Bond dealers including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Morgan
Stanley, Jefferies LLC, and HSBC Holdings Plc forecast that the
Treasury will maintain the size of its offerings in May at $32
billion for three-year notes, $24 billion for 10-year debt and
$16 billion for 30-year bonds.  Supply Track  “The Treasury will try to keep consistent supply; This is
a bit of a blip in terms of the longer-term numbers,” said
Larry Dyer, a U.S. interest-rate strategist with HSBC in New
York, a primary dealer.  The  federal budget   deficit  is on a pace to shrink to $775
billion for the 2013 fiscal year ending Sept. 30 from $1.09
trillion for 2012.  Later this year, Treasury may reduce the size of the
auctions, Morgan Stanley economist Ted Wieseman said in April 25
report. The three-year note offerings, which have been $32
billion since October 2010, could be reduced as soon as June,
while the size of 10-year note and 30-year bond auctions could
be reduced as soon as September, Wieseman wrote.  Price Data  Inflation measured by the personal consumption expenditures
index, a gauge preferred by the Fed, rose 1.1 percent in March
from a year earlier, compared with 1.3 percent the previous
month, according to data from the Commerce Department in
Washington. The figure is less than the central bank’s goal of 2
percent and the slowest growth in inflation since March 2011.  The 10-year break-even rate, a measure of inflation
expectations derived from the difference between yields on
conventional  U.S. debt  and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, was at 2.36 percentage points. It touched a 2013 low
of 2.25 percentage points on April 18 and a high of 2.6
percentage points on Feb. 4.  “Inflation-related data remains benign,” said Tom Tucci,
managing director and head of Treasury trading in New York at
CIBC World Markets Corp. “The longer end of this yield curve
looks relatively attractive.”  The Fed bought $1.52 billion of Treasuries today, maturing
between February 2036 and August 2042.  Economic Data  Fed policy makers including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have
said they’ll maintain their $85 billion of monthly Treasury and
mortgage debt buying until the labor market improves
“significantly.” Minutes of their March meeting showed they
discussed slowing the pace of purchases this year.  A report this week is forecast to show payrolls rose by
150,000, above the 88,000 gain in March, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
Labor Department reports the figure on May 3.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, following 0.4 percent in the previous three-
month period, Commerce Department figures showed on April 26.
The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
a 3 percent gain.  Bonds Rally  Amid global austerity efforts to cut borrowing, the  bond
market  is clamoring for more debt, pushing yields on almost $20
trillion of  government securities  to less than 1 percent.  The average yield to maturity for the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Sovereign Plus Index fell to a
record-low 1.34 percent last week from 3.28 percent five years
ago.  Even though the amount of bonds in the index has more than
doubled to $23 trillion -- bigger than the gross domestic
product of the U.S. and  China  combined -- the three-decade rally
in bonds shows no sign of abating as gold, the world’s
traditional store of value, sinks into a  bear market  and
inflation slows.  Barclays Plc estimates that central banks will buy $2.5
trillion of assets considered to be safe this year as they
inject cash into the global economy in an effort to stimulate
growth. That’s up from $1.15 trillion of purchases in 2012 and
outstrips net supply of $2 trillion, according to the London-
based bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  