-- Regulators Don’t Understand Structured Products, Eusipa Says
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-04-29T07:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/regulators-don-t-understand-structured-products-eusipa-says.html
Regulators of the $1 trillion
structured products market don’t understand the difference
between risk and complexity, according to the  European
Structured Investment Products Association .  Individual investors who buy the notes, which package debt
with derivatives, don’t need to understand every detail of the
structures, said Thomas Wulf, secretary general of Eusipa, as
the organization is known. The association is comprised of
issuer groups in Europe that represent banks including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Wulf was responding to criticism of structured notes from
European and U.K. regulators who are scrutinizing the market.
Martin Wheatley, chief executive of the U.K.’s Financial Conduct
Authority, said this month the products have “often been mind-
bogglingly complicated financial gambles.”  “Complexity is not always a disadvantage to a client,”
said Wulf. “Adding features to a product to make it more
secure, such as by giving it protection against  capital loss  or
issuer default, is necessarily making it more complex.”  The Madrid-based International Organization of Securities
Commissions proposed new rules on April 18 governing sales of
the securities. The organization, which represents more than 100
national regulators, said it was responding to concerns of its
members that structured notes are difficult for investors to
understand, leaving them vulnerable to mis-selling.  Key Information  At least 16 regulators are considering changing their
existing rules for the products, said the Madrid-based group.  Policy makers are preparing to require lenders in the
European Union to publish so-called key information documents,
or KIDs, that provide concise information about the
characteristics and risks of their products, which could be in
place by the end of next year.  French socialist Pervenche Beres is leading a committee
responsible for the European Parliament’s position on the so-
called Packaged Retail Investment Products rules.  Beres is focusing on consumer protection rather than the
level of risk of individual product types, said a spokesman for
the politician, who asked not to be named citing policy. She
wants to extend KIDs to other securities besides structured
products, including stocks and bonds, to create a level playing
field, he said.  Financial gambles  The securities should be considered in relation to who is
buying them rather than in abstract terms, said  Jamie Smith ,
chairman of the U.K. Structured Products Association.  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , Morgan Stanley and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  belong
to the association.  “Complexity is a relative term that depends on the
investors at the end of the chain,” said Smith. “It can’t be
defined adequately by reference to the number of derivatives or
calculations involved.”  Banks in  Belgium  signed a voluntary moratorium on sales of
certain complex structured products in 2011 at the request of
the country’s Financial Services and Markets Authority.  Regulators should pay more attention to how the securities
are distributed rather than how many moving parts they have,
said Chris Muyldermans, head of policy advice, public policy and
regulatory affairs at the asset management arm of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) 
in Brussels. The Brussels-based bank raised $318.2 million from
selling 18 structured notes last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Do investors really have to understand every detail of
the derivatives that create the structure and determine its
outcomes?” she said. “What they need is distributors or
salespeople to explain the life cycle of the products and what
can happen in between, not every detail of its underlying
structure.”  Distributors typically include retail banks, wealth
management companies, financial advisers and brokers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  