-- Renewable Energy Wins Republicans Backing Oil-Gas Benefit: Taxes
-- B y   L y d i a   B e y o u d
-- 2013-04-29T15:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/renewable-energy-wins-republicans-backing-oil-gas-benefit-taxes.html
Renewable energy developers may win
some tax benefits from Congress that only oil and gas companies
can enjoy right now.  A bipartisan bill introduced in the Senate last week would
allow renewable and clean energy-related companies to structure
their businesses as master limited partnerships -- avoiding
double taxation while also trading ownership interests on the
market, similar to corporate stock, Bloomberg BNA reported.  This treatment -- available to oil and gas projects and a
limited number of traditional fossil fuel-related industries --
gives them access to private capital at a much lower cost than
investors in other energy projects, said Senator  Chris Coons ,
the Delaware Democrat who sponsored the bill.  “That starves a growing and vital part of our domestic
energy sector of the capital that it needs to grow,” said
Coons, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee. “That just doesn’t make any sense.”  The Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act would change the
 tax code  and give clean energy parity.  Representative Ted Poe, a Republican from  Texas , a co-
sponsor of the parallel bill being introduced in the House,
supports the effort even with his constituents’ strong ties to
the oil and gas industries.  That’s because “the tax code currently hinders the United
States’ ability to develop all energy and be more energy-
independent,” he said at a press conference last week.  “In my view, it should be a piece of rational  tax
reform ,” Coons said. He said the measure could also be passed
on its own.  Fairness in Efforts  The bill represents an opportunity for legislators
considering tax reform to do more than just simplify the code,
putting work on fairness and modernization in their reform
efforts, Coons spokesman Ian Koski told Bloomberg BNA after the
meeting.  The senator’s aides estimated the legislative change would
result in a loss of $1 billion in federal revenue over 10 years.  The bill has received support from both parties, including
Republican co-sponsors Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska , the
ranking member of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources,
and Senator Jerry Moran, a Republican from  Kansas , whose home
state serves as headquarters to  Koch Industries , the major
fossil fuel manufacturer headed by billionaires Charles and
 David Koch . Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Democrat from  Michigan ,
is another co-sponsor.  The  American Petroleum Institute  publicly announced its
support for expanding the partnership structures to renewable
energy projects April 23, while more than 236 renewable energy-
related groups signed an April 24 letter to Congress in support
of the bill.  Wyden Reforms  Not everyone interested in alternative energy may be
willing to sign on yet, however. Senate Finance Committee member  Ron Wyden , a Democrat from  Oregon , told BNA April 23 that
he was “very interested” in the legislation though he has no
immediate plans to sign on as a co-sponsor of the Coons bill,
because of his own ongoing tax reform efforts.  Wyden introduced tax reform legislation in 2011 that would
have eliminated all tax incentives for the oil and gas industry,
including the partnership tax treatment. However, Coons said the
likelihood of the treatment being done away with is low.  A wiser approach would be to embrace them as a tax-
advantaged capital formation vehicle and open the playing field
to create a long-term financing vehicle for all types of
American energy, Coons said.  The bill’s supporters say opening up the tax treatment to
renewable energy may bring a wave of investment and development
similar to that experienced by the oil and gas industries, and
currently the hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, boom.  More Resources  The structure will be “particularly important in creating
a strong new market (now virtually non-existent) for owners of
existing and even recently completed projects to sell those
projects to an MLP, thereby accelerating the investment of
capital into new projects,” the coalition of 236 renewable
energy sector supports said in its letter to Congress.  The bill would also allow a new group of smaller investors
to come to the market, bringing more resources to the renewable
sector, Andrew Savage, a spokesman for Vermont-based solar
technology manufacturer AllEarth Renewables, told BNA April 24.  “There’s also evidence that MLPs could drive down the cost
of renewables themselves by driving down the cost of capital for
those projects, which is an exciting thing for the industry,
Savage said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  