-- Rentokil Jettisons City Link in Sale to Better Capital
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-04-29T08:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/rentokil-jettisons-city-link-in-sale-to-better-capital.html
Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO)  rose the most
in more than two years after disposing of its unprofitable City
Link express delivery business in a transaction that cost the
pest-control provider 40 million pounds ($62.1 million).  Rentokil gained as much as 8.6 percent to 105 pence, the
highest intraday price since Feb. 10, 2011, and traded up 5.1
percent at 9:05 a.m. in  London . Volume in the first hour of
trading was more than half of the three-month daily average as
Rentokil had the second-biggest advance on the FTSE 350 Index.  Better Capital (BCAP)  investment fund paid a token 1 pound to take
over City Link immediately, and will invest 40 million pounds to
help complete a reorganization, West Sussex, England-based
Rentokil said in a statement today. Rentokil will book 30
million pounds in charges from write-offs and additional cash
costs of 10 million pounds in the second quarter, it said.  The City Link transaction is a “decent outcome,” given
the unit’s losses, analysts at Barclays Plc said in a report.
City Link’s operating loss last year narrowed to 26 million
pounds from 31 million pounds, Rentokil said today.  “City Link has now turned the corner after five years of
substantial losses,” Rentokil Chief Executive Officer  Alan Brown  said in a statement. The parent company “has decided to
divest of City Link at this stage of the turnaround so that we
can concentrate on our core international businesses.”  Brown, a former chief financial officer of Imperial
Chemical Industries, is exiting partway through a reorganization
of City Link, a business he assumed leadership control of in
2010 because of inefficiencies and a faltering program to
restore it to profit.  David Smith , a former Royal Mail executive
installed by Brown to run the courier, will remain with City
Link, Rentokil said.  The removal of the parcel-delivery business came as the
company, which spans pest control, washroom cleaning and uniform
supplies, had “slightly disappointing” organic growth in the
first quarter, according to the Barclays analysts.  Revenue advanced 3.3 percent to 644.8 million pounds, with
adjusted operating profit adding almost 13 percent to 37 million
pounds, Rentokil said today in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  