-- RHB Seeks Higher Regional Deals Ranking With OSK: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-04-30T10:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/rhb-seeks-higher-regional-deals-ranking-with-osk-southeast-asia.html
RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) ,  Malaysia ’s
fourth-largest lender, plans to boost its ranking for handling
mergers and acquisitions in Southeast Asia, Managing Director
Kellee Kam said in an interview.  RHB, which bought the investment banking business of  OSK
Holdings Bhd. (OSK)  last year, wants to be among the region’s top
eight banks for acquisitions in the next two years, according to
Kam. The company was ranked 14th in 2012 after managing $8.8
billion of deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We need a path to eventually get up to the leaders of the
region,” Kam said in Singapore yesterday. “One of the
compelling logics of the OSK transaction was to make us more
than just Malaysia.”  RHB is expanding as bigger local rivals  Malayan Banking 
Bhd. and  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  benefit from a surge in
mergers and stock sales in  Southeast Asia , a region spanning the
 Philippines  to  Thailand . The two banks added headcount and
acquired competitors with the ambition of creating regional
investment-banking units able to compete in Asia with global
players including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  The value of mergers involving companies in Southeast Asia
swelled to about $128 billion last year, close to the record
$137.1 billion reached in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Sales of domestic bonds jumped 33 percent to a record $80
billion from the previous high of about $60 billion set in 2011.  Regional Players  “Because of the retreat of some European banks, some of
the local banks have been able to establish themselves as
regional players,” Jeremy Anderson, chairman of global
financial services at KPMG LLP, said in an interview in
Singapore yesterday.  Malaysia’s initial public offering market was the world’s
fifth-largest last year, up from 14th in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Almost 70 percent of the $6.8 billion
raised through IPOs came from government divestments of shares
in companies, the data showed.  Still, Malaysia’s stock market posted the smallest gain in
Southeast Asia this year, ahead of the May 5 election. The  FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  climbed 1.7 percent, compared with
Indonesian and Philippine benchmark gauges, which gained at
least 15 percent. The ringgit rose 0.5 percent, the third-best
performer among the region’s currencies.  Stocks, Ringgit  Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak said earlier this month
stocks and the ringgit would plunge if he loses the election,
contrasting his government’s pursuit of stable change with the
upheaval that has engulfed the Middle East.  The economy grew at the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years in the
fourth quarter as Najib boosted spending ahead of the polls.
Gross domestic product rose 6.4 percent in the three months
through December from a year earlier, the Statistics Department
said Feb. 20, beating the median estimate of a 5.5 percent
advance in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists.  RHB is ranked seventh in Southeast Asia for underwriting
domestic bonds, and 18th for share sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  RHB’s acquisition of OSK’s investment bank mirrors the
purchase by Malayan Banking, or  Maybank (MAY) , of Singapore’s Kim Eng
Holdings Ltd. in 2011 for S$1.79 billion ($1.5 billion). That
gave Maybank stock-broking and investment banking operations in
countries including Thailand and Indonesia.  CIMB, Malaysia’s top-ranked stock underwriter over the past
four years, acquired most of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s
securities operations in Asia in April last year. The bank said
in June that the $142 million purchase would enable it to
compete with banks such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. across Asia.  For RHB, the 1.95 billion ringgit ($643 million)
acquisition of OSK’s investment bank in May last year gave it
access to investment banking operations in Southeast Asian
markets such as Indonesia,  Cambodia , Thailand and Singapore.  “It will take some time before we make it to the pointy
end of the Southeast  Asia  league tables,” Kam said. “In M&A,
it’s work in progress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  