-- Riksbank Minutes Reveal Krona Discussion as Inflation Slows
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-04-29T07:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/riksbank-minutes-reveal-krona-discussion-as-inflation-slows.html
Minutes from the latest Swedish
interest rate decision revealed a growing preoccupation with the
krona as the strengthening currency pushes down inflation.  “The members raised the question of the Swedish krona and
its significance for the economy and inflation, as well as
whether monetary policy should take into account the risk of
high debt,” the bank said in the minutes of its last meeting.  “Goods prices have fallen due to the weak development of
prices abroad and the stronger krona,” Governor  Stefan Ingves 
said in the minutes. “The world thus appears to be divided in
this respect, but the Executive Board can only set one interest
rate. While developments abroad and the exchange rate are
holding down goods prices, interest-rate policy is helping to
push up service prices.”  Sweden ’s central bank kept its  main lending rate  unchanged
at 1 percent for a second meeting on April 16 after cutting
rates four times since December 2011. The bank pushed back plans
for a rate increase to late 2014, citing a strengthening krona
and the inability of companies to raise prices because of weak
demand. It had previously forecast it would raise rates in the
first quarter of next year.  The krona has gained more than 6 percent against the euro
since May after the country emerged as a haven from  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Sweden’s public debt was 37.7 percent of gross
domestic product last year, compared with the euro-area average
of 93.1 percent, according to the European Commission.  Seeking Cuts  Two of the board’s six members, Lars E. O. Svensson and
Karolina Ekholm, pushed for a lower rate to boost economic
growth hurt by sluggish demand for Swedish exports from Europe.
The country exports about half its $500 billion output, of which
about 70 percent goes to Europe. Svensson said last week he
won’t seek re-election when his six-year term runs out next
month, citing a failure to convince the board that deeper cuts
would reduce unemployment and lend more credibility to its
inflation target.  The Riksbank estimates household debt will swell to more
than to 177 percent of disposable incomes next year after almost
doubling since the mid-1990s. The bank cut its forecast for 
inflation  to 0.1 percent from 0.4 percent for this year and to
1.4 percent in 2014, from 2.1 percent previously. It predicted
the  economy  will grow 1.4 percent in 2013 and 2.7 percent in
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  