-- Romanson Falls as S. Koreans Withdraw From Gaeseong: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-29T01:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/romanson-falls-as-s-koreans-withdraw-from-gaeseong-seoul-mover.html
Romanson Co. (026040)  led declines among
shares of companies that do business in North Korea after the
South Korea decided to withdraw all its citizens remaining at an
industrial park jointly run with the communist regime.  Romanson, a wrist-watch maker that operates a plant at the
Gaeseong industrial complex, declined 1.3 percent to 11,700 won
as of 10:25 a.m. on the Korea Exchange, poised for its lowest
close since April 22.  Shinwon Corp. (009270) , an apparel maker, fell 2
percent, and underwear maker  Good People Co. (033340)  sank 0.6 percent.  South Korea’s Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae told
reporters on April 26 that President Park Geun Hye had made the
“inevitable” decision to withdraw citizens from Gaeseong,
which has been shut down since  North Korea  recalled its workers
three weeks ago. The North ignored a deadline to accept an offer
for talks on reopening the facility.  The complex, about 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of the
demilitarized zone between the two countries, employs more than
53,000 North Koreans at 123 South Korean companies. It’s the
last point of inter-Korean exchange and an important cash source
for the impoverished nation.  “Investors are worried that the shutdown of the facility
may affect earnings of Gaeseong-related companies,” Kim Gi Bo,
a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Friend Investment Management, said
today. “It will take some time to secure production capacity
that’s lost from the closure.”  The Korean peninsula has been on edge since February, when
Kim Jong Un’s regime detonated an atomic bomb in defiance of
United Nations sanctions and then threatened preemptive nuclear
strikes against its enemies.  North Korea generates $100 million in annual profits at
Gaeseong, while  South Korea  makes quadruple that amount,
according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of
North Korean Studies in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  