-- Samsung Loses Bid to Pause New Damages Trial in Apple Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-29T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/samsung-loses-bid-to-pause-new-damages-trial-in-apple-case-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost a bid
to delay a new trial over damages for some its products found by
a U.S. jury in August to have infringed Apple Inc. patents.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose,  California ,
refused to grant the Suwon, South Korea-based company’s request
to put the damages trial on hold while a U.S. appeals court
weighs Samsung’s challenge to the validity of the iPhone maker’s
patents. The judge set the new trial for November.  “It’s going to be ‘Groundhog Day,’” Koh said today at a
hearing, referring to the 1993 film about a weatherman who
repeatedly relives the same day. “There’s going to be nothing
new in this case,” meaning issues such as supplemental damages
and pre-judgment interest will be litigated “a different day,”
Koh said.  Apple, seeking to streamline the trial so it can begin in
September, or earlier, argued that Samsung has “dragged its
feet at every turn” in an attempt to delay its start, according
to a court filing.  Koh ordered the new trial on damages last month at the same
time as she cut $450.5 million from last year’s $1.05 billion
jury award against Samsung. She said the jury based its award
for 14 Samsung products on an incorrect legal theory. The judge
today cut one product from the group.  Adam Yates, a spokesman for Samsung, declined to comment on
today’s ruling.  A witness for Cupertino, California-based Apple whose
testimony the jury relied on “presented a theory that the court
had ruled legally impermissible,” Koh said in her March 1
ruling. The judge said that despite her explicit instruction
that the theory couldn’t be used, “the amount of the award made
plain that the jury had applied the impermissible theory
anyway.”  Sales Ban  Koh, who had previously rejected Apple’s bid to ban U.S.
sales on 26 of the Galaxy maker’s devices, also denied the
iPhone maker’s request to increase the jury’s award, saying the
amount Samsung owed was heavily disputed and the jury wasn’t
bound to accept either side’s damages estimate. The jury’s award
for 14 other products stands at $598.9 million, she said.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have each scored victories in patent disputes fought
over four continents since Apple accused Asia’s biggest
electronics maker of “slavishly copying” its devices. The
companies, are competing for dominance of a global mobile-device
market estimated by researcher Yankee Group at $346 billion in
2012.  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on today’s ruling.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  