-- HSBC Liability for Madoff Losses an Issue After Four Years
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-30T11:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/hsbc-liability-for-madoff-losses-still-an-issue-four-years-on.html
Four years after  Bernard Madoff 
pleaded guilty to running the largest Ponzi scheme in history,
investors are still trying to get their money back.  Thema International Fund Plc is seeking about $1.5 billion
from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  at a 14-week trial that started at the
 High Court  in Dublin today. The case is one of dozens to focus
on banks’ role as “custodians” to investment funds that
deposited money with Madoff.  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, faces more than 50 complaints
in Ireland over claims it failed to discover Madoff’s
activities. The fraud hurt many investment vehicles like Dublin-
based Thema, funds known as UCITS that target retail investors.
At least three UCITS, which stands for Undertakings for
Collective Investment in Transferable Securities, were
liquidated because of Madoff-related losses.  “This suit is the investors’ only hope of recovery,”
Dermot Gleeson, a lawyer for Thema, told  Judge Peter Charleton 
during opening arguments.  The banks say that as a custodian, their only
responsibilities are to manage deposits and payments to
shareholders.  “HSBC believes it has good defences to the claims made
against it and will vigorously defend itself,” the London-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement. The bank will present its
opening arguments later in the week.  Sub-Custodian  Gleeson said that HSBC is liable for the losses because
Madoff was appointed a sub-custodian for the fund by the bank.  “So if a delinquent sub-custodian appointed by HSBC steals
the money, who should bear that loss?” Gleeson said. “Never
once did HSBC trace through one of those transactions to a
counterparty” and “never once did they see who had allegedly
sold shares.”  Madoff, who turned 75 yesterday, pleaded guilty in 2009 to
orchestrating what prosecutors called the biggest  Ponzi scheme 
in history, using $65 billion in real and artificial assets. He
is serving a 150-year sentence in U.S. federal prison.  HSBC settled a related case last year a day after a trial
started in Dublin. Kalix Fund Ltd., which had invested money
with Thema, was seeking $35.6 million before reaching the
confidential settlement.  HSBC, as Thema’s custodian bank, didn’t act in time to
protect investors’ money, even though it knew of the risks of
dealing with Madoff, Kalix lawyers in November told  Charleton ,
who presided over both cases.  “The reason this trial is important is that it will be the
first time that a fund and one of the big custodian banks have
gone toe to toe in a full trial arising from the Madoff fraud,”
said Paul Kennedy, a Dublin lawyer who represents Kalix.  UBS Suits  Hundreds of suits were also filed in Luxembourg against  UBS
AG (UBSN)  over its custodian duties to Access International Advisors
LLC’s LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection, another UCITS fund,
which failed after Madoff’s activities were discovered.  LuxAlpha had invested 95 percent of its money with Madoff
and had $1.4 billion in net assets a month before the former
Nasdaq Stock Market chairman’s December 2008 arrest.  The European Union unveiled tougher rules for banks in July
to safeguard investment funds’ assets in a bid to prevent
another fraud similar to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Under the new bloc-wide rules, banks and other institutions
that act as custodians for UCITS funds will “have an incentive
to pay a lot of attention to the information they provide and
the services they offer,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services commissioner, said last year.  Lawmakers in the European Parliament are set to vote on the
draft rules next month, ahead of negotiations with national
governments. The final version of the measures must be adopted
by the assembly, and signed off by nations in the EU’s Council
of Ministers, before they can take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Dublin at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  