-- Seven S. Koreans Denied Exit From Joint Plant by North Korea
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-04-30T00:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/seven-south-korean-workers-detained-at-joint-plant-with-north.html
Seven South Koreans were denied
exit requests, as 43 others received approval yesterday to leave
an industrial zone jointly run with North  Korea , according to a
text message from the Unification Ministry.  Those remaining at the Gaeseong industrial complex will be
allowed to depart after payment of some wages owed North Korean
workers, according to an official with the South Korean ministry
who declined to be named, citing government policy.  The other 43 crossed the border at midnight and safely
returned to South Korea, the ministry said. They were among the
last 50 who had stayed at the industrial zone since North Korea
blocked South Korean access to the installation on April 3.  Withdrawing the workers will sever one of the last channels
of inter-Korean contact and shutter a plant that has been an
important source of income for  North Korea . The departures come
amid weeks of tension on the Korean peninsula since Kim Jong Un’s regime in February conducted an atomic test and threatened
preemptive nuclear strikes against its enemies.  “Gaeseong is a symbol not only of possible inter-Korean
reconciliation but of North Korea’s potential as a trustworthy
business partner,” said Park Young Ho, senior research fellow
at the state-run Korea Institute for National Unification in
Seoul. “No country will want to invest in or do business with
the North when Gaeseong, the last remaining proof that the North
can separate business from politics, is shut.”  Military Drills  North Korea recalled all of its workers from the factory
park on April 8 to protest U.S. and South Korean joint annual
military drills, which conclude today. South Korean President
Park Geun Hye’s decision to withdraw the workers was
“inevitable” after North Korea refused to engage in talks over
the facility, Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae said April 26.  Agreements between the two Koreas have “burst like a
bubble,” Park said at a meeting yesterday with senior advisers,
according to a statement on her website. “Who in the world will
want to invest in North Korea now?”  Companies at the complex, about 10 kilometers (six miles)
north of the demilitarized zone on the border between the two
countries, have produced more than $2 billion of goods since
Gaeseong opened in 2005, according to Unification Ministry data.
North Korea generates $100 million in annual profits at
Gaeseong, while  South Korea  makes quadruple that amount,
according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of
North Korean Studies in Seoul.  Gaeseong Complex  North Korea hasn’t allowed supplies of food or medical
equipment into the complex since April 3. Gaeseong has remained
open during previous periods of tension, including tests of
nuclear weapons and missiles in both 2006 and 2009, and the 2010
deaths of 50 South Koreans in a ship sinking and the shelling of
a South Korean border island by the North.  South Korean companies operating in Gaeseong have urged the
government to break the impasse and provide compensation to help
revive their businesses.  The  Export-Import Bank of Korea  revived its pledge to
expand financial aid to companies running plants in the complex,
the state-run lender said in an e-mailed statement April 27,
without giving details. The bank has provided 300 billion won
($271 million) of aid, including lower lending rates and higher
ceilings on loans, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  