-- Sina Leads Rally on Alibaba Deal as Youku Gains: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-29T21:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/sina-leads-rally-on-alibaba-deal-as-youku-gains-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
rose, led by  Sina Corp. (SINA) , which jumped the most in eight months
after agreeing to sell a stake in its Weibo service to Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd. as part of an e-commerce alliance.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. climbed 1.1 percent to 92.15 in New
York, after posting the biggest five-day gain in three months
last week. Sina surged the most since August, while  Youku Tudou
Inc. (YOKU) , owner of  China ’s biggest video websites, advanced to a
two-month high as Chairman Victor Koo said viewership on mobile
devices surged. LDK Solar Co. jumped 7.1 percent after selling
more shares to an existing investor.  Sina, whose Twitter-like  Weibo.com  service had 503 million
registered accounts by the end of 2012, said Alibaba, China’s
largest e-commerce company, will pay $586 million for about 18
percent of Weibo with an option to increase the stake to 30
percent, according to a statement issued yesterday. Chinese
Internet companies including search-engine owner  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  are
seeking to diversify amid a slowdown in online advertising.  “This is absolutely good news for Sina, as the deal values
Weibo more than the highest estimates on Wall Street,” Henry Guo, an analyst at research firm ABR Investment Strategy LLC,
which focuses on technology and media companies, said by phone
from San Francisco. “Alibaba’s investment in Sina helps find a
way for the social media company to translate their large
traffic into income, a step forward in the Internet space.”  ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 1.3 percent to $37.42
in New York, the highest price in a month. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index added 0.7 percent to a record high of 1,593.61 as
pending sales of U.S. homes climbed.  The Bloomberg China-US  measure  fell less than 0.1 percent
this month, after retreating 1.9 percent in March and 6.2
percent in February.  Sina’s shares surged 9.4 percent to $55.03 in New York,
after earlier soaring as much as 21 percent to $60.81. Sina has
rallied 10 percent this year, compared with a 7.1 percent drop
in the Bloomberg China-US gauge.  Based on the Alibaba deal, 86Research Ltd. valued Sina’s
portal business, Weibo and cash at $5.2 billion, or $78 per
share, according to a note dated yesterday.  ‘Beneficial’ Integration  Sina and Alibaba, the Hangzhou, China-based company that
runs the  Taobao  online shopping platform and Alipay Internet
payments, will cooperate in areas including user account
connectivity, data exchange, online payment and online
marketing, according to yesterday’s statement.  “The cooperation between China’s biggest e-commerce
company and the biggest social media provides big room for
imagination,” Tian X. Hou, founder of T. H. Capital LLC, which
compiles research on U.S.-traded Chinese companies, said by
phone in New York. “The companies’ resources are unique each in
their own areas and their integration is beneficial to both.”  The acquisition price for the stake in Weibo indicates Sina
shares could rise to as high as $90, Hou said.  Piper Jaffray & Co. analysts led by  Gene Munster  raised
their  price target  for Sina to $75 from $65 in a report dated
yesterday, citing cash Sina received from the transaction and
prospects Weibo’s value will continue to increase.  The deal “represents a meaningful turn in the monetization
of Weibo,” according to the Piper Jaffray note.  Youku Tudou, based in Beijing, rallied 6.2 percent to
$20.09 in U.S. trading, the steepest advance since Feb. 14.  More Viewers  The company’s viewership on mobile applications for
smartphones and tablets such as Apple Inc.’s iPad was 50 percent
higher this month than at the end of last year, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Koo, said in an interview in Beijing
April 27. Youku  bought  rival Tudou Holdings Ltd. last year to
reduce costs on content and bandwidth.  Youku Tudou, which hasn’t been profitable since it listed
on the New York Stock Exchange in 2010, is on a “clear path to
profitability,” Koo said.  LDK Solar, a Xinyu, China-based solar manufacturer that has
$2.8 billion of debt, jumped 7.1 percent to $1.35 in New York,
the highest close since March 15.  The company agreed to sell more shares to Cheng Kin Ming’s
Fulai Investments Ltd., which will boost his stake in LDK to 25
percent, according to an LDK statement April 26. LDK will issue
25 million new shares at $1.03 each to Fulai, which also has the
right to choose two non-executive directors.  China Eastern  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., another solar maker,
climbed 5 percent to $2.51, extending a five-day rally.  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  gained 7.6 percent to a two-month high of $5.21.  China Eastern Airlines Corp., the nation’s second-largest
carrier, fell 2.1 percent to a two-week low of $20.42 in New
York. The American depositary receipts traded at a  premium  of
2.3 percent over the airline’s Hong Kong shares, the most since
March 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company’s stock was cut to neutral, the equivalent of
hold, from outperform by  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  analyst Andrew Orchard.  Stock exchanges on mainland China were closed for a public
holiday and trading will resume May 2. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares slumped 3 percent last week to
2,177.91, the lowest level since Dec. 24. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong dropped 0.4 percent to 10,785.58
yesterday after a three-day advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  