-- Spanish Inflation Slows More Than Expected as Spending Plunges
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-04-29T07:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/spanish-inflation-slows-more-than-expected-as-spending-plunges.html
Spanish inflation slowed more than
expected April amid a deepening recession in the euro region’s
fourth-largest economy that saw retail spending plunge.  Consumer prices , based on European Union calculations, rose
1.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with 2.6 percent in
March, the National Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said today.
That’s less than the 2.2 percent increase economists predicted,
according to the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 Survey. (SPCPEUYY)  Spain’s national inflation measure showed a 1.4 percent
gain.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos last week said inflation
may fall below 1 percent in the second half. He also said gross
domestic product will shrink 1.3 percent this year instead of
the 0.5 percent initially forecast as the government is
implementing the toughest austerity measures in the nation’s
democratic history.  The government has requested two more years to tackle the
widest budget deficit in the EU after the economy contracted for
a seventh straight quarter in the first three months of 2013.
Paris-based  Danone (BN) ’s Co-Chief Operating Officer Bernard Hours
last week said the owner of Evian water and Activia yogurt
brands will operate “defensively” in  Europe  this year as the
economic environment could worsen in France and Spain.  Retail sales, adjusted for the number of working days,  8.9
percent in March from a year ago after a 7.6 percent drop in
February, INE said in a separate release today. Retail sales
have declined every month since June 2010 as tax increases
including two valued-added tax hikes have undermined households’
spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  