-- Square Seeks Clients Beyond Dog Walkers With New Service
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-04-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/square-seeks-clients-beyond-dog-walkers-with-new-service.html
Square Inc., the payments startup
founded by Twitter Inc. Chairman Jack Dorsey, is adding features
to target the restaurant industry as it moves beyond individual
merchants such as dog walkers and taxi drivers.  The company has updated its payments register, which
comprises credit card readers and a cash drawer, to enable
quick-service restaurants to modify orders and customize kitchen
tickets, San Francisco-based Square said in a statement today.  It marks Square’s biggest push into the food business since
it introduced mobile payments in 7,000  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  stores
last year. Square began offering a stamp-sized credit-card
reader in 2009 that lets merchants accept payments on the go,
and is now seeking to replace cash registers by companies
including  NCR Corp. (NCR)  and increase competition with devices by
 Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal.  The majority of Square’s merchants are still individuals,
Dorsey, who is chief executive officer, said in an interview.
Targeting specific industries will help the company compete for
cash registers as well as securing more of the market for mobile
payments for physical goods, which is set to top $170 billion in
transactions by 2015, according to  Juniper Research .  “No. 1 right now is still individual services like the
personal trainer, the dog walker, the golf instructor, the piano
teacher,” Dorsey said in an interview at  Little Muenster , a
Manhattan restaurant that uses Square’s updated service. “Food
is a daily occurrence and we think we can add a lot of value to
that. We can remove a lot of friction and make it easier.”  Restaurant Industry  More than 3 million merchants are able to use Square’s card
swiper and the company is processing more than $12 billion in
payments on an annual basis, it said in the statement. Square
doesn’t break out its revenue into categories of users.
“Individuals” are most active, followed by “retail” and
“services,” said Faryl Ury, a spokeswoman for the company.  In the restaurant industry, “we saw a lot of mess,”
Dorsey told Bloomberg Television’s Cristina Alesci in an
interview to be broadcast today. “We saw a lot of pain that
people had to go through to do very simple things, so we thought
we could add a lot of value by building a simple system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  