-- Sugar Mills in Thailand Battle Strengthening Baht as Prices Drop
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-04-29T03:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/sugar-mills-in-thailand-battle-strengthening-baht-as-prices-drop.html
Sugar revenue for millers in
 Thailand , the world’s second-biggest exporter, is falling faster
than shipments as the strengthening baht erodes incomes and
prices for the commodity extend declines.  Export revenue from sugar fell 34 percent to 7.97 billion
baht ($270 million) in March from a year earlier while shipments
dropped 24 percent, data from the Ministry of Commerce show. The
baht climbed to 28.56 to the dollar on April 19, the strongest
level since a devaluation in July 1997. It was 29.20 a dollar
today. Sugar is heading for a third year of declines, which
would mean the longest slump since 1992.  “Our export income has fallen by around 10 percent from
the beginning of the year as the local currency climbed,” said
Piromsak Sasunee, chief executive officer of Thai Sugar Trading
Corp. in Bangkok, the country’s biggest exporter. “Export
volume is barely affected by the baht strength but our income in
baht term reduces significantly.”  A strengthening baht is more likely to affect export
revenue than shipments because producers in Thailand can’t use
their cane to make other products, according to brokerage
Newedge Group. In  Brazil , the world’s biggest exporter,
producers use cane to make sugar and ethanol.  “The Thais don’t have a big option to make ethanol for the
internal market like in Brazil, so the baht weakness or strength
will only help or hurt the bottom line of the mills and spur
more or less investment in the longer term,” said  Michael McDougall , head of the Brazil desk at Newedge.  March Shipments  Millers in Thailand shipped 593,114 metric tons last month,
down from 785,036 tons a year earlier, Commerce data show.
Exports fell partly because millers are holding back as prices
decline, McDougall said from New York. Raw sugar futures traded
in New York are down 11 percent this year.  Thailand’s sugar output may total 10 million tons in the
2012-2013 crop year that started in November compared with 10.24
million tons a year earlier, Sirivuthi Siamphakdee, vice
president of Thai Sugar Millers Corp., said on April 18.  Sugar revenue for Thailand millers may fall even more as
producers have started to sell their output, according to
McDougall. Thailand’s sugar for loading from May to July was at
a premium of 0.9 cent to 1.1 cent a pound over  New York  raw
sugar futures as of April 22, down 0.25 cent from a week earlier,
Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty. said.  “Their sliding physical premiums suggest they are throwing
in the towel,” McDougall said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 