-- Syrian Prime Minister Survives Blast, State TV Reports
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-04-29T13:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/syrian-prime-minister-survives-blast-state-tv-reports.html
Syrian Prime Minister Wael al- Halaqi survived a bomb explosion that killed at least six people
as his convoy traveled through Damascus, state television said.  At least 15 people were wounded in the blast in the
capital’s Mazzeh district, the television station’s website
said. The dead included a bodyguard, Rami Abdurrahman, head of
the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , said by phone, while a
second bodyguard and a driver were injured. Five civilians also
died in the blast, the Coventry, England-based Observatory said
on its Facebook page, citing unidentified medical sources.  The attack on such a high-ranking figure, while
significant, does not signal any change in Syria’s strategic
stalemate, said  Paul Salem , director of the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace’s Middle East Center in  Beirut .  “The situation in the country is for the moment moving
into kind of semi-static zones of influence,” Salem said in a
phone interview. “Nobody seems to be on the imminent brink of
sweeping the country.”  The blast was the first reported attack against a top
Syrian official since July, when a bomb killed members of
Assad’s top military establishment leading the fight against the
Syrian insurgency. They included Assad’s brother-in-law, Assef Shawkat, Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah and the vice president’s
military adviser, Hasan Turkmani. The men remain the most senior
officials to be killed since the uprising started in March 2011.  ‘Heroic’ Victories  Images posted by the state-run SANA news agency showed
onlookers close to mangled cars as firefighters doused flames.  Al-Halaqi later convened a ministerial meeting on economic
developments. Television pictures showed him apparently unharmed
as he spoke to reporters about granting licenses for
pharmaceutical factories. The premier later denounced the attack
and said it signaled the frustration of “terrorist groups” at
the “heroic” victories of the Syrian army, SANA said.  Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said the blast was “a
clear indication of the choice of some to reject a political
solution” to  Syria ’s crisis, according to SANA.  The anti-Assad uprising has killed more than 70,000 people,
according to United Nations estimates.  Assad appointed Halaqi as prime minister in August to
replace Riad Hijab, who had defected to Jordan a few days
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  