-- U.K. Bank Shortfalls, Hedge Funds, SEC Shift: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/u-k-bank-shortfalls-hedge-funds-sec-shift-compliance.html
Britain’s new banking regulator has
rattled lenders by holding off disclosing how much capital each
firm will have to raise after ordering the industry to plug a 25
billion-pound ($38 billion) shortfall by the end of the year,
three people with knowledge of the discussions said.  The Prudential Regulation Authority, the unit of the  Bank
of England  that took over supervision of the industry from the
Financial Services Authority this month, isn’t expected to
detail the steps all banks need to take to bolster their balance
sheets until mid-May at the earliest, said two of the people who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. Banks
had expected to be told in March, one of the people said.  That delay could leave banks less than seven months to plug
the gap identified by the Bank of England. The regulator is
recommending the firms raise capital to cover bigger potential
losses, possible fines for mis-selling and stricter risk models.  The banks will hold within three weeks their first formal
meetings with the PRA since the central bank published its
report on March 27, the people said. They will discuss the
assessment by the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee
and the capital plans the banks have already outlined, the
people said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC’s White Said to Push to Lift Ban on Hedge-Fund Advertising  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission chairman Mary Jo
White is pushing to adopt a rule allowing  hedge funds  to
advertise in a move consumer advocates say could fail to protect
unsophisticated investors, according to two people familiar with
the matter.  White, who became SEC chairman on April 10, has suggested
the commission pass the existing plan without major changes and
add additional protections later, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the deliberations are private. The
approach would placate congressional Republicans who have
complained the SEC has slow-walked the rule, which was required
to be completed by July 2012.  Approving the regulation would allow White to make good on
a promise she made in her Senate confirmation hearing to
prioritize rules mandated by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups
Act, which was designed to boost capital-raising and job
creation. At the same time, it could anger advocates for small
investors and at least one Democratic commissioner.  The SEC’s five-member commission has been divided on the
rule since last year.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on
White’s plans.  For more, click here.  U.S. Regulators Say Libor Needs Shift to Market-Pricing System  Interest-rate benchmarks must be tied to market
transactions instead of estimates to protect the global
financial system against mis-allocation of capital and
mismanagement of risk, according to a panel of U.S. regulators.  U.S. and overseas agencies must identify alternatives to
the London interbank offered rate “that are anchored in
observable transactions and are supported by appropriate
governance structures,” the Financial Stability Oversight
Council said in a report released April 25.  FSOC, a council of regulators created by the Dodd-Frank Act
to monitor financial-system risk, made the recommendations after
three banks paid $2.5 billion in fines in a global manipulation
probe. The council, led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, also
includes Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and heads of
agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  For more, click here.  Scottish Independence May Cause Pensions ‘Timebomb,’ Herald Says  Scottish independence could prompt a multibillion pound
pensions “timebomb” as companies are forced to plug the
shortfall in under-funded cross-border pension plans, the Herald
newspaper said, citing a report by the  Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Scotland .  The requirement under European Union regulations could
bankrupt some companies leaving hundreds of thousands of past
and present workers seeking backing from state-backed protection
funds, the Glasgow-based newspaper said.  ICAS urged the Scottish and U.K. governments to begin talks
to resolve potential pension difficulties in the event of
 Scotland  becoming independent after next year’s referendum, the
Herald said.  The Scottish government said there was no reason why an
independent Scotland could not reach the same sort of agreement
the U.K. has with Ireland to allow cross-border funding
shortfalls, the newspaper said.  Compliance Action  CFTC Certifies ICE’s Routing Plan Over DTCC Objections  The U.S. Commodities and Futures Trading Commission
certified  Intercontinental Exchange ’s plan to route data on
cleared swaps to its own data repository, the agency said on its
 website .  The  Depository Trust and Clearing Corp.  opposed the plan
and urged the CFTC to reject it, arguing it is anti-competitive.  Databases are required under Dodd-Frank to hold information
about swap prices and volume.  Courts  SEC Foreign Payment Rule Challenge Declined by Appeals Court  A challenge to a  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
rule requiring some companies to disclose payments to foreign
governments must first be handled by a lower court, the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  Washington  said.  The SEC disclosure regulation comes under a section of law
requiring review by the  U.S. District Court , not the appeals
court, which has jurisdiction over many other commission rules,
the court said in a ruling April 26. The regulation, issued
under the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law, covers companies
engaged in oil, natural gas or mineral extraction.  Anticipating the dispute over venue, the  American Petroleum
Institute , the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and two other trade
groups that sued in the appeals court lodged a similar, pending
complaint in district court in Washington.  The case is  American Petroleum Institute  v. U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 12-1398, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  The district court case is American Petroleum Institute v.
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 12-cv-01668, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Widow Gets Less Than Minute of Probation in U.S. Tax Case  A 79-year-old widow who pleaded guilty in the largest
individual case since a U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion 
began received less than a minute of probation from a judge who
scolded prosecutors.  U.S. District Judge Kenneth Ryskamp April 25 sentenced Mary
Estelle Curran, who had an account at  UBS AG (UBSN) , to one year of
probation before immediately revoking it in federal court in
West Palm Beach,  Florida . Curran’s attorney Roy Black told the
judge that she was “unsophisticated” about financial matters.  Curran, of Palm Beach, faced as long as 37 months in prison
for failing to disclose to the  Internal Revenue Service  that she
had more than $43 million in Swiss bank accounts. Curran pleaded
guilty to two counts of tax evasion in January. She paid a $21.6
million penalty as well as back taxes.  Ryskamp described the situation as “tragic,” and said the
government “should have used a little more discretion.” He
urged Black to appeal to the president to pardon Curran, saying
it would be “just spiteful” if the government didn’t join in.  Mark Daly, a Justice Department trial attorney, declined to
comment after the hearing. Daly didn’t oppose Black’s request
for probation.  Since 2008, U.S. prosecutors have charged almost 90 people
in a crackdown on offshore tax evasion, including more than two
dozen bankers, lawyers and advisers.  Zurich-based UBS, the largest Swiss bank, was charged with
conspiracy in February 2009 and avoided prosecution by admitting
it aided tax evasion, paying $780 million and handing over
account data on 250 clients, including Curran. It later
disclosed information on about 4,450 more accounts.  Curran, who has a high school education, contacted a lawyer
who advised her to declare the accounts she had inherited from
her husband. The lawyer didn’t file the paperwork until after
Curran had been named and federal investigators deemed her
ineligible for an amnesty program.  The case is U.S. v. Curran, 12-cr-80206, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm Beach).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Panels  Yoder Says Donation Oversight Goes Beyond SEC’s Scope  U.S. Representative Kevin Yoder, a Kansas Republican,
talked about the Securities and Exchange Commission’s plan to
consider requiring public companies to disclose political
spending.  Yoder coordinated a letter from 66  House Republicans  urging
the SEC not to move forward with a rule. He spoke with  Erik
Schatzker  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Dimon Losing Chairmanship Would Be ‘Nuts,’ Langone Says  Kenneth Langone, founder and chief executive officer of
Invemed Associates Inc., and Richard Farley, a partner at Paul
Hastings LLP, talked about the possibility that  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon will be stripped of his chairman role.  Langone also discussed proposed legislation to increase
 capital requirements  on “too-big-to-fail” banks while easing
requirements on smaller, regional banks.  He and Farley spoke with Erik Schatzker and Sara Eisen on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  SEC’s Canellos Says Enforcers Shifting to Dodd-Frank Compliance  George Canellos, co-chief of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s enforcement division, said investigators
are turning their focus to enforcing new regulations from the
2010 Dodd Frank Act.  Canellos made the remarks April 26 while speaking on a
panel at a Practising Law Institute event in New York. Enforcers
play a “critically important” role in shaping new rules, he
said.  While highlighting new regulations aimed to bring
transparency to the  derivatives market , he said investigators
are pursuing issues such as the role of fiduciaries who are
responsible for setting up internal safeguards against fraud and
improper risk taking. The shift in focus comes as the agency
wraps up cases linked to the credit market turmoil of 2008,
Canellos said.  Investigators are also trying to harness technology to
drive more data-driven cases, according to Canellos. The agency
is looking for evidence of companies distorting their earnings
reports by comparing past performance records against analyst
estimates. A consistently close correlation could indicate
fraud, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  