-- U.K. April Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Declines, GfK Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/u-k-april-consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-declines-gfk-says.html
U.K.  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly declined in April as  inflation (UKRPCJYR)  extended its run
above the Bank of England’s goal, increasing households’ concern
about their personal finances.  A sentiment index by GfK NOP Ltd. fell one point to minus
27, the London-based group said in a report today. Economists
had forecast no change, according to the median of 19 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. A gauge of how consumers see their
finances over the next year fell to minus 7 from minus 6.  Inflation was at 2.8 percent in March and the BOE forecasts
it will accelerate in the coming months. That compares with the
central bank’s 2 percent target and wage growth of 1 percent.
The  Confederation of British Industry  said on April 24 that its
retail-sales index unexpectedly fell this month to an eight-
month low.  “A move up would suggest that the index had indeed ‘paused
for breath’ after its rise at the end of 2012 and was still
heading in the right direction,” said Nick Moon, managing
director of social research at GfK. The decline “implies the
recovery in confidence has stalled, and real recovery looks a
long way away.”  An index of shoppers’ outlook for the economy in the coming
year rose 1 point to minus 26 this month, GfK said. A gauge of
their views on the climate for making major purchases fell 2
points to minus 25.  Britons’ assessment of their financial situation in the
past 12 months fell 4 points to minus 24, and a gauge of their
view of the general economic situation in the period rose 1
point to minus 53.  Data last week showed the  U.K. economy  grew 0.3 percent in
the first quarter, avoiding a triple-dip recession. Still,
unemployment rose at the fastest pace in more than a year in the
three months through February and the government has broadened
its program to stoke lending and kick-start growth.  GfK surveyed 2,001 people from April 5 to April 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 