-- Approve Keystone Now
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-29T16:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/u-s-has-the-facts-it-needs-to-approve-keystone-pipeline.html
The most significant entry logged
during the just-ended 45-day  comment period  on the State
Department’s second environmental-impact report for the Keystone
XL oil pipeline  came from  the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency. The EPA called for more study on the greenhouse-gas
emissions involved, the risk of spills, alternative routes for
the pipeline and how it would affect communities along the
route. More specifically, the EPA asked that the pipeline
builder, TransCanada Corp., be required to put in writing its
commitment to fully clean up any spills.  That last point is a good idea, and illustrates why it
makes sense for a collection of federal agencies to weigh in on
big proposals of great public interest. But it seems to us that
we have finally reached the “enough already” moment in this
debate. The EPA had its say on the first environmental-impact
report on Keystone in 2011. This time around, once the process
is complete, eight federal agencies will have given input. The
technical review has been detailed and thorough.  We would like the State Department to approve it -- but we
would also like it to make a decision. For the record, let’s
consider the facts of what Keystone would and wouldn’t do.  Contrary to the claims of its supporters, it wouldn’t
provide all that many jobs --  only about  20,000, almost all of
them seasonal and temporary.  Contrary to the claims of its opponents, it would not pose
a disqualifying threat to the environment. Even though
extracting and refining bitumen from the  tar sands  in  Alberta ,
 Canada , emits much more carbon dioxide than ordinary oil-
drilling, total emissions from the tar-sands crude are only
about  20 percent greater  than from other oil, because most
emissions come from burning the fuel.  As Joe Oliver, the Canadian minister of natural resources,
told participants in the Bloomberg New Energy Finance Summit
last week, improved extraction methods in the tar sands have
lowered emissions there by 26 percent since 1990 and are
continuing to clean up the process. Oliver also noted that the
new pipe itself would have 57 more safety features than are
found in the hundreds of thousands of miles of pipelines already
crisscrossing the U.S.  In the end, the most important thing that Keystone would do
is carry as many as 830,000 barrels of oil a day from Canada and
from the Bakken shale formation in  North Dakota  to refineries on
the U.S. Gulf Coast. This is oil that the U.S. still needs, and
will bring in from somewhere -- probably Canada or  Venezuela  via
train and ship -- whether or not Keystone is built.  Rather than encourage more study, President  Barack Obama 
should now prod the State Department to move as fast as possible
to approve the pipeline and get this overblown and needlessly
divisive controversy off the nation’s agenda.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 