-- U.S. Urges Finance Industry to Form Cyber Threat Clearinghouses
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-04-29T18:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/u-s-urges-finance-industry-to-form-cyber-threat-clearinghouses.html
A Treasury Department official
urged the U.S. financial-services industry to help the
government identify cybersecurity threats to limit
“technology’s potential for disruption and destruction.”  “We have had important recent reminders that our financial
institutions and markets are vulnerable to malicious cyber-
attacks and operational failures,” Cyrus Amir-Mokri, the
Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial institutions, said
in the text of a speech today at a Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association conference in  Boca Raton ,  Florida .  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, raised
concerns about cybersecurity in its annual report last week. In
2012, more than a dozen financial institutions received attacks
on their public websites, “all of which were attributable to
one group,” according to the report, which didn’t name the
perpetrator.  In his speech, Amir-Mokri suggested that financial industry
associations “should have well-developed protocols” to give
members information they receive from the government.  “You and your associations may even consider establishing
information clearinghouses that gather information about recent
threats, indicate whether these threats led to incidents, and
document the manner in which the threats or incidents were
addressed or mitigated,” he said.  Amir-Mokri, speaking at an operations conference held by
SIFMA, Wall Street’s largest lobbying group, said “government
alone cannot keep our financial system safe. The responsibility
of protecting our financial sector rests also with the sector
itself.”  China Talks  White House National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said
last week in  New York  that the U.S. has insisted that
cybersecurity be central to any dialog with  China , and Lew has
said he raised the issue with China’s new leadership during his
visit to the country in March.  Ties between the U.S. and China have been strained by a
report from a U.S. security company, Mandiant Corp., saying
China’s army may be behind cyberattacks on companies worldwide.
Chinese officials have rejected the findings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  