-- Lumber Mills Expand as Prices Rise Most Since 1993: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-04-30T15:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/lumber-mills-expand-as-prices-rise-most-since-1993-commodities.html
North American mills are sawing
lumber at the fastest pace in six years after a recovering U.S.
housing market, a beetle infestation in  Canada  and increasing
Chinese demand drove the biggest price surge in two decades.  About 55.5 billion of the industry’s standard board feet
will be made this year, 6.7 percent more than in 2012, CIBC
World Markets estimates. Futures will average $371 per 1,000
board feet on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in the fourth
quarter, according to the mean of nine analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The forecast is 9.8 percent above the
November contract and the highest for the period since 1996.  Builders started work on the most new U.S. houses in almost
five years last month and  China (CNGDPYOY) ’s economy is expanding at the
quickest rate in more than a year. Supply is being constrained
by the worst pine-beetle infestation on record in Canada, the
biggest exporter. More than half the commercial pine in British
Columbia, the largest timber-producing province, has been lost
to the outbreak, government data show.  “For the first time ever, we have a recovery in North
American housing alongside a very robust  China  market, and
Canada cannot go back to peak production any time soon,” said
Gerry Van Leeuwen, a vice president at consultant International
Wood Markets Group in  Vancouver  who has worked in forestry for
four decades. “The combination is raising prices worldwide.”  Beetle Outbreak  November futures, the only CME contract expiring in the
fourth quarter, fell 2 percent to $338 this year. Lumber surged
44 percent in 2012, the most since 1993. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 3.3 percent since the start of
January, the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 8.4
percent and a Bank of America Corp. index shows Treasuries
returned 0.8 percent.  The strength of U.S. housing surprised mill owners, who had
curbed production because of the recession and beetle outbreak,
said David Elstone, an analyst at ERA Forest Products Research
in Gibsons, British Columbia. Canadian output fell to 23.7
billion board feet last year from a peak of almost 36 billion in
2004. Supply won’t reach that level any time soon, he said.  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , which manages 20.3 million acres of
timberland in North America, will report a 72 percent jump in
profit this year, according to the  mean  of nine analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Ainsworth Lumber (ANS)  Co., which
harvests and replants forests across three Canadian provinces,
will report a more than threefold advance in its most widely
tracked earnings measure, the mean of four estimates shows.  Housing Starts  Shares of Federal Way, Washington-based Weyerhaeuser, which
also manages timberland in Uruguay, rose 9.1 percent to $30.35
since the start of January, extending last year’s 49 percent
advance. Those of Vancouver-based Ainsworth Lumber added 41
percent to C$3.87 and will reach C$4.94 in 12 months, the
average of four estimates shows.  A 2,400-square-foot home in the U.S. typically uses about
14,400 board feet of softwood lumber, according to the
Washington-based  National Association of Home Builders . Sales of
new single-family properties advanced 1.5 percent in March,
completing the industry’s best quarter since 2008, Commerce
Department data show. Housing  starts  climbed to a 1.04 million
annual rate last month, also the fastest since 2008.  The surge in lumber prices is increasing costs for
construction companies.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, paid about $3,000 more per home in material
and labor costs in its fiscal first quarter ended Jan. 31.
Lumber accounted for $2,000 of the increase, Chief Executive
Officer Douglas Yearley told a  conference  March 4.  Property Curbs  North American lumber exports to China surged 17-fold to
3.5 billion board feet since 2006, according to International
Wood Markets Group. The nation of 1.35 billion  people , which
builds as many as 15 million mostly multi-story houses a year,
mostly uses lumber for scaffolding, pouring concrete and forming
bricks, according to International Wood Markets’ Van Leeuwen.  While  China’s economy  is accelerating again after two years
of slowing growth, the 8 percent expansion projected for this
year by economists surveyed by Bloomberg would be the second-
weakest in the past decade. Thirty-five city governments issued
details of property curbs by April 1, a month after former
Premier  Wen Jiabao  raised down-payment requirements for second
mortgages in some cities and told local governments with the
biggest price increases to tighten home-purchase limits.  Idled Production  Even if U.S. housing starts doubled they would still be
below the peak they reached in 2006, Commerce Department data
show. The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo
index of builder confidence fell for a third month in April, to
its lowest level since October. Mills probably will bring back
idled production, increasing lumber supply, said Paul Jannke, an
analyst at Forest Economic Advisors LLC, an industry consultant
in Westford,  Massachusetts .  Homebuilders “don’t need to be building significantly more
houses to meet demand,” said Jannke, who expects lumber futures
to average $320 in the fourth quarter. “Demand was stronger
than expected, and producers didn’t build up enough logs in the
fall. Production will be moving up.”  Starting up an idled lumber mill can take as long as 12
months, said Robert Denk, a senior economist at the National
Association of Homebuilders. Demand from export markets
cultivated during the U.S. economic slump also will tighten
supply, he said.  “With the rise of China, you can see  prices  increasing
worldwide as that mixes with the pressures brought on by demand
in the U.S.,” said Elstone of ERA Forest Products Research.
“China doesn’t have much option but to pay up. If you want
lumber, you’re going to have to pay up.”  Red Pine  Prices are also rising in  Russia , which has the world’s
largest forests. China increased imports of red pine and spruce
from eastern Russia, according to Garrett Soden, the chief
executive officer of  RusForest AB (RUSF) , a Stockholm-based producer
which harvests timber and runs sawmills in Russia.  Russian lumber prices rose 10 percent to 15 percent in the
past six months and RusForest is diverting “as much as
possible” of its Siberian production from its traditional
markets in the  Middle East  and  Africa  to customers in China and
 Japan , Soden said.  “The lumber industry is coming out of a deep recession
that diminished capacity at all levels, and now it’s bumping up
against constraints,” said Joshua Zaret, an analyst at Longbow
Research LLC in  New York . “Russia has huge softwood forests
that are relatively untapped. But for now, the fact is that
China will still come to  North America .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  