-- Unabomber Lawyer Chosen to Defend Boston Bombing Suspect
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/unabomber-lawyer-chosen-to-defend-boston-bombing-suspect.html
A judge approved the appointment of
the lawyer who represented convicted 1996 Olympics bomber Eric Rudolph to the legal defense team of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the
surviving suspect in the  Boston  Marathon bombing.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler in Boston yesterday
approved Federal Public Defender Miriam Conrad’s request to hire
 Judy Clarke , who has represented some of America’s most infamous
murder and terrorism convicts, including “Unabomber”  Ted Kaczynski , to expand the defense’s expertise in federal death
penalty cases. Prosecutors haven’t said if they’ll seek a death
sentence.  “In light of the circumstances in this case, the defendant
requires an attorney with more background, knowledge and
experience in federal death penalty cases than that possessed by
current counsel,” Bowler said. The appointment will “provide
the defendant with adequate and proper representation.”  U.S. authorities said Dzhokhar, 19, and Tamerlan Tsarnaev,
his older brother, detonated two homemade bombs near the race’s
finish line April 15, killing three people and injuring more
than 200. Tamerlan Tsarnaev died after a shootout with police.
Dzhokhar, captured hiding in a boat in a Watertown backyard, was
charged with two capital counts, including use of a weapon of
mass destruction. The maximum sentence is death.  Congressional Questions  The appointment comes as members of Congress are examining
whether the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation and Central
Intelligence Agency did all they could to prevent the attack.  Representative Mike McCaul, a Texas Republican and head of
the House  Homeland Security  Committee, said yesterday he wanted
to know why agencies including the Department of Homeland
Security that got information from Russian intelligence in 2011
didn’t coordinate when Tamerlan Tsarnaev traveled to  Russia  last
year.  Investigators probing whether the brothers had help 
planning or carrying out the attack found female DNA
on a fragment from one of the two bombs, according to a U.S. 
official briefed on the probe. The genetic material's discovery 
doesn’t necessarily mean that additional people were involved,  
said the official, who asked not to be identified in discussing 
an ongoing case.  Conrad had sought approval for two lawyers with experience
in federal death penalty defenses, including attorney David Bruck, a professor of law at  Washington  & Lee University School
of Law and director of the school’s death penalty defense
clinic. Bowler denied that request, saying it may be renewed
later in the case.  Knowledge, Experience  Clarke’s “background, knowledge and experience enable her
to provide adequate representation to the defendant,” Bowler
said in the ruling. “An additional attorney at this time is
neither necessary nor required.”  Clarke, a former U.S. public defender in  San Diego  and
Spokane, Washington, now in private practice, is known as an
expert on death penalty cases, especially those in which 
mental illness is an issue.  In the Rudolph case, perhaps the most similar to the attack
in Boston, a backpack with three pipe bombs encircled by nails
exploded in Atlanta’s Centennial Olympic Park during the
Olympics, killing one person and injuring more than 100 others.
Investigators tied Rudolph to the attack through an analysis of
bomb elements and arrested him in 2003. He pleaded guilty and is
serving a life sentence.  Clarke, who practices in San Diego, also represented Jared Loughner, the Tucson,  Arizona , man who shot ex-Congresswoman
 Gabrielle Giffords , and Susan Smith, the  South Carolina  mother
who drowned her two children.  Conrad cited Loughner’s case in her request to hire Clarke.
U.S. Magistrate Lawrence Anderson approved the appointment of
Clarke and another San Diego lawyer,  Mark Fleming , at Loughner’s
first court appearance in January 2011.  Life Terms  Clarke also defended al-Qaeda terrorist Zacarias Moussaoui,
who prosecutors said planned to join the 19 men who carried out
the Sept. 11 attacks on  New York  and Washington. Both men
avoided the death penalty and were sentenced to life in prison.  Lawyers who have worked with Clarke describe her as a
“straight-shooter” with little ego and no agenda other than
defending her clients. Most of the death penalty-eligible cases
she has handled, these lawyers said, resulted in plea agreements
before trial.  Clarke’s work on high-profile death penalty cases began
with the defense of  Susan Smith  in 1995. Smith, of Union, South
Carolina, was accused of drowning her young sons by driving her
car into a lake. The case garnered national attention because
Smith initially told the police that she had been carjacked and
went on television to ask that her children be freed. She later
confessed to the murders.  Clarke was able to persuade the jury not to impose the
death penalty by arguing that Smith suffered from mental illness
and the murders were the result of a botched suicide attempt.
Smith was sentenced to life in prison. Bruck worked with her on
the case.  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S. District
court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  