-- Hunton & Williams, Latham, Venable, K&L: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/hunton-williams-latham-venable-k-l-business-of-law.html
FBI senior cybersecurity adviser
Paul M. Tiao joined Hunton & Williams LLP as a partner in its
privacy and data security practice group in  Washington . He was
senior counselor to FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III on
cybersecurity, electronic surveillance, intellectual property
crimes, digital forensics, and other national security and
criminal issues, the firm said.  Tiao formulated cybersecurity policy positions, drafted
legislative language, coordinated strategy and represented the
FBI in discussions within the executive branch, with Congress,
and with industry leaders, the firm said.  Tiao previously served on the U.S. Senate Judiciary
Committee as counsel to Senate Assistant Majority Leader Richard J. Durbin, the firm said.  “Cybercrime is a critical global problem,” Tiao said in a
statement. “Hunton & Williams was among the first firms to
recognize this issue and founded the practice more than 13 years
ago. I think it has built the single best team of privacy and
data security professionals that reaches across the United
States,  Europe  and Asia.”  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers at 19 offices
around the world.  Investment Management Partner Joins Latham in Chicago  Latham & Watkins LLP announced that Nabil Sabki joined the
firm’s  Chicago  office as a partner in the corporate department.
He was previously at Kirkland & Ellis LLP in Chicago.  Sabki represents financial services companies and private
funds, including private equity and hedge fund clients. He also
has experience advising clients in connection with complex
financial services related transactions, including mergers and
acquisitions, joint ventures and private securities offerings.  Latham & Watkins has approximately 2,000 attorneys in 31
offices worldwide.  Venable Adds Trial Lawyer Kurt Fischer to Baltimore Office  Venable LLP announced that Kurt J. Fischer, an attorney
with experience in both trials and regulatory proceedings, has
joined the firm as a partner in its Baltimore office. He was
previously with DLA Piper LLP.  Fischer represents property owners, public utilities,
commercial businesses and local governments in real estate and
tax matters in both trials and regulatory proceedings.  Venable has more than 500 lawyers at eight U.S. offices.  Assistant District Attorney Joins Barket to Head Appellate Group  Donna Aldea, an assistant district attorney for almost 15
years, has become a member of New York-based  Barket, Marion,
Epstein & Kearon LLP  in the Garden City office, where she will
head the appellate and post-conviction group.  While she is working at Barket Marion, Aldea will continue
to handle several significant cases from her former position for
the district attorney’s office, where she spent five years as
counsel for special litigation.  “Over these past fourteen years Donna has handled some of
our most difficult and challenging appellate matters,” Queens
District Attorney Richard A. Brown said in a statement. “She is
among the best appellate lawyers in the state and we will very
much miss her. Fortunately she has agreed to continue to handle
pro bono some of the important appellate matters upon which she
has been working on our behalf.”  Aldea has handled complex litigation in the U.S. Supreme
Court, the New York Court of Appeals, the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of New York, the Appellate Division and the New York
state Supreme Court.  She briefed and argued several of the state’s key right-to-
counsel cases in the New York Court of Appeals, the firm said.
She’s also tackled constitutional issues stemming from “John
Doe” DNA indictments, the admissibility of expert testimony
regarding shaken baby syndrome, among other matters.  Barket Marion has two New York offices.  K&L Gates Adds Antitrust, Restructuring & Bankruptcy Partners  The Houston office of K&L Gates LLP added Bruce A. Blefeld
as a partner in the antitrust practice and Trey A. Monsour as a
partner in the restructuring and bankruptcy practice. Blefeld
joins the firm from Jackson Walker LLP, while Monsour joins from
Haynes and Boone LLP.  Blefeld advises health-care providers, pharmaceutical
companies, energy companies and joint ventures on antitrust
matters. He also represents clients in ERISA cases.  Monsour is national bankruptcy counsel as well as a court-
appointed mediator in bankruptcy disputes.  K&L Gates has 48 offices in the U.S., Asia,  Australia ,
Europe, the Middle East and South America.  Holland & Knight Adds Patent Litigator John Gutkoski  Holland & Knight LLP added patent litigator John T. Gutkoski, previously of Lathrop & Gage LLP, as a partner in the
Boston office.  Gutkoski’s national trial practice includes experience
serving as lead trial counsel in life sciences and technology
matters. He was previously the Boston office IP chairman at
Foley & Lardner LLP.  Holland & Knight has 1,000 lawyers in 17 U.S. offices as
well as Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Bogota, and Mexico City.  News  Ex-State Department Lawyer Charged With Recruiting Cuban Spies  A former U.S. State Department lawyer helped the Communist
government of Cuba recruit a spy who was inserted into the
Defense Intelligence Agency in a conspiracy that began 30 years
ago, the Justice Department said.  Marta Rita Velazquez, named in a nine-year-old indictment
unsealed April 25 in federal court in Washington, is charged
with one count of conspiracy to commit espionage. Velazquez, 55,
fled the U.S. 11 years ago and is living in  Stockholm , according
to a Justice Department statement. The department didn’t say why
it unsealed the case now.  Velazquez, who was born in Puerto Rico, introduced Ana Belen Montes to the Cuban Intelligence Service in 1984 and later
helped Montes get a position as a Defense Intelligence Agency
analyst, according to the indictment. Montes, who pleaded guilty
of espionage conspiracy in 2002, is serving a 25-year prison
sentence.  Velazquez assisted the Cuban spy agency by “spotting,
assessing, and recruiting U.S. citizens who occupied sensitive
national security positions or who had the potential of
occupying such positions in the future,” according to the
indictment.  Velazquez, who had top security clearance at the State
Department’s U.S. Agency for International Development, began
wooing Montes to spy while the two were students at John Hopkins
University School of Advanced International Studies.  If convicted, Velazquez could face as long as life in
prison.  Peter Carr, a Justice Department spokesman, and Bill
Miller, a spokesman for Washington U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen,
didn’t immediately respond last week to e-mail messages seeking
comment on the timing of the case being unsealed.  The case is U.S. v. Velazquez, 04-cr-00044, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Litigation  Commerzbank Bonus Appeal Fails as Dresdner Bankers Win Again  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  must pay about 50 million euros ($65
million) to 104 bankers at its now-defunct Dresdner unit after a
U.K. appeals court refused to overturn a judge’s decision that
the German lender should honor bonus promises.  A pledge by Dresdner’s then Chief Executive Officer, Stefan Jentzsch, to set aside 400 million euros for bonuses in 2008,
before the investment bank was acquired by Commerzbank, was
binding, the court said April 26. Commerzbank, which reduced
Dresdner bonuses by 90 percent, argued a 6.5 billion-euro loss
at the unit justified the move.  While banks try to combat or avoid European Union proposals
for some of the world’s toughest pay curbs, Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank has fought legal battles in  Germany ,  Italy  and  Japan 
to defend its bonus cuts. At the 2012 trial in  London , Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said he wanted bankers to be
motivated by loyalty not money.  The ruling “is a triumph for common sense and for some
very well-established principles of English contract law,”
Clive Zietman, the lawyer for 83 of the bankers, said in a
statement. “It is a great pity that the bank saw fit to contest
so vigorously and for so long, a case that could so easily have
been avoided.”  Commerzbank said in an e-mailed statement it hadn’t decided
whether to appeal to the U.K. Supreme Court. The ruling is a
“regrettable outcome in view of the ongoing regulatory, public
and shareholder calls to establish a sound relationship between
banks’ performance and variable remuneration.”  “This case is a salutary reminder to employers that it is
not always good to talk,” said Sarah Henchoz, a lawyer at Allen
& Overy LLP who wasn’t involved in the trial. “Employers need
to be careful what they say to employees about bonus or
potential bonus entitlements.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 