-- US Airways-AMR Merger Spurs Talks on Branded Credit Cards
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-30T20:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/us-airways-amr-merger-spurs-talks-on-branded-credit-cards.html
US Airways  Group Inc. and  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines are negotiating with banks including
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to provide a branded credit card
once they complete a merger creating the world’s largest
carrier.  “As we bring two strong currencies together, we’ll have
one, stronger currency,” Andrew Nocella, US Airways senior vice
president for marketing and planning, said yesterday at a
conference. “We are working with all our banks. Every single
one wants to work with us.”  US Airways’ loyalty credit card has been handled by
Barclays since 2006, while American’s has been issued by
Citigroup for 26 years. The cards, which carry the airlines’
names, are valued by passengers because purchases made with them
earn credits that can be used to buy tickets.  The new American may break with tradition and offer
multiple cards, said Jay Sorensen, who runs frequent-flier
consulting firm IdeaWorks in Shorewood, Wisconsin, and was the
former director of marketing at Midwest Airlines.  Qantas Airways Ltd. has several  credit card  partners, and
as a result has the highest per-passenger revenue globally from
its program, at $26.49, Sorensen said. That’s about 15 percent
more than other so-called legacy carriers such as American and
United Continental Holdings Inc. earn, and double the amount
some smaller carriers get, he said.  ‘Bigger Sandbox’  “I would advocate multi-bank relationships. They’re about
to have a much bigger sandbox and I hope they take advantage of
that,” Sorensen said. “When the banks compete, the airline
consumer wins. We may see Barclays/Citi offerings side by
side.”  US Airways and American expect their combination to be
concluded in the third quarter, when Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR
receives approval to exit bankruptcy protection. The combined
carrier, which will retain the American name and be led by US
Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker, will pass United as
the biggest airline, based on passenger traffic.  The eventual credit-card agreement “will be very lucrative
to us,” Nocella told US Airways managers at the airline’s
annual leadership conference near its headquarters in Tempe,
Arizona.  Kevin Sullivan , a Barclays spokesman, did not return a
phone call or e-mail seeking comment outside of regular business
hours. Emily Collins, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  Visa Calling  The new American will have the second-largest card program
in the world, behind only retailer  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , Nocella
said.  US Airways’ Dividend Miles credit cards are supported by
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  Visa Inc. (V) , as are American’s AAdvantage
cards. The combined card would “be the largest MasterCard
program in the world,” he said. “Visa is calling me every
day.”  United’s loyalty card is issued by JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
while Delta Air Lines Inc.’s is through  American Express Co. (AXP)   US Airways rose 0.5 percent to $16.90 at the close of
trading in New York. The shares previously climbed 25 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  