-- Luxottica First-Quarter Profit Rises on U.S., Emerging Markets
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2013-04-29T16:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/luxottica-first-quarter-profit-rises-on-u-s-emerging-markets.html
Luxottica Group SpA, (LUX)  the world’s
largest maker of eyeglasses, said first-quarter sales and profit
rose in a “solid, strong” start to the year, boosted by growth
in emerging markets and the U.S.  The owner of the Ray-Ban and Oakley brands today reported
net income gained 24 percent to 159 million euros ($209
million). Net sales increased 4.2 percent to 1.86 billion euros.
Analysts had estimated profit of 155.7 million euros on sales of
1.87 billion euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We had a more-than-solid initial start to the year in the
U.S., our most important region,” Chief Executive Officer
Andrea Guerra said in a phone interview. “Sales in countries
like France and  Germany , and continental  Europe  in general, have
exceeded expectations with high single-digit growth.”  The Milan-based company has made  acquisitions  to speed its
expansion. In November, the company agreed to buy Alain Mikli
and created an atelier division that includes brands such as
Oliver Peoples and Paul Smith. Sales at the new division, which
are “just above” 100 million euros, may double in the next
three years, Guerra said. He added there may be other
acquisitions in this area in the medium term.  The licensing agreement with Armani Group became
operational in the first quarter, the company said. Guerra said
orders for Armani-branded eyewear are “above our
expectations.” Orders are forecast at about 130 million euros
for the first year, he said.  Luxottica’s emerging-market sales at constant exchange
rates increased 17 percent in the first quarter, led by a 30
percent gain in  Brazil . “ Emerging markets  are doing their
job,” Guerra said. “Performance during the year will hopefully
see an acceleration.”  Luxottica  rose  2.8 percent to 40.91 euros in Milan trading
today. The earnings were announced after markets closed.  “April has been a good month,” Guerra said. “We’re ready
for spring and summer, which are pretty critical periods for
us.”  Editors: Dan Liefgreen, Paul Jarvis  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  