-- Vivendi Deal-Making Skills Tested as Fourtou Meets Investors
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-30T17:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/vivendi-s-deal-making-skills-tested-as-fourtou-meets-investors.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou pledged a full strategy review to convince investors the
telecommunications-to-media company can see through asset sales
to refocus its business a year after first saying he’d do so.  The stock has jumped 43 percent since last year’s
shareholders meeting, when Fourtou faced calls for changes and
promised a “no-taboo” examination to tackle the Paris-based
company’s  low valuation . He ousted Vivendi’s chief executive
officer two months later and proceeded with a plan to sell
assets instead of pursuing a split-up of the group, whose units
include the world’s biggest music and video-game companies.  The 73-year-old Frenchman has yet to deliver. Attempts to
divest Brazilian Internet operator GVT and a stake in game
publisher  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  have failed because of
valuation differences or insufficient interest. Vivendi is now
reviewing bids for its majority stake in Maroc Telecom SA, and
targets completion of a sale by October, people familiar with
the matter said yesterday. A deal would mark Vivendi’s first
breakthrough in revamping its structure.  “We are in a transition period. We are going toward a new
Vivendi,” Fourtou told shareholders during an annual meeting at
the  Carrousel du Louvre  near the  Louvre Museum  in Paris. “It is
clear that the current organization of management is only a
transition.”  Questions, Answers  The board is “actively regarding the future governance and
management of Vivendi,” he said. “First we have to know what
there is to manage and how. We’re working on these questions and
will know the answers soon.”  French billionaire  Vincent Bollore , appointed last year to
Vivendi’s supervisory committee, “has not expressed a desire to
take over my role as chairman immediately,” Fourtou said. “It
is not a topic at the moment. Maybe it will be later on.”  Among topics that drew investors’ attention is intensifying
competition in the French telecommunications market.  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , the nation’s largest phone company, last week said
it will look to cut more costs after reporting that its
customers’ phone bills shrank 11 percent on average during the
first quarter.  Vivendi makes almost 40 percent of its sales from French
wireless operator SFR, which along with  France Telecom  is trying
to fend off low-cost offers by  Iliad SA (ILD)  as the price war enters
its second year.  Stabilizing SFR  SFR earnings will first stabilize, then improve in 2014 to
2015, Vivendi Finance Chief Philippe Capron said. An initial
public offering of the unit is an option, although not for the
near term, Fourtou said. Vivendi is considering splitting off
SFR from the rest of the company, people familiar with the
matter said last month.  “Our priority is to reinforce business first at SFR,”
Fourtou said.  Vivendi shares have jumped 21 percent since CEO Jean- Bernard Levy stepped down last June. Of 33 analysts who cover
the company and are tracked by Bloomberg, 17 recommend buying
the stock, 15 say hold and one advises selling. On average, they
predict the stock will reach 17.66 euros. Vivendi fell 0.5
percent to 17.20 euros at the close in Paris.  Vivendi also owns music company Universal Music Group Inc.
and French pay-television company  Canal Plus .  Share Jump  “Actions speak louder than words,” said  Claudio Aspesi ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London . “The shares
jumped once the board and management started talking about
refocusing the company, but now they need to show they are
willing to effectively execute.”  While Vivendi wants as much as 5 billion euros ($6.6
billion) from the 53 percent holding in Maroc Telecom, according
to one person briefed on the matter, a more realistic target
would be in the range of 4 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros,
two other people with knowledge of the sale said.  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  and QSC Qatar Telecom submitted binding
offers last week.  The sale could generate 4.5 billion euros, Liberum Capital
analyst Ian Whittaker and Societe Generale SA sales specialist
Saeed Baradar wrote yesterday in separate notes.  “We are collaborating closely with the Moroccan state on
the Maroc Telecom transaction,” Fourtou said. “It takes time.
It won’t be done before fall.”  Sales Fall  Maroc Telecom trades at 6.6 times projected 2013 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg based on enterprise value, which
includes debt. That compares with the median 5.2 times for
carriers in  Africa  and the  Middle East , the data show.  Emirates Telecommunications ’ enterprise value is 4.3 times
Ebitda, while the multiples at Safaricom Ltd. and Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE are 5.3 and 3.6, respectively.  Maroc Telecom fell 2.4 percent to close at 111.75 dirhams
in Casablanca trading yesterday, valuing Vivendi’s 53 percent
stake at about $6.1 billion.  First-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization rose 0.1 percent to 3 billion dirhams ($354
million), while sales fell 4.7 percent to 7.5 billion dirhams,
Maroc Telecom reported today.  Bernstein’s Aspesi said the first asset sale will be
important to show whether analysts’ valuations of Vivendi’s
businesses are realistic. “It will also show how good the
company is at negotiating,” he said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  