-- Vivendi Said to Target Maroc Telecom Stake Sale by October
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-04-29T13:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/vivendi-said-to-target-maroc-deal-in-months-as-asset-sales-waver.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , the French company
seeking to reorganize its telecommunications-to-media structure,
is targeting a completion of the sale of its Maroc Telecom SA
stake by October, according to people familiar with the matter.  While Vivendi wants as much as 5 billion euros ($6.5
billion) from the 53 percent holding, according to one person
briefed on the matter, a more realistic target would be in the
range of 4 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros, two other people
with knowledge of the sale said. They declined to be identified
because the process is private.  Emirates Telecommunications 
Corp. and QSC Qatar Telecom submitted binding offers last week.  A deal would be a breakthrough for Paris-based Vivendi as
it tries to refocus around media and content businesses.
Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou will meet shareholders tomorrow, a
year after pledging a “no-taboo” strategic review. Attempts to
sell Brazilian Internet operator GVT and a stake in game
publisher  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  have stalled on valuation
differences or insufficient interest.  “More than anything, they need to show that they can
execute on an asset sale at a reasonable price,” said Nuno Matias, an analyst a Banco Espirito Santo SA who recommends
buying Vivendi shares. “Anything below market price would be a
disappointment.”  Earnings Multiple  Maroc Telecom trades at 6.6 times projected 2013 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg based on enterprise value, which
includes debt. That compares with the median 5.2 times for
carriers in  Africa  and the  Middle East , the data show.  Emirates Telecommunications’s enterprise value is 4.3 times
Ebitda, while the multiples at Safaricom Ltd. and Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE are 5.3 and 3.6, respectively.  Vivendi shares fell 1.6 percent from its intraday level,
and traded at 17.13 euros, or 0.7 percent higher, as of 3:24
p.m. in Paris. Maroc Telecom climbed 1.6 percent to 115 dirhams
in Casablanca, valuing the 53 percent stake at $6.3 billion.  Fourtou, a 73-year-old Frenchman, is trying to show
investors that momentum for a strategy revamp is still going
strong at Vivendi. Since the ouster of Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Bernard Levy  last June, Vivendi’s stock has risen about 20
percent partly on optimism over the reorganization. Vivendi also
owns  Universal Music Group , pay-TV operator Canal Plus and
French wireless carrier SFR.  Loan Terms  A Vivendi representative declined to comment on the sale of
the Maroc Telecom stake, as did officials for Abu Dhabi-based
Emirates Telecommunications and Doha-based Qatar Telecom, which
operates under the brand name Ooredoo.  People with knowledge of the matter said this month that
Emirates Telecommunications, better known as Etisalat, was
setting terms of $8 billion of loans backing its bid. Etisalat
is raising debt comprising a $4 billion portion to be refinanced
by bonds, and three- and five-year loans, the people have said.  Even though the Maroc Telecom attracted two binding bids, a
deal could still fall apart because  Morocco ’s government, which
owns a 30 percent stake in the carrier, has to approve any
transaction, the people said. Maroc Telecom also has investments
in Gabon, Mauritania,  Burkina Faso  and  Mali .  The carrier’s Ebitda  will decline  less than 1 percent to
16.6 billion dirhams this year from the 16.7 billion dirhams the
company reported for 2012, according to the average of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Vivendi’s largest telecommunications asset is French
wireless operator SFR. Vivendi is considering splitting off SFR
from the rest of the company, people familiar with knowledge of
the discussions said last month.  “The sale of Maroc represents the first step of what
should be an 18 to 24-month process, with other assets also
primed to be either disposed or spun off,” Ian Whittaker, a
Liberum Capital analyst, wrote in a note. “This should drive a
re-rating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  