-- Warsh Says Fed to Continue Easing as Jobs Growth Elusive
-- B y   W i l l o w   B a y ,   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-29T20:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/warsh-says-fed-to-continue-easing-as-jobs-growth-elusive.html
Former Federal Reserve Governor
 Kevin Warsh  said the central bank will probably press on with
its “aggressive” easing as growth this year may fall short of
the pace needed to put millions of Americans back to work.  Job growth requires a 3 percent to 3.5 percent expansion
that won’t be in reach for the world’s largest economy this
year, Warsh said today in a Bloomberg Television interview at
the Milken Institute Global Conference in Los Angeles. Policy
makers probably will maintain their current stance, he said.  “For those that don’t have jobs, it looks to be an
increasingly difficult trek to find employment in an economy
that’s growing less than 2 percent,” said Warsh, now a lecturer
at the Stanford University Graduate School of Business in
Stanford,  California . “We’re now four, five years into a very
disappointing recovery and I wish I could tell you this will be
the year it breaks out to the upside but it won’t.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded less than forecast in the first
quarter, increasing at a 2.5 percent annualized rate, the
Commerce Department said last week. The gain followed a 0.4
percent fourth-quarter advance, and compares with a 3 percent
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This economy has now been so weak for so long that we’re
probably doing structural harm to the economy,” Warsh said.  Employers added 88,000 workers to payrolls in March, the
fewest in nine months, Labor Department data show. Unemployment
fell to 7.6 percent, the lowest in four years, as workers left
the job market.  Aggressive Policy  Warsh said Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  probably will press
on with “more aggressive monetary policy showing no interest in
tapering” this week as the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets
over the next two days. The Fed has said it will continue $85
billion a month in asset purchases known as quantitative easing
until the labor market shows substantial improvement.  While Bernanke, 59, hasn’t indicated whether he would serve
a third term as chairman after his second expires in January,
Warsh said he would advise President  Barack Obama  that Bernanke
is best suited to steer the central bank.  “The man that is in the seat right now is more likely to
be able to pull this off more than anyone else I can conceive,”
Warsh said. “He has built the credibility and confidence in
markets, and I would say making a change necessarily will
involve some risks, but I would say Fed policy is more or less
on autopilot regardless of who succeeds him.”  Warsh, 43, is a former Morgan Stanley investment banker who
was the youngest-ever Fed governor when he was appointed by
then-President  George W. Bush  in 2006. He left the Fed in 2011.  Warsh was an architect of the terms the Treasury dictated
to nine of the biggest U.S. banks in October 2008 in return for
a $125 billion injection of government funds. He helped
negotiate the sale of Wachovia Corp., mediating a takeover fight
that erupted between Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Warsh served as the Fed representative to the Group of 20
nations and the Board of Governors’ emissary to emerging and
advanced economies in  Asia . He also managed Fed operations and
personnel as the governor assigned to administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Willow Bay in  Los Angeles  at 
 wbay3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  