-- Widow’s Bill Would Add Second Barrier to Airline Cockpits
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-04-29T15:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/widow-s-bill-would-add-second-barrier-to-airline-cockpits.html
A widow of a pilot who died on one
of the jets that crashed into the World Trade Center on Sept.
11, 2001, is gaining congressional support in her campaign to add
another barrier to airliner cockpits.  Ellen Saracini, widow of  United Airlines (UAL)  Flight 175 Captain
Victor Saracini, says a flaw persists with cockpit doors, which
have been reinforced since 2001 to prevent another attack. She
says they’re opened several times during flights, which could
let a terrorist get through and seize control.  Pilots’ groups also have called for using secondary
barriers to prevent the sort of actions that concern Saracini.
U.S. Representative  Mike Fitzpatrick , a Pennsylvania Republican,
says legislation is needed to complete the job started after the
terrorist attacks to ensure another airliner can’t be turned
into a guided missile.  “For the minimal cost and the maximum protection provided,
this is a no-brainer,” Fitzpatrick said in an interview.  Saracini wrote to President  Barack Obama  outlining the need
for additional cockpit protections in March, a week after the
 Transportation Security Administration  said it planned to let
passengers carry now-banned pocket knives aboard on domestic
trips. Flight attendants, air marshals and airport screeners
came out against the change, prompting a delay by the agency.  Slackening Vigilance  The TSA’s move shocked his constituents and defied common
sense, Fitzpatrick said. He’s also worried about reports
airlines that were voluntarily installing secondary barriers
have stopped, citing cost and added weight.  “Twelve years after 9/11, we seem to be getting too
complacent,” Fitzpatrick said. “We should be protecting the
public. Instead we’re rolling back the protections of 9/11.”  The Air Line Pilots Association, a union, has advocated for
regulations on secondary barriers for years. An industry
committee at RTCA Inc., a not-for-profit organization that
advises the  Federal Aviation Administration , has studied the
issue and published guidelines. The guidance is intended to
guarantee easy installation and maintenance, and to keep down
added weight while ensuring adaptability for future aircraft
designs.  In her letter to the president, Saracini said United
Continental Holdings Inc. recently paid Boeing Co. to remove the
secondary barrier from Dreamliner 787s it had ordered.  One Element  ALPA wrote to United Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek 
last August, objecting to the airline’s decision to eliminate
secondary barriers and a suggestion that pilots bear the cost of
“safety equipment necessary” for passenger and pilot
protection.  “United management seems to have forgotten about its
commitment to safety and the importance of cockpit protections
to the airline, the industry and the nation,” Captains  Jay Pierce  and Jay Heppner wrote.  Secondary barriers are only one element of flight security,
and the mix of what’s used varies by aircraft, said Christen David, a United spokeswoman, in an e-mail. The airline doesn’t
discuss security measures for particular planes or flights, she
said.  “We are thorough in carrying out our security
responsibilities for every flight,” David said. “The safety
and security of our employees and customers are our top
priorities.”  The secondary devices would be put in place before the
cockpit door is opened, to provide more time for members of the
crew to react should someone try to barge in. One barrier shown
in a union white paper looks like a fence attached to cabin
walls.  At least 10 hijacking attempts since 2007 show the need to
do more, according to a congressional fact sheet. Airlines began
installing secondary barriers on their own in 2003, while their
interest has waned since 2010, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  