-- Will Mary Jo White’s SEC Hang Whistle-Blowers Out to Dry?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-04-29T22:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/will-mary-jo-white-s-sec-hang-whistle-blowers-out-to-dry-.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission is certainly looking all spiffy and new these days.  Mary Jo White, the former federal prosecutor and Debevoise
& Plimpton law partner, has taken over as chairman. She tapped
her longtime deputy at the Southern District of New York and
Debevoise, Andrew Ceresney, to share the hugely important job of
director of enforcement with George Canellos, a longtime SEC
hand.  On paper, anyway, this team represents a vast improvement
over the oft-negligent regime of the last chairman,  Mary Schapiro , and her director of enforcement,  Robert Khuzami . The
question is whether changing the roster will actually lead to
better enforcement of the rules governing  Wall Street .  The New York Times’s DealBook blog seems to think so, as
evidenced by its laudatory  April 24  article on the commission’s
“thriving” whistle-blower program, which rewards employees of
financial firms who reveal wrongdoing. The Times got a scoop in
revealing that whistle-blowers helped the SEC uncover wrongdoing
that caused a trading disaster at  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  in
2012 (and almost caused its collapse), and that a private-equity
fund at Oppenheimer & Co. had mismarked the value of its
investments to make the fund’s performance look better than it
was. We also learned that a cowboy-hat-wearing auditor, Dee Dee
Stone, blew the whistle on fraud at a Texas company with the
unlikely name of China Voice Holding Corp. Stone has collected
$46,000 “to date” for her tips.  Past Misdeeds  If you needed any more convincing of the commission’s
resurgence, the Times interviewed  Harry Markopolos , the research
analyst who for years tried to warn the SEC about  Bernie Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme without success. He says the new regime at
the whistle-blower office is now “very thankful” when he
calls: “They actually do investigations.”  Nowhere in all the hype over the SEC, of course, is anyone
talking about Peter Sivere’s experience as a whistle-blower. And
until we have evidence that the commission understands and is
seeking to rectify the misdeeds of its past, there is little
reason to have faith in the new regime.  Sivere,  readers may recall , was a compliance officer at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  who reported wrongdoing in the way the bank
chose to comply with the SEC’s investigation into charges of
late-trading in the mutual-fund industry. JPMorgan Chase fired
him in 2004, despite a history of excellent evaluations.  That, I suppose, is to be expected in this day and age.
What is shocking, though, is the SEC lawyer he called to report
the wrongdoing, George Demos, turned around and ratted him out
to JPMorgan Chase. (After he left the SEC years later, Demos had
the audacity to run for Congress.)  This surely cannot be a page in the SEC’s playbook for how
to make effective its whistle-blower program. If a whistle-
blower can’t trust an SEC lawyer to keep his or her confidence,
then the SEC’s whistle-blower program isn’t going to be of much
use, is it?  Sivere, who is now at Barclays Plc’s investment-banking
unit in New York, has always wanted to know why top SEC
officials never disciplined Demos for violating his trust. He
enlisted Representative  Nita Lowey , a New York Democrat, to
write a letter last year to Schapiro asking what happened.
Schapiro responded a few months later that because it was “a
confidential personnel matter,” she couldn’t disclose the
“supervisory response.”  Now we know why Demos skated free. Using the Freedom of
Information Act, Sivere recently obtained a copy of a July 27,
2009, memo from James Clarkson, then the acting director of the
SEC’s New York office, to H.  David Kotz , then the SEC’s
inspector general. (Kotz was the one who initially investigated
the case and discovered that Demos had betrayed Sivere’s
confidence.)  In the memo, Clarkson told Kotz that he had seen the case
file and spoken with members of the SEC’s  New York  office.
“Based on my review of these documents and on my conversations
with a number of people linked to this matter,” he wrote.  “I
have concluded that no disciplinary action is needed.”  Negative Impact  Clarkson’s justifications for not disciplining Demos were
extraordinary. He told Kotz that “among the factors” he
considered in his decision was that the “relevant events
occurred almost five years ago” and “the non-public
information allegedly released in this case” -- that Sivere had
blown the whistle on his employer -- “did not negatively impact
the SEC’s investigation.” (It certainly negatively impacted
Sivere’s career at JPMorgan Chase, but no matter apparently.)  Clarkson wrote that he believed “an argument can be made
that it was not necessarily inappropriate” for Demos to have
discussed “JPMorgan’s response to the SEC’s subpoena directly
with their counsel.” He didn’t elaborate on what that argument
would be. He added that he “gave significant weight to the
fact” that Demos’s supervisor “counseled” Demos after he
ratted out Sivere about the “importance of maintaining the
confidentiality of non-public information to which the
Commission’s staff has access -- a principle which I fully
support.” Good to know!  Not surprisingly, in an e-mail to me, Sivere said he found
Clarkson’s explanation for not disciplining Demos “truly
disgraceful.” It’s hard to disagree. It is also of little
comfort to know that Clarkson’s final words to Kotz were to
inform him that that George Canellos had just been sworn in as
the permanent head of the SEC’s New York office. And now
Canellos is a co-head of the SEC’s enforcement division. That
doesn’t give me much confidence that we’ll see change for the
better in Mary Jo White’s SEC.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 