-- WTI Crude Heads for Monthly Drop as Supplies Seen Rising
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-30T12:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/wti-crude-trades-near-three-week-high-u-s-stockpile-gain-seen.html
West Texas Intermediate fell,
heading for a monthly decline before a report that may show U.S.
crude inventories at a two-decade peak.  Futures fell as much as 0.9 percent in  New York  after
advancing 1.6 percent yesterday. Crude stockpiles increased by
 1.1 million barrels  last week to 389.7 million, the most since
July 1990, according to a Bloomberg survey before a report from
the Energy Information Administration tomorrow. WTI’s discount
to Brent narrowed to a 15-month low.  “Abundant supplies” have pressured prices, said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who
forecasts WTI will average $95 a barrel this quarter. “The
first half of April was very weak, as poor economic data fueled
demand concerns and financial investors took to the exit.”  WTI for June delivery fell as much as 87 cents to $93.63 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $93.81 as of 1:17 p.m. London time. The volume of all
contracts traded was 32 percent below the 100-day average.
Futures climbed 1.5 percent to $94.50 yesterday, the highest
since April 10. Prices are down 3.5 percent this month.  Brent for June settlement was 51 cents lower at $103.30 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
front-month contract for the European benchmark grade was at a
premium of as little as $9.05 to WTI, the smallest gap since
Jan. 19, 2012.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably dropped  700,000 barrels 
last week, while distillate inventories, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, increased 250,000 barrels,
according to the median estimate of eight analysts in the
Bloomberg News survey.  The  American Petroleum Institute  is scheduled to release
separate supply data today. The industry-funded API collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  U.S. crude exports climbed in February to the highest since
April 2000, with all sales going to  Canada , the EIA said on its
website.  U.S. Exports  The U.S. shipped 124,000 barrels a day of crude in
February, up 70 percent from the previous month, according to
the EIA. U.S. law restricts exports without permission from the
president, with a few exceptions that include sales to Canada.
Refiners in eastern Canada have replaced some overseas crude as
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing boosted production
and depressed prices in the U.S.  Saudi Arabia  plans to boost oil production capacity to 15
million barrels a day by 2020, Prince Turki Al-Faisal said in a
speech at  Harvard University  today. The country pumped 9.3
million barrels last month and is able to reach 12 million
within 30 days, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  is scheduled to
 speak  at the Center for Strategic & International Studies later
today in Washington D.C. The kingdom is the largest member of
the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , which is due
to meet on May 31 in Vienna to review its output target.  WTI has technical support along its middle Bollinger Band,
around $92.75 a barrel today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Futures yesterday traded below this indicator before
settling above it for a third day. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  “It’s difficult to see where demand might come from in the
U.S.,” said  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney.
“Until we see a solid outlook for the economy, we can’t see any
change. Supply should adequately cover any increase in demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  