-- WTI Crude Rises on Optimism About Economic Stimulus
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-04-29T19:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/wti-crude-rises-on-optimism-about-economic-stimulus.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
to the highest level in more than two weeks as the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  approached a record on optimism that central
banks will maintain economic stimulus to bolster growth.  Futures climbed 1.6 percent as the majority of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predicted European Central Bank policy
makers will cut  interest rates  this week, while the Federal
Reserve Open Market Committee will consider renewing its
commitment to bond-buying at a two-day meeting starting
tomorrow. The  S&P 500  traded above its record closing level and
the euro climbed. WTI’s discount to Brent oil futures traded in
 London  narrowed to the least since January 2012.  “The markets are up on expectations that the FOMC will
continue with its stimulus program this week and the ECB will
finally cut rates and might announce further stimulus,” said
 John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York energy
hedge fund. “The WTI-Brent has come in a great deal and may
narrow even more in the days ahead.”  WTI oil for June delivery climbed $1.50 to $94.50 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since April 10. Trading was 13 percent below the 100-day average
for the time of day.  Brent crude  for June settlement rose 65 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $103.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract touched $103.94 in intraday
trading, a two-week high. Volume was 0.5 percent below the 100-
day average.  Narrowing Spread  The European benchmark grade traded at a premium of $9.31
to WTI, down from $10.16 on April 26. The spread narrowed to
$9.18 during trading, the least since Jan. 19, 2012.  Morgan Stanley is “skeptical” that the spread between WTI
and Brent can shrink on a sustained basis, the bank said in a
report e-mailed today. Any significant narrowing would be a
selling opportunity, it said.  Crude rose with equities on increasing home sales and
 consumer spending  in the U.S., the world’s leading oil user. The
National Association of Realtors said its index of pending
existing-home sales  rose  1.5 percent in March. Household
purchases climbed 0.2 percent in March after a 0.7 percent gain
the prior month, a Commerce Department report showed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  0.8 percent.  Joined Markets  “Equities and the crude market are pretty much joined at
the hip now,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities
research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “Stocks and the dollar are
the main movers of oil today, not anything specific to energy
markets.”  The euro strengthened as much as 0.7 percent against the
dollar on the Fed speculation and after Italian Prime Minister
Enrico Letta was sworn in yesterday, ending two months of
political deadlock. A stronger common currency bolsters the
appeal of raw materials denominated in the dollar as an
investment.  ECB policy makers will cut the  benchmark rate  to 0.5
percent from 0.75 percent when they meet May 2, according to the
majority of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “There’s not a fundamental hook for today’s move higher,”
said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in
New York. “Equities are higher, the Fed is expected to continue
its asset-purchasing program and the ECB may cut rates. These
are the factors supporting oil today, not supply and demand.”  Refinery Activity  Gasoline fell as refineries returned to service.  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Chalmette plant in Louisiana completed maintenance
on its fluid catalytic cracker.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said last week it
expects to bring the Richmond site in  California  to full rates
over the coming days.  Gasoline for May delivery dropped 0.74 cent to $2.8275 a
gallon in New York. The contract expires tomorrow. June futures
slipped 0.53 cent to $2.822.  “Crude is showing strength because of the prospect that
the Fed and ECB will take action to improve the economy,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Gasoline is showing weakness because
demand remains anemic and we’ve got refineries restarting units,
which will boost supply.”  Net-long positions  in WTI crude held by money managers,
including  hedge funds , commodity pools and commodity-trading
advisers, dropped in the week ended April 23, according to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s April 26 Commitments of
Traders report. They fell by 624 futures and options combined to
182,408, the CFTC report showed.  Bulls Retreat  Hedge funds and other money managers cut  bullish bets  on
Brent to their lowest level in four months, according to data
from ICE Futures Europe. Speculative bets that prices will rise,
in futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
99,127 lots in the week ended April 23, the Commitment of
Traders report showed. The drop of 8,973 contracts leaves so-
called net longs at their lowest level since Dec. 11.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
June was 21.8 percent, compared with 20.4 percent on April 26.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 398,893
contracts as of 2:43 p.m. It totaled 466,803 contracts April 26,
19 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.74
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  