-- Yankees Sweep Jays, Beat Both Cy Young Award Winners in April
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-29T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/yankees-sweep-jays-beat-both-cy-young-award-winners-in-april.html
The  New York Yankees  became the
fifth team in Major League Baseball history to beat both
reigning Cy Young Award winners in the same month, defeating
R.A. Dickey in yesterday’s 3-2 win over the Toronto Blue Jays to
complete a four-game series sweep.  Two of the four hits Dickey allowed over seven innings were
home runs, including a two-run shot by Lyle Overbay in the
bottom of the seventh that erased Toronto’s 2-1 lead at Yankee
Stadium. Dickey, a knuckleball pitcher, won the National League
Cy Young Award with the  New York Mets  last season before being
traded to Toronto during the offseason.  The Yankees five days earlier had beaten  David Price  of the
Tampa Bay Rays, the 2012 American League Cy Young winner.  Phil Hughes  was the starting pitcher for the Yankees in both wins
against the reigning Cy Young winners and allowed two runs over
six innings yesterday, with nine strikeouts.  Boone Logan picked up the win in relief, while  Mariano Rivera  pitched a scoreless ninth inning for his ninth save this
month, his most in April over his 19-year career. The Yankees
have a 9-1 record this season in games decided by two runs or
fewer and are now 15-9 overall. Toronto fell to 9-17.  The Boston Red Sox matched a franchise record with their
18th win in April, beating the Houston Astros 6-1 yesterday to
improve to 18-7. Red Sox pitcher  John Lackey  allowed one run
over six innings in his return from the disabled list.  The Philadelphia Phillies completed a three-game sweep of
the New York Mets with a 5-1 win yesterday at Citi Field.  Ryan Howard  snapped a 1-1 tie with a pinch-hit two-run
double in the seventh inning and  Cole Hamels  allowed two hits
and one run over six innings for his first win of the season.  The Minnesota Twins, Pittsburgh Pirates and Los Angeles
Dodgers all had shutout wins yesterday, with the Twins beating
the Texas Rangers 5-0, the Pirates topping the St. Louis
Cardinals 9-0; and the Dodgers blanking the Milwaukee Brewers
2-0. The Kansas City Royals shut out the Cleveland Indians 9-0
in the first game of a doubleheader before losing the second
game 10-3.  In yesterday’s other MLB results, it was the Miami Marlins
6, the Chicago Cubs 4; the Rays 8, the Chicago White Sox 3; the
Detroit Tigers 8, the Atlanta Braves 3; the Arizona Diamondbacks
4, the Colorado Rockies 2; the San Diego Padres 6, the San
Francisco Giants 4; the Seattle Mariners 2, the Los Angeles
Angels 2-1; the Cincinnati Reds 5, the Washington Nationals 5-2,
and the Oakland Athletics 9, the Baltimore Orioles 8 in 10
innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  