-- Zimbabwe to Take Impala Platinum Unit Land Even as Talks Proceed
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-04-29T08:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-29/zimbabwe-to-take-impala-platinum-unit-land-even-as-talks-proceed.html
Zimbabwe  has no intention of
stopping the acquisition of land from Zimplats Ltd. even as the
appeal by the country’s biggest platinum producer against the
plan is discussed, Mines Secretary Prince Mupazviriho said.  “It’s an issue that’s under discussion,” he said by phone
today. “This is a procedural issue, that’s why we gazetted the
issue to say if anyone has concerns or an objection it can be
raised, but this doesn’t mean we will stop the acquisition of
the land.”  The southern African nation’s government on March 1 gave
Zimplats 30 days to appeal a decree that the country would seize
27,498 hectares (67,949 acres) of the company’s land. In the
April 26 edition of the gazette, published today, the government
said the nation “intends to acquire compulsorily” part of the
land held by Zimplats, which is 87 percent owned by  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s biggest producer of the
metal after  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)   Zimplats is in talks with the government, Chief Executive
Officer Alex Mhembere said by e-mail today.  Zimbabwe, which has the world’s biggest platinum reserves
after  South Africa , is preparing a law allowing it to seize
controlling stakes in companies without compensation, according
to a draft of the legislation obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The law would be an amendment to a 2007 act that compels
foreign and white-owned companies such as Rio Tinto Group,
Sinosteel Corp. and Impala to sell or cede 51 percent of their
shares to black nationals or state-approved agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  