-- Australia Regulator to Check Report on Echo Chairman Comment
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-13T07:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/australia-regulator-will-look-into-reported-comments-by-echo-ceo.html
Australia ’s competition regulator
will look into a newspaper report that  Crown Ltd. (CWN) , the gaming
company controlled by billionaire  James Packer , sought a pact
with a rival over plans to develop a Sydney casino.  The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said it
will consider the issue after the Australian Financial Review
newspaper quoted  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)  Chairman John O’Neill as saying Packer pledged not to expand into Brisbane if
Echo withheld objections to Crown’s plan for a A$1.3 billion
($1.2 billion) project in Sydney. Crown said Packer refutes the
allegation.  “We will always consider matters that raise issues such as
are alleged in the article,” ACCC spokesman Duncan Harrod said
today in an e-mailed statement. “The ACCC does not ordinarily
comment on matters it may or may not be investigating,” he
said. Harrod said by phone he could not comment on whether the
regulator would open an inquiry.  Melbourne-based Crown on July 4 won approval to submit its
plan for a hotel and casino tower west of Sydney’s main business
district to the third stage of a government approval process,
beating a rival proposal made by Echo. Final approval for Crown
would strip Echo of its exclusive right to operate Sydney’s only
casino after 2019, forcing it to compete for the dollars of
high-rolling Asian gamblers.  “Mr. Packer refutes the claims made by Echo, saying they
are untrue,” Crown said today in an e-mailed statement. Echo
Entertainment spokeswoman Michelle Pillonel declined to comment.  Crown’s planned project, at the Barangaroo development
facing Echo’s Star casino across a stretch of Sydney Harbour,
would be its first site in the nation’s biggest city, after
resorts in  Melbourne  and the West Australian capital of Perth.  The two companies are considering expansion in Queensland’s
capital city Brisbane, where Echo already operates a casino.
Acting Queensland Premier Jeff Seeney has urged both to hold
talks with state officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  