-- Canada Dollar Rises Most in a Year as Fed Retains Stimulus Plan
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-13T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/canada-dollar-rises-most-in-a-year-as-fed-retains-stimulus-plan.html
The Canadian dollar had its biggest
weekly gain since December 2011 as  Federal Reserve  meeting
minutes showed policy makers want more evidence of sustained
jobs growth before winding down a bond-buying program.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, reached the
strongest level in three weeks after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the  U.S. economy  still isn’t strong enough to do
without monetary stimulus. Crude oil, the nation’s largest
export, reached a 15-month high.  Canada ’s dollar touched its
weakest point in almost two years last week on indications the
nation’s economy trails its U.S. peer before the  Bank of Canada 
meets July 17 and is forecast to maintain its 1 percent
benchmark interest-rate target.  “It’s not a Canadian dollar story, it’s obviously the
Federal Reserve,” said Eimear Daly, a currency-market analyst
at Monex Europe Ltd., by phone from  London . “Saying that
they’re going to keep policy really, really stimulative and
they’re not going to end it early is going to support the
Canadian dollar as a risk asset.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, rose 1.8
percent this week to C$1.0395 per U.S. dollar, the biggest
weekly gain since December 2011. One loonie buys 96.20 U.S.
cents.  Aussie Down  Canada’s currency reached an almost three-year high versus
its Australian counterpart on speculation  China , the South
Pacific nation’s largest trade partner, may tolerate a slower
pace of expansion than officials previously indicated.  The loonie added 2 percent and touched C$1.0690, the
highest level since August 2010, after Chinese Finance Minister
 Lou Jiwei  said a 6.5 percent economic-growth rate wouldn’t be a
“big problem,” compared with an official target of 7.5 percent.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  increased  their
bets the Canadian dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers on a
decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain --
so-called net shorts -- was 23,829 on July 9, compared with net
shorts of 16,250 a week earlier.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  bond  rose, with yields falling
12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 2.43 percent,
after borrowing costs reached a two-year high last week. The 1.5
percent security maturing in June 2023 added 99 cents to
C$91.87.  The Bank of Canada will provide more details on July 18
about a two-year debt sale scheduled for July 24.  Yield Difference  U.S. debt  maintained an interest-rate advantage compared
with Canadian counterparts on stronger economic growth
prospects.  The  yield advantage  of U.S. 10-year notes to Canadian
government debt was 15 basis points, compared with a 19-basis-point difference on July 5 that was the highest since 2011. The
Canadian yield exceeded its U.S. peer as recently as May 16.  “I think it just provides an opportunity to get long U.S.
dollar once again,” said  David Watt , chief economist at the
Canadian unit of HSBC Holding Plc., by phone from Toronto. “The
violent move is primarily a reaction to Bernanke’s statement on
still needing policy very accommodative.”  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 2.9
percent to $106.24 per barrel in  New York  while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks rose 3 percent.  Central Bank  Traders are pricing in less than two basis points of
tightening by next week’s Bank of Canada meeting, or a 5.8
percent chance of a 25 basis points rate increase, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index swaps. Governor
Stephen Poloz will also deliver his first monetary policy report
since taking up the role June 3.  Canada’s annualized  inflation rate  has stayed almost the
bottom of the central bank’s 1 to 3 percent target band. Prices
rose 1.2 year-over-year in June, according to the median
estimate of a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists before
 Statistics Canada  reports on July 19.  The loonie rallied to C$1.0326 per U.S. dollar on July 11,
the strongest since June 20, after Fed Chairman Bernanke said
the day before, “highly accommodative monetary policy for the
foreseeable future is what’s needed in the U.S. economy,” in
response to a question after a speech in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  Earlier that day, the Fed released minutes of the  Federal
Open Market Committee ’s June 18-19 policy meeting at which many
officials indicated they want to see more signs employment is
picking up before they’ll begin scaling back $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases.  Fed Watch  “With the severe Fed-induced retracement that we’ve seen
this week, the question becomes whether this is the start of a
bigger pullback or another buying opportunity?” wrote Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, in a note
to clients July 12. “In our view, the latter looks more likely
since the Fed remarks do not change the bigger picture. Overall,
we don’t see this retracement extending much further, so we look
to buy this dip.”  The Canadian dollar fell to C$1.0609 per  U.S. dollar  on
July 5, its lowest point since October 2011, as stronger-than-forecast U.S. job growth prompted speculation the Fed will start
winding down monetary stimulus this year.  The currency will end the year at C$1.04, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  