-- China to Promote Technology, Energy-Saving in Restructuring Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-13T04:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/china-to-promote-technology-energy-saving-in-restructuring-push.html
China  plans to boost technology and
speed up the development of less energy-intensive and polluting
industries as part of a drive to upgrade the structure of the
economy and shift  growth (CNGDPYOY)  toward domestic demand.  Private investment in the telecommunications industry will
be encouraged and the construction and upgrading of Internet and
communications infrastructure will be accelerated, according to
a statement late yesterday on the central government website
after a meeting of the  State Council , China’s cabinet. The
government will also push to issue 4G wireless licenses by the
end of this year, it said.  Growth in the world’s second-largest economy probably eased
to 7.5 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 45
analysts before data due July 15. Premier  Li Keqiang  said this
week the country must focus on promoting restructuring and
pursuing reforms to help unleash the economy’s potential.  Since he took office in March, Li has pledged to cut the
government’s role in the economy and open state-dominated
industries to private investment. Yesterday’s State Council
statement called for the  government  and markets to jointly
develop the technology and energy-saving industries.  The construction of major energy-saving projects will be
accelerated and more money will be channeled from the central
budget to support them, according to the statement. The
participation of private capital will also be encouraged, it
said.  Government and public transport companies should take the
lead in expanding the use of new-energy vehicles, according to
the statement.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 emailtv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  