-- Damage From Boeing 787 Fire Not Tied to Battery: U.K.
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-13T19:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/damage-from-boeing-787-fire-not-tied-to-battery-u-k-.html
A fire on board a  Boeing Co. (BA)  787
Dreamliner parked at  London ’s Heathrow airport yesterday doesn’t
appear to be related to the battery system malfunction that
grounded the long-haul aircraft fleet earlier this year, a U.K.
regulator said today.  “At this stage, there is no evidence of a direct causal
relationship,” the Air Accidents Investigation Branch said in a
 statement  today on its website.  Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise, the plane’s operator, said
it’s still flying its three other 787s while awaiting the
results of the probe led by the AAIB, the investigations unit of
the U.K.’s aviation regulator. Boeing, in an e-mailed statement,
said it has a team on the ground at Heathrow and that any future
information related to the probe will either come from or be
approved by the AAIB.  Yesterday’s incident renewed safety concerns about the
Dreamliner and is a blow to Chicago-based Boeing as it tries to
restore confidence in the 787, which was grounded worldwide in
January after the melting of  lithium-ion batteries  on two of the
planes. The  stock  had its biggest drop in two years yesterday.  “It’s a dodged bullet, but there are plenty of other ways
to get injured,” said  Richard Aboulafia , an aerospace analyst
with Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based consultant. While no
one was on board the Ethiopian Airlines 787 and there were no
injuries, investigators haven’t determined what caused the fire
and it potentially opens to review other systems in Boeing’s
newest and most technologically-advanced aircraft.  Rear Fuselage Damage  The U.K. agency said its probe will likely take several
days and that in addition to Boeing, it has invited the
participation of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board,
the  Federal Aviation Administration , Ethiopian civil aviation
authorities and the airline. The U.K. Civil Aviation Authority
and the European Aviation Safety Agency were also invited.  The Dreamliner sustained “extensive heat damage in the
upper portion of the rear fuselage, a complex part of the
aircraft,” the AAIB said. The plane is currently being housed
in a hangar at Heathrow.  Robert Mann , an aviation consultant in  Port Washington , New
York, said repairing the damage will be complicated, if it is
even repairable. “Every current and prospective operator will
be looking at the outcome,” he said in an e-mail.  Operating as Scheduled  Chicago-based  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the only
U.S. carrier to fly the Dreamliner, and Japanese airline  ANA
Holdings (9202)  said today they were operating their 787 aircraft as
scheduled.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) ’s charter arm Thomson Airways Ltd. said one
of its 787s turned back to Manchester, England, yesterday
because of an unspecified fault after it left for Orlando
Sanford International Airport in Florida. That same flight took
off on schedule today, said John Greenway, an airport official in
Manchester.  While a “small number” of components was replaced,
Thomson isn’t disclosing details, Marc Heley, a spokesman for
the company, said in an e-mailed statement. The company’s two
other 787s were scheduled to fly from London’s Gatwick Airport,
according to the statement.  Boeing slid 4.7 percent to $101.87 at yesterday’s close in
New York, the biggest daily decline since Aug. 18, 2011. Earlier
in the day, before news of the fire, the  stock  reached an
intraday record high of $108.15. The shares have risen 35
percent this year, as the  Standard & Poor’s 500  gained 18
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  