-- Dollar Slides on Bernanke’s Outlook for Stimulus; Yen Advances
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-13T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/dollar-slides-on-bernanke-s-outlook-for-stimulus-yen-advances.html
The dollar fell for the first time
in four weeks versus the euro after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the economy still requires stimulus to bolster
growth, upending trades that bet on less monetary easing.  Emerging-market currencies from South Africa’s rand to
Mexico’s peso rallied on bets the Fed will sustain global
liquidity. The greenback’s losses were tempered by speculation
U.S. bond buying may still start to slow this year. The yen rose
as the  Bank of Japan  refrained from adding additional stimulus.
Bernanke is scheduled to testify to Congress next week.  “There is one big story and that is, of course,
Bernanke,”  Marc Chandler , chief currency strategist at  Brown
Brothers  Harriman & Co. in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “The market was clearly leaning on the weak foreign
currency, strong U.S.-dollar side, and Bernanke’s comments gave
markets pause.”  The dollar slid 1.8 percent this week in New York to
$1.3067 per euro, the biggest decline since the five days ended
Jan. 11. It dropped 2 percent to 99.22 yen, the first weekly
loss since June 14. The euro slipped 0.1 percent to 129.66 yen.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, fell 1.6 percent to
1,037.637, the largest drop in more than a month.  Norway’s krone and the South African rand were the biggest
winners this week among the U.S. currency’s 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. The krone climbed 3.1
percent, and the rand rallied 2.2 percent. Mexico’s peso
advanced 2 percent. Australia’s dollar and the Brazilian real
were the worst performers, with the Aussie declining 0.2 percent
and the real falling 0.7 percent.  BOJ Assessment  The yen rose against most major peers as the BOJ increased
its assessment of the economy by referring to a recovery for the
first time since before an earthquake in March 2011. Policy
makers stuck with their pledge to expand the monetary base by 60
trillion yen ($605 billion) to 70 trillion yen per year and said
the economy was starting to improve moderately.  The dollar advanced against the euro for the past three
weeks amid speculation the Fed will begin reducing its
unprecedented monetary stimulus amid improvement in the economy.  The centra1 bank buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage debt each month to put downward pressure on borrowing
costs. The purchases tend to devalue the U.S. currency. Bernanke
told reporters June 19 after a Fed meeting the buying may be
pared this year and ended in 2014 if growth meets Fed forecasts.  ‘Highly Accommodative’  The greenback dropped the most since January against the
euro on July 10 after the Fed chief said in a question-answer
session following a speech in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , that
“highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy .”  U.S.  unemployment , at 7.6 percent, hasn’t been below 7
percent since November 2008. The  consumer price index  is
forecast to end the year at 1.5 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The Fed’s inflation target is 2 percent.  Bernanke is scheduled to deliver his semi-annual monetary
policy report to Congress next week, starting July 17 at the
House Financial Services Committee.  “Given that Bernanke’s comments rattled the market a
couple times now in a short period of time, I think many traders
are going to be loath to take significant positions ahead of
that,” said Chandler of Brown Brothers.  Too Aggressive  Markets have been pricing in a tapering of purchases too
aggressively because U.S. economic weakness is likely to
continue through the third quarter, lower inflationary data may
persist and reducing monetary stimulus may be left to another
Fed chairman, Chandler said. Bernanke’s term expires in January.  Futures traders increased wagers that the dollar would
rally against its major peers to a net $27.7 billion for the
week ended July 9, the most since June 4, according to Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data compiled by Societe Generale SA.  “The moves this week were particularly fierce and lot of
people who were long dollar were wounded,” Brian Daingerfield,
a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit, said by phone from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Long
positions are bets an asset will rise in value. “People still
want to be long dollar and want to own dollars, but positioning
and liquidity and the comments from Bernanke have made the
market quite choppy.”  Australia ’s currency slid below 90 U.S. cents for the first
time since September 2010 as traders bet the central bank will
cut  interest rates  next month from a record low.  Chinese Economy  The Aussie dollar also weakened amid concern that economic
growth in  China , Australia’s biggest trade partner, is flagging.
China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.5 percent in the
second quarter, down from 7.7 percent in the first, a Bloomberg
survey forecast before the nation reports the figure July 14.  The “Chinese data is getting a lot of attention,” RBS’s
Daingerfield said. “I’d be surprised if people would try to put
on risk going into the weekend given the Chinese release.”  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 66
percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut its 2.75
percent benchmark  rate  to 2.5 percent at its meeting on Aug. 6.  The Aussie declined 0.2 percent to 90.90.49 U.S. cents and
touched 89.99 cents.  The euro pared an advance against the dollar this week as
 France  was downgraded and political turmoil in  Portugal  grew.  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday it cut France’s credit rating
by one step to AA+ from AAA, joining Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s  in removing France from the shrinking club
of top-rated governments.  Portugal President Anibal Cavaco Silva said early elections
were undesirable and urged the ruling coalition parties and main
opposition to reach a “national salvation” pact.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged this
month to keep borrowing costs low for an extended period. The
ECB’s benchmark interest rate is a  record-low  0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  