-- Texas Abortion Bill Targeting Clinics Sent to Perry
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-13T05:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/texas-abortion-bill-targeting-clinics-sent-to-perry.html
A bill that critics say would force
most  Texas  abortion clinics to close moved to GovernorRick Perry after Democrats failed to block a Senate vote and in spite
of the biggest political protests at the capitol in decades.  The Senate backed the measure 19-11 early today after more
than nine hours of debate. Perry, 63, supports the bill, which
the Republican-led  House of Representatives  already approved.  The legislation bans abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy
and requires the state’s 42 abortion clinics to meet standards
similar to those for outpatient surgical centers. Texas is the
largest and most-populous state to pass such rules, part of a
widening thrust by abortion opponents and Republican lawmakers
nationwide to enact requirements that opponents say are too
expensive or logistically impossible to meet.  “No one wants an abortion but until you’ve walked in their
shoes, you can’t understand how difficult your legislation is
going to make that procedure” for some women, said Senator John Whitmire, a Houston Democrat. “I really hope we understand the
seriousness of what we are debating today.”  During debate on the measure, more than 40 state troopers
stood in the Senate visitor gallery after Lieutenant Governor
David Dewhurst, a Republican whose duty is to preside over the
chamber, warned that unruly behavior would lead to ejections.  Protesters Ejected  After several opponents of the bill were taken out,
including one woman who chained herself to a railing and another
who screamed: “this bill has been a farce,” Dewhurst said he
would have the gallery cleared if there were further outbursts.  In recent years, similar laws have been blamed for clinic
closings in  Virginia  and  Pennsylvania . This week, North Carolina
lawmakers considered a measure that would give state health
officials the power to impose similar requirements.  The Texas bill also would require abortion doctors obtain
admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles (50
kilometers). Most clinics would have to alter facilities to meet
the surgical-center standards, which abortion-rights advocates
say they can’t afford. Doctors at other clinics may struggle to
win admitting privileges.  Debate over the measure drew national attention last month
after Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat, tried to block
a vote on it by speaking for more than 11 hours and running down
the clock on a 30-day special session.  Raucous Debate  In the galleries, grounds and hallways of the capitol,
abortion-rights supporters regularly outnumbered those who
backed the measure during that debate. Opponents of the bill
jeered Republicans and made so much noise in the Senate chamber
during the final hours of last month’s session that they helped
Davis prevent the measure from passing before time ran out.  Perry, in a June 27 statement, described the bill as a
“human rights issue” and said he reconvened the legislature
for the current session because passing it was too important
“to allow the unruly actions of a few to stand in its way.”  Former Republican presidential candidates  Mike Huckabee  and
 Rick Santorum  and Planned Parenthood President  Cecile Richards 
came to Texas to lobby lawmakers over the bill.  “How would God vote if he were here,” Senator Dan Patrick, a Houston Republican, said during today’s debate,
adding that he was voting for the bill to protect unborn
children. The comment drew a rebuke from Whitmire, who said
Patrick “crossed the line” by questioning the faith of others.  Abortion-rights advocates said the rules were an effort to
shut down the state’s abortion clinics and curb a woman’s right
to choose in Texas. Supporters described the new requirements as
improving health care.  Patient Concerns  The abortion industry “doesn’t play by the rules,” said
Senator Robert Deuell, a Greenville Republican and a doctor with
a family practice. For those pregnant women deemed
“unsophisticated patients” because of a lack of education,
Deuell said, “It’s up to us to take care of them.”  Deuell cited the murder case of Philadelphia abortion
doctor Kermit Gosnell in explaining his support for stricter
safety standards. Gosnell was convicted in May of killing three
infants during illegal third-trimester procedures and was
sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.  The Republican-dominated House and Senate held hearings
over the past 10 days, including taking testimony from more than
300 witnesses -- far fewer than sought to testify -- and twice
stretched late into the night. Thousands of activists attended
rallies at the capitol, the largest that lawmakers said they
could remember in decades.  Chanting Protesters  Chanting by hundreds of abortion-rights advocates wearing
orange shirts echoed through the Senate as Republicans blocked
more than a dozen proposed amendments that would have slowed
progress to a vote on the bill in the chamber, where Democrats
are in the minority.  Officers  discovered  18 jars suspected to contain feces and
one believed to hold urine, as well as three bottles containing
what looked like paint, carried by people seeking to enter the
gallery, the state Public Safety Department said in a statement.
Those items, plus feminine hygiene products such as tampons, had
to be discarded before visitors were allowed into the chamber.  The bill headed for Perry’s desk would continue Texas’s
decade-old efforts to reduce abortions, Dewhurst said at a July
11 news briefing.  “This sends the signal we care about women’s health and
the unborn,” Dewhurst said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  