-- Woods Is ’Confident’ Elbow Injury Won’t Impact British Open Play
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-14T04:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/tiger-woods-confident-elbow-won-t-be-problem-at-british-open.html
Tiger Woods said he’s “confident”
that his recent elbow injury won’t bother him at this week’s
British Open.  Woods, No. 1 in the Official World Golf Ranking, said on
his  website  he doesn’t think the injury sustained at last
month’s U.S. Open will be an issue when golf’s oldest major
championship begins at Muirfield in  Scotland  on July 18.  “I started chipping and putting a little over a week ago
and I’m full go for the British Open,” Woods said. “I’m very
confident that my left elbow strain won’t be a problem and I
will be able to hit all the shots I need to hit.”  Woods, a 14-time major winner, finished 13-over-par and 12
shots behind winner Justin Rose at last month’s U.S. Open. He
then missed the U.S. PGA Tour’s AT&T National tournament at the
end of June because of his elbow.  “That’s why I took the time off, so it could heal, and I
would feel comfortable playing again,” Woods said. “I’m still
taking anti-inflammatory medication for my elbow and getting
treatment, but the big thing at Muirfield Golf Club will be to
avoid the rough.”  Woods has not won a major championship since the 2008 U.S.
Open. He has four victories on the PGA Tour this season and
leads the money list with more than $5.9 million in winnings.  “Although I have been playing every day, I also have to
get back into a competitive feel,” Woods said. “The practice
rounds are going to be important for how that particular golf
course is playing. Whether we’re going to need to hit the ball
higher or lower, what the conditions are and what the weather is
going to be. It’s a little different than  Florida .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 