-- Boko Haram Denies Cease-Fire With Nigerian Government
-- B y   A r d o   H a z z a d   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-07-13T17:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/nigeria-s-boko-haram-denies-cease-fire.html
The leader of the Nigerian Islamist
militant group Boko Haram denied that it entered into a cease-fire agreement with the government and endorsed an attack last
week on a school in northeast Yobe state.  Abubakar Shekau, in a video message sent to reporters
today, denied claims by Nigerian Minister of Special Duties
Kabiru Turaki this week that a cease-fire was reached on July 8
after talks with the group’s deputy leader, Mohammed Marwan.  “Let me assure you that we will not enter into any truce
with these infidels,” Shekau said. “We will not enter into any
truce with the Nigerian government.”  Boko Haram, whose name means “western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language, has killed thousands of people in gun and
bomb attacks since 2009 in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja in
its campaign to establish an Islamic state in  Africa ’s largest
oil producer.  Nigeria ’s more than 160 million people are roughly
split between Christians, predominant in the south, and Muslims,
mostly in the north.  The purported cease-fire came in effect two days after 20
students and a teacher were killed in an attack on a secondary
school in the northeastern state of Yobe. Eli Lazarus, a
spokesman for the joint military and police task force in Yobe,
said the attack was probably carried out by Boko Haram.  “We believe in the massacre inflicted on the secondary
school in Mamudo and Damaturu and other schools; we earlier
warned that we are going to burn all schools,” Shekau said.
“They are schools purposely built to fight Islam.”  Military Offensive  While Boko Haram doesn’t attack “children and young girls
or old women,” he said, “teachers that teach Western
education, we are supposed to kill them in the presence of their
students.”  The military began an air and ground offensive against Boko
Haram on May 16, two days after President Goodluck Jonathan
imposed emergency rule in the northeastern states of Borno, Yobe
and Adamawa to step up the fight against the Islamist militants.
The insurgents were taking over parts of Borno state, according
to Jonathan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  