-- Housing Rebound Drives Caesarstone Jump: Israel Overnight
-- B y   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-07-13T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/housing-rebound-drives-caesarstone-jump-israel-overnight.html
The strongest U.S. housing market
since 2008 is bolstering  Caesarstone Sdot Yam Ltd. (CSTE) ’s earnings as
the maker of quartz countertops leads this year’s gains among
Israeli companies in New York.  Shares of Caesarstone jumped 6.1 percent to $29.23 last
week, extending this year’s rally to 83 percent. The Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index posted a third weekly advance, led by
 Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)   EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  closed at the
widest  premium  for dual-listed companies.  ClickSoftware (CKSW) 
Technologies Ltd., the software maker that counts  George Soros ’s
Soros Fund Management as its second-biggest investor, tumbled 15
percent as profit and sales trailed projections.  The housing revival in the U.S., Caesarstone’s fastest-growing market and the second-biggest source of sales after
Australia, is bolstering the outlook for profit after net income
doubled last year, according to Barclays Plc’s Stephen Kim, the
most accurate analyst on the stock. After sales of new U.S.
homes climbed more than forecast in May to the highest level
since July 2008, the Israeli company will report the highest
 revenue  in at least six years, according to the average of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve got some very nice earnings growth at the
company,” Kim, who rates Caesarstone the equivalent of buy,
said by phone from  New York . “This has been a product story and
behind that, it also has the benefit of U.S. residential
improving. This is a name that we are favorably disposed to.”  Kim is ranked first among seven  analysts  who cover
Caesarstone after his recommendations delivered the best
relative returns based on the performance of all securities
covered over the past year.  Caesarstone’s Valuation  The Bloomberg Israel-US advanced 2.2 percent to 93.82 last
week. Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  gained 1.6 percent to
1,214.52, extending this year’s increase to 2.4 percent.  Caesarstone capped the biggest weekly jump since May 17 to
trade at 23 times reported  earnings , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That exceeds the price-earnings-ratio of 17 for
the measure of the biggest Israeli companies in New York, while
trailing the average valuation of 31 for its global peers.  Cellcom,  Israel ’s largest mobile phone provider, jumped 7.9
percent to $9.76 for the biggest weekly rally in two months. Its
Tel Aviv stock climbed 5.1 percent to 34.99 shekels, or $9.72.  EZchip, based in Yokneam, Israel, rallied 3 percent for the
week to $28, trading at a 3.2 percent premium over its Tel Aviv
shares.  ClickSoftware posted the biggest weekly retreat since April
2012, closing at $7.19. The Petach Tikva, Israel-based company
said July 8 that its second-quarter loss was as much as 8 cents
a share on revenue of about $24.5 million, below analysts’
estimates, as more customers buy software that runs over the
Internet instead of being installed in users’ computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  