-- Treasuries Rise Most in Year on Bets Stimulus to Continue
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-07-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/treasuries-rise-most-in-year-on-bets-stimulus-to-continue.html
Treasuries rallied the most in more
than a year after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
soothed investor concern the central bank is close to ending its
bond-buying program by saying stimulus will remain
accommodative.  Thirty-year bond  yields  fell the most on a weekly basis
since April as bidding at this week’s U.S. Treasury debt
auctions suggested that the exodus from  government bonds 
triggered last month by the Fed’s outlining of an ending to
quantitative easing is slowing. U.S.  10-year yields  climbed 36
basis points in June when Bernanke said the Fed was prepared to
start tapering this year if the economy improved. He delivers
his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress next week.  “Bernanke went out of his way to comfort and convince the
markets that a reduction in QE is by no means to be regarded as
a financial tightening,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who
oversees $2.1 billion as chief investment officer at United
Nations Federal Credit Union in  New York . “There remains some
uncertainty, but the market has been reassured for now that
easing remains highly conditional.”  The U.S.  10-year yield  fell 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage points, to 2.58 percent on the week, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the biggest five-day drop
since the period ended June 1, 2012. The 1.75 percent note due
May 2023 rose 1 9/32, or $12.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 92
25/32.  Yields on  30-year bonds  dropped nine basis points on the
week to 3.63 percent, the biggest five-day drop since the period
ending April 5.  Portugal, France  Treasuries also rose as investors fled Portuguese 10-year
bonds amid a parliamentary debate about the state of the nation
that added to concern the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis
may be flaring up again. President Anibal Cavaco Silva said on
July 9 that early elections were undesirable and urged the
ruling coalition parties and the main opposition to reach a
“national salvation” pact allowing  Portugal  to complete its
aid program.  Treasuries remained higher yesterday after  France ’s credit
ranking was cut by one step to AA+ from AAA, Fitch said, joining
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  in removing
France from the shrinking club of top-rated governments. The
outlook is stable.  “There’s pressure on Portugal, which is significantly
higher in yields,” said Dan Mulholland, head of Treasury
trading at BNY Mellon Capital Markets in New York. As for the
downgrade, “especially on a Friday, it catches people’s
attention.”  Cheapest Level  Treasuries due in a decade or more are at almost the
cheapest level in more than two years relative to global peers
with comparable maturities, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Yields on  U.S. debt  were 81 basis points higher
than those in an index of other sovereign debt on July 11. The
yields were 86 basis points higher on July 10, the most since
March 2011.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures to the most
since March in the week ending July 9, according to U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. Speculative short
positions, or bets prices will fall, outnumbered long positions
by 47,110 contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade. Net-short
positions rose by 24,193 contracts, or 106 percent, from a week
earlier.  Auction Demand  Investors bid an average of $2.89 for each $1 of the $66
billion in three-, 10- and 30-year securities auctioned over
three days starting July 9. The bid-to-cover ratio was 2.71 for
$99 billion of two-, five- and seven-year notes sold in the
three days ended June 27, the first auctions to follow
Bernanke’s June 19 comments on tapering.  The  U.S. Treasury  Department asked the 21 primary dealers
that trade government debt directly with the Fed to discuss
supply-and-demand dynamics in the market for Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities. They will meet July 25-26, after the U.S.
sells $15 billion in 10-year TIPS on July 18.  TIPS are the worst-performing part of the U.S. government
debt market this year, with securities due in 10 years and
longer falling 15 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Ten-year notes fell 5.6 percent, the data show.  Bernanke told reporters on June 19 the Fed may begin to
slow its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases this year and end
them in 2014 if economic growth meets policy makers’ goals. The
purchases have increased the Fed’s  balance sheet  to a record
$3.5 trillion.  Easing End  Treasuries erased gains yesterday after Fed Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser , who has opposed the
Fed’s current round of asset purchases, said the central bank
should begin reducing its monthly bond buying in September and
end the stimulus by year-end.  “The U.S. bond market has been able to find some support
as markets are significantly cheaper than they were two months
ago and the Fed has been able to arrest the rise in yield,”
Donald Ellenberger, who oversees about $10 billion as co-head of
government and mortgage-backed securities at Federated Investors
in Pittsburgh, said in a telephone interview. “It’s clear the
Fed has rung the bell and the beginning of the end of easing is
upon us, but it’s still a little ways down the road.”  Thirty-day federal funds futures contracts for delivery in
May 2015 yielded 0.55 percent, indicating investors expect the
Fed target to be higher by then. As recently as July 5, the
securities for delivery in February 2015 were indicating an
increase in the Fed target. The contract settles at the average
overnight fed funds rate for the delivery month.  Fed Rate  The Fed has kept its target for overnight bank lending in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. It has said
it will consider raising the  target  when the  unemployment rate 
falls to 6.5 percent, versus 7.6 percent as of June.  Even with the week’s rally, Treasury 10-year notes are
signaling further weakness, according to Bank of America Corp.
citing technical analysis.  A 10-year yield break above 2.62 percent will signal a rise
to as high as 2.95 percent, according to  MacNeil Curry , chief
rates and currencies technical strategist in New York at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  “We are still in a pretty decent bear trend,” Curry said
in a telephone interview. “We’ve taken a pause, but the
momentum points to higher yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  