-- Rudd Pledges Focus on Asylum Seeker Boats as Infant Drowns
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-13T07:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/rudd-pledges-focus-on-asylum-seeker-boats-as-infant-drowns.html
Australia will prioritize work to
stem the flow of asylum seekers attempting to reach the country
by sea, Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  said today, after an infant
drowned in the second incident this week involving boats bound
from Indonesia.  The body of a boy less than a year old was recovered as 88
people were rescued from a vessel that began to sink yesterday
off Australia’s coast, north of Christmas Island, Home Affairs
Minister Jason Clare told a press conference in Sydney today.
Search crews, including Australia’s Navy, are attempting to
locate some eight people still missing.  “This tragedy underlines the absolute importance for
Australia to continue to adjust its policies to meet changing
circumstances in the region and in the world when it comes to
border security,” Rudd told reporters in Brisbane.  Suspected asylum seekers from countries including  Iran ,
 Afghanistan  and  Sri Lanka  were among the 97 people aboard the
vessel, which began to take on water on yesterday, Clare said.
Australian authorities a day earlier intercepted a boat carrying
197 asylum seekers after it ran into difficulties.  Rudd, who last month ousted  Julia Gillard  to return as
prime minister, is seeking to tackle voter discontent over the
government’s inability to stem the flow of asylum seekers ahead
of a national election that must be held by November. That
failure has helped erode voter support for Rudd’s ruling  Labor
party , with opposition leader  Tony Abbott  pledging to “stop the
boats.”  Death Trips  From 2002 to 2004, 69 refugees sailed to Australia on three
boats, while last year 17,202 arrived on 278 vessels, according
to figures from the Refugee Council. Since October 2009, 805
asylum seekers have died attempting to reach Australia,
according to the Department of Immigration.  Indonesia’s President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said he will
host a meeting of officials from nations including Thailand,
Malaysia, Afghanistan, Iran and Myanmar on the issue after talks
with Rudd. The Australian leader is seeking a halt to departures
from those countries before asylum seekers embark on journeys
that typically culminate in paying people-smugglers in Indonesia
for a place on a boat.  “Our response in terms of elevating the work we do
cooperatively with the Indonesians and others is now urgent,”
Rudd said today. He called the issue “an absolute priority for
me, an absolute priority for the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  