-- U.K. to Grow 1.1% on Consumer-Spending Growth
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-07-15T06:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/u-k-to-grow-1-1-on-consumer-spending-growth-item-club-to-say.html
Britain’s economy will grow faster
this year than previously forecast as consumers cut into savings
to keep spending, according to the Ernst & Young Item Club.  The U.K. economy will expand 1.1 percent this year,
compared with an April forecast of 0.6 percent, the London-based
group said in a report to be published tomorrow. Growth will
strengthen to 2.2 percent next year and 2.6 percent in 2015,
both faster than previous estimates, it said.  Consumer spending  will pick up as Britons save less, and a
revival in housing and global growth will help support the
recovery this year. New Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  has
also taken steps to help the economy, saying last week that
 interest rates  will remain low for longer than investors
anticipated.  “It’s looking much more positive,” said  Peter Spencer ,
chief economic adviser to the Item Club. “Spending on the high
street is holding up nicely, housing-market transactions are
beginning to gather pace and, perhaps most significantly, the
global economy also appears to be on the mend.”  Consumer spending will rise 1.6 percent this year as the
savings ratio drops to 5.6 percent from 6.3 percent.  Inflation (UKRPCJYR) 
will average 2.8 percent this year before slowing to 2.2 percent
in 2014 and 2015, still above the central bank’s 2 percent
target.  House Prices  In a separate report today, Rightmove Plc said home sellers
raised  asking prices  for a seventh month to a record in July.
Prices sought rose 0.3 percent to an average 253,658 pounds
($383,000), it said. Rightmove sees values climbing 4 percent
this year, up from 2 percent previously.  Carney is due to announce next month how officials will use
forward guidance when setting policy after the central bank gave
a signal on rates on July 4. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  has also started providing forward guidance.  “There is a risk is that as in previous upturns the
financial markets will anticipate tighter monetary policies and
raise yields prematurely, delaying the expansion,” the Item
Club report said. “However, this time central banks have new
tools like forward guidance to help manage market expectations.
The MPC and the ECB have already made it clear that the U.K. and
European markets have got ahead of themselves and that they are
in no hurry to raise policy rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  