-- Xinhua Corrects Report on Lou’s China Growth-Target Comments
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-13T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/xinhua-corrects-report-on-lou-s-china-growth-target-comments.html
China ’s official Xinhua News Agency
corrected a report that cited Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  as
saying the country’s growth target this year is 7 percent, a
figure lower than the official goal of 7.5 percent set in March.  In an English-language story released yesterday and dated
July 12, Xinhua said it corrected a quote attributed to Lou to
“there is no doubt that China can achieve this year’s growth
target of 7.5 percent” from its original story dated July 11
that cited him as saying “there is no doubt that China can
achieve the growth target, though the 7 percent goal should not
be considered as the bottom line.”  Xinhua’s correction of Lou’s comments may indicate the
government is seeking to avoid diminishing confidence in the
country’s economic outlook already shaken by sliding  exports  and
a cash crunch. President  Xi Jinping  and Premier  Li Keqiang ,
grappling with the prospect of the weakest increase in gross
domestic product in 23 years, have indicated they will tolerate
slower growth to focus on policy changes to create more
sustainable expansion.  Major official newspapers including the Communist Party
mouthpiece People’s Daily, China Securities Journal, Shanghai
Securities News, Financial News and  Securities Times  didn’t
carry reports on Lou’s comments in their print editions
yesterday.  Meet Expectations  The finance minister spoke to reporters at the U.S.-China
Strategic and Economic Dialogue in  Washington  on July 11 after
Li said last week that the government should keep restructuring
the economy as long as growth, employment and inflation stay
within limits he didn’t specify.  When asked whether there’s a limit on slower growth that
officials will tolerate, Lou said, “we don’t think 6.5 percent
or 7 percent will be a big problem,” without specifying any
timeframe. “It’s difficult to give you a limit. But from the
data we have, we have the confidence.”  He said, “please don’t forget that our expected GDP growth
rate this year is 7 percent,” adding that “there won’t be much
of a problem to meet our expectations this year.”  The  Ministry of Finance  hasn’t disputed media reports that
Lou said 7 percent. The ministry’s news office hasn’t responded
to faxed questions on his remarks sent by Bloomberg News on July
12 and the website has no statement referring to Lou’s comments.  Lou’s remarks spurred investor inquiries over whether the
2013 growth target has been cut, Zhang Zhiwei, chief China
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a July 12 note. A
revision of the official goal may require approval from the
National People’s Congress, he said.  Macquarie Group Ltd. last week lowered its 2013 GDP growth
forecast for China to 7.3 percent while Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc last month cut their
estimates to 7.4 percent, which would be the slowest pace since
1990. The median projection of 56 analysts in a  Bloomberg News 
survey last month was for 7.7 percent expansion this year.  --Nerys Avery, Feiwen Rong. Editors: Greg Ahlstrand, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  