-- Zimmerman Jury Seeks Clarification on Manslaughter Charge
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-13T22:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-13/zimmerman-jury-seeks-clarification-on-manslaughter-charge.html
The  Florida  jury weighing charges
against George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin
asked for clarification of their instructions regarding
manslaughter, the lesser of the two charges before the panel.  After reading the jury’s question from the bench today,
Seminole County Circuit Judge Debra Nelson called a 30-minute
recess. The six-woman jury began its deliberations yesterday.  During a trial that has drawn national attention for its
implications on race and guns, jurors in Sanford, Florida, heard
contrasting stories of the events in a townhouse complex on the
night of Feb. 26, 2012, that left Martin dead from a single
gunshot through the heart.  Prosecutors argue that Zimmerman, a Neighborhood Watch
volunteer, profiled, pursued and murdered Martin, who was
carrying a can of iced tea, a bag of Skittles and $40 in cash at
the time. Zimmerman, 29, told police in videotaped statements
that he acted in self-defense after Martin, 17, punched him in
the face, knocked him to the ground and threatened to kill him.  The killing of the unarmed black youth by a man whose
father is white and mother is Hispanic sparked protests in
several U.S. cities led by civil rights figures including  Jesse Jackson  and  Al Sharpton .  Zimmerman, who had a license to carry a concealed weapon,
is charged with second-degree murder, although Nelson gave
jurors the option by of finding him guilty of the lesser charge
of manslaughter.  ‘Deadly Force’  The jurors will have to “consider the circumstances
surrounding the killing” to decide whether it was second-degree
murder or manslaughter, or whether it “resulted from
justifiable use of deadly force,” Nelson said in her
instructions yesterday.  Second-degree murder carries a minimum of 25 years in
prison if the crime involved a firearm and the possibility of a
life sentence. A manslaughter conviction involving a firearm
might result in 30 years in prison, according to Zimmerman’s
lawyer, Mark O’Mara.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at
   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Boyd in the 18th Judicial Circuit Court
in Sanford, Florida.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 