-- ‘Madagascar’ Shoots for Cinema Win on Social-Media Boost
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-08T20:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/-madagascar-shoots-for-cinema-win-on-social-media-boost.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s
“Madagascar 3: Europe’s Most Wanted,” buoyed by social media,
has a shot at the weekend’s box office crown over News Corp.’s
“Prometheus,” the sci-fi epic favored by most analysts.  Fizziology, a box-office researcher that lists  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  as clients, is
giving “Madagascar 3” a slight edge over the R-rated
“Prometheus” from director  Ridley Scott . Most forecasters,
including Boxoffice.com, give the weekend to “Prometheus.”  “Madagascar 3” is benefiting from message traffic on
Facebook and Twitter, TV and Web ads, and the popularity of a
Nickelodeon program based on the film’s penguin characters,
Fizziology co-founder Ben Carlson said. Shares of DreamWorks
Animation often react after opening weekends because the studio
releases just two or three movies a year.  “We see a lot of positive social conversation around
‘Madagascar 3,’” Carlson said in an interview. “The box-office
landscape is a little more starved for an animated family
movie.”  DreamWorks Animation, based in Glendale,  California , fell
7.8 percent on Oct. 31 and 12 percent over two days after the
lower-than-expected debut of “Puss in Boots.” The film
collected $34 million in domestic ticket sales its opening
weekend, less than the $42 million predicted by BoxOffice.com.  Fizziology is forecasting opening-weekend sales of $50
million to $53 million for “Madagascar 3.” The company’s
forecast for “Prometheus,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century
Fox, is for $46 million to $50 million.  Competing Forecasts  Box Office.com, another forecaster that monitors social
media, also predicts a close race, estimating $51 million for
“Prometheus” and $49 million for “Madagascar 3.”
Boxofficeguru.com puts the opening totals at $47 million for
Scott’s movie and $45 million for “Madagascar.”  Tony Wible , an
analyst for Janney Montgomery Scott, estimated as much as $55
million for “Madagascar 3” in a May 18 note to investors.  Shannon Olivas, a spokeswoman for DreamWorks Animation,
didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. DreamWorks
Animation, which has risen 8.5 percent this year, added 0.1
percent to $18.01 at the close in New York.  “Madagascar 3,” the first big animated feature of the
summer, is about a group of animals trying to return to their
homes at  New York ’s Central Park Zoo. The picture faces little
competition for family audiences until “Brave,” from Disney’s
Pixar, opens on June 22.  Critics’ Reactions  The movie earned 74 percent positive reviews on  Rotten
Tomatoes , which tracks movie critics. Audience reaction was 86
percent favorable. “Madagascar” is “silly enough for young
kids, but boasts enough surprising smarts to engage parents
along the way,” according to the website.  “Madagascar 3” features the voices of  Ben Stiller ,  Chris Rock  and Sacha Baron Cohen. In addition to the penguins, Web
comments have focus on Rock’s  rendition  of “Afro Circus,” sung
to the tune of traditional circus music, said Carlson, whose
company is based in Indianapolis.  Most of the major studios, including “Prometheus”
distributor Fox, are part of larger media corporations whose
shares react less to opening weekend ticket sales.  Disney rose 0.2 percent on March 12, the first trading day
after the U.S. release of “ John Carter ,” the cinematic flop
that led to a quarterly loss at the company’s film studio.  “Madagascar” and “Prometheus,” both being shown in 3-D,
will appeal to different audiences.  “Prometheus” is based in part on Scott’s 1979 science-
fiction horror film “Alien,” about a reptilian creature that
uses its victims as hosts for its young. Critics’ responses to
the films have been similar, with approval ratings of 74 percent
at  Rottentomatoes.com .  “They’re such different movies, it’s not necessarily a
competition,” Carlson said. “‘Prometheus’ is also a strong
performer in its own way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  