-- Alpha Closes Mines as Coal Industry Faces ‘New Normal’
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-08T14:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/alpha-closes-mines-as-coal-industry-faces-new-normal-.html
Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) , the
second-biggest U.S. coal producer, is shutting mines in  Kentucky 
and closing U.S. regional offices as cheap natural gas and
clean-air rules slash demand from electricity generators.  Operations will end at eight mines in the state, including
four owned by affiliates and four contract facilities, and
production will be cut at others, Bristol, Virginia-based Alpha
said today in a statement. The moves will reduce thermal-coal
shipments by 2 million tons this year and 4 million tons in
2013, Alpha said. About 150 jobs will be eliminated.  U.S. demand for coal in electricity generation will drop
9.7 percent this year to the lowest level since 1984, according
to the U.S. Energy Department. Some  power plants  have switched
to using gas after surging output from shale rock sent prices in
April to the lowest in a decade. Alpha said a U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency proposal to limit greenhouse-gas emissions
from power plants will further erode demand.  “This year, utilities in the U.S. are expected to burn the
least amount of steam coal than at any time in the last 20
years,” Alpha Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kevin Crutchfield said in the statement. “The U.S. coal industry is
confronting a ‘new normal,’ and we want to be sure we have the
appropriate operating model, talent and agility to not just
survive but emerge a winner.”  Four regional offices will be shut and staffing at other
locations will be reduced to cut expenses by $50 million to $60
million a year, Alpha said.  The production cuts are consistent with reduced guidance
issued on May 3, the company said.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , based in  St. Louis , is the largest
U.S. coal producer ranked by revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  