-- Lamprell Slumps After Second Cut to Profit Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-06-08T16:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/lamprell-slumps-after-second-cut-to-profit-outlook-london-mover.html
Lamprell Plc (LAM) , a U.K. oil and gas rig
engineer, plunged to the lowest in three years after cutting its
profit outlook for the second time in a month.  Lamprell fell 22 percent to 84.5 pence in  London , the
lowest since April 2009. The drop brings the total decline to
about 77 percent since the beginning of May. On May 16, the
Douglas, Isle of Man-based company fell the most since shares
began trading in 2006 after an initial announcement on profits.  Lamprell said yesterday that its full-year profit margin on
about $1.1 billion of revenue will be about 2.5 percent,
compared with an estimate of 3.5 percent in May. Lamprell said
it anticipates a loss of as much as $20 million in the first
half before recovering in the second six months of the year.  A tighter global supply chain for specialized jackup rig
components has caused delays, Lamprell said May 16. Lamprell
also cited additional costs on wind-turbine installation vessels
as well as an underemployed workforce. The supply of rig
components should ease next year, it said last month.  “The discovery of additional costs brings into sharp focus
management’s ability to manage lump sum projects,” said Nick Copeman, an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London. “As a
result we highlight the potential for further cost overruns and
we continue to assume 2013 earnings below management guidance.”  In a separate statement, Lamprell said that Chairman
 Jonathan Silver  will step down and become deputy chairman. The
search for a new chairman from outside the company is at an
advanced stage, it said.  Equipment for the rigs Lamprell is currently constructing
is being received in line with revised delivery schedules, the
company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  