-- Argentine Growth Slowed by Drought, Import Controls
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-08T16:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/argentine-growth-slowed-by-drought-import-controls-1-.html
Argentina ’s  economic growth  probably
slowed in the first quarter to the lowest since 2009 as import
restrictions undermined industrial output and a drought affected
the country’s soybean harvest.  Gross domestic product, the broadest measure of a country’s
output of goods and services, grew 4.8 percent in the January to
March period from a year earlier, according to the  median
estimate  of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would
be the slowest since a 2.6 percent expansion in the fourth
quarter of 2009.  The national statistics agency will release the first-
quarter GDP report on June 15 after previously scheduling it for
today.  After winning re-election by a landslide in October,
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  tightened currency
controls and restricted imports, seeking to protect a narrowing
trade surplus and stem capital outflows that were draining
central bank reserves. The measures led Nomura Holdings Inc. and
Estudio Bein & Asociados to cut their 2012 GDP forecasts.  “All the latest measures, restrictions on imports and
restrictions to access the exchange market is hurting
production,” said Marina Dal Poggeto, an economist at Buenos
Aires-based research company Bein. “The drought affected the
crops and on the foreign side,  Brazil  is stagnant.”  South America ’s second-biggest economy is heading this year
to the lowest growth since 2009, when it expanded 0.9 percent,
according to the official figures.  Boris Segura , an economist at
Nomura in  New York , this week cut his 2012 GDP forecast to 2
percent from 3 percent. Dal Poggeto also lowered her forecast,
reducing it to 2.5 percent from a previous estimate of 3.5
percent in early May.  Drought Impact  “Due to the drought, agricultural output is suffering, and
due to Brazil’s deceleration, industry is stagnant,” said
Segura in his June 6 report. “Short-term indicators of economic
activity are already reflecting this important deceleration.”  Industrial output, which has been affected by shortages of
imported parts, fell 0.5 percent in April from a year earlier,
the first annual drop since Sept. 2009, led by a 24 percent
decline in auto production. Construction activity fell 7.6
percent the same month, the biggest year-on-year drop since July
2009.  Renault Argentina SA, the country’s third-biggest car
producer, is reducing shifts at its Cordoba plant after a drop
in sales prompted by slowing demand in neighboring Brazil.  The maker of the Clio and Kangoo models halted one of two
production shifts yesterday and both shifts today and on June 15
in part because of falling sales, the company reported
yesterday. The plant employs 1,800 people.  On June 7, the  Buenos Aires  Cereals Exchange maintained its
estimate that farmers will harvest 39.9 million metric tons of
soybeans in the current crop year compared with 50 million tons
a year ago. Soybeans are the country’s biggest export.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  