-- Marks & Spencer Plans 50 Bank Branch Openings to Rival Tesco
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-08T13:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/marks-spencer-plans-50-in-store-bank-branches-to-rival-tesco.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s
largest clothing retailer, plans to open 50 bank branches in its
stores within two years as it takes on Tesco Plc and British
lenders such as  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Barclays Bank Plc.  Marks & Spencer will open the first branch at its flagship
Marble Arch outlet in London in July as part of a joint venture
with  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the London-based retailer said in a
statement. Customers will be able to open new checking accounts
by the autumn as part of the re-branded offer called M&S Bank,
and mortgages are planned.  The move extends M&S Money, which offers car, home and
travel insurance, credit cards and foreign currency exchange
services online and via phone. M&S sold the business to HSBC in
2004 for 762 million pounds ($1.18 billion) to raise cash to
help fend off a hostile takeover bid by billionaire  Philip Green . The retailer still receives half the unit’s profit after
some costs. The amount it received rose to 50.7 million pounds
last year.  “Even with the backing of HSBC and a commitment to
creating 500 new U.K. roles, we would expect M&S to grow slowly
in this new area of business,” said Caroline Gulliver, an
analyst at Execution Noble. She has a buy recommendation on the
stock.  The shares fell 1.4 percent to 335.8 pence at 1:42 p.m in
London trading. The stock has climbed 8 percent this year.  M&S Money has more than 3 million customers and the
retailer said its new M&S Bank branches will have a competitive
advantage as they’re open for twice as long as traditional
banks, including weekend trading hours.  “Clearly there is an opportunity here for M&S, there is a
general mistrust with the financial sector and its a brand that
engenders a lot trust,”  John Stevenson , an analyst at Peel Hunt
said. He has a hold recommendation.  The move pits the company against  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s
biggest supermarket-based bank, which offers credit cards,
savings account, loans and insurance. Tesco reined in targets to
offer checking accounts and mortgages due to difficulties as it
migrates existing products onto new systems and call center
platforms after it bought back Royal Bank of  Scotland ’s 50
percent stake in the business. J Sainsbury Plc also offers some
banking products like home and pet insurance.  “This is our most significant innovation in retail banking
since we launched First Direct over 22 years ago,” said Joe Garner, head of HSBC in the U.K.  “It should be easy to deliver, and execution should be
strong with HSBC’s backing,” Stevenson said. “Tesco is
somewhat behind, whereas M&S is getting in fast with a broad
offer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  