-- U.S. Stocks Rise, Euro Falls Before Europe’s Spain Talks
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-08T20:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/asian-stocks-fall-as-bernanke-comments-overshadow-china.html
U.S. stocks rose, driving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the best weekly gain of the year,
while the euro fell as investors awaited weekend talks among
European finance officials for news of a potential bailout of
 Spain . Oil trimmed an early drop and Treasuries pared gains.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.8 percent to
1,325.66 at 4 p.m. New York time, extending its rally this week
to 3.7 percent. It had fallen as much as 0.6 percent today. Oil
recovered most of a 3.3 percent plunge and the S&P GSCI gauge of
24 commodities slipped 0.7 percent after sinking as much as 2.4
percent. The euro weakened 0.5 percent to $1.25 after Spain’s
credit ranking was cut three steps by  Fitch Ratings  yesterday.
The 10-year Treasury yield lost less than one basis point to
1.63 percent after declining as much as eight points.  Spain is poised to become the fourth of the 17 euro-area
countries to require emergency assistance as the currency bloc’s
finance chiefs plan weekend talks on a potential aid request to
shore up the nation’s lenders. German exports dropped in April
for the first time this year and industrial output in  Italy  fell
more than economists estimated, reports showed today. Global
stocks  rallied  this week as speculation mounted that policy
makers will act to spur growth.  “The risk-on trade emerged,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management
in Birmingham,  Alabama . “There’s more of a conviction that
something is going to happen with Spanish banks that’s going to
be positive. Anything that could address the situation in a
favorable way could have a positive impact.”  Intel, Facebook  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Home Depot
Inc. rose more than 2 percent to lead gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , which rallied 93.24 points to 12,554.20.
Facebook Inc., which this week fell to the lowest price since it
went public, advanced 3 percent. Alpha Natural Resources Inc.
slumped 2.6 percent as the nation’s second-biggest coal producer
said it will shut mines in  Kentucky  and closing U.S. regional
offices.  Stocks reversed an early rally yesterday after Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben. S. Bernanke said the Fed will need to
assess conditions before deciding if more measures are required
to stoke an economy threatened by Europe’s debt crisis and U.S.
budget cuts.  U.S. Treasuries  Treasury 30-year bond yields reversed a retreat of as much
as nine basis points, ending little changed at 2.74 percent. The
10-year note’s yield increased 18 basis points this week, the
most since March. After markets closed in New York, S&P affirmed
the U.S. credit rating and maintained a negative outlook,
reflecting the company’s opinion that political and fiscal
credit risks could build to the point of lowering the AA+ long-
term rating by 2014.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.3 percent, after
falling as much as 1.4 percent. A  gauge  raw-material producers
slumped 2.8 percent for the biggest decline among 19 groups. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, slid 2.9
percent and Rio Tinto Group retreated 4.8 percent. The regional
benchmark rose 2.9 percent in the week, its biggest gain since
February.  Barclays Plc decreased 1.3 percent as the Financial Times
reported that Chief Executive Officer  Bob Diamond  has postponed
his goal of reaching a 13 percent return on equity by 2013. The
newspaper cited unidentified people close to the bank. Lamprell
Plc, an oil and gas rig engineer, slumped 22 percent after
cutting its profit outlook for the second time in a month.  Currencies  The euro, which depreciated 0.6 percent versus the yen, was
set for its first weekly gain against the dollar in six. The
 Dollar Index , which tracks the U.S. currency against those of
six trading partners, jumped 0.5 percent today while retreating
on a weekly basis for the first time since April. The yen
strengthened against 12 of 16 of its most-traded peers.  The cost of insuring against losses on  Germany ’s sovereign
debt rose for a sixth day with credit-default swaps linked to
bunds adding two basis points to 108 basis points, the highest
since January. The yield on its sovereign 10-year bund dropped
five basis points to 1.33 percent, paring the rate’s first
weekly advance in 12. The Spanish 10-year bond yield rose 13
basis points to 6.22 percent, after falling for six straight
days, and swaps on government debt rose 16 basis points to 588.  Oil slipped 0.8 percent to $84.10, recovering from a drop
of as much as 3.3 percent and rising on a weekly basis for the
first time since April.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slumped 0.9 percent, paring
its first weekly gain since March to 1.3 percent. The Hang Seng
 China  Enterprises Index of mainland stocks slipped 1.3 percent
before data tomorrow on China’s inflation, industrial output and
investment. Taiwan’s Taiex index slipped 1.1 percent and  South
Korea ’s Kospi lost 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  