-- ATP Bonds Fall to Lowest Level as New CEO McCarroll Resigns
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-06-08T21:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/atp-oil-gas-bonds-fall-to-lowest-level-after-new-ceo-resigns.html
Bonds of the Gulf of Mexico explorer
 ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPG)  slumped by the most since they were issued,
following the resignation of the company’s new Chief Executive
Officer Matt McCarroll a week after being named to the position.  ATP’s $1.5 billion of 11.875 percent notes maturing in May
2015 dropped 11.5 cents to 46.4 cents on the dollar to yield 48
percent at 4:54 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. There were more than 190 trades by dealers of $1
million or more in ATP’s bonds today, Trace data show.  McCarroll resigned and canceled his share purchases from
the company after failing to reach an employment agreement,
according to a statement yesterday from Houston-based ATP. He
was named to the position June 1. The drop in bond prices was
the biggest fall since the securities started trading in January
2011 and the lowest price since the debt was issued.  “Things must have been much worse than Matt was led to
believe,” said Ravi Kamath, a Houston-based debt analyst at
Global Hunter Securities LLC, an investment bank that focuses on
energy, mining and health-care sectors. “The resignation and
the fact that he pulled his investment doesn’t help investors.”  ‘Clear Negative’  McCarroll, who led Dynamic Offshore until it was acquired
by  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD)  for $1.3 billion last year, was named
as the new CEO last week. He had purchased 1 million shares of
ATP at market price, which showed his “commitment” to the
company, ATP said in a June 1 statement.  “It’s a clear negative that someone respected like him got
spooked and quit before damaging his reputation,” Kamath said.  The 11.875 percent bonds are rated Caa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, eight levels below investment grade, and CCC-
by  Standard & Poor’s . Isabel Plume, a spokeswoman for ATP,
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  “The press release gives the full story, which is negative
because the company could certainly benefit from new
leadership,” KDP Investment Advisors Inc. analyst Kenneth
Duffel wrote in a note.  ATP shares  tumbled  9.1 percent to $5.31 at the close in  New
York , the biggest drop since May 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  