-- Australian, New Zealand Dollars Drop on Stock Declines
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-06-08T06:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/australian-new-zealand-dollars-drop-on-stock-declines.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars fell against most major counterparts as Asian stocks
dropped, sapping demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The so-called Aussie slid for a second day versus the
greenback even after data showed  Australia  posted a narrower-
than-estimated trade deficit and Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens cautioned against  monetary policy  settings that could
reignite asset bubbles. Demand for the South Pacific nations’
currencies was supported after China cut interest rates for the
first time since 2008 as a means to sustain growth.  “Market sentiment hasn’t turned to risk-on yet, which is
weighing on the Australian and New Zealand currencies,” said
Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist at Mizuho Securities Co., a
unit in  Tokyo  of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market value.  The Australian dollar dropped 0.5 percent to 98.46 U.S.
cents as of 4:32 p.m. in Sydney and declined 1 percent to 78.04
yen. New Zealand’s currency lost 0.6 percent to 76.26 U.S. cents
and slid 1.1 percent to 60.43 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares fell 1.3 percent.  Australia’s imports outpaced exports by A$203 million ($200
million) in April, compared with a revised A$1.28 billion
 shortfall  in March, the Bureau of Statistics said today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for
a deficit of A$900 million.  Stevens Speech  Stevens said the recent RBA cuts in  interest rates  will
accelerate “the process of deleveraging” for borrowers who
need or want to do so.  “Monetary policy has been cognizant of the changed habits
of households and the process of balance-sheet strengthening,
and has been set accordingly,” Stevens said in a  speech  today.  The RBA lowered its key rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 3.5 percent on June 5, after a reduction of
50 basis points in May.  The rate cut was followed by government data that showed
the nation’s economy  expanded  in the first quarter at the
fastest pace since June last year and Australian  payrolls 
unexpectedly increased last month.  “The RBA’s assumptions were challenged this week,”  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist in  Hong Kong  at Royal Bank
of Canada, wrote in a research note today. “The market is too
aggressively priced for further rate cuts, in terms of both pace
and magnitude, leaving the Australian dollar ripe for a
correction higher.”  Traders are betting on a 66 percent chance the RBA will
reduce its benchmark to 2.5 percent or lower by November, down
from a 94 percent chance signaled on June 1, according to swaps
data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s Rate Cut  The Aussie has risen 1.5 percent against the greenback this
week, and the New Zealand dollar has advanced 1.1 percent.  The People’s Bank of China said yesterday that the
benchmark one-year lending rate will drop to 6.31 percent from
6.56 percent effective today. The one-year deposit rate falls to
3.25 percent from 3.5 percent. Banks will get extra freedom to
set the amounts they pay on deposits and charge for loans.  “ China ’s rate cut is a positive” for the Australian and
New Zealand currencies, said  Daisaku Ueno , a senior foreign-
exchange and fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo, a unit of Japan’s biggest-
listed bank. “China eased monetary policy to support its
economy, which is being taken favorably in markets.”  China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  