-- Australia’s Trade Deficit Narrowed More Than Forecast in April
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-06-08T01:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/australia-s-trade-deficit-narrowed-more-than-forecast-in-april.html
Australia ’s trade deficit narrowed
more than forecast in April as mining exports advanced and
imports fell.  The shortfall was A$203 million ($200 million), from a
revised A$1.28 billion deficit in March, the Bureau of
Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists was for a deficit of
A$900 million.  The Australian economy, which has avoided a recession for
two decades, is driven by iron ore and coal sales to meet demand
in developing nations from India to China. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia lowered the nation’s benchmark borrowing cost by 75
points at the past two meetings to 3.5 percent to help shore up
demand as fiscal crisis in  Europe  and weakness in China threaten
the global outlook.  “We expect Australia’s trade deficit to have narrowed in
April via a rebound in coal and iron ore export volumes,”
Andrew McManus, an economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , wrote in a research report before today’s release.
“Ports data for iron ore and coal suggest a rebound in bulk
commodity volumes post the supply-disrupted first quarter.
Meanwhile, prices of iron ore remained reasonably steady, while
coal prices continued to ease during the month.”  Exports rose 3 percent to A$26.1 billion, led by an
increase of 10 percent in metal ores and minerals, today’s
report showed. Imports declined 1 percent to A$26.3 billion, the
report showed.  The Australian dollar was little changed after the report,
trading at 98.61 U.S. cents at 11:38 a.m. Sydney time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Batchelor in Sydney at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  