-- Baht Drops as Fed Plays Down Speculation of More Monetary Easing
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-06-08T08:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/baht-drops-as-fed-plays-down-speculation-of-more-monetary-easing.html
Thailand ’s baht fell the most in more
than three months after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
played down speculation of further monetary easing, sending
regional stocks lower.  The currency pared a weekly advance as Bernanke said the
Fed will need to assess economic conditions before deciding if a
third round of so-called quantitative easing is needed.  China 
cut benchmark interest rates yesterday for the first time since
2008 before data tomorrow on factory output and consumer prices.  “There are still jitters on the global front and at best
the U.S. wants to keep the QE3 possibility vague for now,” said
 Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based senior currency analyst at
Malayan Banking Bhd. “The market expects some bad data out of
China and currencies of export-driven economies like Thailand
will be affected.”  The baht declined 0.7 percent, the most since March 1, to
31.76 per dollar as of 3:47 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency gained 0.4 percent from a
week ago. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, was little changed this week
and today at 4.52 percent.  The  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares dropped 1.4
percent, halting a three-day rally. Overseas funds cut holdings
of Thai equities by $63 million this week through yesterday,
taking net sales this month to $88 million, exchange data show.  The People’s Bank of China cut its one-year lending and
deposit rates by a quarter percentage point to 6.31 percent and
3.25 percent, respectively. The Bank of Thailand will hold its
one-day repurchase rate at 3 percent on June 13, according to
all 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The yield on the Thai government’s 3.25 percent bonds due
June 2017 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
3.43 percent from a week ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  