-- Bank of Korea Holds Benchmark Rate for 12th Month
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-06-08T04:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/bank-of-korea-holds-benchmark-rate-for-12th-month.html
The  Bank of Korea  held off from
altering borrowing costs for a 12th straight month as easing
inflation gave policy makers room to wait and see how Europe’s
debt crisis and  China ’s slowdown affect the economy.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent as predicted
by all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The decision
was unanimous and the board didn’t discuss a possible increase
or cut, Kim told reporters after the meeting.  South Korea  has braced for weaker demand for its cars and
electronics as European leaders struggle to coordinate a
response to turmoil threatening global growth. While China
yesterday unveiled its first cut to borrowing costs since 2008,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  refrained from
discussing potential steps to aid the economy.  “The Bank of  Korea ’s baseline is one of steady, if slow
global recovery that would not warrant  interest rate  cuts,”
said Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “However, the bank stands ready to ease
policy if downside risks materialize.”  The won weakened 0.3 percent to 1,174.55 per dollar as of
1:18 p.m. in Seoul after touching a two-week high following
China’s rate action, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi index of stocks declined 0.5 percent.  Inflation Expectations  Bank of Korea policy makers cited elevated inflation
expectations while noting that downside risk due to the
political situation in  Europe  is increasing, according to a
statement distributed after today’s meeting. Members will
“conduct monetary policy so as to stabilize consumer price
inflation at the midpoint of the inflation target over a medium-
term horizon amid continuing sound growth of the economy,” it
said.  China’s surprise rate cut will have an “indirect” impact
on his nation’s economy, Governor Kim said.  South Korean officials are trying to sustain growth in
 Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy after corporate investment and
government spending fueled the fastest expansion in a year in
the first quarter. Exports have contracted in all but one month
this year, while inflation remained at a 21-month low of 2.5
percent in May.  “Governor Kim sounded less hawkish today than in May when
it comes to the central bank’s will to normalize interest
rates,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “If the second-quarter economic data
turns out to be far weaker than expected, the BOK will cut
interest rates in July or August while slashing its growth
forecast.”  Clouded Outlook  A slowdown in China, the risk of a Greek exit from the euro
and rising Spanish borrowing costs are clouding the outlook for
overseas sales, which account for about half of South Korea’s
gross domestic product. China, whose economy expanded at the
slowest pace in almost three years in the first quarter, buys
about a quarter of South Korean products.  Exports to China dropped 10.3 percent and shipments to the
U.S. fell 16.5 percent in the first 20 days of May, the most
recent data available, according to a government report. South
Korea’s sales to the European Union declined 16.4 percent in
that time.  Still, data from the region has been mixed, with
 Australia ’s gross domestic product expanding 1.3 percent last
quarter from the previous three months, compared with the median
0.6 percent gain predicted by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Rate Cuts  This week the  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point to the lowest since
2009 and China, in addition to the rate move, loosened controls
on banks’ lending and deposit rates. Indian Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  pledged to revive growth in Asia’s third-largest
economy through infrastructure spending.  Bernanke told a Congressional committee yesterday that
policy makers will discuss later this month whether to do more
to spur growth, though he said the steps they could take may
have “diminishing returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  