-- Bank of Korea Kim’s ‘Follow-Up Measures’ Spur Rate-Cut Optimism
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-06-08T07:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/bank-of-korea-kim-s-follow-up-measures-spur-rate-cut-optimism.html
Speculation is building that the  Bank
of Korea  will lower  interest rates  as soon as next month after
Governor Kim Choong Soo said the board discussed “follow-up
measures” at a policy review today.  Korea  Investment & Securities expects the first cut in
three years to be announced in the third quarter, having
previously forecast no change for the remainder of 2012,
according to a research note published today. Daewoo Securities
and Woori Investment & Securities forecast a rate cut will come
as early as July.  The Bank of Korea left the seven-day repurchase  rate  at
3.25 percent for a 12th month today, a decision predicted by all
15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Governor Kim said in a
press briefing that while today’s decision was unanimous,
discussion was held on measures to prepare for possible changes
in the economy.  “That one word during press briefing - measures - was
enough to make investors speculate that today’s rate decision
may not have been unanimous,” Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income
analyst at Daewoo Securities in Seoul, wrote in a note to
clients after today’s press briefing. “We expect the central
bank to cut rates in July or August.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. disagrees. Seoul-based economists
Kwon Goohoon and Cheong Sungsoo said the company continues to
expect the central bank will leave rates unchanged until early
2013 given elevated inflation expectations, according to a note
to clients. The governor’s tone turned more cautious from last
month and he made it clear that there was no discussion about
rate cuts, the economists wrote.  Bonds Gain  South Korea ’s bonds gained as investors bet the central
bank will lower rates to support growth. The yield on the 3.5
percent bonds due March 2017 dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 3.35 percent, according to Korea Exchange
Inc. prices. The rate reached 3.34 percent on June 4, the lowest
level for a  benchmark  five-year note in Bloomberg data going
back to August 2000.  “Traders were interpreting the governor’s comments on the
board’s discussions as a rate-cut possibility,” said Huh Kwan,
a Seoul-based bond trader at Korea Investment & Securities. “As
short-term bond yields are already close to the benchmark rate,
the yield curve is flattening with increasing demand for longer-
dated bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  