-- Barbecue Masters Go Whole Hog for Madison Square Park
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-06-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/barbecue-masters-go-whole-hog-for-madison-square-park.html
Barbecue deity Ed Mitchell trucked
coffin-sized grills this week from his North Carolina base to
 New York  to roast dozens of whole hogs.  If this weekend’s 2-day  Big Apple Barbecue Block Party  runs
to form, Mitchell’s sandwiches will trigger half-hour lines, the
way they did for some of last year’s 130,000 visitors.  Blue Smoke executive chef Kenny Callaghan will cut his
Brontosaurus-like beef ribs to fit on plates.  Barbecue Hall of
Fame inductee Mike Mills  is bringing baby backs.  “I pick and choose who comes to the block party to protect
the integrity of the event,” said Callaghan, the organizer.
“We try to bring in the best of the best.”  The meat lovers’ festival kicks off tomorrow at Manhattan’s
 Madison Square Park  with 17 pitmasters from around the U.S.  The roster includes Mills of the 17th Street Barbecue in
Murphysboro,  Illinois ; Scott Roberts, owner of the  Salt Lick
Bar-B-Que  restaurant in Driftwood,  Texas ; Chris Lilly, from  Big
Bob Gibson’s Bar-B-Q  in Decatur,  Alabama , who will slow-cook
pulled pork; and Charles Grund Jr., executive pitmaster of New
York’s Hill Country, who’s providing beef brisket.  Last year, the event raised $138,000 for the Madison Square
Park Conservancy, which uses the money to help clean, beautify
and provide security for the park, the nonprofit’s president,
Debbie Landau, said in an e-mail.  Perfect Marriage  The park “has been the perfect marriage for us,”
Callaghan said. Among the charities he has supported over the
years are  City Harvest ;  Children of Bellevue ;  Harlem Children’s
Zone ; and the Washington-based  Share Our Strength , which fights
childhood hunger.  (The Big Apple Barbecue Block Party is Saturday and Sunday
at Madison Square Park, at East 23rd St. between Madison and
Fifth avenues in  Manhattan  from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission to
the park is free; small plates of barbecue cost $8 each.
Information:  http://www.bigapplebbq.org  or +1-646-747-0584)  (Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 