-- Berkshire Sells ResCap Bonds Days After Seeking Probe
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-08T19:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/berkshire-sells-rescap-bonds-days-after-seeking-probe.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the holding
company run by the billionaire  Warren Buffett , sold its
unsecured Residential Capital LLC bonds, two days after calling
for a probe of the mortgage lender’s pre-bankruptcy deals.  Ted Weschler, a Berkshire investment manager, disclosed the
sale yesterday in a court filing. Berkshire on June 4, asked the
judge overseeing ResCap’s bankruptcy in Manhattan to approve an
examiner to investigate deals made before the company sought
court protection, including transactions with its parent,  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY)   Berkshire, based in Omaha, Nebraska, held more than
$500 million of ResCap’s unsecured bonds before the sale. The
company sold them on June 5 and June 6, Weschler said, without
disclosing prices. Berkshire still holds more than $900 million
of ResCap’s junior secured bonds, according to the filing.  Buffett didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed questions
sent to an assistant.  An investigation of ResCap’s deals “must be conducted by
an impartial examiner appointed by the court,” Berkshire said
in court papers.  ResCap, a real estate financing firm based in Minneapolis,
filed bankruptcy May 14 with plans to sell most of its assets to
 Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)   Legal Claims  Ally, a Detroit-based bank that specializes in  car loans ,
supported the bankruptcy filing as a way to resolve legal claims
related to mortgage-backed securities. Ally is 74 percent-owned
by the  U.S. Treasury  after receiving a bailout.  Prices for three of ResCap’s unsecured bonds rose on June 5
after Berkshire asked for an investigation, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Yesterday and today, those same bonds fell. The 6.5 percent
bonds that matured on June 1 dropped more than 7 percent. The
6.5 percent bonds maturing next year fell 16 percent. And the
6.875 percent bonds fell almost 12 percent. All were selling for
17.6 cents on the dollar, according to Trace.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  hasn’t
ruled on Berkshire’s request. Glenn gave unsecured creditors
permission to investigate deals that the bankrupt mortgage
company made to help Ally avoid billions of dollars of potential
legal liability.  Approval’s Effect  His approval gives company lawyers permission to interview
witnesses under oath and subpoena documents.  The committee’s request to look into the deals is routine
in large corporate bankruptcies. Berkshire’s is rarer. Results
of such investigations are usually given more weight by judges
because they are considered independent.  ResCap filed for bankruptcy May 14 with plans to sell most
of its assets to Fortress Investment Group LLC. Ally, supported
the bankruptcy filing as a way to resolve legal claims related
to mortgage-backed securities. Ally is 74 percent owned by the
U.S. Treasury after receiving a bailout.  ResCap has proposed dispensing with potential lawsuits
against Ally as part of the sale of  mortgage loans  and other
financial assets to its parent company.  Ally agreed to pay ResCap $750 million to settle any claims
against the parent, buy as much as $1.6 billion of securities if
others don’t, and provide $150 million to help finance ResCap’s
operations during bankruptcy, according to a company statement.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 