-- Bernanke Anxieties Embodied as Bond Sales Tumble: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-06-08T16:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/bernanke-anxieties-embodied-as-bond-sales-tumble-credit-markets.html
Sales of corporate bonds from the
U.S. to Europe and Asia slumped to their lowest levels this year
and borrowing costs soared to the most since February as a
global slowdown curbed demand for all but the safest assets.  Deere & Co. (DE) , the largest maker of agricultural equipment,
and Springdale, Arkansas-based  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  led weekly sales
of at least $39.5 billion, the  smallest amount  since the five
days ended Dec. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offerings fell below the 2012 weekly average of $76.8 billion
for the fourth consecutive period as yields rose to 4.272
percent from the low this year of 4.06 percent on May 8.  High-yield issuance in the U.S. was virtually shut as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the world’s
largest economy is threatened by Europe’s debt crisis and
government budget cuts, making it harder for corporate borrowers
to meet their obligations. China reduced its benchmark  interest
rate  for the first time since 2008, stepping up efforts to
combat a deepening slowdown.  Borrowers and underwriters are in a state of “prudent
hesitation,”  Jack Malvey , chief global markets strategist at
Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “We had a week of elevated concern about the path of
the U.S. and global economy and, of course, we continue to worry
about the European prospect.”  Extra Yield  Yields on corporate bonds increased to the highest since
Feb. 21, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Corporate & High Yield index. The extra yield
investors demand to hold the debt rather than government
debentures expanded to 314 basis points, or 3.14 percentage
points, as of June 6, from this year’s low of 264 on March 20.
That means an issuer would pay an extra $500,000 a year on every
$100 million of debt borrowed.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose for a second day,
with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increasing 0.7 basis point to a
mid-price of 122.5 basis points as of 10:58 a.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index, which has climbed from an almost one-month low
of 93.8 on May 2, typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, declined 0.29 basis point to 31.31 basis
points as of 10:59 a.m. in New York. The gauge, which has
dropped from a four-month high of 39.13 on May 15, narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers, with 164 trades of $1 million or more as
of 11:01 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Securities of  ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPG)  slumped by the most since
they were issued after the driller’s new Chief Executive Officer
Matt McCarroll resigned a week after being named.  ATP’s $1.5 billion of 11.875 percent notes maturing in May
2015 dropped 12.4 cents to 45.5 cents on the dollar to yield 49
percent at 10:50 a.m. in New York, according to Trace. That’s
the biggest fall since the bonds started trading in January 2011
and the lowest price since the debt was issued.  ATP Resignation  McCarroll resigned after failing to reach an employment
agreement with the company, according to a statement yesterday
from ATP. He was named to the position June 1.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  plans to raise $1 billion in a two-part
offering eight months after the owner of the Warner Bros. movie
studio sold similar-maturity bonds at its lowest coupons on
record, according to a person familiar with the transaction who
asked not to be named because terms weren’t set.  High-yield bonds in the U.S. have lost 1.2 percent since
the end of April, paring the gain for the year to 4.9 percent,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Offerings Fall  Global bond offerings fell almost 25 percent from last
week’s $52.8 billion, Bloomberg data show. This year, sales of
$1.73 trillion have fallen behind the $1.8 trillion pace for the
same period in 2011.  Sales in the U.S. of $15.4 billion of bonds almost matched
last week’s volume. Speculative grade issuance included a $152
million add-on offering from  Fifth & Pacific Cos. (FNP) , formerly
known as Liz Claiborne, on June 6 and a $165 million sale by
Norbord Inc.  American Casino & Entertainment Properties LLC canceled a
$310 million junk-bond sale as Europe’s escalating debt crisis
curbed investor appetite for risk and drove speculative-grade
borrowing costs to a five-month high.  Some investment-grade issuers chose to issue perpetual
preferred shares, including $2.25 billion from General Electric
Co.’s financing arm and $250 million from Public Storage.  “We’re definitely seeing a lot more higher-rated names tap
the market versus lower-rated,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in
a telephone interview.  Investors Hesitate  Investors are hesitating to commit large sums to either
government or company bonds amid abrupt market moves.  Benchmark 10-year Treasury yields rose to 1.57 percent from
a record low of about 1.45 percent on June 1 and down from this
year’s high of 2.38 percent on March 19, Bloomberg data show.
The volatility has caused investors to step back, said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  who helps oversee $500
million at Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts .  “When you’re looking at historically low yields, you have
to be very, very careful,” Larkin said. “When it feels like
the economic environment is getting more stormy, it’s wise to be
very cautious. Especially when interest rates are this
expensive.”  Yields on U.S. corporate bonds rose to 4.39 percent, a 4
basis-point increase from June 1 and above this year’s low of
4.18 percent on May 8, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master index. In  Europe ,
yields have risen to 3.36 percent from this year’s low of 3.15
percent on May 8.  Deere issued $1 billion of 2.6 percent, 10-year notes that
yielded 105 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries
and $1.25 billion of 3.9 percent 30-year bonds with a 130 basis-
point spread on June 5, Bloomberg data show. The coupons were
less than previous lows set Feb. 22 for 10-year debt and in
October 1998 for 30-year notes, the data show.  Deere, Tyson  Tyson sold $1 billion of 4.5 percent, 10-year notes at a
spread of 290 basis points on June 6, Bloomberg data show. The
coupon was less than the 6.125 percent low set in January 1996
for the company’s 10-year debt, the data show. Proceeds will be
used to refinance the company’s $810 million of 10.5 percent
securities due March 2014, Tyson said in a June 6 statement.  “We’re very pleased with the transaction, since it
improves our financial flexibility and reduces our ongoing
interest costs,” wrote Gary Mickelson, spokesman for Tyson, in
an emailed statement. Moody’s increased Tyson’s long-term debt
ratings, including a one-level raise of its senior unsecured
guaranteed notes to Baa3, the ratings company said in a release.  Standoff Mode  “Even if they have cash, people are hesitant to buy,”
said  Sabur Moini , a money manager who helps oversee about $2.5
billion of high-yield assets at Los Angeles-based Payden &
Rygel, in a telephone interview. “Issuers don’t want to pay a
lot, dealers don’t want a deal that gets hung out there, so all
parties are in standoff-ish mode.”  “The situation in Europe poses significant risks to the
U.S. financial system and economy and must be monitored
closely,” Bernanke said yesterday in testimony to the Joint
Economic Committee in Washington.  The Fed chairman urged lawmakers to put fiscal policy on a
“sustainable path” while avoiding a “severe tightening” in
spending just now that could hamper the economic recovery.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  toughened her opposition to
euro-area debt sharing in a statement through a spokesman on
June 4. Euro bond-type options are only conceivable after a
process of European integration lasting “many years,” Merkel’s
chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said. The statement was made
in response to Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s pleas that
Germany consider new ideas to resolve the debt crisis.  Europe Crisis  “What spooks most people is the, so far, inability, after
a couple of years of working groups, for Europe to come up with
a fully acknowledged plan to address all of its current
problems,” Malvey said.  In the U.S., manufacturing orders unexpectedly fell in
April for a second month, with bookings dropping 0.6 percent,
figures from the Commerce Department showed on June 4 in
Washington. The last time bookings decreased in consecutive
months was in February and March 2009.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the
first quarter after advancing at a 3 percent pace in the last
three months of 2011.  Faltering Recovery  Employers in the U.S. added the smallest number of jobs in
a year in May, stoking concern that the economic recovery is
faltering. Payrolls increased by 69,000, below median estimates
of 150,000, while the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent,
according to Labor Department figures released June 1.  China cut borrowing costs for the first time since 2008,
with the one-year lending rate dropping to 6.31 percent from
6.56 percent, and loosened controls on banks’ lending and
deposit rates, in what UBS AG called a “milestone.” The
announcement, which came before China was scheduled to report
inflation, investment and output figures, may signal that the
economy is weaker than the government expected.  “There are all sorts of things being talked about that
makes the  bond market  very dangerous right now,” Larkin said.
“It makes it very difficult to buy bonds in this environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 