-- Billionaire Fisher Turns Bullish on Stimulus: China Overnight
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-08T07:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/billionaire-fisher-turns-bullish-on-stimulus-china-overnight.html
Billionaire  Kenneth Fisher , who
bought Chinese shares as they rallied from a 2-1/2 year low in
the fourth quarter, said the stocks will beat global equities as
the government takes further steps to boost growth.  China will loosen monetary policy for another 12 to 18
months after announcing the first interest-rate cut since 2008
yesterday, Fisher, chief executive officer of Fisher
Investments, said in a phone interview yesterday. China
represents about 6 percent of the Woodside, California-based
firm’s holdings, a bigger proportion than in benchmark indexes,
Fisher said. Morgan Stanley said it’s now “fully invested’ in
its emerging-market  asset allocation  after the rate cut.  ‘‘We’re overweight China and optimistic on China relative
to both  emerging markets  and the world as a whole,” said
Fisher, who is ranked number 263 on the Forbes list of the 400
richest Americans. “We see this as part of a broader Chinese
effort to stimulate, loosen and deregulate.”  China’s Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.5 percent to
2,281.45 at the close, while the CSI 300 Index slid 0.7 percent
to 2,524.33. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-
traded Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent to 90.62
in  New York  for a three-day advance of 4.5 percent, the biggest
since March 9.  In Shanghai,  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and
 China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s biggest lenders,
fell at least 0.7 percent on concern the central bank’s rate
reduction will hurt bank earnings. Lenders’ profit may drop by
more than 10 percent, according to Hao Hong, chief China
strategist at BoCom International Holdings Co.  Chinese ETF  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China exchange-traded fund, advanced 0.9 percent to
$33.77 in New York trading. Fisher Investments, which began
buying shares of the China ETF in the fourth quarter, was the
 biggest holder  as of March 31, with a stake valued at about $577
million, according to regulatory filings compiled by Bloomberg.
The ETF invests in 25 of the nation’s largest companies,
including  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and  Bank of China Ltd.   The People’s Bank of China lowered the one-year lending
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 6.31 percent,
effective today, and encouraged banks to lend 20 percent below
the benchmark. The central bank last reduced rates in late 2008,
when the government unveiled a 4 trillion  yuan  ($586 billion)
stimulus package to counter the effects of the global financial
crisis.  Interest rates  have been unchanged since an increase in
July 2011.  “It’s a positive surprise to the market including Chinese
stocks and will typically lead to a short and sharp rally,”
 Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New
York, which oversees more than $1.6 billion, said by phone.
“This is just the beginning. There’ll be further moves to
follow later this year.”  Hotels Surge  7 Days Group Holdings Ltd. (SVN)  led gains among budget hotel
operators on the Bloomberg China-US Equity Index. Baidu Inc.,
China’s biggest online search engine, extended its surge to a
fourth day.  Guangzhou-based 7 Days Group, the second-largest budget
hotel operators in China, surged 11 percent, the most since Oct.
27, to $9.90.  The company added 100 hotels in the first quarter, bringing
the total number of hotels it operates to 1,044 in 162 cities in
China, according to a May 9 statement.  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN) , China’s biggest hotel
chain company based in Shanghai, rose 4 percent to a three-week
high of $22.92.  China Lodging Group Ltd. (HTHT) , also based in
Shanghai, climbed 3.5 percent to $11.35, the biggest increase
since May 25.  Baidu advanced 2.8 percent to $122.46, the strongest
closing level since May 15.  Apple’s Plans  Apple Inc. plans to add Baidu’s search engine on iPhones in
 China , part of a push to broaden its services and user base in
the world’s most-populous nation, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter. The agreement to add Baidu to the
lineup of Web tools on the iPhone could be announced as early as
next week, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private.  China’s  economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first three
months this year, the slowest pace in 11 quarters. The rate cut,
following three reductions to banks’ reserve-requirement ratios
since November, came two days before the government is due to
report inflation, investment and output figures for May.  China’s fixed-asset investment probably expanded at the
slowest pace in a decade in May, gains in consumer prices
matched a two-year low and industrial output grew less than 10
percent for a second month, Bloomberg economist surveys show
before the figures due to be released tomorrow.  Index Gains  The rate cut “may indicate that there is a bigger drop in
the consumer prices index,” Louis Wong, a director at Phillip
Securities HK Ltd., said by phone. “It goes to show that
cutting the reserve-requirement ratio may not be sufficient to
stimulate the economy, so now they have resorted to cutting
interest rates.”  The Shanghai Composite surged 46 percent in the 12 months
after China began cutting interest rates in 2008, the biggest
rally among 96 world equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg.
Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index, Turkey’s ISE National 100
Index and Brazil’s Bovespa Index each posted gains of more than
22 percent in the year after China’s interest-rate announcement
in September 2008, the biggest increases among 21 emerging-
market equity gauges after the Shanghai Composite, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Fully Invested’  Brazil, China and India would benefit the most from China’s
rate cut, according to Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5
billion as director of emerging markets at  F&C Asset Management
Plc (FCAM)  in London. “It’s going to be very positive for emerging-
markets and could create a short-term rally in markets for a few
days. Investors will shift focus later this month to Greek
elections and the situation in Spain,” he said yesterday by
phone.  Morgan Stanley’s move to “fully invested’ in its emerging-
markets asset allocation model means zero cash and a 10 percent
overweight in equities,  Jonathan Garner , equity strategist for
Asian and emerging markets, wrote in a report today.  China interest-rate cuts are ‘‘likely a significant
positive catalyst’’ for emerging-market equities, Garner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  