-- BOE’s Haldane Sees Risk Regulators May Misjudge Capital Needs
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-08T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/boe-s-haldane-sees-risk-regulators-may-misjudge-capital-needs.html
Bank of England official  Andrew Haldane  said the tools regulators use to assess banks’ capital
needs may contain flaws that cause them to underestimate the
level of buffers required.  “Even post-crisis, too many of these models remain at risk
of being misled by normality, fooled by randomness,” he said in
a speech in Edinburgh today. “That was a key fault line during
the crisis and, as recent experience attests, remains a key
fault line today.”  Haldane,  executive director  for financial stability at the
central bank, said the Value-at-Risk model developed by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  in the 1990s is an example of an approach to
assessing risk that managers want to keep using even as it
“continues to surprise on the downside.” The Black-Sholes
options-pricing formula can also, “if taken at face value, lead
to a material mispricing of risk,” he said.  Commenting on JPMorgan’s announcement last month of a $2
billion loss on a portfolio of corporate credit exposures,
Haldane said that while the firm has revised the VaR measure on
that portfolio, that reassessment may not be adequate.  “Whether this proves a more accurate measure of tail risk
on this still-open position remains to be seen,” he said. In
general, “the fatter the tails of the risk distribution, the
more misleading VaR-based risk measures will be.”  Financial regulators must avoid overly-specific regulations
as “complex intervention rules may simply add to existing
uncertainties in the system,” Haldane said.  A “systemic oversight agency, able to monitor and
potentially model the moving pieces of the financial system,”
is needed to address a risk management gap that arises from the
difficulties of assessing risk that’s outside of the normal
distribution of risks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  