-- Boeing Sued by Nigeria Crash Victim’s Husband, Daughter
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/boeing-sued-by-nigeria-crash-victim-s-husband-daughter.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , maker of the MD-83
airliner that crashed in  Nigeria  on June 3, was sued in the U.S.
by the husband and daughter of one of the 153 people aboard the
jet who died.  David Chukwunonso Allison of Lagos filed the lawsuit
yesterday on behalf of his 1-year-old daughter Naomi Isioma
Allison in federal court in Chicago. Boeing, jet-engine maker
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and units of the companies were named
as defendants.  The girl’s mother, Joy Chiedozie Allison, was on Dana
Airlines Ltd. flight 992 from Abuja, Nigeria, which crashed into
a two-story building as it approached the Lagos airport. While
the cause of the crash is under investigation, Nigeria’s
government has indefinitely suspended Dana’s license.  “By virtue of her untimely death, plaintiff is lawfully
entitled to such damages as are fair and just for the death and
loss thus occasioned,” including funeral expenses and the value
of her companionship, according to the 57-page complaint.  The Allisons allege the crash was caused by defects in the
design or manufacture of the jet or its engines, or pilot
negligence.  John Dern, a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing, declined
to comment on the allegations.  “We are deeply saddened by the lives lost in the recent
Dana Airlines incident,” Bryan Kidder, a spokesman for  United
Technologies ’  Pratt & Whitney  Canada unit, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Pratt & Whitney is cooperating fully with
investigating authorities and we are unable to offer any further
comment as the investigation is ongoing.”  United Technologies is based in Hartford, Connecticut.  The case is Allison v. Boeing, 12-cv-04441, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  