-- Brazil Future Yields Fall as Policy Makers Signal More Rate Cuts
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-06-08T21:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/brazil-futures-yields-fall-as-bank-reiterates-view-on-rate-cuts.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures declined for a second week after the central bank
reiterated language in its meeting minutes that encouraged
speculation it will maintain the pace of rate reductions.  Minutes released today were “quite similar” to those from
the previous meeting, indicating policy makers will repeat at
their next meeting the half-percentage point cut implemented on
May 30, according to Italo Lombardi, economist at Standard
Chartered Bank.  “In July there will be another 50 basis point cut or
possibly more,” Lombardi said in a phone interview from  New
York . “It will depend on the economy’s performance and how
things develop abroad.”  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2014 declined 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point,
to 8.14. The yields fell nine basis points this week. The real
rose 0.5 percent to 2.0237 per  U.S. dollar , erasing an earlier
decline. The currency extended its weekly gain to 0.8 percent as
the central bank sold swaps to support the currency.  The economic recovery has been slower than anticipated, the
central bank said in minutes of its May 29-30 meeting, when it
lowered the target lending rate to a record low 8.5 percent.
Inflation risk remains limited as the global economy remains
“disinflationary,” according to policy makers. The bank said
it will carry out any further reductions of borrowing costs with
“parsimony,” echoing minutes of its April meeting.  ‘Confidence of Investors’  “The central bank doesn’t want to be alarmist and affect
the confidence of Brazilian businesses by signaling a cut of 75
basis points,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investmentos, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“Clearly the bank is concerned about the confidence of
investors.”  The real rebounded as the central bank said it sold 20,400
of 30,000 currency swap contracts for a total $1.01 billion in
an auction today, the seventh day of such operations to support
the  exchange rate  since mid-May. The bank sold 11,200 contracts
due July and 9,200 due August.  The swaps are a reversal of the bank’s stepped-up dollar
purchases, which reached $7.2 billion in April, the most in 13
months, to bolster exports by weakening the currency. The real
is the worst performer against the greenback this year among 25
emerging-market counterparts tracked by Bloomberg, having
weakened 7.8 percent.  “The bank stepped in today even amid lower volatility and
no major event in the market,” said Bernd Berg,  emerging
markets  currency strategist for  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN) , said in a
phone interview from Zurich. “Perhaps they are targeting a
range for the real between 2 and 2.05 per dollar, to bring
volatility to an even lower level.”  External Environment  European stocks retreated, paring the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index’s (SXXP)  biggest weekly gain in four months, after German exports
slumped more than forecast and  Fitch Ratings  cut  Spain ’s credit
rating.  “The investor knows that the foreign environment is bad,
but also knows that the  currency market  is being watched by the
central bank,” Jose Carlos Amado, currency trader at Renascenca
DTVM Ltda., said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Annual inflation slowed in May to 4.99 percent from 5.10
percent in the previous month, the government’s statistics
agency said June 6. The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of 5.06 percent.  Growth Forecast  Economists trimmed their 2012 economic growth forecast to
2.72 percent from 2.99 percent a week earlier, according to the
median forecast in a weekly central bank survey of about 100
analysts published June 4. They cut their outlook for inflation
this year to 5.15 percent from 5.17 percent. The rate has
remained above the country’s 4.5 percent target for 21 months.  Speculation that President  Dilma Rousseff  will fuel
inflation by reducing the primary  budget surplus , which excludes
interest payments on debt, eased after  Valor Economico  reported
that she had scrapped possible changes to the target.  Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin told reporters in Brasilia
May 30 that the government hasn’t considered changing the
primary surplus target. A Finance Ministry press official
declined to comment today when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  