-- Brazil Signals at Least One More Parsimonious Key Rate Cut
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-06-08T14:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/brazil-says-future-rate-cuts-to-be-carried-out-with-parsimony-.html
Brazil’s central bank signaled it
will reduce its benchmark  interest rate  for an eighth straight
time in July after saying the economy is recovering at a “very
gradual pace.”  Policy makers, who reduced the overnight rate by a half
point to a  record  8.5 percent last month, said today in the
minutes to their May 29-30 meeting that “disinflationary”
global conditions and a slower-than-anticipated recovery are
limiting inflation risks. They said 2012 inflation in both their
reference and market outlooks slowed since their April meeting
and are around their 4.5 percent target.  ‘The overall tone shows a lot of concern with the domestic
and international outlook for growth,” said  Solange Srour ,
chief economist at BNY Mellow ARX. “Another cut of 50 basis
points seems to me pretty obvious now.”  The bank repeated language used in its April minutes, when
it slowed the pace of easing, to signal that its comfortable
with more half-point rate cuts as it waits for past stimulus to
fully work its way through the economy.  The central bank “evaluates that the slowdown of the
Brazilian economy in the second half of last year was bigger
than anticipated and that the recovery is taking place a very
gradual pace,” policy makers said. “Given the accumulated and
delayed effects of policy action up to the moment, any
additional monetary flexibility should be conducted with
parsimony.”  Growth Slowdown  Brazil said June 1 that the economy  grew 0.2 percent  in the
first quarter, less than half the pace analysts predicted in a
Bloomberg survey and slower than  Japan ’s 1 percent expansion.  The report prompted Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to abandon his 4.5 percent growth target for this year.
Mantega said the government would be satisfied if the economy’s
expansion in 2012 exceeded last year’s 2.7 percent rate, which
was the second-worst performance since 2003.  The bank has lowered the Selic by 400 basis points since
August in an attempt to bolster economic growth and shield the
second-largest emerging market from what policy makers today
said is a “fragile” global economy.  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo , fell 8 basis points
to 7.81 percent at 10:18 a.m. local time. The real fell 0.2
percent to 2.0360 per  U.S. dollar .  Slower growth is helping tame  inflation . Consumer prices
rose 0.36 percent in May, less than analysts expected, pushing
the annual rate to 4.99 percent, the lowest since September
2010.  Extra Stimulus  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has cut taxes on
consumer and industrial goods and boosted low-cost loans by the
state development bank BNDES to help accelerate growth. She’s
also ordered state banks to cut borrowing costs in a bid to
induce private lenders to make more credit available.  Still, the extra stimulus hasn’t prevented economists from
cutting their growth forecasts over the past. Analysts surveyed
by the central bank reduced their median estimate for expansion
this year to 2.72 percent on June 1 from 3.23 percent four weeks
ago.  The May 29-30 Copom meeting was the first in which the
central bank revealed how each director voted.  Brazil ’s central
bank also created last month a new position on its board to
improve transparency and communications after bank President
Alexandre Tombini said it is increasingly important for central
banks to provide “forward guidance” to the market.  Rousseff is expected to nominate Luiz Edson Feltrim,
currently executive-secretary, to the Senate for the post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  