-- Bundesbank Raises 2012 Growth Forecast as Low Rates Help Economy
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-08T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/bundesbank-raises-2012-growth-forecast-as-low-rates-help-economy.html
The Bundesbank said the German
economy will grow faster than previously forecast even as
 Europe ’s debt crisis presents an “exceptionally high” level of
uncertainty.  The Frankfurt-based institution revised up its 2012 growth
forecast to 1 percent from 0.6 percent predicted in December,
citing a robust global economy, cheap financing conditions and
solid domestic consumption.  Germany ’s economy, Europe’s largest,
will expand 1.6 percent in 2013, less than the previously
forecast 1.8 percent.  “I expect that expansionary forces will maintain the upper
hand if the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area doesn’t
escalate,” Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said in an e-
mailed statement. “Overall, the economic outlook for Germany is
much better than in many other economies.”  The 17-nation euro region is struggling with a fiscal
crisis that has already pushed at least eight members into
recession. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on
June 6 that “heightened uncertainty” was weighing on the
economic outlook.  The Bundesbank revised up its inflation forecasts for this
year and next. It now predicts annual consumer price gains to
average 2.1 percent in 2012 and 1.6 percent in 2013. It had
forecast inflation of 1.8 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively.  The Bundesbank said even though Germany’s economy is
currently in a “difficult environment,” its recovery should
continue. At the same time, the projections are “subject to
exceptionally high uncertainty and risk,” it said.  Outlook Risks  If a softening of economies outside Europe adds to the
already bleak euro-area outlook, that could seriously affect the
German economy, the Bundesbank said.  “If uncertainty eases faster than we assume in our
baseline scenario, the very favorable financing conditions could
also have a stronger expansionary effect on the domestic
economy,” Weidmann said.  The ECB this week kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 1 percent, even as some policy makers had
advocated a cut. Draghi said the ECB stands ready to act if the
situation deteriorates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  