-- Canadian Dollar in Weekly Gain Versus U.S. Peer as Stocks Rise
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-08T21:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/canadian-dollar-depreciates-as-employment-growth-stalls-in-may.html
Canada ’s dollar posted the biggest
weekly gain of the year versus its U.S. counterpart as stocks
rose, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Canadian currency erased earlier losses as European
finance officials prepared this weekend to discuss a potential
bailout of Spain. Bank of Canada policy makers reiterated on
June 5 that interest-rate increases may be necessary as the
economy expands. A government report today showed job growth
exceeded economists’ expectations for a third month.  “There are three big themes driving markets -- Europe, the
global-growth outlook and central-bank response,” said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s
Scotia Capital in Toronto. “Domestic data is reasonably
supportive of the trends that are already in place, and the  Bank
of Canada  maintained a fairly hawkish tone. The Canadian dollar
was able to rally.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 1.4 percent since June 1. It
was little changed at C$1.0266 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in
Toronto after declining as much as 0.7 percent. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.46 cents.  Canada is prepared to take additional measures to bolster
liquidity in its own financial system if the global economic
situation worsens, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told
reporters in  Quebec City , adding he expects the country’s
economy to record “modest” growth this quarter.  The loonie pared losses as crude oil rebounded, eking out
its first weekly rise in six on the possibility that discussions
by European finance officials this weekend would yield a bailout
for Spain.  Government bonds  were little changed, with benchmark 10-
year securities yielding 1.81 percent.  Jobs Gains  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  advanced 3.7 percent this
week. The MSCI World Index of equities in developed nations
gained 3.1 percent.  Canada, the world’s 10th largest economy, added  7,700 jobs 
last month,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa, following gains of
58,200 and 82,300 in the prior two months. A addition of 5,000
jobs was forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Canadian housing starts were 211,400 at a seasonally
adjusted annual pace in May, according to Canada Mortgage &
Housing Corp. Economists had forecast a reading of 215,000, a
separate survey showed.  Options traders are becoming less bearish on the Canadian
dollar. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate,
which measures the premium charged for the right to buy the  U.S.
dollar  against the loonie versus contracts to sell, traded at
2.8 percentage points, down from 3.3 percentage points at the
end of last week.  AAA Rating  Risk reversal levels are still elevated. The rate climbed
to 3.4 percentage points at the end of May, from as low as 1.35
in January. It averaged 1.1 percentage points since 2007.  The Canadian dollar is benefiting from the nation’s AAA
credit rating and relatively sound government finances, along
with prospects for higher yields after Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  reiterated this week that raising  interest rates  may
become appropriate as the economy expands.  The loonie is up 1 percent over three months, according to
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The greenback has gained
5.2 percent and the yen is up 8.2 percent. The euro has slumped
1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  