-- Canada Jobs and Housing Data Signal Economic Weakness
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-06-08T19:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/canada-jobless-rate-unchanged-in-may-as-7-700-jobs-added.html
Weaker Canadian  job creation  and
slower housing starts, along with falling exports, add to
evidence growth in the world’s 10th-largest economy is slowing.  Employers added 7,700 jobs in May, the fewest in three
months,  Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa, leaving the
 unemployment rate  at 7.3 percent. The country also recorded its
first merchandise  trade deficit  in six months in April as
exports declined. Beginning  home construction  dropped 13
percent, the country’s housing agency said.  “We probably won’t see much economic momentum in coming
months for Canada,” said  Sal Guatieri , senior economist at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto. Exports will be restrained by “a
strong Canadian dollar and the global economy is downshifting --
emerging-market economies have slowed.”  Bank of Canada policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney 
held their  key interest rate  at 1 percent on June 5 and said the
country’s underlying economic momentum is in line with
projections, even after first-quarter growth that trailed their
earlier forecast. The central bank also said that tensions from
 Europe ’s debt crisis have increased while the prices of  exported
commodities  have eased.  Canada’s dollar depreciated 0.1 percent to C$1.0291 per
 U.S. dollar  at 3:05 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
97.17 cents. Two-year government bond yields fell one basis
point to 1.04 percent.  In its April forecast, the central bank forecast 2.4
percent economic growth this year. Statistics Canada said June 1
the economy grew at a 1.9 percent annual pace in the first
quarter.  Calm Needed  “The Bank remains biased to take the overnight rate higher
but will require a period of relative calm to pull the
trigger,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at TD
Securities in Toronto.  The May job gain followed increases of 58,200 and 82,300 in
the prior two months that marked the biggest back-to-back
increases in more than three decades.  Today’s job report also showed faster wage growth. Hourly
wages of permanent employees rose 2.9 percent in May from a year
earlier, faster than April’s 2.4 percent pace.  The jobs report “is a mixed bag,” said  Jimmy Jean , a
strategist in the fixed-income group at Desjardins Capital
Markets in  Montreal .  ‘Market Anxiety’  “The trade report is consistent with the view that weak
external demand, especially for commodities, may be the Bank’s
main worry in the near term,” he said. “Market anxiety and
potential shocks to confidence are also too significant for the
Bank to be credibly contemplating rate hikes in the near
future.”  Construction employment fell by 27,000 in May, reversing a
similar gain in April. Demand for homes, along with public works
projects and energy projects, helped drive the share of Canadian
employment involved in construction to a record high in April.  Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. said on its website today
that  housing starts  fell 13 percent to an annual pace of 211,400
units in May.  The central bank’s rate has been at 1 percent since
September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s, while five-
year mortgage rates have been at or near record lows most of
this year, averaging 5.44 percent last week. The  Bank of Canada 
this week said that gains in housing have led to a “less
balanced” recovery.  European Crisis  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said yesterday he told French
President  Francois Hollande  in a meeting that European leaders
risk a major global crisis unless they build a proper economic
union.  “They’re not going to have growth in Europe unless they
establish some confidence in markets, and it’s going to be very
difficult to establish confidence without a plan to address some
of these issues and some of these structural issues,” Harper
told reporters yesterday in Paris.  Canada’s trade report today showed a deficit of C$367
million ($355 million) followed a revised surplus of C$152
million in March. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a
C$180 million surplus, based on the median of 22 forecasts.  Exports fell as industrial goods and materials dropped 5.8
percent to C$9.34 billion and machinery and equipment shipments
declined 3.1 percent to C$6.68 billion. Imports rose 0.1 percent
to C$39.5 billion, the fifth straight increase.  U.S. Deficit  The U.S. Commerce Department said the trade deficit
narrowed in April as a drop in imports overshadowed the first
decline in exports in five months. The gap shrank 4.9 percent to
$50.1 billion, greater than the $49.5 billion economists had
forecast.  “I am concerned about relative weakness in the  U.S.
economy ,” Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters today in
 Quebec City , Quebec. The U.S. buys three-quarters of  Canada ’s
exports.  Flaherty said today’s reports haven’t changed his
expectations for the economy. “Our economic expectations in the
budget, based on the private-sector forecasts, was for modest,
moderate growth in Canada,” he said. “I expect second-quarter
numbers will show that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  