-- Canada First Quarter Labor Productivity Report (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-08T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/canada-first-quarter-labor-productivity-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s business sector labor productivity report for
the first quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  The labour productivity of Canadian businesses edged up
0.1% in the first quarter, after increasing 0.7% in each
of the previous two quarters.  Chart: Real output of Canadian businesses and hours worked
grow at a similar rate  The slight productivity gain in the first quarter
reflected the recovery of hours worked after a quarter of
decline, as businesses maintained the same rate of real output
growth as in the previous quarter.  The growth of the real gross domestic product of businesses
was 0.5% in the first quarter, the same as in the fourth quarter
of 2011. Services-producing businesses were the main
contributors
to the increase in output, as activity intensified in wholesale
trade. Output for goods-producing businesses was unchanged from
the previous quarter.  Hours worked in businesses grew 0.4% in the first quarter,
after falling 0.2% in the previous quarter. Most of the increase
in hours worked was in the services sector (+0.6%), as hours
worked edged up 0.1% in goods-producing businesses.  There was little variation in the productivity of
goods-producing businesses and services-producing businesses
in the first quarter.  Productivity in the goods-producing businesses (-0.1%)
decreased slightly in the first quarter, following two quarterly
advances of more than 1.0%. The productivity gains in
manufacturing
(+0.8%) and construction (+0.4%) were not enough to offset
declines
in mining and oil and gas extraction (-0.9%) and agriculture,
forestry, fishing and hunting (-0.3%).  Productivity in services-producing businesses posted a
modest
0.1% increase. Productivity increases in wholesale trade (+1.1%),
transportation and warehousing (+0.6%) and administrative
services
(+1.9%) were partly offset by declines in the other industries.  In the  United States , business productivity fell 0.2% in
the
first quarter, its first decrease in a year.  In Canadian businesses, labour costs per unit of production
were up 0.4% in the first quarter, after rising 0.8% in the
previous
quarter.  The growth of average compensation per hour worked, which
was
1.5% in the fourth quarter of 2011, slowed to 0.5% in the first
quarter,
outpacing the modest growth of productivity. It was the second
successive
quarter in which hourly compensation in Canada grew faster than
productivity.  After two quarters of depreciation, the average value of
the Canadian
dollar relative to the American currency was up 2.3% in the
first quarter.
Because of the appreciation, Canadian businesses’ unit labour
costs measured
in US dollars rose 2.6%, their first increase in three quarters.  By comparison, unit labour costs in American businesses
increased
0.3% after declining in the previous quarter.  Note to readers  With this release, data were revised back to the first
quarter of
2011.  Important changes are coming to  Canada ’s System of National
Accounts
(CSNA), starting in October. These changes will affect all users
of CSNA
products and statistics such as gross domestic product (GDP),
balance of
payments, international investment, and input-output tables. For
more
information, consult the National Economic Accounts website.
Because of the
2012 CSNA historical revision the publication of the first
quarter 2012
data includes revisions extending back only one year at the
aggregate
level.  The term “productivity” in this release refers to labour
productivity. For the purposes of this analysis, labour
productivity
and related variables cover the business sector only. Labour
productivity
is a measure of real GDP per hour worked. Unit labour cost is
defined as
the cost of workers’ wages and benefits per unit of real GDP.  All the growth rates reported in this release are rounded
to one
decimal place. They are calculated with index numbers rounded to
three
decimal places, which are now available on CANSIM.  Definitions, data sources and methods: survey number 5042.  Additional tables and links to other releases from the national
accounts can be found in the first quarter 2012 issue of
Canadian
Economic Accounts Quarterly Review, Vol. 11, no. 1 (13-010-X,
free),
available from the Key resource module of our website under
Publications.
This publication will be updated on June 15, at the time of the
release
of the national balance sheet accounts.  Labour productivity, hourly compensation and unit labour cost
data for
the second quarter will be released on September 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ainhoa Goyeneche in Washington at 
 agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  