-- Capital Rules, Bank Leverage Ratio, Mexico TV: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-08T12:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/capital-rules-bank-leverage-ratio-mexico-tv-compliance.html
U.S. regulators moved forward on
implementing global bank capital rules, releasing the language
for measures proposed in past years, even as the international
body overseeing the framework makes adjustments.  The  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  yesterday published a
revised version of rules that were decided in 2009, dictating
for instance how much capital banks should hold to back products
such as mortgage-linked securities. The regulators also proposed
another set of rules that will translate for U.S. lenders a more
fundamental overhaul of the capital regime drawn up by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  in 2010.  Each Basel committee nation must write rules that comport
with the decisions of the 27-member body, and the 2009 revisions
were supposed to be implemented last year. The U.S., whose
regulators were delayed because they had to reconcile the Basel
regime with the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, has been
criticized by the European Union for falling behind.  The so-called market-risk  rules , which will be finalized
when all the regulators’ boards approve them, cover capital
charges for assets on bank trading books. The market-risk rules
would take effect Jan. 1.  Dodd-Frank’s credit-ratings ban slowed the process in the
U.S. as regulators devised an alternative. The U.S. rules
replace ratings of sovereign bonds with classifications of
country risk devised by the  Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development .  The interagency proposal to implement Basel’s 2010
decisions stuck mostly to the original international framework
while leaving out some elements. The new regime more than
doubles minimum capital requirements, tightens the definition of
capital and improves risk measurements for loans.  Separately, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors met
yesterday on proposals for strengthening bank capital standards,
including international rules known as Basel III.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  Mexico Regulator Approves Outline for Possible TV Auction  Mexico’s Federal Telecommunications Commission approved an
outline for the possible auction of airwaves for two digital
broadcast television channels covering 153 cities. The agency
will publish the outline in the federal gazette and will work
with Mexico’s antitrust agency to develop auction rules, it said
yesterday in an e-mail.  The commission also approved a framework agreement,
developed with phone carriers, to govern how competitors connect
their networks to each other, the agency said.  Banks Face Quarterly Leverage Ratio Reporting Rules, EBA Says  European banks may have to report their debt-to-equity
ratio to regulators every quarter from next year, the  European
Banking Authority  said on its website yesterday.  The EBA, set up in 2011 to harmonize banking rules across
Europe, is seeking banks’ views on measures for reporting
leverage and liquidity as part of the bloc’s implementation of
global capital rules known as Basel III. The  consultation
process  will run until Aug. 27, with final standards to be
decided on before the end of the year.  European lenders may face monthly liquidity reporting rules
as part of the regulatory overhaul, the EBA said in a  separate
report .  Bernanke Says Fed Could Use Discount Window in Liquidity Crunch  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank would use the discount window or its emergency lending
powers to expand liquidity if dollar funding is needed in a
potential European financial crisis.  The Fed would “use our authority through the discount
window or through our 13.3 authority to lend to financial
institutions against collateral to make sure that lack of
liquidity was not a reason that they would collapse or at least
stop lending,” Bernanke said, citing a section of the Federal
Reserve Act permitting emergency credit.  He said that would be “the main tool” the Fed would
“have in reserve” and will use “if financial conditions
called for it.”  Barrick Gold Units Fail to File Australia Final Statements  Eight Western Australian public companies have informed the
Perth Magistrates Court that they will plead guilty to a total
of 14 charges for failing to comply with obligations to lodge
reports with the Australian Securities & Investments Commission
or ASIC.  The companies are all subsidiaries of  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  of
Canada, the world’s largest gold producer, the regulatory agency
said in a statement. The maximum penalty for each offence
relating to failing to lodge financial reports is A$13,750
($13,537) ASIC said in the statement.  The matter has been adjourned to the Perth Magistrates
Court for sentencing on Aug. 10 and is being prosecuted by
Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions, according to the
statement.  Nomura Apologizes for Involvement in Insider Trading Cases  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  apologized for its employees’ role in
leaking information that was used for  insider trading ,
confirming for the first time their involvement in three cases
being examined by regulators.  “Nomura expresses its regret concerning the findings that
non-public information was received from Nomura employees in
such cases,” Japan’s largest brokerage said in a  statement 
today. Regulators earlier today recommended fining First New
York Securities LLC for trading shares in 2010 based on
information that originated from Tokyo-based Nomura in one case.  The employees’ role in the incidents, which came to light
as Japanese regulators began penalizing the companies that
profited from the leaked information in March, may undermine
Nomura’s credibility with investors. The news may also weigh on
a stock that fell to its lowest in at least 37 years in November
as profit plunged.  Nomura said it will complete an internal investigation by a
group of outside lawyers by the end of June. The firm will
“implement improvement measures and disciplinary action” in
accordance with the result of the review and the  Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission ’s inspection, it said.  It chose Hideki Nakagome, a former High Court chief
justice, to lead the internal probe.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-Hedge Fund Trader Sues Pamplona Capital on $3.1 Million Bonus  A former hedge-fund trader at Pamplona Capital Management
LLP sued the London-based asset manager saying his
2 million-pound ($3.1 million) bonus wasn’t as much as he was
promised.  Sheil Aggarwal, who worked at the Pamplona Credit
Opportunities Fund run by Yves Leysen, said in a U.K. lawsuit
that part of his 2009 bonus was deferred to limit taxes. After
resigning from the firm in 2010, he wasn’t paid the deferred 1.3
million pounds, according to court papers filed in March and
made public this week.  Pamplona’s lawyers said in their own court filing in May,
also made public this week, that the deferred bonus was only
intended for those who continued to work at the fund and was
intended to retain and motivate Aggarwal.  Fiona Macdonald, a lawyer for Aggarwal, declined to comment
in an e-mail. Calls and e-mails to Leysen and Kevin O’Flaherty,
the firm’s chief financial officer, weren’t returned.  Egan-Jones Sues to Have SEC Allegations Tried in Federal Court  Egan-Jones Ratings Co.  and its founder  Sean Egan  sued the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to force the agency to
bring its allegations of misrepresentation against the firm
before a federal judge.  Egan-Jones said in a complaint filed June 6 in federal
court in Washington that it would be deprived of its rights,
including that to a jury trial, if the SEC’s enforcement action
was to proceed in an “administrative forum.”  The firm, which calls itself an alternative to the larger
providers of credit ratings because it gets paid by subscribers
rather than by issuers of debt, said in its complaint that the
SEC conducted a biased investigation that resulted in the
administrative proceeding in April.  The SEC filed an administrative proceeding against Egan and
the firm over claims they misrepresented the firm’s experience
rating asset-backed and  government securities  in a 2008
application to become an NRSRO. Egan-Jones falsely claimed in
the application that it had about 150 outstanding ABS issuer
ratings and 50 government ratings, the SEC said.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Egan-Jones, based in Haverford, Pennsylvania, is one of
about 10 firms registered with the SEC as a nationally
recognized statistical ratings organization, meaning companies
can use their credit ratings to meet regulatory requirements. 
The case is Egan-Jones v. SEC, 12-00920, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Panels  Friedlander, Mayhew, McLaughlin on Muni Market Rules  George Friedlander, managing director and senior municipal
strategist at  Citigroup Inc. (C) ; Brian Mayhew, chief financial
officer at the Metropolitan Transportation Commission; and Ritta
McLaughlin, senior director of market leadership at Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board, participated in a panel discussion
about new municipal bond market regulations the Securities and
Exchange Commission will begin enforcing in August. The rules
will compel banks to warn state and local governments about the
risks and conflicts of interest in bond deals they arrange.  Bloomberg’s Joe Mysak moderated the event at the Bloomberg
Link State & Municipal Finance conference in Chicago.  For the video, click here.  Gensler Says Exchanges to Provide Transparency in Swaps  Gary Gensler , chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, talked about the evolution of exchanges and
their role in the swaps market.  Gensler spoke with Dominic Chu at the Sandler O’Neill
Global Exchange and Brokerage Conference on Bloomberg
Television’s “Money Moves.”  For the video, click here.  El-Erian Says Global Financial Regulatory Efforts Slowing Growth  Global attempts to overhaul financial regulation are
exacerbating a synchronized slowdown of the world economy, said
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Newport Beach, California.  The “incomplete and often faltering regulatory effort”
has heightened uncertainty in financial markets, constraining
the flow of credit and inhibiting the growth of the global
economy, he said in prepared remarks to a seminar in Washington.
The economic impact of the “patchwork” of at times differing
reforms worldwide “may well be consequential,” he said.  “At Pimco, our periodic assessment of the regulatory
landscape now always includes recognition of how much is still
in flux and, essentially, both unknowable and unquantifiable at
this stage,” said El-Erian, whose company manages the world’s
largest bond fund. “The result is yet another uncertainty and
complexity risk premium” built into financial markets.  El-Erian said that he’s not calling on regulators to
slacken their efforts to transform oversight of financial
markets and institutions. Instead, he stressed that the “proper
response is to proceed in a more coherent and coordinated
fashion.”  For more, click here.  Clausen Says Bank Regulation Guidelines So Far Unclear  Christian Clausen, chief executive officer of  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) ; Stefan Ingves, governor of Sweden’s Riksbank; Eugene Ludwig,
chief executive officer of Promontory Financial Group; Frederic
Oudea, chief executive officer of  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ; and
Magnus Uggla, head of Handelsbanken AB’s international
operations, discussed European bank regulation, liabilities,
liquidity requirements and Basel III implementation.  They spoke at the Institute of International Finance’s
Spring Membership Meeting in Copenhagen. Jan Hommen, chief
executive officer of  ING Groep NV (INGA) , moderated the session.  For the video, click here.  Credit Index and Rate Swaps Will Be First Cleared, Gensler Says  Interest rate and credit index swaps will be the first
derivatives to face clearing requirements this year under the
Dodd-Frank Act, said U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
chairman Gary Gensler.  The agency’s staff is preparing recommendations to require
clearing of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps as well as
indexes of North American investment grade and high-yield credit
swaps, Gensler said in a speech prepared for the Sandler O’Neill
Global Exchange and Brokerage  Conference  in New York.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul, intends
for most swaps to be guaranteed by clearinghouses that seek to
reduce risk in trades by standing between buyers and sellers.
Largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Regional Banks Are Seeking Acquisitions, Brown Says  Thomas Brown , chief executive officer at Second Curve
Capital LLC and a Bloomberg contributing editor, talked about
the outlook for financial industry mergers and acquisitions and
banking regulation.  Brown spoke with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Google Probe to Be Resolved Before Long, Leibowitz Says  Jon Leibowitz, chairman of the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, talked about the agency’s antitrust investigation of
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , online privacy protection and legislation, and
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s consideration of a plan to allow use of the
social network by children under age 13.  Leibowitz spoke with  Peter Cook  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Money Moves.”  For the video, click here.  Shadow-Bank Rules a Banking Union Cornerstone, Barnier Says  Proposals on shadow banking and the structure of lenders’
retail and investment arms are priorities this year as the
European Union pushes toward a banking union, said Michel
Barnier, the bloc’s financial services chief.  These measures, as well as the creation of European
financial supervisors and rules to end government-backed
bailouts of failing banks, are “fundamental cornerstones of a
banking union,” Barnier said yesterday in a speech in
Copenhagen.  European Union leaders, including European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi and European Commission President Jose
Barroso, have called for a banking union with more coordination
of regulation, as lawmakers seek to bolster confidence damaged
by debt turmoil. EU President Herman Van Rompuy plans to report
on proposed “building blocks” for deeper integration in the
17-nation euro area to the next summit of EU leaders on June
28-29 in Brussels.  For more, click here.  BOE’s Haldane Sees Risk Regulators May Misjudge Capital Needs  Bank of England official  Andrew Haldane  said the tools
regulators use to assess banks’ capital needs may contain flaws
that cause them to underestimate the level of buffers required.  “Even post-crisis, too many of these models remain at risk
of being misled by normality, fooled by randomness,” he said in
a speech in Edinburgh today. “That was a key fault line during
the crisis and, as recent experience attests, remains a key
fault line today.”  Haldane, executive director for financial stability at the
central bank, said the Value-at-Risk model developed by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  in the 1990s is an example of an approach to
assessing risk that managers want to keep using even as it
“continues to surprise on the downside.” The Black-Sholes
options-pricing formula can also, “if taken at face value, lead
to a material mispricing of risk,” he said.  Commenting on JPMorgan’s announcement last month of a $2
billion loss on a portfolio of corporate credit exposures,
Haldane said that while the firm has revised the VaR measure on
that portfolio, that reassessment may not be adequate.  Financial regulators must avoid overly-specific regulations
as “complex intervention rules may simply add to existing
uncertainties in the system,” Haldane said. A systemic
oversight agency may be needed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  