-- McDonald’s Sales Drop in Asia Signals Fast-Food Slowdown
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-06-11T14:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/mcdonald-s-may-sales-trail-estimates-on-asia-declines.html
Chinese consumers may be losing
their appetite for American fast food.  On June 8,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  reported that same-store sales
fell 1.7 percent in Asia Pacific, the  Middle East  and Africa in
May, the biggest decline since at least 2004.  The pullback at the world’s largest restaurant chain
coincides with a slowing Chinese economy. That has forced
McDonald’s and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , which runs the KFC and Pizza
Hut chains, to fight back with less-expensive menu items, said
Steve West, an analyst at ITG Investment Research in  St. Louis .  “We’ve seen a lot of deep discounting by McDonald’s and
Yum,” he said. “McDonald’s has been talking about keeping that
up in the face of pretty high inflation.”  McDonald’s, based in Oak Brook, Illinois,  rose  0.3 percent
to $87.97 and Yum fell 0.2 percent to $64.48 at 9:58 a.m. in  New
York , while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1 percent.  China’s manufacturing expanded at the  slowest  pace since
December, a government report showed on June 1, adding to signs
the nation’s slowdown is worsening. A separate purchasing
managers’ index from  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and Markit Economics
pointed to a seventh straight contraction, the longest stretch
since the global financial crisis.  China responded to the slowdown on June 7 by cutting
 interest rates  for the first time since 2008.  Sales Decline  The 1.7 percent same-store sales decline at McDonald’s
Asia, Middle East and Africa division last month compared with
analysts’ projections for a gain of 3.2 percent, the average of
estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. Globally, sales rose 3.3
percent, trailing an estimate for a 5.2 percent increase.  The chain’s division that includes  Asia  is “seeing
challenging economic conditions, with slow growth in China,”
 Don Thompson , who will become chief executive officer in July,
said during a first-quarter earnings conference call in April.
Company-operated margin at restaurants in that region narrowed
to 16.9 percent in the first quarter from 17.5 percent a year
earlier.  McDonald’s has tried to lure customers to its 1,500 stores
in China with value lunch items and a new chicken burger.  The company will start selling a value-priced dinner in
China “in the coming months,” Thompson said in April.  A slowing Chinese economy comes at a time when Yum is
betting on the growing middle class to help it expand. The
Louisville, Kentucky-based company, which generated 44 percent
of its revenue in  China  last year and already has more than
4,600 restaurants there, plans to open another 600 locations
this year.  Earnings Growth  McDonald’s is  scheduled  to report second-quarter earnings
on July 23. Net income excluding some items is projected to
increase less than 1 percent, according to the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the
weakest quarterly  earnings  growth in three years.  Profit growth at Yum, scheduled to release second-quarter
results on July 13, is also slipping.  Net income  excluding
certain items may rise 4.2 percent, which would be the slowest
growth since 2008, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  While “China is slowing to some degree,” it’s still a
profitable market for fast-food chains, said Larry Miller, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Atlanta, who rates McDonald’s
and Yum the equivalent of buy. “I don’t think these guys are
making a bad bet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  