-- CEOs Losing Optimism as Job Slowdown Imperils U.S. Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-06-08T18:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/ceos-lose-their-optimism-as-job-slowdown-imperils-u-s-growth.html
U.S. chief executive officers are
turning more pessimistic about a second-half recovery as rising
 unemployment  and  Europe ’s debt turmoil threaten domestic growth
prospects.  CEOs from  General Motors Co. (GM)  to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  to
Manpower Inc. say they are concerned about the health of the
 U.S. economy . While economists predict a continuing expansion
this year and next, executives see a mounting number of
obstacles that could clip growth.  U.S. employers added the fewest number of workers to their
payrolls in a year last month, while companies including  Tiffany
& Co. (TIF)  and mattress maker  Tempur-Pedic International Inc. (TPX)  cut
their full-year forecasts. European policy makers are also
struggling to resolve a crisis that has tipped at least eight of
the 17 euro-area economies into recession. The U.S. presidential
election is another area of concern, CEOs said.  “There are so many uncertainties,” said Jeffrey Joerres,
CEO of  Manpower (MAN) , the Milwaukee-based provider of temporary
workers. “If these uncertainties keep stacking up and none
get resolved, we’ll see a hiring pause rather than the current
slowdown.”  After a 1.7 percent expansion last year, U.S. gross
domestic product may increase by 2.2 percent in 2012 and by 2.4
percent in 2013, the median of 70 economists surveyed from June
1 to June 5 shows. The estimates are down 0.1 percentage point
from those issued last month.  No Better  CEOs see jobs as a key driver of growth, even as they keep
a lid on their own spending and hiring.  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) ’s
Albertsons grocery store chain said this week it will cut as
many as 2,500 jobs. Hewlett-Packard has announced the biggest
round of job cuts out of any U.S. company this year, at 27,000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The economy seems to be just sort of bouncing along,”
Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman said in an interview this week.
“It doesn’t seem to be getting significantly better.”  Employment concerns, coupled with sinking housing prices,
have made U.S. consumers reluctant to undertake big-ticket home
renovations, said Lowe’s Cos. Chairman and CEO  Robert Niblock .
Lowe’s, the second-biggest U.S. home-improvement retailer after
 Home Depot Inc. (HD) , is eliminating more than 500 corporate
positions through voluntary buyouts this year after cutting
1,700 store management jobs in 2011.  ‘Sufficiently Cautious’  “From a macroeconomics and jobs standpoint, we are trying
to be sufficiently cautious in our outlook,” Niblock told
reporters after the company’s annual shareholder meeting on June
1. “It’s always, ‘Well, the second half of the year or next
year is going to be better.’”  That sentiment may be fading. Lowe’s reduced its full-year
 earnings  forecast last month and was joined this week by Tempur-
Pedic, the mattress maker that plunged a record 49 percent after
lowering profit and revenue predictions for 2012. Tiffany last
month also cut its full-year profit and sales forecasts after
revenue at its flagship store fell, hurt by cuts to Wall Street
bonuses and fewer European tourists.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined almost 7
percent from a four-year high on April 2.  The May jobs report, which showed the U.S. unemployment
rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent a month earlier,
“cemented our point of view that this is a low-growth
environment,” Carol Tome, chief financial officer of Home
Depot, said in an interview on June 6.  General Motors CEO Dan Akerson said last month that he’s
“guardedly optimistic” about the economy. GM, the largest U.S.
automaker, led five of the six biggest car companies last week
in reporting U.S. monthly sales gains that trailed analysts’
estimates as incentive offers failed to draw enough buyers.  ‘It’s Fragile’  “It’s fragile,” Akerson said about the economy in a May
14 interview in  New York . “When people have confidence that
they’ll have a job and that their homes are safe and whatnot,
they tend to spend more and that tends to drive demand.”  While last month’s unemployment rate has fallen from a peak
of 10 percent in October 2009, consumers and companies are still
restrained.  Randall Stephenson , CEO of  AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest
U.S. phone company, said last month that telecommunications
spending by large companies is focused on operating more
efficiently, not expanding.  The real driver is businesses “hiring and putting people
on payroll,” Stephenson said in a May 10 interview. “We’re
still not seeing that.”  Bob Evans Farms Inc. said this week it would increase so-
called value offerings at its namesake restaurant chain, which
already sells 10 meals for less than $20 each.  “We’re hitting value hard and we don’t see that changing
anytime soon,” CEO  Steven Davis  said on a June 6 conference
call.  European Concerns  A consumer pullback in Europe would also hurt all types of
businesses, according to Hewlett-Packard’s Whitman. The debt
crisis and the possibility that Greece may withdraw from the
euro area is causing “a lot of uncertainty in Europe,” she
said. “Uncertainty is not business’s best friend.”  Analog Devices Inc. (ADI)  Chief Financial Officer David Zinsner
said in a May 22 interview that a further deterioration in
Europe combined with slower growth in  China  could push sales to
the bottom of the company’s predicted range. The Norwood,
Massachusetts-based semiconductor maker already predicted sales
for the quarter ending in July that fell short of some analysts’
estimates.  The  U.S. presidential election  in November is another
wildcard, according to Niblock, the Lowe’s CEO. While President
 Barack Obama  will argue he’s brought the U.S. out of the worst
recession since the Great Depression, his Republican opponent
 Mitt Romney  is saying his policies haven’t worked.  ‘Little Rocky’  “We expect it to be touch and go, a little rocky between
now and the election,” Niblock said.  Dollar General Corp. (DG) , the Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based
retailer, is holding off boosting its forecast for the year. CEO
Richard Dreiling said on a June 4 conference call that he plans
to assess during the current quarter whether to alter his
prediction for a 3 percent to 5 percent increase in comparable-
store sales after a 6.7 percent increase in the first quarter.  “There’s so much chatter with the election,” Dreiling
said. “You saw what happened with unemployment. There’s just a
lot of noise right now, and I would just like a little more
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  