-- Chesapeake Directors Resign After Shareholder Rejection
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-06-08T18:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/chesapeake-directors-resign-after-shareholder-rejection.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  shareholders
rejected two directors involved in a probe of Chief Executive
Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s personal finances after slumping
energy prices and overspending wiped out $2.6 billion in market
value this year.  V. Burns Hargis and Richard K. Davidson, members of the
company’s audit committee, offered to resign after receiving
support of 26 percent and 27 percent of votes cast,
respectively, at the annual meeting at Chesapeake’s Oklahoma
City headquarters today. The board doesn’t have to accept the
resignations and will review them “in due course,” according
to a statement.  McClendon has been under increasing scrutiny from investors
and analysts for obtaining personal loans from some of the
company’s biggest financiers and for a wrong-way bet on natural-
gas prices that worsened a cashflow shortfall. Chesapeake’s two
largest shareholders plan to take control of the board this
month as McClendon approaches the end of a 23-year reign as
chairman of the company he co-founded.  “Something is out of whack here at Chesapeake,” Gerald Armstrong, a Denver-based shareholder, said during an address to
the annual meeting. “The absence of good governance practices
has become more apparent. Accountability is what it’s all
about.”  McClendon “might not be here next year,” Armstrong said
during a three-minute address in an auditorium on Chesapeake’s
corporate campus.  Investor Discontent  Michael Garland , governance expert for the  New York  City
Comptroller’s Office that controls pension funds invested in
Chesapeake, said the Hargis and Davidson votes were a
“referendum” on the entire board, which he accused of “costly
oversight failures.”  The result “represents a total and complete collapse of
investor confidence,” Garland said during an interview outside
the meeting.  Craig Rhines, investment officer for the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System  in Sacramento, said he was
surprised by the depth of dissatisfaction with Hargis, president
of Oklahoma State University, and Davidson, former chairman of
 Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)   “The vote is extraordinary,” Rhines said in an interview
outside today’s meeting.  Half of the board’s eight non-executive directors are
scheduled to be replaced by June 22 under an agreement announced
this week with Southeastern Asset Management and  Carl Icahn ,
which together control more than 20 percent of Chesapeake’s
common stock. Icahn will appoint one of the new directors and
Memphis-based Southeastern the other three. The chairman also
will be announced in that time.  Keeping Hargis  In a filing today, Southeastern said it would support
Chesapeake refusing Hargis’s resignation to allow him to stay on
until the review of McClendon’s finances are completed.
Southeastern said it voted against both Hargis and Davidson, and
said it hopes the review can be completed within “weeks, not
months.”  Chesapeake’s audit committee hired outside counsel Locke
Lord LLP earlier this year to assist in its review of loans
McClendon obtained by using personal stakes in company wells as
collateral. The executive perk that allows McClendon to buy
stakes of up to 2.5 percent in almost every well the company
drills will be discontinued in 2014.  Risk Taking  Shareholders including Garland criticized the board for
failing to rein in what they’ve seen as McClendon’s risk-taking
and overspending at the company. Vincent Intrieri, a director at
Icahn Capital, urged the board to remain open to “all strategic
alternatives,” including a sale of the entire company.  “Aubrey, you are a great oil and gas man,” Intrieri said
during the meeting today. He added that even great people need
oversight.  Under McClendon’s leadership, Chesapeake outspent cashflow
in 19 of the past 21 years as it amassed drilling leases from
Appalachia to the  Rocky Mountains  and made some of the biggest
onshore discoveries of the past 20 years, including the
Haynesville Shale formation in  Louisiana  and the Utica Shale in
 Ohio .  Facing a cashflow crunch that Alembic Global Advisors
estimates may exceed $22 billion by the end of next year,
Chesapeake sought a $4 billion bailout from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  last month in the form of a short-
 term loan .  Asset Sales  Today, the company announced plans to sell its pipeline
assets for about $4 billion to Global Infrastructure Partners in
three cash transactions. Chesapeake will sell its interests in
 Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP (CHKM)  to Global Infrastructure for $2
billion, the company said in a statement. Chesapeake also will
raise more than $2 billion by divesting its pipeline development
unit and some central U.S. conduits to Chesapeake Midstream.  The pipeline transactions bring Chesapeake’s asset sales
total so far this year to $6.6 billion, almost halfway to the
upper range of McClendon’s 2012 fundraising goal of $14 billion.
He reiterated plans today to reduce long-term debt to $9.5
billion by the end of December.  The largest asset Chesapeake plans to sell this year, a
series of oilfields in the Permian Basin in west  Texas  and  New
Mexico , has been examined in a so-called data room at
Chesapeake’s Oklahoma City headquarters by about 20 energy
companies, McClendon said today. Ten more are expected to view
the data in coming weeks, he said.  Permian Basin  McClendon, 52, said in a March interview that he expects
the Permian Basin assets to fetch at least $5 billion and that
they may be sold in a few pieces rather than as a whole.  Chesapeake was the best-performing energy stock in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index today, rising 2.5 percent to $18.30
at 2:24 p.m. in New York. The shares have fallen 18 percent this
year as the impact of tumbling gas prices was compounded by
investor distrust stemming from McClendon’s personal financial
transactions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  