-- Chicago Cabbie Sentenced to 7 1/2 Years in Terror Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-08T18:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/chicago-cabbie-sentenced-to-7-1-2-years-in-terror-case.html
Raja Lahrasib Khan, a  Chicago  taxi
driver, was sentenced to 7 1/2 years in prison for providing
material support to a terrorist group.  Khan, 58, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel in Chicago. He pleaded guilty in February, exchanging a
potential 30-year sentence if found guilty in a trial for an
agreed-on punishment of five to eight years.  “He helped the wrong man and he helped him for the wrong
reasons,” Zagel said before imposing the sentence, which
includes supervised release for life following the prison term.  Before being sentenced, Khan asked for “mercy.”  “I am sorry. I made a bad decision and take full
responsibility for that decision,” he said.  Khan was arrested in March 2010 after his son was
apprehended at a London airport carrying $700 of $1,000 in
marked $100 bills that a U.S. undercover agent had given the cab
driver for delivery to Ilyas Kashmiri.  Kashmiri, a reputed leader the al-Qaeda terrorist network
and a fighter in the movement to expel Indian forces from the
Kashmir region between that nation and  Pakistan , was reportedly
killed last year in a U.S. missile strike.  Khan moved to the U.S. from Pakistan and is a naturalized
citizen. He has a home in Kashmir, his lawyer said. At his plea
hearing, he said he met Kashmiri twice in Pakistan.  ‘Great Harm’  The defense lawyer, Thomas A. Durkin, told reporters after
the February plea that his client supported Kashmir’s
independence and that the money his client sent was intended to
support that movement, not al-Qaeda.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Veatch today asked
Zagel to impose the full eight-year sentence, calling that
punishment “reasonable and appropriate.”  “There is no de minimis amount that you can provide to a
terrorist organization,” Veatch said, adding groups rely upon
such donations to fund their causes. “Any amount can cause
great harm.”  Durkin asked the court to impose a lesser term, arguing his
client has already spent time in solitary confinement during
which a mild case of diabetes became severe and he developed
rheumatoid arthritis.  Zagel rejected that request, telling Kahn and his lawyer
that the health problems may have been worsened by the stress of
a guilty conscience and impending punishment.  ‘Bad Consequences’  While acknowledging his receipt of letters from Khan’s
friends and family attesting to his innate altruism, Zagel said
those charitable impulses had a downside too.  “Instinctive altruism leads to some very bad
consequences,” the judge said, analogizing Khan’s case to that
of a person who unknowingly gives money to a man who proves to
be the 19th century London serial killer Jack the Ripper.  “It’s a different picture if he does have some idea who
Jack the Ripper is,” said Zagel. Khan knew who Kashmiri was and
knew of his plans, the judge said. “He knew where this money
was going.”  The case is U.S. v. Khan, 10-cr-00240, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 