-- Chile Peso Tumbles as Bernanke Comments Boost Demand for Dollar
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-08T15:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/chile-peso-tumbles-as-bernanke-comments-boost-demand-for-dollar.html
Chile ’s peso plunged, snapping its
biggest rally in seven months, after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  lowered expectations for stimulus measures and
data showed prices were unchanged in the South American country.  The peso dropped 0.5 percent to 502.87 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:02 a.m. in Santiago. It appreciated 3.6 percent in the four
days through yesterday. The currency rose yesterday after China,
the biggest buyer of Chilean exports, cut interest rates for the
first time since 2008.  Copper, Chile’s biggest export, fell the most in three
weeks and the dollar gained after Bernanke said yesterday the
Fed would need to assess conditions before deciding on a third
round of quantitative easing.  “ China  has acted, but after Bernanke’s press conference
implied no QE3 for now, it’s going back,” said Cristian Donoso,
a trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago.  Consumer prices  in Chile were unchanged in May, the
National Statistics Institute said today. The central bank will
probably keep interest rates unchanged at 5 percent after the
slower-than-forecast inflation reading, according to economists
 Alberto Ramos  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York and
Cristobal Doberti at Bice Inversiones in Santiago.  The two-year swap rate fell seven basis points to 4.65
percent.  Copper for July delivery fell as much as 3.2 percent to
$3.2635 a pound on the Comex in  New York . The decline in the
price of copper, which makes up half of Chile’s exports, comes
after the Andean country yesterday reported the widest  trade
deficit since  2008.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had a $10.1 billion short peso position on June 6, the central
bank reported, down from a record $10.2 billion on May 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  