-- China, India Lack Water for Coal Plant Plans, GE Director Says
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-06-08T06:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/china-india-lack-water-for-coal-plant-plans-ge-director-says.html
China ’s and India’s plans to build
more coal-fired power plants to meet electricity needs aren’t
feasible because of a lack of water needed to cool the plants,
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s global strategy director said.  The two countries have not adequately considered the water
needs of their proposed coal plants in their plans, Peter Evans,
GE’s director of global strategy and planning, said yesterday at
a seminar in Tokyo.  “They have not introduced a water constraint on their
model,” Evans said. “They assume the water is there. So my
view is that they actually will not be able to build as many
coal plants as the projections suggest.”  China’s coal demand will increase 70 percent to 3.71
billion metric tons coal equivalent by 2035 from 2009, under the
country’s energy policy, while  India ’s demand will increase 188
percent to 1.15 billion tons equivalent over that time,
according to the  International Energy Agency ’s  World Energy (MERENER) 
Outlook for 2011.  “Tons of coal equivalent” is a unit used by the IEA to
compensate for discrepancies in energy output among various
types of coal.  China’s water consumption for power generation is set to
increase to 250 billion gallons (947 billion liters) a day in
2025 from 141 billion gallons in 2011, according to GE’s
calculations. The 2025 figure is 167 times the total current
daily water use of  New York  City, according to GE.  China Demand  GE, which produces gas-fired and wind-powered turbines,
solar equipment and other projects that would benefit from a
shift away from coal, was not immediately able to provide
comparable water-use figures for India.  India’s  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) ,  Tata Power Co. (TPWR)  and  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  plan new coal plants in the South Asian
country, according to a 2010 report by HSBC Finance Corp. and
the World Resources institute that found 79 percent of India’s
new power capacity was being built in areas of limited water
availability.  In China, coal-fired plants are planned by such companies
as Shenhua Group Corp., which intends to build an 8-gigawatt
generator in the southern province of Guanxi, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported in December.  Evans predicted that Chinese leaders would have to adopt
less water-intensive power-generation strategies, such as a
heavier reliance on wind farms and more expensive dry-cooled
coal plants.  Water constraints will also probably prompt China to use
more natural gas than it is currently targeting, since gas-fired
generators also use less water than coal-fired ones, Evans said.  China’ natural gas demand is forecast to increase more than
five-fold to 502 billion cubic meters in 2035 from 93 billion
cubic meters under an IEA scenario where fossil fuel subsidies
are cut, according to the 2011 World Energy Outlook.  “It’s interesting when you think about a new constraint
like water: ’What will it do to effect the system?’” Evans
said. “I think it will add more gas and wind than many people
are anticipating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  