-- China Limits Access to Company Filings After Short-Seller Bids
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/china-limits-access-to-company-filings-after-short-selling-bids.html
China  has begun limiting access to
corporate filings after short-sellers used them to highlight
accounting discrepancies that led to  stock plunges  and
regulatory investigations over domestic companies listed abroad.  “In recent months, the Industry & Commerce Administrations
in many key cities and provinces around China have implemented
measures restricting access to the AIC files of Chinese
companies,” said Nathan Bush, a Beijing-based partner at the
law firm  O’Melveny & Myers LLP .  Tighter rules may restrict the ability of short-sellers
including  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC to use the filings to
glean detailed financial information on companies. The Communist
Party, which begins a leadership transition this year, also
faces slowing growth and a 33 percent drop in the  Shanghai 
Composite Index in 2010 through 2011.  “It may be that short sellers had been using these filings
too much and it’s been hurting Chinese companies,” said Fredrik
Oqvist, a Beijing-based independent consultant and analyst.
“I’ve also heard that some higher-up officials have been burned
in some of these short cases where they found information
through SAIC filings.”  While the  State Administration for Industry and Commerce 
has made no public announcement, lawyers and short sellers said
getting the documents has become more difficult in some cities.
Other lawyers reported no greater difficulty in obtaining files.  Inquiries Redirected  Inquiries made to the SAIC’s press office were redirected
to its company registry bureau, which had no officials answering
the phone for three consecutive days. Calls made to the press
office yesterday weren’t answered. Block of  Muddy Waters 
declined to comment, spokesman Zach Kouwe said in an e-mail.  The documents can provide a trove of information about
private Chinese companies, listing financial details such as
shareholding structure and registered capital. They may also
include the names of board members, along with their phone
numbers and home addresses.  “In fairness, Administration of Industry and Commerce
records include a bunch of things you would not ordinarily
expect to find in a company registry,” said Lester Ross, a
Beijing-based partner at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr
LLP. “There’s some proprietary information in there.”  ‘Fraudulent Scheme’  In June 2011, Muddy Waters accused Sino-Forest Corp. of
overstating its assets, triggering a 74 percent drop in its
share price  on the Toronto Stock Exchange and wiping out about
C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of market value by the time shares
were suspended from trading in August. Canadian regulators say
five of its executives engaged in a “complex fraudulent
scheme” that misled investors.  Block’s allegations increased investor scrutiny of Chinese
companies trading on North American stock exchanges. The
Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index, which tracks 82 Chinese
companies trading on U.S. bourses, fell 62 percent last year
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was unchanged.  More than 35 non-U.S. companies had their trading halted on
American exchanges because of inaccurate financial statements
and other issues, according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Only Chinese lawyers are allowed to access the documents.
In some cases, the government now only grants company record
access to Chinese lawyers involved in litigation against a
company or when the company gives its permission in writing,
according to lawyers including Hubert Tse, a partner at Chinese
law firm Boss & Young in Shanghai who advises global  hedge funds 
in China.  Oqvist said that by restricting access, Chinese authorities
may bring about unintended consequences in a stock market that
saw China’s 50 million individual investors lose an average of
40,000  yuan  last year, according to a May 9 People’s Daily
report.  “Probably there is going to be some sort of discount
across the board for Chinese stocks,” Oqvist said. “It’s going
to be a more risky investment because you can’t double-check
their figures anymore.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  