-- CIA Declines Lawmakers' Request for Information on Leaks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/cia-declines-lawmakers-request-for-information-on-leaks.html
The CIA won’t respond to a U.S. House
Intelligence Committee request for information about leaks of
classified data, said Representative Mike Rogers, the panel’s
chairman.  The committee had asked about last month’s disclosure of
information on an intelligence operation that thwarted plans by
al-Qaeda’s Yemen affiliate to smuggle a potentially undetectable
bomb onto a U.S.-bound airliner, according to a congressional
aide who is not authorized to speak to the media.  The CIA told the committee the information wouldn’t be
provided because the matter is under investigation by the FBI,
the aide said. Rogers said yesterday that the agency’s response,
along with other information obtained by the committee, shows
the need for a formal, independent investigation.  “It must be empowered to examine any office or department
of the United States government,” said Rogers, a Michigan
Republican. “It must be free of influence from those who
conducted or reviewed the programs at issue.”  The leaks, along with disclosures on other intelligence
operations including the U.S. drone program, have spurred calls
from Rogers and lawmakers for an investigation and possible
prosecutions.  Recent reports by media such as the  Associated Press  and
 New York  Times have cited unnamed officials describing details
about the Yemen underwear bomb plot; the U.S. government’s use
of armed drones to kill people abroad, including the existence
of a so-called kill list of terrorists targeted for arrest or
death; and U.S. involvement in using a computer worm called
Stuxnet to attack uranium enrichment facilities in  Iran .  Lawmakers Angered  In addition, lawmakers are angered that President  Barack Obama ’s administration briefed former counterterrorism officials
who now work as TV analysts on the Yemen operation without first
giving the congressional intelligence committees similar
briefings.  “The committee has material suggesting that the agencies
were directed to expand the scope of classified information they
gave to the press,” Rogers said yesterday after meeting with
U.S. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper to discuss
the leaks. Clapper declined to comment.  Rogers spoke at a news conference with three other
lawmakers who met with Clapper: Senate Intelligence Committee
Chairwoman  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat;  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , the Senate committee’s top Republican; and
the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland .  FBI Director  Robert Mueller  told the House Judiciary
Committee in a hearing last month that the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , which is part of the  Department of Justice , was
investigating the leaks related to the Yemen bomb plot.  CIA Intention  Preston Golson, a Central Intelligence Agency spokesman,
said there was no intent by the agency to withhold information
on the leaks issue.  “We all have to be careful not to jeopardize the DOJ
criminal investigation that is running concurrently with the
congressional inquiry,” Golson said in an e-mail. “We share
Congress’ concern and desire to get to the bottom of leaks and
have every intention of cooperating fully with both DOJ and
Congress.”  Feinstein and Chambliss said they want to help develop
procedures to prevent future leaks.  “This is not meant to be a political exercise,” said
Chambliss, who has called for a special independent prosecutor
to conduct an investigation.  Special Prosecutor  Feinstein said she wants to add language in the fiscal 2013
intelligence authorization bill “to codify a certain process
which we hope will be more efficient in retarding leaking and
also being able to stop it.” She said she was still reviewing
whether a special prosecutor is needed.  Rogers said the  Justice Department ’s national security
division “has recused itself from at least one element of the
investigation, suggesting some of the leaks could have come from
the sources within the DoJ or the FBI.”  After the news conference, Rogers issued a statement to
clarify those comments.  “I did not intend to suggest that this recusal implied
that anyone in the division had improperly disclosed any
information, but rather that the sorts of issues that can force
a recusal show the serious complications facing the Department
in investigating these matters,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  