-- Cielo’s Bovespa Star Seen Fading With Itau’s Redecard Bid
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2012-06-08T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/cielo-s-bovespa-star-seen-fading-with-itau-s-redecard-bid.html
Cielo SA (CIEL3) , Brazil’s biggest card-
payment processor, is in danger of losing its rank as the  best
performer  in the nation’s benchmark stock index if  Redecard SA (RDCD3) 
is bought out by  Itau Unibanco Holding SA. (ITUB4)   Cielo has gained 42 percent this year,  compared with  a 4.6
percent decline for the 68-company Bovespa index. Redecard, the
nation’s No. 2 processor, climbed 9.5 percent on the year to
close at 31.95 reais on June 6. Itau offered in February to buy
the 49.99 percent of Redecard it doesn’t already own for 11.8
billion reais ($5.8 billion), or 35 reais a share.  Itau,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by market value, would
be able to cut prices at Redecard, pressuring Barueri-based
Cielo to do the same and limiting its ability to gain market
share, said Carlos Eduardo Daltozo, an analyst at Banco do
Brasil SA. Itau could lower the discount rate that determines
how much retailers pay for each credit-card transaction if
merchants buy other banking products, he said.  “Itau’s offer may change the competitive landscape for
card processors and that may be a trigger for people to reduce
their positions in Cielo,” Daltozo said in a phone interview.
He has a market perform rating on the stock and a price target
of 64 reais.  Cielo would face a competitive disadvantage if it becomes
 Brazil ’s only publicly traded payments processor because it
would have to disclose strategic financial data that Redecard
could keep private as a unit of Itau, according to Flavio Yoshida and Andre Parize, analysts with Votorantim Corretora.  ‘Highly Negative’  That would be “highly negative to Cielo and the whole
industry,” Yoshida and Parize, wrote in a May 15 note to
clients. The analysts have a market perform rating on Cielo,
with a price target of 60 reais. The shares closed at 56.85 on
June 6.  “Any information about Cielo’s operation will be used by
Itau to enhance its acquiring business,” the analysts wrote.
Cielo and Redecard, which is also based in Barueri, are known as
merchant acquirers. They help businesses accept credit cards and
serve as middlemen to the world’s biggest payment networks,
including  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)   Cielo declined to comment, according to its outside public
relations company in Sao Paulo.  On Feb. 7, less than five years after Redecard went public,
Itau announced its plan to pursue full ownership, citing a need
to make the payments processor more agile.  Lazard Asset Management LLC, whose 10 percent stake makes
it Redecard’s second-biggest investor, criticized the offer and
recommended on May 3 that Credit Suisse Group AG be hired to
provide a new appraisal of the company, a move that Redecard
shareholders approved in a vote two weeks later. Credit Suisse
had 30 days from that date to prepare the new appraisal.  Selling Stake  Itau Chief Executive Officer Roberto Setubal has said he
won’t increase the company’s bid even if Credit Suisse says it
should be higher, and that Itau may abandon the buyout plan and
sell its stake instead. Shares of Redecard have dropped 9.1
percent since Itau threatened to withdraw the offer.  Cielo has expanded in each of the past five quarters,
boosting its market share to 60.2 percent without lowering
merchant discount rates or fees for point-of-sale equipment.
That growth has come at the expense of Redecard, whose market
share was 39.8 percent as of March 31, according to an April 25
first-quarter earnings statement from Cielo.  Cielo and Redecard started to face stronger competition
after a Brazil central bank ruling in July 2010 ended exclusive
rights for the processing of certain transactions. Before the
ruling, Cielo had exclusive rights to handle Visa cards
transactions, and Redecard had exclusive rights on MasterCard.  Cielo, whose advertising slogan is “nothing beats this
machine,” has established partnerships with its two controlling
shareholders, Banco do Brasil and Banco Bradesco SA, as well as
with HSBC Holdings Plc and Caixa Economica Federal, expanding
the distribution channels for Cielo products.  American Express  The machine, which accepts cards issued by American Express
Co. and those from domestic meal plan Ticket Restaurante, owned
by Paris-based Accor SA, also gives merchants the option to sell
products in installments.  “The credit-card holder can access financing that has been
pre-approved by banks through our service,” Roberta Noronha,
Cielo’s investor relations director, said at a conference in  Rio
de Janeiro  on May 21. Cielo, which currently offers such credit
lines only from its controlling shareholders, is negotiating
partnerships with other banks to provide the same service.  Profit Surge  Cielo’s first-quarter  profit  surged 33 percent to a record
566.6 million reais, and its return on equity was higher than 97
percent of all companies in the industry worldwide, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. At 155 percent, 12-month return on
equity is almost double Redecard’s 82 percent.  Cielo may continue to gain even if Redecard is delisted
because, as the only credit-card company on the Bovespa, the
company will attract all of the investors who want to bet on the
sector, said Henrique Caldeira, a Barclays Plc analyst in  Sao
Paulo .  “It’s definitely not time to sell,” said Caldeira, who
rates Cielo overweight with a price target of 63 reais a share.
“The company has posted fantastic operating results, and there
is no indication that will change anytime soon, whatever the
outcome of the Itau offer may be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Dickson at 
 sdickson1@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  