-- Citigroup Drops Push to Increase Capital Payout This Year
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/citigroup-won-t-seek-fed-approval-to-boost-capital-return-in-12.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank by assets, retreated from an effort to win Federal
Reserve approval to boost payouts for shareholders this year.  The bank won’t seek permission to increase payouts in its
2012 proposal to regulators, and “will make decisions regarding
the 2013 capital plan later this year,” it said yesterday in a
statement. “Citi will continue to build its capital levels for
the benefit of our shareholders.”  The announcement ends an almost two-year push by Chief
Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, to boost rewards for
shareholders this year. He had vowed in March to seek approval
for a “meaningful” payout after the Fed objected to the New
York-based firm’s initial submission for 2012.  “This is Pandit bowing to reality,” said  Matthew McCormick , who helps oversee $6.2 billion at Bahl & Gaynor Inc.
in Cincinnati. “They don’t have the ability to return capital
to the shareholders that they thought they would.”  Pandit scrapped Citigroup’s dividend in 2009 after the bank
almost collapsed and took a $45 billion bailout from U.S.
taxpayers. The lender has since repaid the rescue funds, and
last year it resumed a 1-cent quarterly payment.  The Fed found in March that the firm would fall short of
minimum requirements during a severe economic slump if the
company proceeded with proposed payouts. Without those changes,
Citigroup passed the Fed stress tests.  Well-Capitalized  “Citi is one of the best-capitalized banks in the world,”
the company said in the statement.  The bank’s stock has declined 24 percent since the Fed’s
rejection was disclosed March 13, closing at $27.77 yesterday in
regular  New York  trading.  Pandit had planned an increased dividend or share buybacks
since at least October 2010, when he said on a conference call
that Citigroup “should be in a position to return capital” in
2012. He asked shareholders for “just a little bit of
patience” at an annual meeting in April 2011. He said Jan. 17
that “returning capital” this year remained one of his goals.  “The Fed doesn’t want you to overreach,” said McCormick.
“They’ve got no problems slapping you down if they think that
you’re over your skis.”  Citigroup said it would redeem a group of trust-preferred
securities, or TruPS. SunTrust Banks Inc., the Atlanta-based
lender, said it would also redeem some TruPS.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires banks with more than $15
billion of assets to phase out TruPS from capital starting in
2013. Regulators want capital to consist mostly of common stock,
and TruPS are a type of junior debt.  JPMorgan, Wells Fargo  Some of Citigroup’s rivals received approval in March to
increase rewards for shareholders. The Fed allowed  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, to boost its quarterly
payout 20 percent to 30 cents a share and authorized a $15
billion stock-repurchase program, with $12 billion approved for
2012. That bank’s CEO  Jamie Dimon  halted this year’s buybacks
after announcing trading losses of $2 billion.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-biggest lender, raised its
quarterly dividend 83 percent to 22 cents a share.  Bank of
America Corp. , the second-biggest bank, didn’t request an
increase.  Shares in Wall Street firms have  tumbled  since March on
concern that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis will intensify. This
could have caused the Fed to reject Citigroup if the bank had
sought to boost its payout this year, according to  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with Royal Bank of  Canada . Another rejection
would damage the lender’s reputation, Cassidy said.  “Management chose that discretion is the better part of
valor,” said Cassidy, who has an “outperform” rating on
Citigroup. “Investors would start to question what’s wrong with
Citi if they got rejected again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  