-- CityView Raises $55 Million for U.S. Southwest Apartments
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-06-08T20:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/cityview-raises-55-million-for-u-s-southwest-apartments.html
CityView , the real estate investment
firm founded by Henry Cisneros, raised $55 million from three
teacher pension funds to buy and renovate apartment buildings in
the U.S. Southwest.  An initial fundraising round was completed today, Cisneros,
former secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development and executive chairman of Los Angeles-based
CityView, said in a telephone interview. The fund has about $165
million including debt, which will be used to acquire and
improve existing multifamily buildings in  Texas  and Colorado,
states with strong energy employment, and Arizona, where jobs
have  increased  for four straight months, he said.  “We’re continuing to raise capital,” Cisneros said.
“This first closing was just to get the process going and take
advantage of market opportunities immediately.”  Asking apartment rents rose 6.6 percent in  Denver (SPCSDEN) , 4.4
percent in  Dallas  and 0.8 percent in Phoenix in the first
quarter from a year earlier, continuing a trend that began in
2010, according to property-data firm RealFacts Inc. CityView
plans to buy buildings in each of those cities. Demand for
rental units nationwide is the strongest in a generation because
of record home seizures, stiffer lending standards and a rising
number of young adults forming households.  “A lot of people have been renting due to foreclosures,
and hiring has gotten better,” Nick Grotjahn, spokesman for
Novato, California-based RealFacts, said in a telephone
interview. “As occupancies have increased, so have rents.”  Lincoln Property Co., based in Dallas, will manage the
apartment buildings for CityView. The fund also plans to buy
properties in the Texas cities of Houston, Austin and San
Antonio, where Cisneros served four terms as mayor.  The fund’s contributors are the Public School Teachers’
Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago, the Teachers’ Retirement
System of the State of  Illinois  and the Teacher Retirement
System of Texas, all first-time CityView investors, Cisneros
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  