-- Clemens’s Wife Says McNamee Gave Her Growth Hormone Shot
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-08T20:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/clemens-s-wife-says-mcnamee-gave-her-growth-hormone-shot.html
Roger Clemens’s wife testified at her
husband’s perjury trial that his former trainer  Brian McNamee 
injected her with human growth hormone on an occasion when her
husband wasn’t present.  Debbie Clemens, testifying today for the defense in
Washington, said McNamee gave her a shot of HGH after she asked
him about the drug, having read an article on it in  USA Today .
Her testimony contradicted McNamee, who told the jury that Roger
Clemens knew about the injection, asked McNamee to obtain the
drugs and was present for it.  “I’m not ashamed of taking that shot,” she said. “I’m
embarrassed it went across the world incorrectly.”  One of the 13 allegedly false or misleading statements that
make up the criminal charges against Clemens involved his
testimony in a deposition to Congress on his wife’s HGH shot.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner as the best
pitcher in his league, is charged with one count of obstructing
a congressional investigation into the use of performance-
enhancing drugs by professional athletes.  He’s also charged with three counts of making false
statements and of perjury stemming from his testimony to a House
panel. If convicted, he faces as long as 21 months in prison.  Unknown to Husband  Debbie Clemens, who said this was the first time she was
speaking publicly about the injection, testified that her
husband didn’t know about the shot, which was given in the
master bathroom. She said she pulled up her shirt while McNamee
gave her the injection in her abdomen.  “It wasn’t really planned,” she said. “It was something
that just happened.”  She said she took the shot after reading how celebrities
had been using HGH to remain youthful-looking and how the drug
was “something healthy and good.”  McNamee was in the kitchen at the time that Debbie Clemens,
her mother and some friends discussed the article, she
testified. McNamee “talked about it being a good thing,” she
said.  A couple of days later, McNamee, who would stay in the
Clemens’s pool house during training sessions, came into the
kitchen and told her he had HGH, she said.  “Why in the world would you let someone who was not a
doctor” inject you?,  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, asked.  ‘Totally Comfortable’  “I was totally comfortable,” she said. “I didn’t know
there was anything bad about it at all. I didn’t think it was
illegal. I thought it was a useful thing. The only thing I can
say is that might have been a foolish moment to believe him at
that point.”  She said she told Clemens about the shot when the two spoke
on the phone that evening after she had trouble sleeping because
her hands were tingling.  “It was never discussed again -- period -- by any of the
three parties,” Debbie Clemens said.  Debbie Clemens placed the year of the shot in 2000, about
three years earlier than the account given by McNamee.  McNamee said he gave the shot in the bathroom while  Roger
Clemens  stood nearby.  Under cross-examination by Assistant U.S. Attorney Courtney
Saleski, Debbie Clemens said her husband wasn’t angry with her
on learning of about the shot. He was angry with McNamee, she
said.  ‘Something Crazy’  “It wasn’t like I was doing heroin or something crazy,”
she said.  Saleski noted that Debbie Clemens’s “laws of life” posted
on her website are “plan ahead, be practical and use common
sense.”  “Would you say you’re not a risk taker,” Saleski asked.  “I’m pretty conservative,” she said.  While being questioned by Saleski, Debbie Clemens said her
family was like a corporation with Roger Clemens being the brand
and that they had an “exhausting lifestyle.”  Debbie Clemens expressed irritation when Saleski asked
whether she told the ballplayer that she allowed McNamee into
the couple’s master bathroom for the injection while he wasn’t
at home.  “You told Mr. Clemens that Mr. McNamee put his hands on
you?” the prosecutor asked at one point.  “You ever have a child?” Debbie Clemens demanded at
another. “Having children is invasive. It was not a big deal.”  Pool House  One of the jurors, in a question submitted to U.S. District
Judge  Reggie Walton , asked why McNamee was staying at the pool
house if Clemens wasn’t there.  She said she didn’t monitor when McNamee stayed at the pool
house and that her husband could have left that morning.  Under questioning from Hardin and Saleski, Debbie Clemens
was also asked whether her family visited the home of  Jose
Canseco , a teammate of Clemens on the Blue Jays, in June 1998.  Among the false statements in the charges against Clemens
is his denying in a congressional deposition that he was at
Canseco’s house “on or about” June 9, 1998.  Debbie Clemens said her entire family, including Roger,
spent the night at Canseco’s home on June 8. She and her husband
played golf the following day while their children remained at
the house.  McNamee had earlier testified that Clemens was at a pool
party Canseco held at his home for the  Blue Jays  early in the
day on June 9 and that shortly after returning to Toronto,
Clemens asked him for help injecting steroids for the first
time.  False Statement  “You and I can agree that if someone said your husband was
not at Canseco’s house on June 9, 1998, that would be false
because he was there that day,” Saleski asked.  “He was there that day,” she said.  The trial ended its eighth week early today due to a
juror’s commitment. Hardin said the defense plans to rest on
June 11. Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham said the
government will put on a rebuttal case that should last less
than a day.  Walton said he expects closing arguments to take place no
later than June 12.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  