-- Russia Wins 4-1 at Euro 2012 Soccer; Co-Host Poland Ties Greece
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-08T22:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/co-host-poland-ties-1-1-with-greece-as-soccer-s-euro-2012-opens.html
Russia  beat the Czech Republic 4-1 in
its opening game at soccer’s European championship, while co-
host  Poland  tied 1-1 with  Greece  as each team finished with 10
men.  Alan Dzagoev scored in each half last night to lead Russia
in the Group A game in Wroclaw, Poland. Reserve goalkeeper
Przemyslaw Tyton saved a penalty kick with 20 minutes left to
preserve Poland’s draw after Wojciech Szczesny was red-carded at
Warsaw’s National Stadium.  Poland, ranked No. 62 by world governing body  FIFA , is co-
hosting the 16-nation tournament with Ukraine, which starts
against Sweden on June 11. Greece, the 2004 champion, is ranked
15th.  “We were under great pressure, great stress and I think it
was a big burden for this very young team who have not played a
big tournament before, unlike the Greeks,” Poland coach
Franciszek Smuda said on the website of tournament organizer
UEFA. “We could see some of the players were paralyzed by the
pressure.”  Play begins today in Group B in Ukraine as the Netherlands
faces  Denmark  in Kharkiv and three-time winner  Germany  meets
 Portugal  in Lviv.  In Wroclaw, 21-year-old Dzagoev opened the scoring in the
15th minute by putting in a rebound after Aleksandr Kerzhakov’s
header bounced off the goalpost. As Russia powered into the
Czech half of the field, midfielder Roman Shirokov added a 24th-
minute score when he collected Andrey Arshavin’s pass and
chipped the ball over goalkeeper  Petr Cech .  Vaclav Pilar got a goal back for the Czechs seven minutes
into the second half by going around goalkeeper Vyacheslav
Malafeev and shooting into the empty net.  Dzagoev got his second goal with 11 minutes left, surging
toward the Czech team’s penalty box and letting fly with a 15-
yard shot. Substitute Roman Pavlyuchenko added a fourth goal
three mintues later with a right-foot shot from the edge of the
penalty box.  Early Lead  In Warsaw,  Robert Lewandowski  gave Poland the lead after 17
minutes by heading in Jakub Blaszczykowski’s cross as the co-
hosts dominated early on. Greece then had Sokratis
Papastathopoulos ejected after 44 minutes for a second yellow-
card offense.  In first-half stoppage time, Greek players surrounded
Spanish referee Carlos Velasco asking for a penalty after Damien
Perquis appeared to handle the ball.  Greece rallied with a goal by substitute Dimitris
Salpingidis, who scored after Szczesny failed to clear a cross
six minutes into the second half.  Szczesny was then ejected for tripping Salpingidis as the
substitute was poised to go past him. The Arsenal goalkeeper
made no complaint, removing his gloves and walking off the field
without showing emotion. Tyton dived low to his left to stop
Karagounis’s penalty kick.  “I felt like I was in a dream,” Tyton said on UEFA’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  