-- Colombian Yields Drop as Echeverry Predicts Narrowing Budget Gap
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-06-08T18:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/colombian-yields-drop-as-echeverry-predicts-narrowing-budget-gap.html
Colombia’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields down to the lowest in a month, after Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry said the  budget deficit  may narrow.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
debt due in July 2024 dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.04 percent, according to the central
bank. That is the lowest closing yield since May 8. The price
rose 0.219 centavo to 123.543 centavos per peso.  The budget deficit will be 1.2 percent of gross domestic
product this year and may fall below 1 percent next year,
Echeverry said yesterday in Cartagena.  “It takes some of the pressure off for bond offerings next
year,” Pedro Ospina, a fixed-income analyst at Interbolsa SA in
Bogota, said in a phone interview. “There’s optimism because of
many reasons, including the sustainability of the debt, while
inflation is still under control. Those fundamentals have led to
a drop in yields.”  The central bank cited in minutes of the May policy meeting
published today cooling demand and “moderate” inflation risk
in its decision to hold borrowing costs steady.  Colombia ’s central bank isn’t contemplating reductions to
its target lending rate even as  Europe ’s debt crisis casts a
“gray cloud” over the Andean economy, central bank board
member Cesar Vallejo said in an interview in Cartagena
yesterday. The 5.25 percent target lending rate neither cools
nor stokes inflation, according to Vallejo.  Vallejo’s comments are also helping drive gains in the
benchmark peso bonds due in July 2024, according to  Ricardo Bernal , head analyst at brokerage Serfinco SA in Bogota.  “His comments are reassuring in that the central bank
doesn’t see an impact on the Colombian economy so strong that
there is a need to cut rates as the market has been pricing
in,” Bernal said.  The peso depreciated 0.4 percent to 1,776.75 per  U.S.
dollar  today, the biggest decline among major Latin American
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. The local currency advanced 3
percent for the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  