-- Commodities Drop on Concern of Slowdowns in China, U.S.
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-06-08T16:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/commodities-tumble-most-in-a-week-as-slowdown-to-reduce-demand.html
Commodities fell, heading for the
biggest drop in a week, on concern that demand for raw materials
will be hurt by slowdowns in  China  and the U.S., the world’s two
biggest economies.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
retreated 1.1 percent to 585.56 at 12:45 p.m. in  New York , which
would be the second straight decline and the biggest since June
1. Sixteen contracts tracked by the index fell, as cotton
tumbled 2.9 percent, copper slid 2.8 percent and crude oil
dropped 2 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank will need to assess conditions before deciding if more
measures are needed to bolster an economy threatened by Europe’s
debt crisis and U.S. fiscal tightening. The Chinese central bank
cut its benchmark lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points
effective today. The announcement came before China reports
inflation, investment and output data this weekend, and may
signal the economy is weaker than the government expected.  “The last time that China cut  interest rates  was in the
great economic freeze of 2008 and one has to question what the
Chinese rate cut says about the real state of the Chinese
economy,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Petromatrix GmbH,
a researcher in  Switzerland , said in a report today.  The interest-rate cut by China, which accounts for 41
percent of global copper demand, was the first since 2008 after
growth slowed for five quarters. Bernanke told Congress the
central bank was ready to act should conditions worsen.  Crude-oil futures for July delivery fell as low as $82 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest since
June 4. Copper futures for July delivery reached to $3.2635 a
pound on the Comex in New York, the lowest since June 4. Cotton
futures for December delivery plunged the most in a week on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York.  ‘Crisis Depth’  “Finally the depth of the euro crisis is becoming clear,”
said  Christopher Bellew  , senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd.
in London, who correctly predicted earlier this week that oil
would fall. “We are now seeing the effects of a decade of
financial imprudence in Europe, and the extent of the re-
structuring that is required is becoming obvious. The desperate
state that Europe is in will lead to significantly lower oil
prices in the short term.”  China will reduce gasoline and diesel prices by the most
since 2008 after global crude costs slumped. Retail gasoline
will fall by 530  yuan  ($83) a metric ton starting tomorrow and
diesel will be cut by 510 yuan, the nation’s National
Development and Reform Commission said today.  ‘Data Dump’  “I don’t think anybody is really going to be carrying much
of a position into the weekend with the China data dump,” said
Nick Trevethan, a senior commodities strategist at  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Singapore . “Certainly the
market is concerned about what the data may bring.”  Copper traders are the most bullish in three months as
China reduced interest rates to bolster growth, increasing
expectations that prices will rebound from the longest slump in
two years.  Sixteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
prices to gain next week and seven were bearish. A further eight
were neutral, making the proportion of bulls the highest since
March 9. Stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the London Metal
Exchange, the world’s largest metals bourse, declined 38 percent
this year and Morgan Stanley is predicting at least another year
of supply shortages.  “Since China is the biggest user of copper, that rate cut
should give a little boost,” said  Donald Selkin , the New York-
based chief market strategist at National Securities Corp.,
which manages about $3 billion of assets. “The potential for
some kind of stimulus package should result in copper finally
turning around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  