-- Coryton Refinery Closure Sparks U.K. Oil Import Boost
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-06-08T08:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/coryton-refinery-closure-sparks-u-k-oil-product-import-boost.html
(Corrects number of facilities halted in first paragraph.)  The closing of Petroplus Holdings
AG’s Coryton refinery, the second facility to shut in the U.K.
since 2009, has boosted fuel imports to the most this year.  Traders bought 150,000 metric tons of  jet fuel , 100,000
tons of diesel and 80,000 tons of  gasoline  last month for
delivery to the U.K. in the Platts pricing window. In total, 18
cargoes were purchased compared with 10 in April, five in March,
three in February and one in January, data from the news and
pricing unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. show. The shutdown of Coryton
was confirmed on June 6.  “You can certainly attach the rise in imports to Coryton
coming slowly out,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of
Switzerland-based consultant Petromatrix GmbH, said by phone
yesterday. “ Europe  has a continual problem of surplus refining
capacity so in the short-term, the closure will translate itself
as more imports into the U.K. as there is a re-balancing of
regional flows. Overall though, it is not going to have a
significant impact as the U.S. needs to export product.”  Britain is the third-largest consumer of oil in the
European Union at 1.59 million barrels a day in 2010, according
to BP Plc’s Statistical Review. The country has lost 292,000
barrels a day of refining capacity since 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, with the Coryton plant catering for 20
percent of fuel demand in the south-east.  Make Money  European processors have struggled to  make money  in the
past few years as competitors in  Asia , such as Reliance
Industries Ltd. in  India , owner of the world’s largest refining
complex, and the U.S. are able to produce oil products
profitably because of cheaper feedstock and as the economic
crisis on the continent crimps demand.  “The reason Coryton has closed is basically due to the
pressure from product volumes from foreign markets,”  David Wech , managing director at Vienna-based JBC Energy GmbH, said by
phone yesterday. “You have Russia exporting at record levels,
Reliance sending large volumes into Europe and on the gasoline
side, you have European refiners who are struggling to get rid
of volumes.”  Deliveries into the U.K. of gasoline rose 2.6 percent in
March and diesel imports increased 4.5 percent, according to
data from the Department of Energy and Climate Change.  European refiners may still have to reduce capacity by 2.3
million barrels a day to boost processing rates to 83 percent,
the  International Energy Agency  said in its May 11 monthly
report. Plants in the region operated at 75.2 percent of
capacity in March, compared with 83.7 percent in  North America ,
according to the IEA.  “I think there will be more European refineries closing,”
Jakob said. “What we have seen with the other Petroplus
refineries in Petit Couronne, Cressier and Ingolstadt, is that
they were closed down and bought by other entities. So in the
end, not that much capacity has been taken away.”  The Coryton unit became the sixth refinery to close in
Europe since last year, following Shell’s Hamburg plant in
 Germany ; ConocoPhillips’s Wilhelmshaven facility, also in
Germany; Tamoil SA’s Cremona plant in  Italy ; Petroplus’s
Reichstett plant in  France ; and OMV AG’s Arpechim in  Romania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  