-- Credit Agricole Said to Reach Accord on Greek ELA Funds
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-06-08T16:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/credit-agricole-said-to-reach-accord-on-greek-emergency-funds.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , the foreign bank
with the biggest risks in  Greece , reached an accord with Greek
authorities that will let its unit in the country access
emergency funding should the need arise, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Emporiki Bank, the Greek unit of Credit Agricole, will be
able to tap so-called Emergency Liquidity Assistance from
Greece’s central bank under certain conditions, the people said,
declining to be identified because the matter is private. Access
will probably be restricted to situations where deposits are
declining, the people said. Greek banks without a foreign parent
already use the facility.  “This takes away risk from the French parent company,”
said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $8.5 billion at Banque
Martin Maurel in Marseille and owns shares in  Credit Agricole .
If there ever is a deposit run in Greece, the central bank would
provide the funding necessary to keep the unit running.”  Credit Agricole closed little changed in Paris trading at
3.15 euros, after rebounding from a decline of as much as 3.5
percent. The shares plunged 69 percent over the past 12 months,
compared with the 31 percent decline in the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index.  Credit Agricole is seeking to curb risks on Emporiki’s 22.9
billion-euro ($28.5 billion) loan book amid escalating concern
Greece will leave the euro area. The nation will go to the polls
for the second time in six weeks on June 17 after no party got
enough support to form a government in elections on May 6.  Reducing Funding  Under ELA, the euro area’s 17 national central banks are
able to provide emergency liquidity to banks that can’t put up
collateral acceptable to the  European Central Bank . The risk is
borne by the central bank in question, ensuring any losses stay
within the country concerned and aren’t shared across all euro
members, known as the euro system.  The impact on Credit Agricole from a Greek exit may reach 6
billion euros, Citigroup Inc. analysts Kinner Lakhani and
Florent Nitu estimated on May 17. That compares with about 500
million euros for  Societe Generale  SA, the other French bank
with a Greek consumer-lending unit, the analysts said.  Credit Agricole and Societe Generale spokespersons declined
to comment, as did a Bank of Greece official.  ELA Request  Jean-Paul Chifflet, Credit Agricole’s chief executive
officer, said on May 22 that his bank renewed a request for
access to ELA funding with the Bank of Greece’s governor.
 France ’s third-largest bank “can’t increase significantly”
exposures to Greece, Chifflet told investors last month at the
company’s annual general meeting. Emporiki’s loans exceed
deposits, requiring Credit Agricole to provide cross-border
funding to help fill the gap.  Credit Agricole reduced that funding to Athens-based
Emporiki to 4.6 billion euros at the end of March from 5.5
billion euros in December, partly as deposits rose, the bank
said May 11. Credit Agricole also tapped 1.6 billion euros of
ECB funding for Emporiki at the end of March.  Emporiki might potentially receive about 3 billion euros
from the Bank of Greece’s emergency liquidity program, Chifflet
said on May 11, when the company, based near Paris, reported
first-quarter results.  Societe Generale (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank by market
value, had 2.47 billion euros of loans and 1.94 billion euros of
deposits at its Athens-based unit, Geniki Bank SA, by the end of
March, it said May 3. Societe Generale’s cross-border funding to
its Greek division represents about 200 million euros, the
Citigroup analysts estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  