-- Czech Recession Deepens in First Quarter on Domestic Demand
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-06-08T07:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/czech-recession-deepens-in-first-quarter-on-domestic-demand.html
The Czech economy contracted for a
third quarter in the first three months of the year as falling
domestic demand outweighed rising exports.  Gross domestic product shrank 0.8 percent from the previous
quarter, the steepest drop in almost two years, after shrinking
0.1 percent in the final three months of last year, the Prague-
based Czech Statistics Office said today. The result was better
than the flash estimate of a 1 percent decline published on May
15. GDP fell 0.7 percent from a year earlier.  The weakening economy is making it more difficult for
Premier Petr Necas to trim the fiscal  deficit  to the European
Union limit of 3 percent of GDP this year. Fading household
spending may support arguments for lower borrowing costs after
two central bank board members, including Governor Miroslav
Singer, voted for a rate cut on May 3.  “Overall, the data should confirm weakening economic
activity, which should enable the central bank to lower the key
interest rate to 0.5 percent at its June meeting,”  Jan
Vejmelek , chief economist at Societe Generale SA’s  Komercni
Banka AS (KOMB)  in Prague, said in an e-mail before the release.  Final consumption fell 1.1 percent in the first quarter,
with household demand decreasing 2.3 percent, the statistics
office said.  Government spending  rose 1.8 percent from the
previous quarter.  Tax Increase  The government raised the lower bracket for the value-added
tax levied on goods and services including food, drugs and
public transport to 14 percent from 10 percent starting in 2012.
Necas plans to push through more austerity measures, including
another increase in the VAT and reduced spending on pensions,
which the central bank expects to slow the economy next year.  The government’s austerity plans are clouding the outlook
for monetary policy as central bankers are divided over the
effects of the measures on inflation. Inflation began to
accelerate in the final quarter of last year as businesses
raised prices before the tax increase took effect.  Singer and Vice-Governor Vladimir Tomsik sought a quarter-
point rate reduction in  interest rates  at a May 3 policy
meeting, while four policy makers voted to keep the  benchmark 
two-week repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent. One board
member voted for a quarter-point increase in the rate, which has
been unchanged for two years.  The economy, which exports about 80 percent of its output,
 contracted  in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 as
government spending cuts outweighed demand abroad for Czech-made
vehicles, car parts and electronics goods.  While the economy extended the recession, Necas’s 20-month-
old administration wants to push through 57 billion koruna ($3
billion) worth of budget measures to narrow the deficit to 2.9
percent of GDP next year from the planned 3 percent this year.  The central bank forecasts a stagnant economy this year and
a 1.9 percent expansion in 2013.  -- Editors: Alan Crosby, Balazs Penz  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  