-- Data From Payday Loan Applicants Sold in Online Auctions
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/data-from-payday-loan-applicants-sold-in-online-auctions.html
In the business known as payday
lending, one of the biggest players lends no money at all.  MoneyMutual.com promises loans of as much as $1,000 to
people in need of quick cash, advertising widely on TV and
online with former talk show host Montel Williams as its public
face. In small type at the bottom of the screen, the company
disclaims that it is “not a lender.”  MoneyMutual.com generates leads for firms specializing in
short-term, high-interest loans. It’s the most prominent of a
new breed of Internet middlemen who’ve prospered as the $32
billion payday loan market migrates from storefronts to the Web.  Lead generators typically take applications on their
websites and then immediately auction the prospects to lenders.
As the business grows, regulators have been reviewing complaints
from consumers that their financial data has been misused or
stolen after entering the auction system.  “The highest bidder may be a legitimate lender, but it
could also be a fraudster that has enough of the consumer’s
sensitive financial information to make unauthorized withdrawals
from their bank account,”  Richard Cordray , the director of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said at a January hearing
in Birmingham,  Alabama .  Cordray said in a subsequent interview that the bureau is
reviewing how consumers and their data are treated as a result
of the lead generators’ online auctions.  Government regulation isn’t necessary because the industry
is policing itself, said Dale Baker, chief executive officer of
Selling Source LLC, the Las Vegas-based digital marketing firm
that is the parent of MoneyMutual. He said that the company
screens lenders who buy its leads and works with customers who
have complaints. It would be “hard to do much more,” he said.  ‘Extraordinary Steps’  “We think we’ve taken extraordinary steps to protect our
information,” Baker said.  Williams decided about two years ago to become a paid
pitchman for MoneyMutual, said Jonathan Franks, a spokesman for
the former talk show host. His decision was based on the firm’s
record of  customer service  and “an industry-leading code of
conduct that they impose on their lenders,” Franks said.  Payday lending is a term for small loans to high-risk
borrowers, originally meant to tide someone over until their
next paycheck. At a brick-and-mortar payday lender, the loans
typically are secured by a post-dated check. Online borrowers
instead furnish a bank account number for direct debits.  Consumer advocates have long argued that payday lending
needs stricter oversight because it takes advantage of people in
vulnerable circumstances by charging rates that can work out to
more than 500 percent annually.  FDIC Letter  Federal agencies are probing banking products that resemble
payday loans, which are offered by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  U.S.
Bancorp (USB) ,  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  and  Fifth Third Bancorp. (FITB)  Martin J. Gruenberg, acting chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., said in a May 29 letter to consumer groups that “such
activities appear to be on the rise” and that the FDIC would
investigate.  Payday lenders say they are helping clients who have few
short-term alternatives. About 35 percent of payday loans made
in 2010 originated online and that share will grow to 62 percent
by 2016, according to a Jan. 9 report by John Hecht, an analyst
with JMP Securities, a San Francisco-based investment bank.  Lead generation is common practice on the Internet, with
websites seeking to match prospective customers to products and
services ranging from real estate and automobiles to solar
panels and for-profit schools. Advertising has made the
MoneyMutual website the most-recognized of small loan lead
generators, said Hecht, now an analyst with Stephens Inc.  FTC Complaints  MoneyMutual parent Selling Source, controlled by San
Francisco-based London Bay Capital LLC, projects earnings of $65
million this year on revenue of $335 million, according to a
September circular from investment bank  Greenhill & Co. Inc. (GHL)  The
circular said two-thirds of earnings come from lead generation
and other services for consumer-finance firms.  The Federal Trade Commission has received 79 consumer
complaints citing MoneyMutual or Williams since January 2010,
according to a public-records request, including at least a
dozen who said their data wasn’t secure. In an FTC lawsuit filed
in April against a group of payday lenders for fraudulent
practices, the agency noted that some of the affected customers
began their search for a loan at MoneyMutual.com.  Charles Goodyear, a spokesman for Selling Source, said that
the complaints represent a tiny portion of its business, and
that the firm only contracts with reputable lenders.  Highest Standards  “It’s important for our lenders to uphold the highest
industry standards, particularly concerning consumer
experience,” Goodyear said in an e-mail.  Payday lenders pay middlemen like MoneyMutual $50 to $150
per lead, regardless of whether they end up making a loan,
according to Jer Ayler, president of Trihouse Inc., a Las Vegas-
based payday lending consultancy. That can add up. Lead
generators in financial services take in $100 million a year,
with the market growing by more than 16 percent annually,  New
York  marketing firm Econsultancy estimated.  The closely held companies don’t publish details about how
they operate. But three people in the industry who spoke on
condition of anonymity described the process like this: First,
lead generators seek prior bids from lenders. A lender might bid
$100 for the first look at an applicant, for example, while
another might offer $80 for the second look.  As the borrower fills out an application, his or her
entries are tested for authenticity, keystroke-by-keystroke,
against databases of e-mail and home addresses that the lead
generator compiles or buys. The applicant’s name and data then
flow into an electronic auction system known as a “ping tree,”
where lenders have seconds to decide whether to buy or pass.  Disputed Auctions  “In its simplest form, it’s auctioning off a lead to the
highest bidder,” Richard Eckman, a lawyer for the lead
generation and payday loan industry at Pepper Hamilton LLC in
Wilmington,  Delaware , said in an interview.  What happens after a customer uses a site is sometimes in
dispute.  Jean Ann Fox, director of financial services for the
 Consumer Federation of America , an advocacy group, calls the
process “an extremely risky thing for consumers.”  Cordray, the head of the consumer bureau, said the websites
may be selling consumer information “to anybody and everybody
and generating all kinds of contacts for people that they didn’t
intend.”  India Callers  In one case, the FTC said it believes information collected
by lead generators may have found its way to call centers in
 India  that were browbeating U.S. consumers into paying debts
they didn’t owe. “The information they have about the consumers
appears to come from list brokers who may have obtained their
information from online payday lending lead generators,” FTC
Commissioner Julie Brill said in Washington on May 21. She
didn’t mention any firms by name.  In the lawsuit filed April 2 in federal court in  Nevada ,
the FTC alleges that payday borrowers wound up with lenders who
misrepresented the cost of loans and illegally debited their
bank accounts.  Among the companies targeted in the suit is AMG Services
Inc., which the FTC identifies as “an  Oklahoma  tribal entity.”
According to a 2009 federal court deposition by Alton Irby, a
co-founder of London Bay, AMG is Selling Source’s largest
customer for payday borrowers. AMG didn’t respond to e-mails or
faxes seeking comment. The lawsuit doesn’t allege wrongdoing by
Selling Source or MoneyMutual.  $300 Loan  In an affidavit filed with the FTC case, Inez Hackett, 57,
of  Sacramento ,  California , said she got a payday loan by
entering her information into MoneyMutual.com in late 2010.
“Because I am not good with computers,” Hackett wrote. “I
asked my more tech-savvy 16-year-old granddaughter to help me
through the application process online.”  According to the affidavit, Hackett was redirected to the
website of OneClickCash, a lender operated by the Santee Sioux
Nation of  Nebraska . She said she got a loan for $250 and later
learned she had to pay back $325. By March 30, 2011, Hackett
said, she had paid $300 and anticipated wrapping up the loan.
Instead, she claimed to the FTC, OneClickCash withdrew an
additional $330 from her bank account over the next few months.  The FTC lawsuit also targets OneClickCash, which didn’t
respond to calls or e-mails seeking comment.  Borrowers who go through lead generators, wittingly or not,
may have less recourse than those who work with a single company
that does both marketing and lending. If something goes wrong,
the lead generator can blame the lender and vice versa.  “With this system, both sides have a scapegoat,” said
Doug Pierce, a co-founder of Digital Due Diligence, a New York
investment research firm.  ‘Coming So Fast’  Otha Alston, a retired telecommunications worker in Renton,
Washington, said he felt caught in the middle. He sought a $300
loan to retrieve his 2000 Chevy Blazer after police impounded it
for a parking violation. He said he saw MoneyMutual spokesman
Williams in a TV ad and went online to fill out an application.  Soon after he entered the data, Alston told state financial
regulators, he was besieged with phone calls and e-mail
solicitations from lenders.  “My voice mail, e-mail and  text messages  were inundated,”
Alston, 59, said in an interview. “It was coming so fast I
could not turn the phone off.”  Baker, the Selling Source CEO, and Goodyear, the company
spokesman, said that MoneyMutual’s records show that Alston
wasn’t a customer because he didn’t complete the online
application. Goodyear said Alston filled out only the first of
multiple pages. Franks, the spokesman for Williams, said that
Alston likely fell victim to a counterfeit MoneyMutual site.  Complaint Filed  Alston insisted he completed the application to the
legitimate company and provided his Social Security number, bank
account information and references. He said he didn’t keep
copies of the Web pages he filled out.  Alston filed a complaint about MoneyMutual in October 2010
with the Washington state attorney general’s office, which was
forwarded to the state Department of Financial Institutions. The
agencies couldn’t look into the matter, because lead generators
fall outside state jurisdiction, said Deborah Bortner, the
department’s director of consumer services.  “We can only investigate unfair or deceptive practices
that are committed by licensed or unlicensed payday lenders,”
she said.  Funds Withdrawn  Shortly after sending his complaint to the state, Alston’s
banking statements show, funds were withdrawn from his bank
account by USFastCash, a firm Alston said he’d never borrowed
from. Debt collectors later tried to bully him into paying debts
he didn’t owe, he said.  USFastCash, also targeted by the FTC lawsuit, is operated
by MNE Services Inc., owned by the Miami Nation of Oklahoma, an
Indian tribe. The firm didn’t respond to e-mails or phone calls
seeking comment. Goodyear, the Selling Source spokesman, said
there couldn’t be a connection between Alston’s financial
troubles and MoneyMutual because Alston never provided his data
to MoneyMutual.  Eleven states require companies that facilitate payday
loans to be licensed, according to Eckman. A bill that would
have required licensing of lead generators passed the Washington
state House last year but died in the state Senate after
lobbying by the Online Lenders Alliance, a Washington-based
trade group that includes lead generators, Bortner said.  In Congress, the growth of the business caught the
attention of Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat. He said
he’s preparing a bill that would outlaw online lead generation,
calling it “another trick” of the payday lending industry.  “These websites mask the true identity of the lender so it
is harder to track down and prosecute deceptive lenders,”
Merkley said in a statement.  For Baker of SellingSource, the best way government can
protect consumers from predatory lenders is to rely on lead
generators to screen their own buyers.  “If the bigger players don’t do business with the bad
guys, they don’t have any place to go,” Baker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  