-- Djokovic Plays Nadal for French Open Title With History at Stake
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-08T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/djokovic-plays-nadal-for-french-open-title-with-history-at-stake.html
Novak Djokovic will play  Rafael Nadal 
in the men’s final of the  French Open , each with a shot at
making tennis history.  Djokovic, the top seed, defeated third-seeded  Roger Federer 
of Switzerland 6-4, 7-5, 6-3 at Roland Garros in Paris yesterday
to reach his first French Open title match. The right-hander
from Serbia is now one win away from becoming the first man in
43 years to win four Grand Slam titles in a row.  In his way tomorrow stands Nadal, the second seed, who
advanced to his seventh final in eight years by beating fellow
Spaniard  David Ferrer , 6-2, 6-2, 6-1. Nadal, 26, who is trying
to win a men’s record seventh title at Roland Garros, has
reached the title match while having dropped only 35 games, the
fewest since Sweden’s  Bjorn Borg  dropped 31 games in the first
six matches in 1980. Nadal tied Borg with his sixth French Open
title last year.  “He always plays his best here in  Roland Garros , and so I
expect to do that as well on Sunday,” Djokovic told reporters.
“I know that I have to be consistently playing well on very
high level in order to win best-of-five against Nadal here. It’s
the ultimate challenge.”  Djokovic, 25, who had never reached the final in Paris
before today, is trying to become the first man since
Australia’s Rod Laver to hold all four major titles at the same
time. Djokovic almost was knocked out in the quarterfinals,
saving four match points against Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France.
He came back from two sets down in the fourth round against
Andreas Seppi of Italy.  Women’s Final  The women’s final will be played today at Roland Garros,
between second-seeded  Maria Sharapova  of Russia and  Sara Errani ,
the 21st seed from Italy. Sharapova is seeking to complete the
career Grand Slam of all four majors. Errani won the women’s
doubles with Italian partner  Roberta Vinci  yesterday.  Nadal’s only defeat at Roland Garros was in 2009, when he
was beaten in the fourth round by  Robin Soderling  as he
struggled with knee tendinitis. Soderling of  Sweden  has been off
the tour the past 10 months with energy-sapping mononucleosis.  Djokovic has had the upper hand at majors for the past
year, beating Nadal in the championship matches at Wimbledon,
the  U.S. Open  and the Australian Open and taking the Spaniard’s
No. 1 ranking.  This season on clay in Europe, Nadal ended a seven-match
losing streak against Djokovic by beating him in Monte Carlo and
then Rome.  “I won in Rome and Monte Carlo because my tennis was
better against Djokovic,” Nadal said yesterday. “The fact that
I’ve defeated Djokovic, that’s true, gave me more confidence.”  Federer’s Pick  Federer, who won the French Open title in 2009 by defeating
Soderling, said Nadal is the man to beat.  “I obviously pick Rafa,” said Federer, who has lost four
finals against Nadal in Paris. “I think he’s the overwhelming
favorite.”  Federer, the winner of a men’s record 16 Grand Slam singles
titles, said the pressure will be on Djokovic.  “I was in the same situation twice, for the Grand Slam,
the four in a row,” the Swiss said. “But Rafa has won six
times here. Of course it would be great to win for a seventh
time. But for Novak, he’s never won the tournament, so who
knows? Maybe luck will be on his side again. Novak therefore
will have more pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  