-- Dundee International Seeking to Acquire More German Real Estate
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-06-08T13:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/dundee-international-seeking-to-acquire-more-german-real-estate.html
Dundee International Real Estate
Investment Trust (DI-U) , which made last year’s biggest German
commercial property acquisition, plans to spend about 300
million euros ($373 million) a year buying office buildings in
the country, President and Chief Executive Officer Jane Gavan
said.  Germany’s real-estate market is attractive because the
economy is robust and property buyers can borrow at low  interest
rates , Gavan said in an interview yesterday. The Bundesbank
today raised its German gross domestic product growth forecast
for 2012, to 1 percent from 0.6 percent, citing a sturdy global
economy, cheap financing conditions and solid domestic spending.  “We have a lot of confidence in the German economy,”
Gavan said. “We’re seeing some really interesting product on
the market.”  The Toronto-based REIT has invested all of its about C$1
billion ($970 million) in assets in  Germany . Dundee is among
non-German investors buying commercial properties from eight
German real-estate mutual funds that have gone into liquidation
in the past two years. Gavan said Dundee is exploring the funds’
holdings for buildings valued at less than 100 million euros.  Earlier this year, Dundee International purchased an office
building in Nuremberg from mutual fund  SEB ImmoInvest (SEBIMMO)  for about
48 million euros and it acquired Deutsche Grammophon GmbH’s
former headquarters in Hanover for about 26 million euros.  The REIT paid 740 million euros for 292 post offices in
2011, the year’s biggest commercial property purchase in
Germany, according to Ernst & Young LLP. The deal followed
Dundee International’s raising about C$410 million in an initial
public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 