-- Health Law Adds 6.6 Million Young Adults to Parents Plans
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-08T13:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/health-law-adds-6-6-million-young-adults-to-parents-u-s-.html
About 6.6 million young adults under
age 26 joined their parents’ insurance plans in 2011 because of
the U.S. health-care law, the largest one-year increase in
medical coverage for the age group, a survey found.  The part of the law that lets young people stay on parental
plans until age 26 helped boost coverage during tough economic
times, said  Sara Collins , vice president for affordable health
insurance at the Commonwealth Fund, a New York-based nonprofit
that conducted the survey and supports expanded health coverage.  The benefit for adult children is one of the most popular
parts of the 2010 health-care law as young adults face a U.S.
labor market that is making it more difficult to find work and
garner health coverage. Unemployment among 16- to 24-year-olds
was 16.1 percent in May, almost double the 8.2 percent rate for
the nation as a whole, according to government data.  “The economy is absolutely a factor in both the large
number of adults who are without health insurance and likely the
number coming onto their parents’ policies,” Collins said in a
telephone interview. The health law “came at a really good time
for young adults, in terms of the poor job market.”  Young adult coverage was one of the first provisions of the
law enacted. About 71 percent of Americans polled by the  Kaiser
Family Foundation  in April said they viewed that provision
favorably. The health law in its entirety is less popular, with
an approval rate of 37 percent, and an unfavorable view by 44
percent of those surveyed in May, according to a  monthly
tracking poll  by Kaiser.  Republican Support  President  Barack Obama ’s almost $1 trillion, 10-year plan
to overhaul the health system passed Congress in 2010 without
any Republican votes. Parts of the law expanding insurance
coverage were then challenged as unconstitutional by 26 states.
The  Supreme Court  is slated to rule on those objections this
month, a decision that may lead to a dismantling of the law.  The head of a caucus of 21 Republican lawmakers with
medical backgrounds said this week that no matter the outcome,
he will try to preserve the coverage for young adults and for
people with pre-existing medical conditions. Representative Phil Gingrey, an obstetrician-gynecologist from  Georgia  who co-chairs
the group, said the young-adult provision is “a good policy.”  The government calculates that about 2.5 million people
under age 26 who had been uninsured gained coverage in 2011
because of the health law. Commonwealth’s figure includes people
who switched from other insurance to their parents’ plans.  Premium Increase  In May, Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  and Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  wrote college
presidents and student groups  asking  them to remind graduates
that they can join their parents’ plans.  The government estimates the requirement increased health
insurance premiums by less than 1 percent. Senator  Jim DeMint , a
South Carolina Republican who opposes the health law, said today
in a  commentary  on the Joint Economic Committee’s website that
the increase is probably as much as 3 percent. He said the
provision wouldn’t be needed if the economy were healthier.  “Fewer Americans would need to remain on their parents’
health insurance if they had stable, full-time work,” he wrote.  The U.S.  labor market  stumbled in May as employers added
the fewest workers in a year and the  unemployment rate  rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  