-- Health Insurer Tax Gives Nonprofits Advantage, Holtz-Eakin Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-08T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/health-insurer-tax-gives-nonprofits-advantage-holtz-eakin-says.html
Fees that health insurers will be
required to pay the U.S. government starting in 2014 will give
nonprofits such as  Kaiser Permanente  a market advantage over
corporate competitors, said economist  Douglas Holtz-Eakin .  The fees -- starting at $8 billion and escalating each year
based on the industry’s premium revenue -- aren’t tax
deductible. While nonprofits don’t have an income tax, companies
such as  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  would effectively be paying
taxes on the fees they’re handing over to the government, said
Holtz-Eakin, chief economist of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers during the Republican Bush administration from
2001 to 2003.  The fees were set in 2010 by congressional Democrats to
help pay for the $1.1 trillion U.S. health care law. The  Supreme
Court  may rule the law unconstitutional in a decision slated for
this month. The tax would cause insurers to raise premiums, with
nonprofits having a cost advantage to lure customers, Holtz-
Eakin said in a telephone interview.  “Customers are going to notice this,” said Holtz-Eakin,
who ran the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office after
leaving the  Bush administration  and is now president of the
Washington-based American Action Forum. “Certainly the cheaper
firm is going to advertise this.”  The  American Action Forum , a group that supports smaller
government and includes former Republican lawmakers on its
board, is publishing a study on the fees today.  Customer Makeup  A Kaiser Permanente spokesman said the tax is unfair to the
Oakland, Calif. company because so-called self-insured employer
plans administered by for-profit insurers would be exempt from
it.  “Most of the for-profits have about half of their business
in the self-insured market,” said  John Nelson , a spokesman for
Oakland, California-based Kaiser Permanente, by phone. “So
about half of their business is not subject to the tax at all.”  “Close to the entirety” of Kaiser’s 9 million customers
are in plans that are subject to the tax, he said.  The 2010 health law will expand insurance coverage to an
estimated 32 million people who lack it by 2016, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office . Private insurers stand to pick
up at least half those new customers.  “Even though this tax, if you were to take it in
isolation, would tend to increase the price of insurance, the
other elements of the Affordable Care Act would tend to work in
the opposite direction and offset it,” said Paul Van de Water,
a former CBO analyst who is now a health economist at the
nonprofit Center for Budget and Policy Priorities in  Washington ,
which supports the law.  Fee Inequity  Insurers that pay income tax would have to raise premiums
$1.54 to make up for every $1 they pay in excise tax, Holtz-
Eakin calculated. Insurers exempt from income tax will have to
raise premiums $1 to offset the same amount.  “It’s a big inequity, because we’ll be competing with
those plans,” said Alissa Fox, who directs lobbying for the
Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, a Washington-based
federation of insurers that pay corporate income taxes.  The industry must pay $8 billion in 2014, with the fees
rising to $14.3 billion in 2018. Collections will grow at the
pace of medical inflation thereafter. The law requires that each
insurer’s share of the tax be proportional to its share of U.S.
health premiums.  The Joint Committee on Taxation of the  U.S. Congress   said 
in May 2011 that the tax would increase insurance premiums by as
much as $400 for family coverage in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  