-- Tech Startups Turn to Office Designs as Recruiting Tool
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/tech-startups-turn-to-office-designs-as-recruiting-tool.html
When Airbnb Inc., the vacation-rental
startup, outfitted its new headquarters last year, it included
some unusual features: a tree house, the side of a propeller
plane’s fuselage, and conference rooms that replicate actual
apartments in  New York ,  Hong Kong  and Berlin.  While such lavish decor may look frothy, executives at
Airbnb “realized it was a recruiting tool,” said  Kelly
Robinson , who led the design of the 25,000-square-foot office in
San Francisco.  As tech startups expand with new funding and rapid hiring,
office designers are dreaming up creative spaces to contain
them. The  foosball tables  that typified the last dot-com boom
have been cast aside to make room for hand-crafted wood
furniture and original art pieces geared toward attracting
Silicon Valley’s brightest engineers and giving them a
comfortable home for late-night coding marathons.  “It’s not just about buying a bunch of bean bags,” said
Robinson, who now works as an independent design consultant.  A mile down the street from Airbnb, online storage startup
Dropbox Inc. recently remade its digs with surfaces covered in
copper and a mural composed of 23,000 Ping-Pong balls in an
effort to please its employees.  “These kids are working until really, really late at
night,” said Lauren Geremia, who designed Dropbox Inc.’s
offices as well as those of Path and productivity software maker
 Asana Inc.  “They sleep there, they hang out there, they drink
there on Friday. They have a company culture forming there, so I
think they really want to be comfortable for long periods of
time.”  Remote Workers  Attractive offices also can help draw in remote workers who
spend much of their time logging in from home or from a
Starbucks Corp. cafe.  “It’s not enough to have a great office to entice people
for great hiring, you actually have to have a great office just
to entice them to come into the office,” said Jason Freedman,
chief executive officer of commercial real estate website
 42Floors Inc.  “If they see no difference between working from
the living room or working from the office, they’ll just work
from the living room and you’ll lose some collaboration
potential.”  Planning for growth is also key, a lesson that  Path Inc. 
learned the hard way. A year after the social networking startup
had steel and black-composite desks built for its 30 employees,
the company was already outgrowing the custom furnishings.  Flexible Furniture  Path needed to add about 20 people to its San Francisco
office, yet the furniture was taking up all the space. The
solution: Chop each desk down to two-thirds of its size, move
workers closer together and give them dividers for more privacy.  Modular desks made by  Tayco Panelink Ltd.  and  Knoll Inc. (KNL) 
have become popular among tech startups because they can change
shape from cubicles to more open work surfaces and be moved
easily.  “It’s like Tinker Toys,” said Louis Schump, a vice
president of architecture firm HOK in San Francisco, who
recently helped  Idle Games Inc.  build an office where desks
could be moved around as new teams formed. At Asana, such
movement is almost unavoidable: Every desk is on wheels.  Of course, with more living-in comes more of a need to hide
the messes of midnight programmers. Geremia often calls on
custom furniture makers for help with cool-looking cabinets for
office supplies and food.  “To make beef jerky look good takes a little bit of
effort,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  