-- Egypt Parliament Meeting on Constitutional Panel June 12
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-06-08T03:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/egypt-parliament-meeting-on-constitutional-panel-june-12.html
Egypt ’s parliament will meet on June
12 to elect a 100-member panel that will draft the country’s new
constitution, after political groups overcame an impasse that
clouded the push for democracy ahead of a presidential runoff.  The breakthrough, announced yesterday by Wafd Party head
Sayed el-Badawi, offered a last-minute respite to the political
groups after Egypt’s ruling military council on June 5 gave them
48 hours to reach an accord. The ruling generals said at the
time that they would act unilaterally if the groups failed to
agree on the framework of the committee.  Before the runoff ballot set to begin June 16, Field
Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi would call both houses of
parliament to a joint session on June 12 to begin electing the
committee, el-Badawi said. The impasse had increased the chances
that a new president would be elected with no constitution in
place and his powers yet to be determined.  The new panel would reflect a spectrum of Egyptian society,
including religious organizations, professional syndicates,
jurists, youth groups and women. It is aimed at averting
objections that led to the disbanding of an earlier
constitutional panel.  Christians, secularists and others said the earlier
committee was dominated by the Muslim Brotherhood’s political
arm, the Freedom and Justice Party, along with other Islamists
who together hold the majority in parliament’s lower house.  The critics said the Brotherhood was seeking to dominate
the constitution-writing process to strengthen its hold on
power. The assertion gained resonance when the Freedom and
Justice Party’s chief, Mohamed Mursi, secured one of the two
spots in the runoff presidential race.  New Framework  Mursi is running against Ahmed Shafik, who served as ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier. Shafik is opposed by
youth activists and the Brotherhood, who say he’s a remnant of
the regime against which Egyptians rebelled last year.  The new framework gives political parties represented in
parliament 39 seats on the committee, el-Badawi told reporters
after the groups met with the military council. The remaining 61
seats are set aside for individuals and institutions from groups
including the Coptic Church, legal scholars and professors. The
military, the police and the justice ministry would each have
one seat.  The agreement reflected efforts to advance the political
process and secure some stability ahead of a June 14 hearing in
which the constitutional court will hear two cases that could
further complicate Egypt’s winding road to democracy.  The court is to begin evaluating a law that would bar some
former top officials who served under Mubarak in his last decade
in power from holding top posts, including the presidency. Youth
activists are trying to have Shafik pushed from the presidential
race under that legislation.  In addition, the court will look at the law that regulated
the parliamentary elections. If the court rules against the law,
parliament could be disbanded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  