-- Telefonica Said to Seek $1.2 Billion From Sale of Atento
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-06-08T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/telefonica-said-to-seek-1-2-billion-from-sale-of-atento.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone
company, is seeking about 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) from a
sale of its call-center unit to help reduce debt, said three
people familiar with the matter.  Bain Capital Partners LLC is among potential bidders for
the division, called Atento Inversiones & Teleservicios SAU,
said two of the people, asking not to be identified because the
talks are private. Binding bids are expected by the end of this
month and Telefonica may decide on a buyer by August, said two
of the people.  Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta had tried
to sell Atento as early as in 2007, and a year ago shelved plans
for an initial public offering of the unit. With about 156,000
employees, about half of the Madrid-company’s total, Atento
generated 1.8 billion euros in 2011 revenue, compared with 62.8
billion euros reported by the parent company.  “It will be hard for Telefonica to sell Atento at an
excellent price after its failed IPO and because of market
conditions,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $60
billion at Zurich-based Swisscanto Asset Management including
Telefonica shares. “The company will have to continue to
deleverage.”  Representatives at Madrid-based Telefonica and  Bain Capital 
declined to comment.  Telefonica, with net debt of 57.1 billion euros at the end
of March, has an internal goal to cut its debt by a range of 6
billion euros to 8 billion euros this year, a person familiar
with the matter said this month.  Fitch Outlook  Standard & Poor’s  cut the former phone monopoly’s rating on
May 24 to BBB, or two steps above junk status. Fitch Ratings,
which ranks the debt a level higher at BBB+, today lowered its
outlook to negative, suggesting it may cut its rating.  Angel Vila, Telefonica’s finance chief, said on May 11 that
the sale of Atento was “progressing very positively,” and
would be among biggest asset disposals that will raise at least
1.5 billion euros in total. Since then, Telefonica has announced
plans to carve out its German and Latin American assets in
separate listings. Telefonica is also evaluating options that
include a possible merger of its O2 division in Germany with
 Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus, people with knowledge of the matter said
last week.  Telefonica shares rose 3.7 percent to 9.79 euros in  Madrid 
yesterday. The stock has declined 27 percent this year, giving
the operator a market value of 44.5 billion euros.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are managing the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd White  in Madrid  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  