-- Emerging Stocks Pare First Weekly Advance Since March
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-06-08T23:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/emerging-stocks-pare-first-weekly-advance-since-march-on-china.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, paring
the first weekly gain since March, on concerns  China ’s interest-
rate cut will erode bank profits and as economic data from
Germany and  Italy  disappointed.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.9 percent to 905.17
at the close in New York, decreasing its weekly advance to 1.3
percent.  HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second biggest smartphone maker,
tumbled 6.9 percent, extending its weekly retreat to 15 percent
in Taipei.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  slid 4 percent, the
most since Nov. 10.  Brazil ’s Bovespa added 1.9 percent, snapping
its longest  weekly  losing streak since 2004.  China’s cut in funding costs comes a day before the nation
is due to report inflation, investment and output figures.
Spain’s credit ranking was cut three levels by  Fitch Ratings  to
BBB, within two steps of non-investment grade. German exports
dropped in April for the first time this year and industrial
output in Italy fell more than economists estimated, reports
showed today.  “Speculation that bank competition in China may accelerate
and that the nation’s economic data may be worse than expected
are hurting sentiment today,” said Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based
 fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees $28 billion.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  trades at 9.8 times
estimated earnings, cheaper than the 11.8 multiple for shares on
the MSCI World Index, which rallied 3.1 percent in the past five
days. That’s the biggest weekly advance in 2012.  Trade Deficit  The trade  deficit  in the U.S. shrank 4.9 percent to $50.1
billion from $52.6 billion in March as a drop in imports
overshadowed the first decline in exports in five months,
Commerce Department figures showed today. The median  forecast  in
a Bloomberg News survey of 73 economists called for the deficit
to shrink to $49.5 billion.  The Bovespa added 0.5 percent in Brazil, extending its
five-day advance to 1.9 percent. Gafisa SA, a Brazilian
homebuilder, surged 16 percent today after saying earlier this
week it will buy the remaining stake in Alphaville Urbanismo SA
that it doesn’t already own.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-
largest steelmaker, dropped 8 percent in Sao Paulo this week to
lead declines on the index.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 0.3 percent in Moscow, paring its
weekly advance to 2.7 percent. OAO Raspadskaya, the coal
producer based in Russia’s Kemerovo region, slid 4.4 percent,
lessening its five-day advance to 4.4 percent.  The financial and economic links between central and
eastern European countries and the EU mean “they are all
vulnerable to the euro-area stress,” Societe Generale SA wrote
in a report to clients dated yesterday.  Chinese Banks  China’s biggest lenders raised deposit rates hours after
the country’s central bank lowered its benchmark and gave them
more freedom over pricing, underscoring the competition for
funds. Bank profits may drop by more than 10 percent after the
interest-rate reduction, according to Hao Hong, chief China
strategist at BoCom.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China  declined 4.9 percent
in  Hong Kong , while China Construction Bank Corp. retreated 4
percent. The losses were the most since Nov. 10.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index lost 1.3 percent to
an almost eight-month low and Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  fell 1.1
percent. HTC Corp. sank after Bank of America cut the smartphone
maker’s rating.  South Korea’s Kospi index dropped 0.7 percent, while South
Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index slumped 0.7 percent as
BHP Billiton Plc, the world’s biggest resources company,
decreased 2.7 percent in Johannesburg. Turkey’s ISE National 100
Index slid 1.1 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 1 basis points, or 0.01
percentage point, to 396, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  