-- EQT Said to Be Near $2.5 Billion Deal to Acquire BSN
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-06-09T14:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/eqt-said-to-be-near-deal-to-buy-bsn-for-up-to-2-billion-euros.html
EQT Partners AB of Sweden is near a
deal to buy bandages-supplier BSN Medical from Montagu Private
Equity LLP in what would be  Germany ’s largest buyout this year,
said people familiar with the process.  EQT may pay about 1.8 billion euros ($2.3 billion) for the
Hamburg-based medical equipment company, said two of the people,
who declined to be identified because the process is private.
The takeover, which hasn’t been finalized and could still fall
apart, may be announced next week, the people said.  Private-equity managers have turned to other buyout firms
to buy and sell companies as the IPO market slumps amid the euro
area’s debt crisis. So-called secondary sales are the second-
most common way to make an exit from investments after sales to
strategic buyers, accounting for 28 percent of divestitures in
the first quarter, according to  Preqin Ltd. , a London-based
researcher.  EQT Partners, partly owned by  Sweden ’s Wallenberg family,
beat the team of BC Partners Ltd. and CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
as well as French investment firm Wendel SA in the bidding, said
the people, underscoring private-equity firms’ interest in the
health-care sector. Montagu, which bought BSN in 2006 for about
1 billion euros, has sought to sell the company to a buyer or in
an initial public offering at least twice in the past four
years.  Representatives at BSN and Montagu didn’t respond to calls
made outside regular business hours. A spokesman for EQT
declined to comment.  4,000 Employees  BSN, which makes general wound-care and orthopedic
products, has more than 4,000 employees, according to its
 website . The company had revenue of 665 million euros last year,
the website shows.  Permira Advisers LLP and ConvaTec Inc., the wound-treatment
maker owned by Nordic Capital Svenska AB and Avista Capital
Partners LLC, were also among initial bidders, people familiar
with the matter said last month. BSN was a joint venture of the
German personal care company  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  and  Smith & Nephew
Plc (SN/) , Europe’s biggest maker of artificial hips and knees.  IPOs have given pause to private-equity owners as financial
markets declined this quarter and after  Facebook Inc. (FB)  fell 29
percent from its public offering price. At least 15 IPOs have
been withdrawn or postponed globally since Facebook’s May 17
offering.  Montagu manages a 2.5 billion-euro buyout fund and split
from  HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings Plc in 2003. The London-based private-equity
firm chose HSBC and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to manage the BSN
sale, people familiar with the decision said in January.  EQT Partners last month agreed to sell Dako, a Danish maker
of cancer-diagnostics tools, for $2.2 billion to  Agilent
Technologies Inc. (A) , the maker of scientific-testing equipment.
Last year, the Swedish private equity firm bought  Atos (ATO)  Medical,
a voice prosthesis company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  