-- EU May Raise Tanzania Energy, Transport Spend on Gas Find
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-06-08T08:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/eu-may-raise-tanzania-energy-transport-spend-on-gas-find.html
The European Union,  Tanzania ’s
biggest trading partner, may increase energy and transport
investment in  East Africa ’s second-biggest economy as it
prepares to ramp up offshore natural-gas output.  “Tanzania needs a sequence of infrastructure investments
before the gas begins to flow such as expanding ports and
pipelines,” Filiberto Ceriani Sebregondi, the EU’s ambassador
to Tanzania, said in a June 6 interview in Dar es Salaam, the
commercial capital. “We will support and mobilize funding from
institutions like the  European Investment Bank  for
infrastructure development particularly energy and transport.”  Explorers in Tanzania and  Mozambique  have discovered about
100 trillion cubic feet of gas resources, almost enough to meet
global demand for a year. The EU accounts for 57 percent of
Tanzania’s exports and 22 percent of imports, according to
Southern African Development Community  data . The nation produces
gas from at least two offshore fields for power generation.  The EU will have provided the country with 600 million
euros ($757 million) in the five years through 2013, including
140 million euros for roads, Sebregondi said.  “Indications are that we may scale up our funding on
energy and transport for the next funding cycle for 2014-2020.”
he said. “We are not yet sure how much money will be allocated
in the next cycle, but right now we are availing 100 million
euros every year.”  Port, Power Investment  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  last month said they
found more natural gas off Tanzania, about 45 kilometers (28
miles) north of the maritime border with Mozambique, where
explorers have made the largest gas discoveries of the decade.  “Discoveries of gas are important, but in Tanzania, the
challenge is that they are scattered.,” Sebregondi said. “In
Mozambique, they are more concentrated.”  The EU is advising Tanzania on developing gas policy, which
could be completed in one or two years, that will outline
infrastructure investments, and how to manage resource revenue,
environmental concerns, inflationary effects, local content and
skills development, he said.  “We are still talking to government about the policy, but
may suggest experiences from other countries such as a heritage
fund to manage peak income, and a stabilization fund to manage
inflationary pressures,” Sebregondi said.  Tanzania’s economy expanded 6.5 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics agency said May 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  