-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Gain in Four Months
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-gain-in-four-months.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly advance in four months as China cut interest rates and
the  European Central Bank  said it’s ready to add more stimulus
if the economy worsens.  Banco Espirito Santo (BES)  SA and  CaixaBank (CABK)  led gains on a gauge
of lenders as Spain moved closer toward seeking emergency aid to
rescue its banking system.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Italy’s
largest insurer, jumped 8.4 percent as it named a new chief
executive officer. MAN SE, climbed 5.6 percent after Volkswagen
AG increased its stake in the truckmaker.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 2.9 percent to 241.93
this past week, the biggest jump since Feb. 3. The benchmark
measure has still tumbled 11 percent from  this year’s high  on
March 16 on concern Greece may be forced to leave the euro
currency union. The selloff has left the gauge’s valuation at
10.1 times estimated earnings of its companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The bottom line for this week’s rebound was a technical
recovery, backed by high hopes of stimulus in the U.S. and in
Europe,” said Trung-Tin Nguyen, a Zurich-based hedge-fund
manager at TTN AG. “The recovery could still continue for a
little while, but there’s still a lot of noise disturbing the
markets, with the Greek elections coming up and Spain’s problems
still looming.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 14 of the 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 3.3
percent. France’s CAC 40 rose 3.4 percent and Germany’s DAX
added 1.3 percent. Spain’s  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  rallied 8 percent.  Interest-Rate Cuts  Following Australia’s decision to reduce its benchmark
interest rate, China on June 7 cut both the deposit and lending
rate by 25 basis points.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi, who kept the
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 1 percent, left the
door open for further stimulus measures, while highlighting the
limitations of the ECB’s tools in countering the region’s
financial turmoil.  A report on June 6 showed the  euro-area economy  stalled in
the first quarter as companies cut spending to weather the debt
crisis, offsetting a gain in exports. Gross domestic product in
the region was unchanged from the fourth quarter, when it
declined 0.3 percent.  In Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, a report showed
 exports  declined 1.7 percent in April, for the first time this
year. That was more than the 0.7 percent drop economists
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Coordinated Response  Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group
of Seven economies agreed to coordinate their response to the
euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis on a conference call on June
5. G-7 officials said they will work together to help Greece and
Spain place their public finances on a sustainable footing,
according to Japan’s Finance Minister, Jun Azumi.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told a
Congressional committee that policy makers will discuss later
this month whether to do more to spur growth, though he said the
steps they could take may have “diminishing returns.”  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index rallied 7 percent.  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  climbed 12 percent and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  rose 11 percent. CaixaBank rallied 15 percent.  Banco Espirito Santo, Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
bank, surged 16 percent as the government decided to give more
than 6.6 billion euros to Banco Comercial Portugues SA,  Banco
BPI SA (BPI)  and Caixa Geral de Depositos SA to help them meet capital
requirements. Espirito Santo has completed its capital increase
without seeking government aid.  Generali CEO  Assicurazioni Generali climbed 8.4 percent as  Mario Greco 
prepared to take over as chief executive officer. Greco will
take charge after he resigns from Zurich Insurance Group AG.
Giovanni Perissinotto, who has led Generali since 2001, was
voted out by its board on June 2.  MAN SE (MAN)  gained 5.6 percent. Volkswagen AG raised its holding
in the company, crossing a threshold necessary for gaining
greater control of the German truckmaker and taking a step
further in challenging Daimler AG in heavy-duty vehicles.  Volkswagen increased its voting rights to 75.03 percent
from 73.76 percent to forge an alliance between MAN, Scania AB
and its own commercial vehicles unit.  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  increased 7.4 percent as the British
explorer said it encountered oil in its 50 percent-owned Carnaby
28/09-5A well in the North Sea.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) , which owns 15
percent of the Carnaby well, rose 6.8 percent.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s largest wind-turbine
maker, dropped 5 percent. BlackRock Inc. cut its holding in the
company to 4.02 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  