-- Euro Slides as Spain Heads Toward Bloc’s Fourth Aid Bid
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-08T21:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/euro-drops-as-german-exports-italy-production-fall-yen-gains.html
The euro weakened for a second day
against the dollar as  Spain  was poised to become the fourth of
the 17 euro countries to require emergency assistance.  The 17-nation euro fell for the first time in six days
versus the yen as the currency bloc’s finance chiefs plan
weekend talks on a potential Spanish aid request to shore up the
nation’s lenders. The Dollar Index had the biggest gain in three
months after reports showed German exports tumbled and Italian
industrial production shrank.  “I think the outlook is still pretty bearish for the
euro,” said David Grad, a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank
of America Corp. in New York. “Even a short-term surprise in
terms of policy for Spain, in the big picture, things haven’t
changed much. The market is still uncertain on how the situation
is going to unfold going in to the Greek election next week and
isn’t going to shake that off easily.”  The euro depreciated 0.4 percent to $1.2517 at 5 p.m.  New
York  time after dropping 0.2 percent yesterday, paring its first
five-day gain in six weeks. The common currency declined 0.6
percent to 99.47 yen, trimming this week’s advance to 2.5
percent. The yen strengthened 0.2 percent to 79.49 per dollar,
snapping a four-day drop.  Trading Levels  ICAP Plc, the world’s largest broker of transactions
between banks, said daily spot foreign-exchange trading volume
on its EBS platform fell 25 percent in May from the same month
last year. The daily traded volume was 19 percent higher than
the previous month, at $130.8 billion, ICAP said today on its
 website .  The euro has declined 3.9 percent during the past six
months, making it the worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 3.1 percent and the yen climbed 0.5 percent.  “There’s little comfort for the euro within this morning’s
data,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European currency strategy at
Morgan Stanley in London. “Within the periphery of  Europe  the
problems are continuing. Both German exports and imports have
fallen more than expected. We remain bearish on the euro. It has
a lot further to fall.”  It is in everbody’s interest for  Greece  to stay in the
euro, President  Barack Obama  said today in the White House
briefing room. He pressed leaders of the  euro zone  to act
quickly to resolve to bolster growth while dealing with debt.  Currency Forecasts  The shared currency will strengthen to $1.26 by year-end,
according to the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Morgan Stanley forecast a decline to $1.19 by the fourth-quarter
while UBS AG projected the 17-nation currency at $1.15 and
Barclays Plc and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ predicted $1.18.  The euro’s rebound versus the dollar failed to breach
resistance at $1.2624, the January low. Support is at $1.2288
and $1.2134, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
resistance level is where analysts anticipate orders to sell are
grouped and a support level is an area where the anticipate buy
orders to be clustered.  “Euro-dollar’s failed to push through $1.2625 to the top
side, which for me solidifies the fact that this is simply one
of these bounces that we get after a significant depreciation in
currencies,” said Lauren Rosborough, senior foreign-exchange
strategist in London at Societe Generale SA.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, gained as much as 1 percent to 82.890, the
largest rally since March 9, before trading at 82.439. The gauge
dropped to 81.911 yesterday, the lowest level since May 28.  Peso Strength  Mexico ’s peso increased against all its major counterparts,
rising 1 percent to 13.9212 per dollar. The country’s central
bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for the 27th
straight meeting as a pick-up in inflation and a slump in its
currency offset concern that a faltering U.S. economy may
undercut export demand.  The pound dropped, snapping a two-day advance against the
dollar, as report showed U.K. factory-output prices unexpectedly
fell in May. The price of goods at factory gates slipped 0.2
percent from April, the first decline since December, the  Office
for National Statistics  said in  London . Sterling depreciated 0.4
percent to $1.5474.  German  exports , adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, slid 1.7 percent in April from a month earlier, when
they gained 0.8 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said. Economists forecast a drop of 0.7 percent,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Italian output declined 1.9 percent from March, when it
rose a revised 0.6 percent, the national statistics office said
in  Rome . Production slid 9.2 percent from a year ago on a
workday-adjusted basis.  The euro reached a 2012 low of $1.2288 on June 1 and traded
as strong as $1.3487 on Feb. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  