-- European Stocks Fall on German Exports, Spain Downgrade
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-06-08T16:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/european-stock-index-futures-fall-after-spain-downgraded.html
European stocks retreated, paring the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s biggest  weekly  gain in four months,
after German exports slumped more than forecast and Fitch
Ratings cut Spain’s credit rating.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BLT)  led mining shares lower as Bank of
America Corp. cut its profit estimates and base metals tumbled.
 Lamprell Plc (LAM)  plunged 22 percent after revising its previous
earnings forecast.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , Europe’s second-largest
clothing retailer, fell after Societe Generale SA advised
investors to sell the shares.  The Stoxx 600 fell 0.3 percent to 241.93 at the close of
trade. The gauge has still climbed 2.9 percent this week, the
biggest advance since Feb. 3, as China cut  interest rates  and
speculation increased that global policy makers will take steps
to revive growth.  Fitch’s downgrade of Spain “should have been expected,”
said Guillaume Chaloin, a  fund manager  at Meeschaert Asset
Management in Paris, which oversees $2.5 billion in assets.
“Investors are waking up after putting too much hope in central
banks. We forgot that there are a lot of problems and nothing
has changed. Contagion can occur. We’re seeing this in Germany
with exports starting to deteriorate.”  German exports declined in April for the first time this
year as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis and weaker global growth
curbed demand.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, fell
1.7 percent from March, when they gained 0.8 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office said today. Economists forecast a drop
of 0.7 percent, according to the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Imports plunged 4.8 percent.  Spain Downgraded  Fitch cut Spain’s rating to within two notches from junk,
citing the cost of recapitalizing the country’s banking industry
and a lengthening recession.  Spain, which saw its rating lowered from A to BBB, may need
as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) to bolster its
banking system, compared with an earlier estimate of about 30
billion euros, Fitch said yesterday after the stock market
closed. The Spanish economy is set to remain in recession
through 2013, the ratings company said, having previously
forecast a recovery for next year.  Spain  could become the fourth of the 17 euro-area countries
to require emergency assistance as the currency bloc’s finance
chiefs plan weekend talks on a potential aid request to shore up
the nation’s lenders.  A bid for help may come as soon as tomorrow when euro
finance ministers hold a conference call, said a German
government official and a European Union aide, each of whom
declined to be identified because the matter is confidential.  China Borrowing Costs  After a June 5 interest-rate cut by Australia, China
yesterday unveiled its first reduction in borrowing costs in
more than three years. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  left the door open at a June 6 press conference to a rate
cut, while highlighting the limitations of the ECB’s tools in
countering the region’s financial turmoil.  National benchmark indexes fell in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 slid 0.6 percent. Germany’s
DAX and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 each lost 0.2 percent.  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, fell 2.9 percent
to 1,767 pence. BofA-Merrill cut its earning per share estimate
for the company by 5.9 percent for full-year 2013 and by 1.8
percent for 2014 on lower oil-price estimates, analyst  Peter O’Connor  wrote, while holding a neutral rating.  Basic-resource shares lost 2.8 percent for the biggest
decline among industry groups in the Stoxx 600 as metals prices
fell in London.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  retreated 5.1 percent to
935.5 pence.  Eramet (ERA)  dropped 2.5 percent to 86.36 euros.  Lamprell Slides  Lamprell plunged 22 percent to 84.50 pence, paring earlier
losses of as much as 37 percent. The U.K. oil and gas rig
engineer cut its earnings forecast for the second time in three
weeks, saying it expects a first-half loss of $15 million to $20
million.  H&M declined 0.6 percent to 214.30 kronor. The shares
earlier fell as much as 4.1 percent after Societe Generale cut
its recommendation on the stock to  sell  from hold, with a share
price estimate of 197 kronor.  Havas SA, a French advertising company, slid 4.2 percent to
4.10 euros. The stock was cut to equalweight from overweight at
Barclays Plc, which said it has the largest exposure to Europe
and the lowest to the digital sector among advertising agencies.  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  slid 2.6 percent to 783 kroner after the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration extended the review of its
experimental degludec insulin product by three months.  Safran Falls  Safran SA (SAF)  lost 2.7 percent to 27 euros. The company is
considering producing turboprop engines,  Les Echos  reported,
citing Pierre Fabre, head of the group’s Snecma engine unit.  Celesio AG (CLS1)  advanced 5.6 percent to 11.61 euros. Europe’s
largest drug wholesaler was raised to outperform, the equivalent
of a buy recommendation, from underperform at CA Cheuvreux.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  climbed 6 percent to 2.36 euros, after earlier
rising as much as 11 percent, as investors speculated the
company may receive a takeover bid.  Doug Dawson , a Nokia spokesman, declined to comment on the
share-price movement or any speculation regarding mergers and
acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 