-- Ex-UBS Trader to Be Free on Bail While Awaiting Trial
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-06-08T14:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/ex-ubs-trader-to-be-free-on-bail-while-awaiting-trial.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader who allegedly caused a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading, will be freed on bail while he awaits
trial in London, his lawyer said following a court hearing.  Adoboli, 32, can leave Wandsworth prison in southwest
London, where he has been in custody since around the time of
his arrest on Sept. 15, attorney  Tim Harris  said following the
hearing. His previous bail request in February was denied.  While Harris declined to provide details on the bail
amount, he said Adoboli will wear an electronic monitoring
device, have a curfew and will have to reside at a friend’s home
in London. A trial for Adoboli is scheduled for early September.
He has pleaded not guilty to fraud and false accounting for
allegedly causing the loss, the largest from unauthorized
trading in British history.  Harris said his client was “delighted, hugely grateful to
the judge and his friends and family for supporting him.” It
“was a very emotional scene,” he added.  Adoboli may leave prison as early as Monday, depending on
when the bail conditions are met, Harris said.  Jenna Ward, a UBS spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Delta One Desk  Adoboli worked for the investment bank’s Delta One desk,
which handles trades for clients -- or risks the bank’s own
money -- typically by speculating on, or hedging the performance
of, a basket of securities. Adoboli, wearing a grey suit and
purple tie, was supported at the hearing by about 10 of his
friends and family, some of whom offered sureties for his bail
application, which was heard in private.  Ten people have left UBS in relation to the case, according
to the bank. In April, lawyers for Adoboli said they would seek
documents from Swiss bank to use in his defense, including
details from disciplinary hearings with his co-workers and e-
mails he sent and received.  At today’s hearing, Judge Brian Keith approved an order
requiring UBS and City of  London  Police to provide evidence to
Adoboli’s lawyers and prosecutors. That information will include
results from searches of Adoboli’s computer and mobile phones,
records of personal trading done through London-based spread-
betting firm IG Index Plc, and details of disciplinary hearings
with three of his former co-workers on the Delta One desk.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority, known as Finma, are
investigating the risk controls at UBS’s investment bank that
didn’t prevent the unauthorized trades. The regulators said in a
joint statement in February that they were formalizing their
enforcement action of the incident.  The move to a formal enforcement proceeding typically
indicates the regulators have found sufficient evidence of
financial rule violations. UBS has said it is cooperating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  