-- Texas Billionaires Wrangle Over Austin Formula One Race
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-06-08T18:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/texas-billionaires-battle-for-formula-one-in-austin.html
Austin,  Texas , is less than six
months from hosting a Formula One race after a fight between
investors including billionaire Red McCombs and Tavo Hellmund, a
promoter and former driver, almost stopped the first U.S. Grand
Prix in five years.  The dispute over the $300 million project in the Texas
capital, which is known for high-tech companies and live music,
as well as wet weather from December to March delayed builders
at least three weeks. That left construction crews working extra
shifts to ready the venue, with capacity for 120,000 fans, in
time for the Nov. 18 start.  “We definitely took it right to the edge,” said Robert Epstein, 47, chairman of Circuit of the Americas LLC, the Austin
partnership building the track for the world’s richest
motorsport. “We’re past what I hope is the hard part.’ ’  Six hundred workers are hurrying to meet a mid-August
track-inspection deadline and to erect stands and other
buildings for what supporters say will be a “fabulous” event.
Promoters say it will pump $297 million into the local economy.  Work stopped in November as circuit partners including
McCombs, the 84-year-old co-founder of Clear Channel
Communications Inc. from  San Antonio , wrangled over the race
contract with  Bernie Ecclestone , the sport’s billionaire chief
executive officer.  Family Friend  Hellmund had won the deal in 2010 from Ecclestone, a
longtime family friend. Epstein, McCombs and other investors
joined Hellmund to build the track and promote the race he had
been working on for years.  “It’s my baby,” Hellmund, 46, said in an interview.
“Every single thing that’s in place -- the content, the design,
the name of the track -- I did years ago.”  The partnership broke apart last year.  By August, “It was clear that one of us had to go,”
Hellmund said.  A settlement agreement to buy out Hellmund was scuttled
last year. In March, Hellmund sued the other partners,
contending in legal documents that they “executed an improper
and unlawful takeover of the very project he conceived and very
well may have it careening toward a wall.”  The track partners countered that Hellmund didn’t cooperate
to help complete development funding, according to documents
filed in state court in Austin.  Investor Interest  Epstein said he met Hellmund about three years earlier,
when the promoter was courting investors.  “There were a lot of people who had been pitched,”
Epstein said during an interview in the Austin office of Prophet
Capital Management Ltd., a mortgage-bond fund he runs. “I was
the only one who embraced the idea.”  McCombs signed on in 2010. A former owner of professional
sports teams such as the  National Basketball Association ’s San
Antonio Spurs, his assets include auto dealerships and real
estate.  “I spent a lot of time looking at the numbers to prove out
that people with a reasonable amount of disposable income would
come to Austin” for a Grand Prix, Epstein said.  Even if the dispute remains unresolved, promoters say the
million-dollar race cars will roar off the starting line on
schedule at the site 14 miles (23 kilometers) southeast of
downtown Austin. Asphalt is being spread on the 20-turn, 3.4-
mile track and tickets go on sale June 10, with three-day passes
for as much as from $499 for unreserved grandstand seats.  Pleased With Progress  Ecclestone is “happy” with progress there, he said by
telephone.  The race is projected to draw 120,000 fans, with fewer
coming to watch practice runs. Promoters expect some attendees
to arrive from  Latin America . Sergio Perez, a Mexican driver for
Sauber, said last year that group may include many of his fans.  Declining attendance marked the end of U.S. Formula One
races at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in 2007. The last time
the circuit came to Texas, in 1984, a street course in  Dallas 
broke up as air temperatures rose above 100 degrees Fahrenheit
(38 degrees Celsius).  The Austin track developers say it is the first in the U.S.
built for Formula One, with asphalt custom-mixed for the local
climate and spread above 9 feet of gravel and fill required to
provide a stable course for cars that reach speeds of as much as
220 miles an hour.  Annual Revenue  The circuit generates $4.4 billion in annual revenue
worldwide, including media rights, sponsorships and spending by
team owners, according to Caroline Reid, co-author of Formula
Money, an annual report on the business of the sport. The report
projects revenue to top $2 billion this year for Ecclestone’s
company, which plans an initial public offering of shares. The
2011 season’s 20 races attracted 3.4 million spectators and 515
million television viewers, she said by e-mail.  Fans who pay as much as $5,000 for personal-seat licenses,
which give them rights to tickets that also have to be
purchased, can lay claim to finish-line viewing spots at the
Austin track. Twenty-two 40-foot video screens will line the
course.  Austin hoteliers and real-estate rental agencies are
already fielding inquiries about accommodations for the November
weekend, according to company representatives. Most of the
downtown Four Seasons Hotel’s 291 rooms are taken, at $699 to
$5,000 a night, and agents are working through a waiting list,
said Kerri Holden, a spokeswoman.  Cousins Andy and Anne Fish are organizing race-weekend
events that include a private shopping session at Austin’s
Neiman Marcus store for 20 people, at $325 each. The store will
close early to accommodate the spree. The Fish cousins also plan
a concert starring  Willie Nelson , for $190 to $275 a seat, and
an excursion to a ranch to learn barrel-racing and steer-roping,
for a $675 a person.  “There’s going to be a race,” said Andy Fish, a car
collector, Formula One fan and president of a legislative
services company. “It’s going to be fabulous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  