-- Mexico Keeps Key Rate Unchanged as Economic Outlook Worsens
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-08T16:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/mexico-keeps-key-rate-unchanged-as-economic-outlook-worsens-2-.html
Mexico’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for the 27th straight meeting
as a weaker global economic outlook led it to downplay the risks
to inflation.  The bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, left
the overnight lending rate at 4.5 percent today, matching the
forecast of all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We consider that the balance of risks to growth of the
Mexican economy has deteriorated, reflecting the intensification
of the downside risks to the global economy,” the bank said in
a statement accompanying the decision. “The balance of
inflation risks remains unchanged.”  Mexico’s annual inflation rate rose for the first time in
four months in May as growth quickened and the peso weakened 9.5
percent in the month, the worst performance of the major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. At the same time, signs of
slowing growth in the U.S., the destination for 80 percent of
the goods  Mexico ’s ships abroad, raised concern that demand for
exports from  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy may decline.  “The central bank clearly depicts an outlook that will
allow it to keep rates on hold for a long time,” said  Gabriel Casillas , chief economist and research head at Grupo Financiero
Banorte in Mexico City.  Still, today’s statement appeared less dovish because it
did not include a reference to international factors
contributing to a possible rate cut that had appeared in
previous reports, Casillas said.  Inflation Risks  Downside inflation risks “have risen as a result of the
recent decrease in global commodities prices and an increased
probability that external and internal demand will weaken,” the
central bank said.  The comments come a day after the statistics agency
reported that annual inflation accelerated to 3.85 percent in
May from 3.41 percent the month before, the biggest pick-up
since January 2010.  Core inflation , which excludes food and
energy, accelerated to 3.48 percent, the fastest pace since
December 2010.  “We’re starting to see signs of demand-driven inflation,”
Roberto Ivan Garcia Castellanos, a fixed-income trader at Casa
de Bolsa Finamex SAB, said in a telephone interview from
Guadalajara, Mexico, yesterday. “We still don’t even know what
effect such a weak  exchange rate  will have.”  While policy makers said they cannot rule out risks to
inflation from the peso’s recent slump, the so-called currency
pass-through to prices has been low, according to today’s
statement.  Peso Weakness  Mexico’s peso strengthened 0.5 percent to 13.9979 per
dollar at 11:34 a.m. in Mexico City.  The currency’s plunge has bond traders betting the slump
will drive up the cost of imports, fueling a pickup in
inflation.  The yield gap between fixed-rate notes due in 2013 and
similar-maturity inflation-linked bonds, a gauge of investors’
expectations for annual price increases, swelled 86 basis points
in the month through yesterday to a 10-month high of 4.26
percentage points.  The peso will rebound once volatility subsides in global
financial markets, Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said June
5. Inflation expectations are “well-anchored,” he said.  Economists expect Mexico’s central bank to keep the
overnight lending rate at a record low of 4.5 percent this year,
according to a June 4 survey of analysts by Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex.  The poll estimated inflation in the next 12 months at 3.92
percent, up from 3.87 percent in the previous bi-weekly survey.
The target range for inflation is 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Economic Growth  Banco de Mexico  on May 16 said the country’s economy may
expand as much as 4.25 percent this year, compared with 3.9
percent in 2011. The bank previously forecast growth of as much
as 4 percent. The economy grew 4.6 percent in the first quarter.  Since the bank raised its 2012 growth forecast,  Europe ’s
debt crisis has deepened and U.S. jobs reports suggest that the
labor market in the world’s largest economy has stalled.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, the Labor
Department reported June 1 in  Washington . That was less than the
most-pessimistic forecast compiled by Bloomberg and marked the
third straight month of less-than-forecast job growth.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday told a
Congressional committee that policy makers this month will
discuss whether to do more to spur growth, though he said the
steps they could take may have “diminishing returns.”  Mexican policy makers may still cut rates,  Alberto Ramos , a
senior Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
in a note to clients today.  “A rate cut down the road seems more probable than a rate
hike, particularly if the U.S. and other core central banks
embark on a new round of monetary accommodation,” Ramos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  