-- Facebook Introduces Mobile Software Bazaar With 600 Apps
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-08T20:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/facebook-introduces-mobile-software-bazaar-with-600-apps.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social-networking
company that held an initial public offering last month,
introduced an online directory for downloadable apps, taking a
page from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The service, called App Center, debuts with 600
applications, including  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s “Draw Something” game and
Pinterest Inc.’s online bulletin board, Menlo Park, California-
based Facebook said yesterday in a blog posting and a press
conference in San Francisco.  “The App Center gives you personalized recommendations,
and lets you browse the apps your friends use,” Facebook said
in the blog. “It only lists high-quality apps, based on
feedback from people who use the app.”  Facebook, seeking to attract more software developers, is
looking for new ways for users to find and access applications
through its service. Apps, which let users do everything from
play games to listen to music, encourage consumers to stay on a
site longer and thereby help marketers more easily target them
with advertising.  With the new service, users call up a directory of software
options by tapping a button within a mobile Facebook
application. When users find an app they like, they’re sent to
the Apple or Google store to download the software.  The service also is available when users are signed on to
Facebook’s desktop version, letting members send the application
to their mobile devices. App Center was introduced in the U.S.
yesterday and be available elsewhere in the coming weeks,
Facebook said.  Facebook climbed 3 percent to $27.10 at the close in New
York. Facebook has declined 29 percent since it started trading
at $38 on May 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  