-- Facebook May Join Russell Indexes Amid Smallest Revamp Since ’04
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-06-08T14:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/facebook-may-join-russell-indexes-amid-smallest-revamp-since-04.html
Six newly public companies including
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  will probably join the Russell 1000 Index amid the
smallest annual shift in the gauge of large U.S. companies since
at least 2004, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Stocks representing 1.5 percent of the index’s value will
be swapped during Russell’s annual rebalancing on June 22, the
smallest proportion in eight years, Credit Suisse estimates. The
preliminary list of changes for Russell Investments’ gauges
including the Russell 1000 and Russell 2000 Index will be
announced after the close of U.S. trading today.  Fewer changes may mean cost savings for fund managers
because they won’t have to trade as much to match Russell’s
adjustments. At the same time, brokerages and exchanges may miss
out on volume at a time when their profits suffer from a
slowdown in transactions. The annual revisions usually spur one
of the busiest  sessions  of the year. Russell’s global stock
indexes are used by investors with $3.9 trillion in assets.  “If you don’t have a lot of need for changes, then the
demand won’t be there, then you wouldn’t have these huge up
volume events like we traditionally have,”  Jason Cooper , who
helps oversee $2.5 billion in  South Bend ,  Indiana  at 1st Source
Investment Advisors, said in a phone interview. For some
managers, “it would be a breath of fresh air” amid rising
market volatility, he said. “It requires less of them to make
changes that could be a problem or be detrimental to the
weighting that they’re currently managing.”  Exxon’s Shift  Besides adding and subtracting companies from gauges such
as the  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  and Russell 2000 Index, the firm also
reclassifies companies as  growth stocks , value stocks or blends
of the two based on changes in their  valuation , historic sales
growth and projected earnings over the past year. Exxon Mobil
Corp., now represented in both value and growth indexes, will
probably be treated only as value following the annual review,
Bank of America Corp. and Credit Suisse said.  Last year, 10.2 billion shares  changed hands  on U.S.
exchanges on June 24, the rebalancing day, producing the 18th-
highest total in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In four of the previous five years, rebalancing day was in the
top 10.  Stock volume is dwindling as Investment Company Institute
data show five years of withdrawals from U.S. equity mutual
funds. An average of 6.83 billion shares changed hands daily
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on exchange-
listed securities. That compares with 7.8 billion last year,
8.52 billion in 2010 and 9.77 billion in 2009.  Buying Shares  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking company
that raised $16 billion last month, will join the  Russell 1000 ,
according to BlackRock Inc., Credit Suisse, Investment
Technology Group Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd. The stock, which
has sunk 31 percent since its debut, would account for 0.08
percent of the rebalanced Russell 1000, resulting in buying of
13.5 million shares, Macquarie estimates.  Five more IPOs will enter the Russell 1000, according to
Credit Suisse. They include Vantiv Inc., a payment processor;
Allison Transmission Holdings Inc., a maker of transmissions for
trucks and buses; software maker Splunk Inc.; MRC Global Inc.,
an energy products and services company; and Retail Properties
of America Inc., a real estate investment trust.  Russell Investments, a Seattle-based company owned by
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., started adding IPOs on a
quarterly, rather than annual basis in recent years to help
reduce turnover on the rebalancing day, according to a statement
on Russell’s website.  Industry Weighting  Banks, insurers and brokerages will see their weighting
increase the most among 10 industries in the Russell 1000 as
companies such as  MFA Financial Inc. (MFA)  migrate from the Russell
2000 of smaller stocks, according to ITG and Credit Suisse. ITG
says technology companies will see the biggest decline, while
Credit Suisse said it would be the consumer-staples group.  The Russell changes may have the potential to increase
price swings on the rebalancing day, according to Rene Casis,
who manages exchange-traded funds based on Russell indexes in
 San Francisco  for BlackRock. His firm runs 16 Russell-based ETFs
with combined assets of $71 billion.  “It’s definitely a large event,” Casis said in a phone
interview on June 6. “Given the compressed nature of this
trading event, there is temporary volatility that can occur.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  