-- FDA Delays Decision on Gilead’s Truvada to Prevent HIV
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/fda-delays-decision-on-gilead-s-truvada-to-prevent-hiv.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the world’s
largest maker of AIDS drugs, said U.S. regulators delayed by
three months a decision on whether the company can expand use of
its HIV treatment Truvada as a therapy to prevent the virus.  The  Food and Drug Administration  moved the target date to
Sept. 14 so it can review a plan by Gilead to ensure people
wouldn’t misuse the drug, the  Foster City , California-based
company said yesterday in an e-mail. Gilead provided the agency
a modified risk strategy on June 4, Cara Miller, a spokeswoman
for the company, said in the e-mail.  The $14,000-a-year treatment would be the first approved to
prevent healthy people from getting the virus that causes AIDS.
It’s aimed at an estimated 415,000 Americans who are among those
at highest risk for contracting HIV from sex, according to the
Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. While
some advocates have said Truvada is an important tool to reduce
infection, others have argued that users may gain a false sense
of security from the pill and engage in riskier behavior.  Truvada, which makes it harder for HIV to multiply, was
approved in 2004 to treat people infected with the virus. The
drug will eventually get the FDA’s blessing for use as a
preventative, said  Ira Loss , a health policy analyst at
Washington Analysis LLC. The announcement yesterday “just
delays the inevitable,” he said in a telephone interview.  HIV Testing  Gilead rose 1.3 percent to $49.64 at the close of  New York 
trading yesterday. Investors don’t expect the expanded use of
Truvada to add much its existing sales,  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst at ISI Group in New York, said in an e-mail. Truvada
generated $2.9 billion in  revenue  last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gilead told an FDA panel of advisers in May that it plans
to give educational material to doctors and patients about the
proper use of the drug and offer free HIV testing and condoms.
Advisers said they would like mechanisms in place to stop people
already infected with the virus from taking the drug for
prevention. Such a use may increase the risk of developing
immunity from Truvada’s benefits to treat HIV.  The FDA should require HIV testing of people taking the
medicine for prevention, said  Michael Weinstein , president of
the Los Angeles-based AIDS Healthcare Foundation, the largest
HIV/AIDS nonprofit medical provider in the U.S.  About  50,000 people  are infected with HIV each year in the
U.S., with gay and bisexual men accounting for 61 percent of new
cases, the CDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  