-- FHA to Expand Auctions of Defaulted Mortgages at Discount Prices
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-08T20:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/fha-to-expand-auctions-of-defaulted-mortgages-at-discount-prices.html
 In an effort to mitigate losses on
mounting foreclosures, the  Federal Housing Administration  will
begin quarterly auctions of delinquent mortgages to investors at
marked-down prices, Shaun Donovan, secretary of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development, said today.  The effort, which began as a pilot program in 2010, is
intended to keep the troubled borrowers in their homes by
encouraging the investors to use some of their discount of as
much as 65 percent off of the unpaid principal balance to write
down the loan amount. Beginning in September, the agency will
put about 5,000 loans on the market every quarter.  The program “offers a better shot for the struggling
homeowner and lower losses to the FHA,” Acting FHA Commissioner
Carol Galante said in a  statement .  Each of the 35,000 foreclosed properties currently on its
books costs the agency an average of $28.78 a day to maintain
and market. The FHA received the properties exchange for
insurance payouts to loan servicers. It provides insurance to
encourage lenders to offer credit to home buyers who might not
otherwise qualify for prime loans  In return for the agency’s insurance payout, the auction
program allows servicers to transfer delinquent FHA-insured
loans to the FHA before foreclosure -- but only after the
servicer has worked with the borrower to make the loan current.
The FHA is calculating that the amount it will recoup from the
loan sales is greater than the amount it would lose if it let
the property slip into foreclosure and put it on the market,
Donovan said today at a Chicago news conference.  The FHA so far has acquired and sold about 2,100 loans on
properties across the U.S. under the program. More than a year
into the pilot project, most of the notes were still delinquent,
according to data provided last year.  Delaying Foreclosure  Winning bidders agree not to foreclose on borrowers while
they work to modify the terms of the loan, including writing
down the principal. No more than half of the loans sold off can
end up in foreclosure, according to the terms of the auction.  The agency, an arm of the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development, has insured more than 34 million mortgages
since it was created in 1934.  The FHA is financed by the mortgage insurance premiums it
charges to lenders and historically has not required a taxpayer
subsidy. That could change if its losses from the housing crash
continue to mount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  