-- Florida Sued by ACLU Over Voter Purge Initiative
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/florida-sued-by-aclu-over-voter-purge-initiative.html
Florida  was sued by the  American
Civil Liberties Union  over the state’s effort to make some
registered voters re-verify their citizenship or lose their
ability to vote.  The U.S.  Justice Department  warned the state in a May 31
letter that the program to identify ineligible voters may
violate federal law, including one aimed at reviewing voter
limits in states such as Florida with a history of racial
discrimination. The state responded by saying the initiative is
valid.  “The illegal program to purge eligible voters uses
inaccurate information to remove eligible citizens from the
voter rolls” Howard Simon, executive director of the ACLU in
Florida, said in an e-mailed statement.  Chris Cate, a spokesman for Florida Secretary of State Ken Detzner, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
suit, filed yesterday in federal court in Tampa.  The suit seeks a court order prohibiting Detzner from
implementing the law without first seeking a review by a federal
court in  Washington  or the U.S. Attorney General as required
under federal election law, according to the complaint.  The law, a section of the 1965 Voting Rights Act,
“prohibits changes in election practices or procedures in
states and political subdivisions with a documented history of
discriminatory voting practices until the new procedures have
been determined” to not have the effect of denying the right to
vote “on account of race, color, or membership in a language
minority group,” according to the complaint.  Harsh Limits  Separately, U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle in
Tallahassee ruled May 31 that portions of a state voter law
severely restrict registration drives and place harsh limits on
groups that conduct them. Hinkle blocked requirements that
voter-drive groups turn over completed materials to the state
within 48 hours or face possible $1,000 fines. The two-day
window, previously 10 days, makes no provision for mailing
applications and serves little, if any, purpose, Hinkle said.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican who signed the
registration law and ordered the purge, has defended both as a
means toward fighting voter fraud. Florida Democrats have
assailed both as an effort to give advantage to presumptive
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  over President
 Barack Obama , a Democrat, in a swing state four months before
the election.  Civic Participation  The lawsuit was also filed by the Lawyers’ Committee for
 Civil Rights  Under Law and law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP
on behalf of Murat Limage, a Haitian-American U.S. Citizen,
Pamela Gomez, a Dominican-American Hispanic U.S. Citizen, and Mi
Familia Vota Education Fund, a non-profit organization that aims
to increase civic participation, according to the statement.  Limage, naturalized as a U.S. citizen in 2010 received an
April notice from Florida election officials telling him that he
must provide proof of his citizenship or face possible removal
from voter registration rolls, according to the complaint.  Gomez was naturalized in 2011 and “expects that her voter
eligibility may be challenged” because election officials may
rely on her driver’s license, obtained in 2006 and which doesn’t
reflect her citizenship, according to the complaint.  The case is Mi Familia Vota Education Fund v. Detzner, 12-
cv-1294, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
(Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  