-- Cnooc Leads ADRs’ Drop Before Data Report
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-08T20:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/focus-media-leads-adr-drop-before-data-report.html
Chinese equities  traded in the U.S.
fell for the first time in four days, led by  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO)  and Sina
Corp., before the government reports data that may show a deeper
slowdown in  Asia ’s fastest-growing economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. dropped 0.4 percent to 90.27 in
 New York , snapping a three-day advance and paring its weekly
gain to 3.5 percent. Cnooc led oil producers lower after China
announced a cut in fuel prices, and Sina Corp. retreated from a
seven-day high. Digital advertiser  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  sank
the most in a week while  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) 
extended its rally to a fifth day.  The People’s Bank of China reduced benchmark  interest rates 
for the first time since 2008 yesterday, spurring speculation
economic data due to be released today is weaker than policy
makers expected.  China ’s fixed-asset investment probably
expanded at the slowest pace in a decade in May, gains in
consumer prices matched a two-year low and industrial output
grew less than 10 percent for a second month, Bloomberg
economist surveys show.  “It’s a shorting opportunity for Chinese stocks as the
government’s recent move shows there may be a much larger issuer
in its economy than the market is aware of,” Scott Freeze,
president of Street One Financial LLC in Huntington Valley,
 Pennsylvania , an exchange-traded fund brokerage, said by phone
yesterday. “The data coming out on the weekend will be very
poor, showing its economy has a higher chance of a hard
landing.”  China ETF Sinks  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China ETF, retreated 2.8 percent to $32.81, the most
since March 14. The Shanghai Composite Index of mainland stocks
fell 0.5 percent to 2,281.45 for a three-day slump. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares added 0.8 percent to 1,325.66
as investors awaited weekend talks among European finance
officials for news of a potential bailout of  Spain .  China’s consumer prices in May due today probably rose 3.2
percent, according to the median of 30 analysts’ forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the slowest pace in three
months. Industrial output gained 9.8 percent for May, from 9.3
percent in April, the economists estimated. That would compare
with a more than 11 percent increase in the first quarter.
Economists also predict May retail sales to grow 14.2 percent,
from 14.1 percent in April.  Sina, Cnooc  Sina, provider of the Twitter-like Weibo service in China,
retreated 2.6 percent to $53.74.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , China’s largest
online search engine, lost 0.9 percent to $121.31 after a four-
day gain. Shanghai-based Focus Media fell 3.5 percent to $20.51,
the first decline in five days.  Weakening economic expansion is likely to damp Sina’s sales
growth and narrow its profit margin in the first half this year,
according to Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer
& Co.  “Near-term headwinds have been factored in our consensus
estimates and priced in Sina’s share price,” Yeung wrote in a
June 7 research note. He upgraded Sina to outperform from
perform, meaning its stock’s performance is expected to exceed
that of the S&P 500  index (SHCOMP)  in the coming 12 to 18 months.  American depositary receipts of Cnooc, China’s largest
offshore oil explorer, dropped 1.4 percent to $180.56 in New
York, from a seven-day high. The ADRs, each representing 100
underlying shares in the company, traded 0.8 percent  below  the
Hong Kong stock, the first discount in a week.  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil producer, slid 0.6
percent to $129.52.  Gasoline Price Cuts  State-controlled retail gasoline prices will fall by 530
 yuan  ($83.20) a metric ton starting today and diesel will be cut
by 510 yuan, the National Development and Reform Commission, the
nation’s top economic planner, said on its website yesterday.
The reduction is the steepest since the government’s current
pricing system was introduced in December 2008.  A drop in fuel prices threatens to reduce revenue at the
nation’s biggest refiners, offsetting cheaper crude costs and
extending processing losses.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , China’s largest
electricity producer, increased 2.5 percent to $27.71, the
highest since November 2009.  A weaker demand for thermal coal in China and rising
inventory may cause further declines in coal prices, benefiting
power producers, said Lu Rumin, a Beijing-based analyst at
Hongyuan Securities Co., in a report dated June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  