-- Ford Upgrades Opens Door to Unsecured Finance
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d ,   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-06-08T15:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/ford-upgrade-opens-door-to-unsecured-finance-corporate-finance.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s return to
investment-grade is freeing the second-largest U.S. automaker to
borrow in the unsecured  debt market , reducing its reliance on
asset-backed bonds to lower borrowing costs.  Ford’s finance unit was able to sell $1.5 billion of
unsecured five-year notes yesterday with a coupon of 3 percent,
about 2 percentage points more than the cost of the similar-
maturity portion of its most recent asset-backed issuance,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In 2006, after
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s ratings were cut to junk, the
gap was more than 4.5 percentage points, the data show.  The automaker, which was  upgraded  by Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings in the last two months, has set a goal
of cutting the percentage of receivables that it pledges to back
debt to 35 percent in the next few years from 54 percent as of
March 31. That would give bondholders more assets to draw on in
a cash squeeze, said  Mirko Mikelic , a money manager at Fifth
Third Asset Management.  “This is a good move for unsecured bondholders,” Mikelic,
who oversees $13 billion in fixed-income assets including Ford
bonds from  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , said in a telephone
interview. “If they are stressed or have to file for
bankruptcy, you have something supporting those assets.”  While  interest rates  on unsecured debt typically are higher
than those on asset-backed bonds, the rising proportion of
unencumbered assets provides Ford with a cushion to support
borrowing during future recessions, according to Bob Shanks,
Ford’s chief financial officer.  ‘Bad Times’  “You want to be in a position going into a downturn or
into a weak economic environment, where if you need to increase
the amount of asset-backed as a percent of your total funding
that you’ve got the room to do that,” Shanks said in a June 4
interview. “It gives you flexibility in funding in bad times.”  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Ford Motor Credit to junk in
May 2005. Fitch followed that December and Moody’s did so the
following month, Bloomberg data show. The finance arm increased
issuance of securities backed by loans to $12.6 billion in 2005
from $1.9 billion the prior year, Bloomberg data show.  In August 2006, the unit issued $1.5 billion of 9.875
percent, five-year notes, the data show. A similar-maturity
portion of auto-loan-backed debt sold that month had a coupon of
5.25 percent, a gap of 4.63 percentage points.  3% Coupon  The 3 percent coupon on the Ford Motor Credit notes sold
yesterday compares with the 1 percent interest rate on five-year
securities backed by auto loans that it issued in April,
Bloomberg data show.  “If you have the more flexible option, why not do that?”
Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The spread difference between the two securities is
so minimal at this point.”  Moody’s triggered the exchange of $2.5 billion in asset-
backed debt for unsecured obligations this week when it followed
Fitch in lifting Ford’s credit ranking from junk. The debt was
sold last year with a provision that it would automatically
convert to regular corporate bonds in the event that two of the
three major rating companies raised the automaker to investment
grade.  Ford currently is rated Baa3 by Moody’s and an equivalent
BBB- at Fitch, the lowest investment grades, while S&P has it at
BB+, the highest junk level.  “It’s a lot stronger than it was a couple years ago,”
Lurie said. “Many didn’t expect the company to get into the
investment-grade range so quickly.”  ‘Strong Focus’  Fitch, in an April statement, said its upgrade reflected
“improved financial performance, balance sheet repair, and
product portfolio improvement that have taken place over the
past several years.”  The automaker has had 12 consecutive profitable quarters
through 2012’s first three months. Ford earned $29.5 billion in
the last three years after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006
through 2008.  “It was easy to see coming,” said Marc Gross, a  money
manager  at RS Investments in New York who oversees $3 billion in
fixed-income funds. “They’ve had a strong focus more than I’ve
ever seen to get to investment grade”  The second largest U.S.  automaker  behind General Motors Co.
is dedicated to improving its  credit rating , Shanks said.  “Getting to the lowest rung of investment grade was
fantastic, but it’s just a step on a much longer journey,”
Shanks said. “We do need to get the company well into
investment grade because we intend to stay there even in future
downturns, even should they be severe.”  Funding Access  Maintaining access to both secured and unsecured funding is
crucial, according to Mack Caldwell, an asset-backed debt
analyst at Moody’s.  The extra yield investors demanded to own top-ranked bonds
linked to auto loans rather than Treasuries soared to a record
825 basis points, or 8.25 percentage points, in November 2008
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed. The debt
currently pays a spread of 57 basis points, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Issuance froze in January 2009 amid the seizure in credit
markets, Bloomberg data show. The  Federal Reserve  started its
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility two months later to
revive the market for bonds tied to consumer and small business
loans as the financial crisis sapped demand.  “When one market is unavailable you want to be able to
continue funding your business in other sources,” said Caldwell
of Moody’s. “In the credit crisis, the ABS markets were
challenged to do deals. One of the great lessons learned was
that diversification of funding is important.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net 
Keith Naughton in Detroit, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net 
Zeke Faux at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  