-- France Blocks Melrose Bid to Extend Offshore Exploration Permit
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-06-08T12:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/france-blocks-melrose-bid-to-extend-offshore-exploration-permit.html
France  blocked the extension of an
oil and natural-gas exploration permit held by  Melrose Resources
Plc (MRS)  in the  Mediterranean Sea , holding off on approving the
application as it faces calls to prohibit offshore drilling.  The Energy Ministry today published a list of permits,
requests for extensions and applications for new licenses, which
indicated no decision had been made on the Melrose venture. A
spokeswoman for the ministry confirmed it had been “blocked.”  Melrose and partner Noble Energy France applied to the
government for a license extension to November 2015. Drilling in
the Mediterranean Sea was criticized by former President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who said in April it was a “crazy idea” that could
harm the region’s scenery. The  Non aux Hydrocarbures en Mer 
movement, meaning No to Offshore Hydrocarbons, has warned of the
dangers of pollution linked to oil exploration in the area.  The Energy Ministry published a  map  of France that includes
data on all permits and applications. That will be followed by a
“thorough” overhaul of France’s mining code, Nicole Bricq, the
new energy minister under President  Francois Hollande , said in a
statement. It’s “intolerable” that the code doesn’t currently
require information about licenses to be made public, she said.  France last year became the first country in the world to
ban hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a technique used in the
U.S. to extract oil and gas from shale rock. Criticism of
fracking plans in France included claims that attribution of
licenses wasn’t sufficiently transparent.  A spokesman for Edinburgh-based Melrose wasn’t available to
comment immediately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  