-- French Business Confidence, Italian Output Fall: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-06-08T08:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/french-business-confidence-italian-output-fall-economy.html
French business confidence and
Italian output declined as recessions in at least six European
countries weighed on demand and risked causing a quarterly
contraction in  France  for the first time in three years.  Sentiment among French factory executives  fell in May to 93
from a revised 94 in April, the Bank of France said today in an
e-mailed statement. Italian industrial production dropped 1.9
percent in April from March, when it rose a revised 0.6 percent,
Rome-based statistics office Istat said.  Confidence has stagnated all year, last showing an increase
in December, and today’s reading suggests that France,  Europe ’s
second-largest economy, will shrink 0.1 percent in the second
quarter, the central bank said. With neighbors such as Spain and
Italy already in recession and unemployment crimping demand at
home, French executives are restraining costs and may hold off
on investment.  Companies are in “a cautious mood given the weakening
order books,” said Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief economist at
Exane BNP Paribas in  London . “The rebound we initially expected
in the second quarter” may not materialize and the possibility
of a “negative quarter is increasingly likely.”  Stocks fell, the euro declined and oil headed for the
longest weekly losing streak in 13 years after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  damped expectations for monetary
stimulus and German exports dropped. U.S. Treasuries and the yen
rallied.  Stocks Drop  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  dropped 0.7 percent at
9:46 a.m. in Paris, paring its weekly gain to 2.4 percent. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank 1 percent, while Standard & Poor’s
500 Index futures lost 0.7 percent. The euro fell 0.6 percent
while the yen gained versus all its major counterparts. Oil
slumped 2.5 percent, poised for a sixth week of declines. The
S&P GSCI gage of commodities tumbled 1.8 percent and gold fell
1.1 percent.  Italy’s economy, the euro area’s third-biggest, fell into a
recession in the fourth quarter of last year just as Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  pushed through 20 billion euros ($25
billion) in austerity measures to tackle the debt crisis. The
nation’s joblessness rate of 10.2 percent is the highest in more
than a decade and  consumer confidence  is at the lowest in more
than 15 years amid  Italy ’s fourth slump since 2001.  Bracing for Impact  Policy makers across the globe are girding for a deeper
impact from Europe’s debt crisis, with  China  cutting borrowing
costs yesterday for the first time since 2008 and loosening
controls on bank lending and deposit rate. Australia and Brazil
have also lowered rates in the past eight days.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro-area economy
stalled in the first quarter as companies cut spending to
weather the sovereign debt crisis, offsetting a gain in exports,
the European Union statistics office in Luxembourg said June 6.  The European economy is struggling to gather strength after
the need for new Greek elections and  Spain ’s worsening banking
crisis heightened concerns that the single currency could
splinter.  For French President  Francois Hollande , the stalled economy
presents a challenge after winning this year’s election on a
promise to revive growth. After less than a month in office,
he’s facing rising unemployment as companies from  Air France-KLM
Group (AF)  to PSA Peugeot Citroen contemplate job cuts.  Order Books  “Industrial output fell back in May, notably in the car
and metal sectors,” the Bank of France said today. “Factory
use contracted and weakening demand has led to an erosion of
order books.”  The Bank of France also said today that its gauge of
service-sector demand fell to 92 from 93, its lowest since 2010.  Any drop in France’s growth rate would force the government
to make deeper-than-expected cuts to meet its target of reducing
the  budget deficit  to 4.5 percent of GDP this year and 3 percent
next year.  “Hollande’s honeymoon will be brief,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “His biggest
domestic challenge will be to restore order in public finances.
It’s likely there will be fiscal slippage, given his optimistic
growth assumptions and tendency to lean more toward raising
revenues than cutting spending.”  Hollande, whose Socialist Party faces legislative elections
on June 10 and 17, has promised to introduce a new budget to
meet those targets in late June or early July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  