-- French Business Confidence Drops as Europe Demand Stalls
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-06-08T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/french-business-confidence-drops-on-stalling-european-demand.html
French business confidence declined
in May as recessions in at least six European countries weighed
on demand and risked causing a quarterly contraction in  France 
for the first time in three years.  Sentiment among factory executives  fell to 93 from a
revised 94 in April, the Bank of France said today in an e-
mailed statement. That compares with the 93 predicted by the
median of four economists’ estimates gathered by Bloomberg News.  Confidence has stagnated all year, last showing an increase
in December, and today’s reading suggests  Europe ’s second-
largest economy will shrink 0.1 percent in the second quarter,
the central bank said. With neighbors such as  Spain  and Italy
already in recession and unemployment crimping demand at home,
French executives are restraining costs and may hold off on
investment.  Companies are in “a cautious mood given the weakening
order books,” said Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief economist at
Exane BNP Paribas in  London . “The rebound we initially expected
in the second quarter” may not materialize and the possibility
of a “negative quarter is increasingly likely.”  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro-area economy
stalled in the first quarter as companies cut spending to
weather the sovereign debt crisis, offsetting a gain in exports,
the European Union statistics office in Luxembourg said June 6.  The European economy is struggling to gather strength after
the need for new Greek elections and Spain’s worsening banking
crisis heightened concerns that the single currency could
splinter.  Job Cuts  For French President  Francois Hollande , the stalled economy
presents a challenge after winning this year’s election on a
promise to revive growth. After less than a month in office,
he’s facing rising unemployment as companies from  Air France-KLM
Group (AF)  to PSA Peugeot Citroen contemplate job cuts.  Any drop in France’s growth rate would also force the
government to make deeper-than expected cuts to meet its target
of reducing its  budget deficit  to 4.5 percent of GDP this year
and 3 percent next year.  “Hollande’s honeymoon will be brief,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “His biggest
domestic challenge will be to restore order in public finances.
It’s likely there will be fiscal slippage, given his optimistic
growth assumptions and tendency to lean more towards raising
revenues than cutting spending.”  Hollande, whose Socialist Party faces legislative elections
on June 10 and 17, has promised to introduce a new budget to
meet those targets in late June or early July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  