-- Gasoline Falls on Concern About China Growth, Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-06-08T13:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/gasoline-falls-on-concern-about-china-growth-europe-debt-crisis.html
Gasoline fell on concern that a
report tomorrow will provide more evidence that  China ’s growth
is slowing and as Spain is poised to become the fourth of the 17
euro countries to require emergency assistance.  Futures fell as China is scheduled to report inflation,
investment and output tomorrow after cutting  interest rates  for
the first time since 2008. Fitch downgraded Spain to BBB, within
two steps of junk. Remarks that U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  made to Congress yesterday raised doubts that
the Fed would institute a third round of quantitative easing to
boost the  U.S. economy .  “The expectation is that the report from China will show
growth slowing more than expected,” said  Andy Lipow , president
of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “You have Bernanke’s
comments in conjunction with China and the sense that economic
growth is slowing down around the world.”  Gasoline for July delivery fell 3.75 cents, or 1.4 percent,
to $2.6475 a gallon at 9:49 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange.  A bid for help from Spain may come as soon as tomorrow when
euro finance ministers hold a conference call, said a German
government official and a European Union aide, each of whom
declined to be identified because the matter is confidential.  Bernanke Comments  Bernanke told lawmakers yesterday that further rounds of
stimulus could boost the economy, yet may have “diminishing
returns.” He said the central bank has options for further
easing while declining to specify them. He also said the economy
is at risk from the European debt crisis and the prospect of
fiscal tightening.  “Bernanke started the ball rolling downhill,” said  Gene
McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Today’s drop seems compounded by
growing fears Spain will ask for aid and that more bad news is
coming out of China.”  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,  fell  0.5
cent to $3.555 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. That’s the
lowest price since Feb. 17.  July-delivery heating oil fell 1.89 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $2.6482 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  