-- German Stocks Drop as Commerzbank, ThyssenKrupp Retreat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-06-08T16:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/german-stocks-drop-as-commerzbank-allianz-shares-retreat.html
German stocks  declined, paring their
biggest two-day rally since April, as the country’s exports
decreased more than economists had predicted and Spain’s debt
rating was downgraded to within two notches of junk.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany’s second-biggest lender , slid 3.1
percent.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker,
retreated 3.8 percent after its  credit rating  was cut yesterday
by  Standard & Poor’s .  The  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.2 percent to 6,130.82 at the close
in Frankfurt. The gauge has still risen 1.3 percent this week.
The benchmark measure has  tumbled 14 percent from its 2012 high 
on March 16 on growing concern that Greece will leave the euro
currency union. The broader HDAX Index fell 0.3 percent today.  “The export data shows the European debt crisis is
affecting the real economy in the same way as in 2009 and the
second half of 2011,” said  Robert Halver , head of capital
markets research at Baader Bank AG. “The bad mood is the
biggest driver for the economy. This is a homemade crisis as
European policy cannot solve the debt crisis.”  German exports  fell 1.7 percent in April, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists had
predicted a drop of 0.7 percent, according to the  median of 14
estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey. Exports increased 0.8
percent in March.  German Export Growth  German export growth has suffered as eight euro-area
countries entered a recession.  China’s economy ,  Germany ’s
seventh-biggest export market, slowed in the first quarter.  Germany’s Economy Ministry said its forecast for stronger
economic growth in the second-half of this year may fail to come
true. It cited multiplying risks from the impact of the debt
crisis to the outlook for the U.S. and Chinese economies.  “Worries about economic growth, above all in the euro area
but also in the U.S. and  China , have once again come clearly to
the fore,” the ministry stated in its economic report for June.  “Everything is very uncertain,” said Simon Denham, chief
executive officer of Capital Spreads in  London . “As soon as
investors see any kind of opportunity for profit they are taking
it, which is why it is easy to see 50-to-60 point price trading
ranges.”  Commerzbank dropped 3.1 percent to 1.39 euros.  ThyssenKrupp decreased 3.8 percent to 12.04 euros. The
steelmaker’s rating was cut to BB from BB+ by S&P after the
ratings company predicted a “very weak” performance this year.
S&P cited high losses from its U.S. business and lower-than-
estimated profit from its European operations.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  fell 1.3 percent to 121.85 euros after
Europe’s largest carmaker was added to UBS AG’s list of least
preferred European automakers.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, slid 1.3 percent to 58.82 euros. BMW Brilliance
Automotive Ltd., BMW’s joint venture in China, started to take
orders for five models of the company’s new generation extended
and standard 3-series today, it said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  