-- Spanish Bonds Slide on Downgrade as Bailout Looms; Bunds Advance
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-06-08T15:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/german-bonds-rise-first-time-in-five-days-after-spain-rating-cut.html
Spanish bonds fell, with 10-year
yields snapping a six-day gain, after  Fitch Ratings  cut the
nation’s credit grade to within two steps of junk and said the
economy will struggle to emerge from recession.  German bunds rose for the first time in five days as
reports showed Italian industrial production and French business
confidence dropped, boosting demand for the region’s safest
securities. Spain’s bonds still headed for their first weekly
gain in a month amid optimism Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will
win a compromise with European peers on financial aid to shore
up its banks as soon as this weekend.  “The market’s reaction to the downgrade needs to be seen
in terms of the past few days,” said Alessandro Mercuri, a
London-based interest-rate strategist at Lloyds Banking Group
Plc. “There’s been a bit of a reversal of that. The market is
convinced that an external solution to  Spain ’s problems is
needed.”  The Spanish 10-year yield climbed 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 6.22 percent at 4:02 p.m. London time after
dropping 57 basis points in the previous six days. The 5.85
percent bond due in January 2022 fell 0.895, or 8.95 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,245) face amount, to 97.37.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of similar-maturity German bunds widened 15 basis points
to 486 basis points. The spread expanded to a record 548 basis
points on June 1.  Fitch Downgrade  Fitch downgraded Spain by three levels to BBB, saying the
cost to the state of shoring up banks may amount to as much as
100 billion euros in the worst case, compared with its previous
estimate of 30 billion euros. The economy is set to remain in
recession through 2013, the ratings company said, having earlier
forecast a recovery for next year.  Spain may request emergency aid as soon as tomorrow when
euro finance ministers hold a conference call, said a German
government official and a European Union aide, each of whom
declined to be identified because the matter is confidential.  “The rally we saw earlier this week reflects the market
thinking there is going to be a policy response, and it is well-
targeted to the recapitalization of the Spanish banks,” said
Mohit Kumar, head of European interest-rate strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in  London . “The market is behaving as if a positive
response is imminent.”  German Bunds  German bunds rose along with U.S. Treasuries and U.K. gilts
as the European reports added to evidence the region’s debt
crisis is slowing growth.  Italian industrial production dropped 1.9 percent in April
from March, when it rose a revised 0.6 percent, Rome-based
statistics office Istat said. Sentiment among French factory
executives declined in May to 93 from a revised 94 in April, the
Bank of France said in an e-mailed statement.  The German 10-year yield fell four basis points to 1.34
percent after climbing to 1.42 percent yesterday, the highest
level since May 25. The yield dropped to a record low 1.127
percent on June 1.  German  borrowing costs  have plunged this year as investors
sought the nation’s debt as a haven from  Europe ’s financial
turmoil. Austrian, Belgian, Finnish, French and Dutch bond
yields also reached all-time lows as concern mounted that  Greece 
will exit the euro area after inconclusive elections on May 6. A
second Greek vote is scheduled for June 17.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said the central bank may cut  interest rates  if the
economic outlook dims further.  ‘Downside Risks’  While the ECB never pre-commits on future policy actions,
it “sees increased downside risks” on the economy and “may
have to react,” Nowotny said in Vienna when asked about the
likelihood of an interest-rate cut next month.  The central bank left its benchmark interest rate at a
record low 1 percent at a policy meeting on June 6.  “Nowotny’s signal that a rate cut is on the cards is
probably helping the bid for bunds rather than supportive for
risk appetite,”  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at
WestLB AG on London, wrote in an e-mailed report.  Germany ’s two-year yield slid two basis points to 0.05
percent. The  yield  will struggle to rise above its 50-day moving
average currently at 0.09 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield climbed five basis points to
5.76 percent. The yield on Greece’s 2 percent security due in
February 2023 increased 28 basis points to 28.93 percent. The
price fell to 14.78 percent of face value.  German debt has returned 3.5 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities lost 2.3
percent, and Italian bonds earned 8.8 percent.  Spanish yields remain below those of Portugal and Ireland
when they requested bailouts. The Portuguese 10-year yield was
8.54 percent on April 6, 2011, the day it requested European
Union aid. By May 6, 2011, the yield had climbed to 9.56
percent. Ireland’s 10-year debt yielded 8.12 percent on Nov. 19,
2010, before the nation requested aid from the EU and
International Monetary Fund. By the end of that year, the yield
had reached 9.06 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  