-- German Regulator Suspends Facebook Facial-Recognition Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-08T14:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/german-regulator-suspends-facebook-facial-recognition-probe.html
A German privacy regulator suspended
its probe of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s facial-recognition features pending
an Irish audit of how the social-media company handles personal
data.  Hamburg’s data-protection authority said it will wait for
Facebook to negotiate with Ireland’s privacy regulator before
deciding whether Facebook complies with rules for using
biometric data in an application that suggests people to tag in
photos on the social-networking site.  Facebook is overhauling its service in Europe following an
investigation by Irish regulators. Facebook’s Ireland operation
is responsible for all the  Palo Alto , California-based company’s
users outside the U.S. and  Canada . The Hamburg authority started
legal action against Facebook last year for not informing users
or seeking user consent before introducing the facial-
recognition feature.  “Facebook informed the Hamburg data-protection authority
that it has entered into negotiations with the Irish Data
Protection Commissioner’s Office on changing the way it
implements automatic facial-recognition features,” said
Johannes Caspar, Hamburg’s data-protection representative, in a
 statement  on the agency’s website yesterday.  Hamburg may restart its probe if Facebook doesn’t “allow
users more influence over the way their data is handled,”
Caspar said. The German regulator previously criticized Irish
recommendations to Facebook as “unclear.” It can enforce data-
protection rules in matters that affect German users, the
authority says.  Tina Kulow, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to comment
on the Hamburg regulator’s statement.  Data protection rules are currently policed by separate
regulators across the European Union’s 27-nation bloc. The EU’s
executive body wants to simplify the system so companies deal
with one supervisor for data protection issues in the zone,
instead of several.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in  St. Gallen  at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  