-- Google Founders Slated for Questions in Antitrust Probe
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-08T18:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/google-founders-slated-for-questions-in-antitrust-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  co-founders  Larry Page 
and  Sergey Brin  are slated for questioning by U.S. antitrust
regulators and hired a top Washington law firm to help them
prepare for their interviews, two people familiar with the
matter said.  The Google executives retained Williams & Connolly LLP, the
Washington law firm that has represented President  Bill Clinton ,
former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and the late
Senator Edward Kennedy, as counsel for the depositions, said the
people, who didn’t want to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the matter. They didn’t know
when the interviews are scheduled to take place.  Google Chairman Eric Schmidt was questioned by the FTC June
5, another person familiar with the matter said.  Plans for the depositions come as the Federal Trade
Commission speeds up its antitrust probe of operator of the
world’s most popular Internet search engine. Jon Leibowitz, the
agency’s chairman, said June 6 that he expects to complete the
investigation by the end of the year. The FTC will then decide
whether to sue Google.  Google disclosed on June 24 that the FTC had begun a review
of its business practices. The FTC is focusing on whether Google
unfairly ranks search results to favor its own businesses and
increases advertising rates for competitors, people familiar
with the investigation have said.  Jill Hazelbaker , a spokeswoman for Mountain View,
California-based Google, declined to comment on the hiring of
counsel or the FTC’s planned depositions.  Answer Questions  “We are happy to explain our business to regulators and
answer any questions they may have,” Hazelbaker said in an e-
mail.  Peter Kaplan , an FTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
depositions. Lynda Schuler, a spokeswoman for Williams &
Connolly, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment.  In April, the FTC hired  Beth Wilkinson , a Washington
litigator, to run the antitrust investigation, signaling that
the agency may be building a case against Google.  Wilkinson, a partner with Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP, is working for the FTC two days a week while
continuing to practice for the firm.  She wrapped up a case May 31 for video-game publisher
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , which agreed to settle a lawsuit.
Wilkinson won’t be the lawyer taking the depositions of Page and
Brin, one of the people familiar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 