-- Google Told by EU to Offer Antitrust Settlement in Weeks
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-08T12:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/google-told-by-eu-to-offer-antitrust-settlement-in-weeks.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  was told to make an offer
by early next month to resolve a European Union antitrust probe
and avoid a formal complaint over allegations the operator of
the world’s largest search engine discriminates against rivals.  Google’s users and rivals “would greatly benefit from a
quick resolution of the case” because it is better to restore
competition swiftly in fast-moving markets, EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said today in a speech at  St.
Gallen , Switzerland.  “By early July, I expect to receive from Google concrete
signs of their willingness to explore” a settlement, Almunia
said in the speech. If the proposals “turn out to be
unsatisfactory, formal proceedings will continue through the
adoption of a statement of objections.”  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
Argentina and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  Almunia last month asked Chairman Eric Schmidt to address
concerns Google promotes its own specialist search services,
copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and that its
agreements with websites and software developers stifle
competition in the advertising industry.  Google is “engaging constructively with the commission,”
said Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels. The company
said last month that, while it disagreed with the EU’s
conclusions, it was prepared to discuss any concerns.  In 2010, regulators began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads. While
Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a quarter of the
U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95 percent of the
traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog post last year,
citing data from regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in St Gallen via 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  