-- Google, Apple, ‘The Bachelor’: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-08T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/google-apple-the-bachelor-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc.’s bid to block imports of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox gaming system and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
based on patents owned by its Motorola Mobility unit may hurt
competition, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said.  Weighing in on cases before another U.S. agency, the
International Trade Commission, the FTC said in filings
yesterday that companies should be limited in their ability to
win orders blocking imports of competitors’ products over the
use of patents built into industrywide standards.  Motorola Mobility is citing its standard-essential patents
to persuade the ITC to stop imports of Apple and Microsoft
devices made in Asia. The ITC is gathering comments on whether
such an import ban would be in the public interest. Final
decisions in the cases are scheduled for August.  “We are concerned that it might be hindering innovation,”
FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz said in an interview with Bloomberg
Government yesterday in  Washington .  The FTC’s position would limit the power of companies like
Motorola Mobility, Samsung Electronics Co. and  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC) 
to use the international trade agency as a forum in patent
disputes. Each company has asserted patents that cover aspects
of industry standards they helped establish.  Companies participating in standard-setting groups pledge
to license patents that cover aspects of the standards on
“reasonable and non-discriminatory” terms. Such patents should
be treated differently from other patents, Leibowitz said.
Patents convey the power to exclude others from using an
invention.  “A royalty negotiation that occurs under threat of an
exclusion order may be weighted heavily in favor of the patentee
in a way that is in tension with the RAND commitment,” the FTC
wrote.  The result could be royalty rates that would lead to higher
prices for consumers and less participation in standard-setting
groups, the agency said. It suggested the ITC refrain from
imposing an import ban or delay imposition until both sides
mediate in good faith.  “The FTC joins a growing chorus of regulators from around
the world who recognize the danger posed by companies who try to
use standard-essential patents to block the sale of products,”
 David Howard , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The European Union is investigating complaints by Microsoft
and Apple that Motorola Mobility is unfairly using standard-
essential patents to block competition. Samsung also is being
probed by the EU. Huawei Technologies Co. filed a complaint over
royalty demands by InterDigital over third-generation technology
on mobile phones.  There’s no clear definition of fair and reasonable, said
Andrew Updegrove, a lawyer with Gesmer Updegrove in  Boston  who
advises standards boards.  The Business Software Alliance, a trade group whose members
include Apple and Microsoft, and computer maker  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  also filed comments saying there shouldn’t be an import ban.  The ITC has more than a dozen pending cases involving
smartphones and tablet computers, and lawsuits have spanned four
continents with Apple and Microsoft going against makers of
Android devices. Most don’t involve standard-essential patents.  Apple Seeks to Block Sales of Samsung’s New Galaxy Phone  Apple Inc. is seeking to block sales of  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) ’s latest Galaxy smartphones in the U.S., deepening their
worldwide patent dispute and raising pressure on the maker of
the biggest iPhone competitor.  Apple asked a federal judge in San Jose, California, to
include the Galaxy S III in its request to block sales of
Samsung products in the U.S., according to a June 5 filing by
the Cupertino, California-based company. The Samsung phone was
to go on sale in the U.S. this month following the U.K. release
in May, Apple said.  The filing reflects the failure of court-ordered talks
between Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  and his Samsung
counterpart Choi Gee Sung last month. The world’s two biggest
makers of high-end phones have accused each other of copying
designs and technology for mobile devices and are fighting
patent battles in four continents to retain their dominance in
the $219 billion global smartphone market.  Apple’s request is without merit and Samsung will start
selling the Galaxy S III in the U.S as planned, the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said in a statement yesterday.  Samsung released the Galaxy S III in the U.K. on May 29 and
U.S. carriers have announced they will start selling the
smartphone in the U.S. on June 21, Apple said in the filing,
saying it obtained the product in the U.K.  The June 5 filing was made in a companion suit related to
Apple’s first patent infringement case filed against Samsung in
federal court in San Jose. In the primary case, Judge Lucy Koh
last week denied Apple’s renewed request for a ban on U.S. sales
of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer while the case is still
before a federal court of appeals.  Samsung and Apple have been involved in more than 30 cases
on four continents since the iPhone maker accused Samsung of
“slavishly” copying its products in April last year to expand
its patent battle against rival phone makers. Even as they fight
in court, Apple remains the biggest buyer of Samsung’s chips and
displays.  This week, Apple also filed an enforcement action at the
U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington, seeking an
emergency order that would block imports of  HTC Corp.’s (2498)  newest
phones and tablet computers.  The case involving the June 5 filing is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.,12-cv-00630, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose). The first case is
Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-01846, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  ‘Bachelor’ Producers Settle Secrets Case Against ‘Reality Steve’  The producers of “The Bachelor” reality television
program settled a lawsuit against the Texas-based operator of a
“spoiler” website that discloses secrets about the program.  In the complaint filed Dec. 6 in federal court in  Los
Angeles , Burbank, California-based NZK Productions Inc. and
Horizon Alternative Television Inc. accused Stephen Carbone of
revealing “non-public information regarding events that
transpired on the Bachelor series episodes prior to their
broadcast.” Carbone operates the “ Reality Steve ” website.  “The Bachelor” and its spinoff “Bachelorette,” which
are broadcast on Walt Disney Co.’s ABC network, each feature a
principal character who chooses a potential marriage partner
from among 25 contestants selected by the producers. The
identity of the chosen person -- who is given the “final rose”
-- isn’t revealed until the final show of the series.  According to the complaint, Carbone contacted participants
and cast and crew members of “The Bachelor” and induced them
to breach their confidentiality agreements. He then allegedly
posted the information on his website. In many cases his
“spoilers” accurately predicted the outcome of the show on a
week-by-week basis and identified the winner well in advance of
the show’s conclusion, according to the complaint.  The producers claimed Carbone offered at least one
participant $2,500 to reveal information about the show.  Although Carbone was sent a cease-and-desist letter in
August, and a second in November, he continued to solicit
confidential information from participants in the program,
according to court papers.  In a  statement  posted on his website, Carbone acknowledged
that he did approach three former contestants and “offered them
compensation in return for information regarding the show.” He
said all three refused and that he never paid for any advance
information he revealed about the program.  On June 1, the producers filed court papers saying they
sought to dismiss the suit. Under terms of the agreement signed
by Carbone, he cannot initiate contact with the cast, crew or
other employees of the program concerning any non-public details
of the show.  In his website posting, Carbone said that although he will
abide by the agreement, it “does not prevent me from spoiling
the show, and I will continue to do so like I have for the past
three years.”  The case is NZK Products Inc., v. Stephen Carbone, 2:11-cv-
10118-GHK-E, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  For trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Music License Fees Waived for Diamond Jubilee Street Parties  The U.K.’s Performing Rights Society, which collects
royalties for music performances, gave nonprofit groups a pass
for certain events held in connection with this week’s diamond
jubilee celebration for  Queen Elizabeth .  According to a  statement  on the PRS website, license fees
were waived for local community events with fewer than 300
attendees that were organized and run by unpaid volunteers.  More than 10,000 such parties were held in the U.K. this
week to celebrate the jubilee, the Telegraph newspaper  reported .  Copyright Opponents Likened by Filmmaker to Gay-Marriage Foes  A U.S. filmmaker likened opponents of the copyright system
to foes of same-sex marriage.  Both employ similar arguments,  David Newhoff  said in  blog
post  for the Copyright Alliance -- an advocacy group of content
owners and rights societies. Copyright opponents claim
enforcement of copyrights threatens free speech in the same way
that opponents of same-sex marriage claim that allowing gays to
marry threatens freedom of religion, he wrote.  Newhoff is known for “ Gone Elvis ,” a film about a
homeless female veteran.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademarks  Angie’s List Sues IAC/Interactive Unit for Infringing Trademark  Angie’s List Inc., an Indianapolis-based provider of
product and company reviews, sued a competitor for trademark
infringement.  The suit, filed June 1 in federal court in Indianapolis,
accuses  IAC/Interactive Corp. (IACI) ’s ServiceMagic unit of infringing
the “Angie’s List” trademarks.  According to court papers, ServiceMagic of Golden,
Colorado, has made unauthorized use of the mark in its sponsored
links accessed through  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search engine. Google is
not a party to the suit.  Angie’s List claims that when potential customers search
for “Angie’s List” on Google, ads for ServiceMagic pop up
because the Colorado company has bought the term as a keyword.
Because those who do a Google search most often click on the
first link that comes up, according to the complaint, Angie’s
List is losing customers to ServiceMagic that had intended to go
to Angie’s List’s website.  That causes Angie’s List to incur “unnecessary and
excessive expenses to combat and mitigate the effects” of this
alleged infringement, the company said in its pleadings.  Angie’s List asked the court to order ServiceMagic to halt
its alleged infringement, and for an award of money damages.  ServiceMagic is “not able to comment on pending
litigation,” spokeswoman Brooke Gabbert said in an e-mail.  The case is  Angie’s List Inc. (ANGI) , v. ServiceMagic Inc, 1:122-
cv-00755-SEB-TAB, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Indiana (Indianapolis).  IP Moves  Wolf Greenfield Expands IP Litigation Group With New Hires  Wolf, Greenfield & Sacks PC added three IP specialists to
its litigation group, the Boston-based firm said in a  statement .  Gregory F. Corbett  joined from Chicago’s Kirkland & Ellis
LLP. He has represented clients whose technologies include
semiconductors, chemical products and processes,
pharmaceuticals, medical devices, computer interfaces and
wireless and cellular communication.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from  Harvard
University  and a law degree from  Boston College . He served as a
judicial clerk to Judge Arthur J. Gajarsa of the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, the Washington-based court that
hears appeals of patent cases. He also was a judicial clerk for
U.S. District Judge Edward F. Harrington in Massachusetts.  D. Alexander Ewing  joined from Boston’s Wilmer Cutler
Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP. He served as a judicial clerk for
Judge Robert H. Henry of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th
Circuit and for U.S. District Judge William G. Young in
Massachusetts.  Ewing has represented clients in the wireless, alternative
energy, semiconductor manufacturing and testing-equipment
industries. His undergraduate and law degrees are from Harvard
University.  Nathan Speed also joined from WilmerHale. Like Corbett, he
served as a judicial clerk for the Federal Circuit’s Gajarsa. He
has an undergraduate degree from Brandeis University and a law
degree from  Boston University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  