-- Greeks Crash Host Poland’s Party With Draw in Euro 2012 Opener
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-06-08T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/greeks-crash-host-poland-s-party-with-draw-in-euro-2012-opener.html
Greece spoiled Poland’s European
Championship opening party. The soccer competition co-hosts have
only themselves to blame.  The Poles, who opened the scoring through  Robert
Lewandowski  in the 17th minute, played with an extra man for 26
minutes and missed a series of first-half chances to put the
match out of the visitors’ reach before a goalkeeping error
allowed substitute Dimitris Salpingdis to claim a 1-1 tie.
Greece could have won if captain Giorgios Karagounis had scored
on a 70th-minute penalty.  “It’s a disappointment in the sense that we thought we’d
win it after the first half,” captain Jakub Blaszczykowski told
reporters after the game at the National Stadium in Warsaw.
“But if you look at the second half, it could easily have gone
the other way.”  A win would have given Poland three points ahead of a June
12 meeting with group favorite  Russia . The 2008 semifinalist
tops Group A after beating the Czech Republic 4-1 in Wroclaw.  The 16-team event is being played in eastern  Europe  for the
first time, with Ukraine also hosting. Both co-hosts have faced
concerns ranging from their ability to build the infrastructure
necessary to host sport’s third-largest competition to the
possibility of racist chanting in stadiums.  No Rust  All those worries were put aside as thousands of fans
draped in Polish red and white streamed toward the 56,070-
capacity stadium as many as four hours before the kickoff for
Poland’s first competitive match in two years.  The team’s start suggested there wasn’t any rustiness.
Blaszczykowski, Lukasz Piszczek and Lewandowski, a trio of
players who’d just celebrated winning the German championship
with  Borussia Dortmund , regularly combined to get behind the
opposition defense, particularly its right flank.  Three minutes after he failed to connect with a diving
header off Piszczek’s cross, Lewandowski met another from
Blaszczykowski in the 17th minute to induce loud cheers.  “One more,” was the chant that reverberated loudest
around the roofed stadium. And the chances came and went while
Greece failed to register a single shot on target in the first
45 minutes, which it finished playing a man down after Sokratis
Papastathopoulos was sent off for a second yellow card in the
44th minute.  Greece Responds  “Our plan was to apply pressure and we didn’t pay
attention in the first 25 minutes,”  Greece ’s coach Fernando
Santos told reporters at a news briefing. “After that, we
responded and started controlling the ball.”  Greece silenced the crowd when Salpingidis leveled six
minutes after coming on as a second-half substitute. The 30-
year-old striker tapped in a loose ball when goalkeeper Wojciech
Szczesny missed Vassilis Torossidis’s cross. Arsenal’s Szczesny
was then sent off for bringing down the Greek goalscorer with 20
minutes to go.  Substitute goalkeeper Przemyslaw Tyton entered the game and
immediately saved Karagounis’s penalty. Salpingidis thought he’d
won the match with a late strike, only to be denied when offside
was called.  “We played only for 45 minutes, we slept through the
second half,”  Poland ’s central defender Marcin Wasilewski told
reporters after the game.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja at the National Stadium in Warsaw the London
newsroom on   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  