-- Gupta Likely to Testify at Insider Trial, His Lawyer Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/gupta-likely-to-testify-at-insider-trial-his-lawyer-says.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director, will probably testify next week at his
insider-trading trial, his lawyer told the judge after the
prosecution rested and the defense began presenting its case.  “It was represented to me at the sidebar that Mr. Gupta
would likely take the stand, given the background of what the
court has said?” U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff asked Gupta’s
defense lawyers yesterday after jurors were dismissed for the
weekend.  “I can say that it’s highly likely that my client will
testify,” attorney  Gary Naftalis  answered.  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is accused
of leaking secret tips to Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of hedge-
fund company Galleon Group LLC, about Goldman Sachs and  Procter
& Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also a director.  Gupta has pleaded not guilty to one count of conspiracy and
five counts of  securities fraud , which carries a maximum term of
20 years in prison.  Naftalis’s announcement about Gupta came at a hearing in
which Rakoff pressed defense lawyers about their schedule and
witness lineup. The judge yesterday also rejected a defense
motion to dismiss the charges. The judge told jurors before he
sent them home that their deliberations may begin as early as
June 13.  Witness Stand  Rakoff said that should Gupta decide to take the witness
stand in his own defense next week, government lawyers would
need the weekend to prepare.  “This is a pretty tough decision to make,” Naftalis told
Rakoff. If Gupta decides he won’t testify, the lawyer would
reach out to prosecutors.  “I represent that it’s highly likely,” Naftalis said.
“If we change our mind I will immediately pick up the phone to
them and say, ‘Put down your pencils.’”  Rakoff also told defense lawyers that they would have to
limit their character witnesses to six, instead of the dozen
which Naftalis had sought to put on the stand.  “Now that we know the defendant is very likely to take the
stand, is he last?” Rakoff asked.  “He would be at the end,” Naftalis said, suggesting it
would be June 12.  Gupta declined to comment after court yesterday about his
potential testimony, as did Naftalis.  A defendant taking the stand is a risk, said Gerald Shargel, a veteran criminal defense lawyer in New York who
represented  Marc Dreier , the New York law firm founder who
pleaded guilty to federal fraud charges.  ‘Conventional Wisdom’  “The conventional wisdom is that if you feel comfortable
about the weaknesses in the government’s case you don’t have
your client take the stand,” Shargel said. “But if you think
there are points to be explained in the case, you may make that
decision and put them on.”  Shargel said he defended a client accused of securities
fraud and bribery who testified in his own defense and was
acquitted after he explained statements that were recorded.  “There have been cases lost on the defendant’s testimony
and I’ve seen cases that result in acquittal based on a
defendant’s testimony,” Shargel said. “It’s a case-by-case
judgment call.”  Juries heard testimony yesterday from defense witnesses,
 Ajit Jain ,  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s reinsurance chief and a
close friend of Gupta’s, and Richard Feachem, former executive
director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis &
Malaria.  Jain Testimony  Jain, whose May 27 testimony was videotaped and played for
the jury yesterday because of a scheduling conflict, said he
spoke to Gupta about Rajaratnam on Jan. 12, 2009, when both men
met for lunch in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “He told me, as best I can remember, that he had a 10
million investment with Rajaratnam in some venture and he had
been gypped, swindled or cheated by Raj,” Jain said. “He lost
his entire investment with Mr. Rajaratnam.”  “So it wasn’t just an issue of a bad investment?”
Naftalis asked.  “Right,” Jain said.  Jain’s testimony supports the defense’s contention that
Gupta wouldn’t have tipped Rajaratnam because the  fund manager 
and the defendant had a falling out after Rajaratnam lost
Gupta’s entire $10 million investment.  Tips Gupta allegedly passed to Rajaratnam involve Goldman
Sachs earnings in the first quarter of 2007 and fourth quarter
of 2008. Another involves a $5 billion Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
investment in Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008. Prosecutors also
say Gupta told Rajaratnam that Cincinnati-based P&G planned to
sell its Folgers Coffee unit to J.M. Smucker Co.  Lloyd Blankfein  Earlier yesterday, prosecutors rested their case against
Gupta shortly after Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein completed his testimony.  Under cross-examination from Naftalis, Blankfein
acknowledged that senior firm executives had briefed outside
analysts in July 2008 on the likelihood that Goldman Sachs would
acquire a bank. The defense brought out the testimony to counter
a prosecution claim that Rajaratnam learned about the bank’s
acquisition plans from Gupta.  “Items that your senior management disclose to analysts
are no longer confidential?” Naftalis asked.  “Yes,” Blankfein responded.  Naftalis also attacked an allegation that Gupta leaked tips
on Oct. 23, 2008, about Goldman Sachs’s unprecedented losses
after Gupta learned of them at a meeting that afternoon. Through
questioning by Naftalis, Blankfein testified that board members
had probably been briefed about losses as early as Oct. 13.  News Article  Naftalis confronted Blankfein with a news article based on
unidentified sources from the morning of Oct. 23 disclosing
Goldman’s plans, as-yet unannounced, to cut 10 percent of its
staff.  The Goldman Sachs CEO didn’t recall the news story or the
voice-mail he distributed to the firm’s 32,500 employees after
the report came out. Naftalis had Blankfein read part of the
transcript of the voice-mail, including the sentence, “We
regret that many of you heard of this decision from news
accounts.”  Blankfein’s testimony ran over parts of three days. Other
Goldman Sachs executives who testified for prosecutors included
director William George and former vice chairman of investment
banking  Byron Trott , the architect of the $5 billion investment
by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway.  The government also relied on testimony from a former
Galleon trader, Ananth Muniyappa, and an ex-Galleon portfolio
manager, Michael Cardillo, who pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the government. The trial began May 21.  Rajaratnam’s Trial  Rajaratnam was convicted of  insider trading  last year and
is serving an 11-year prison sentence. Unlike Rajaratnam’s
trial, in which prosecutors played recordings of the defendant
in wiretapped phone calls, the Gupta case is built on
circumstantial evidence, including records of trades, mobile-
phone call logs and business deals.  Earlier at the trial, Blankfein testified that he briefed
his board over the phone on the Buffett investment on Sept. 23,
2008, beginning at 3:15 p.m. Within a minute after the call
concluded at 3:53 p.m., Rajaratnam answered a call from a
McKinsey conference room being used by Gupta, according to phone
records and witness testimony.  Muniyappa testified Rajaratnam got off a call and hurriedly
told him to buy Goldman Sachs shares. Galleon bought 267,000
shares. Prosecutors played a wiretapped recording of a
Rajaratnam phone call from the next day.  “I got a call at 3:58, right?” Rajaratnam could be heard
telling trader  Ian Horowitz . “Saying something good might
happen to Goldman.”  Cardillo testified that he traded on P&G stock in 2009
after learning that Rajaratnam claimed to have a “guy” on the
consumer-product company’s board.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at  
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  