-- I’ll Have Another Win Would Turn $35,000 Into $10 Million
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/i-ll-have-another-win-would-turn-35-000-into-10-million-payday.html
A win at the Belmont Stakes for I’ll
Have Another to make him the first Triple Crown champion in 34
years might turn $35,000 into $10 million for his owners with
even more money spread around the industry.  The colt, bought by J. Paul Reddam as a 2-year-old, would
be able to command as much as $40,000 in stud fees or about $5.2
million annually in the first two years, said Baden P. “Buzz”
Chace, a bloodstock agent who buys and sells horses for clients.
Once his offspring prove their running ability, I’ll Have
Another would become an even higher-priced stallion, Chace said.  Winning thoroughbred racing’s biggest prize means more
money for everyone from the jockey, who gets more rides since he
won a Triple Crown, to the owners of I’ll Have Another’s sire,
who already have doubled his stud fee.  Las Vegas  sports books
are expecting double the bets taken a year ago.  “There’s more riding on this than the purse,” said Nick Nicholson, 64, president and chief executive officer of
Keeneland Association Inc., the largest horse-auction house.
“The financial implications of his breeding career are much
greater. He’s got the kind of pedigree that would give him a
shot to reproduce himself.”  I’ll Have Another, winner of the Kentucky Derby and
 Preakness Stakes , will become the first Triple Crown winner
since Affirmed in 1978 with a victory at the Belmont Stakes at
Belmont Park in Elmont, New York, tomorrow. As the 4-5 morning-
line favorite in the race for 3-year-olds, he leaves from the
11th gate in the 12-horse field.  “He doesn’t have the strongest bloodlines around, but
people will offer to buy in for the breeding rights if he has
won the Triple Crown,” said Chace, 70, who bought Unbridled’s
Song for a client in 1994 for $200,000 and watched the horse’s
value increase to $40 million because of a successful racing
career and being sired by 1990  Kentucky  Derby winner Unbridled.
“He’ll be a superstar.”  Rising Price  Winning the Belmont means the horse “will start at $3
million, $4 million and could go up to $10 million,” Chace said.
I’ll Have Another, then called Cheetos because of his chestnut
coat, was initially bought for $11,000 in 2010 by Victor Davila,
a lead rider at Eisaman’s Equine Service in Williston,  Florida .  “The valuation will skyrocket from what it was two years
ago,” Nicholson said. “It’s not unlike picking a stock. Then
it was like getting, instead of a proven Apple or Berkshire, a
young start-up.”  Case Clay, president of Three Chimneys Farm in Lexington,
Kentucky, where I’ll Have Another’s sire, Flower Alley, stands,
said he has spoken to Reddam several times. Although he said
Reddam probably will continue to race the thoroughbred as long
as he remains healthy, “we told him we love his horse.”  Horse’s Future  Reddam didn’t return a message left at CashCall Inc., his
Anaheim, California, company that makes mortgage and short-term
loans. The former philosophy professor made his fortune by
selling subprime mortgage firm DiTech Mortgage Corp. to General
Motors Co. in 1999 for $240 million.  Meanwhile, Flower Alley has doubled his fee to $15,000
since his offspring won the Preakness, said Clay, 38. The 10-
year-old stallion has 138 mares scheduled, an addition of 63
since the  Kentucky Derby  as the breeding season winds down to
the final month.  “He’s booked solid every day,” Clay said in a telephone
interview.  The potential for revenue from breeding is almost limitless
today, unlike when Affirmed began his breeding career three
decades ago. At that time, the unofficial breeding limit was 40
mares.  “If you’ve got the money and got the mare, you get to the
horse,” Nicholson said.  Championship Premium  Flower Alley’s stud fee probably will rise again in
November when the new prices are set, although Clay said he
couldn’t predict what the market will bear. Dynaformer, the sire
of Barbaro who started his breeding career at $3,500 and died
this year at the age of 27, commanded $150,000 a mare last
season.  “I’m sure there will be some sort of Triple Crown
premium,” he said. “A lot depends on what Flower Alley’s other
horses do.”  I’ll Have Another has earned almost $2.7 million in purses
with the potential to add $600,000 in the Belmont. As a stallion,
he will mean “a payday for decades” for trainer Doug O’Neill
and jockey Mario Gutierrez who historically each share in
breeding rights, Nicholson said.  “Immediately, the quality of mares he gets and his father
gets will dramatically get better and better, giving them a shot
to produce athletes,” Nicholson said. “Undoubtedly, the
largest potential is the breeding fees could go on for two
decades.”  Jockey’s Cut  Guttierez, 25, earned $202,500 for winning the first two
legs of the Triple Crown, 10 percent of the horse’s overall take,
and will make an additional $60,000 if I’ll Have Another
completes the Triple Crown sweep. In his career, the jockey’s
purse earnings total over $12.7 million, according to the Daily
Racing Forum.  “If he rides this horse to the Triple Crown, he’ll be a
star, too, as long as he keeps his manners,” Chace said. “It
will give him exposure in  New York .”  In Las Vegas, Jimmy Vaccaro, the director of sports
operations at Lucky’s Race and Sports Book, said the state’s
sports books will double their bets from a non-Triple Crown year.
Nevada gaming officials don’t track total wagers on the Belmont
Stakes.  Endorsements aren’t usually in the works for race horses,
said Bob Dorfman of Baker Street Advertising in  San Francisco .  “It’s not like  Tiger Woods  who makes a few million for
tournaments and tens of millions for endorsements,” Dorfman
said. “It’s a different financial setup where money comes from
breeding.”  Still, it depends on if the colt wins.  “Everything in this business is about potential,” Chace
said. “Anything can happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  