-- IAEA Disappointed as Iran Fails to Agree to Wider Atom Probe
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-06-08T18:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/iaea-disappointed-as-iran-fails-to-agree-to-wider-atom-probe-1-.html
The United Nations nuclear agency
said it was disappointed that  Iran  failed to agree on a deal
that would allow wider inspections of alleged nuclear facilities
inside the Persian Gulf nation.  International Atomic Energy Agency Chief Inspector Herman Nackaerts met with Iran’s IAEA envoy, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, for
eight hours today in Vienna. It was the first meeting after the
agency’s May 22 announcement that the sides decided to reach an
accord.  “The agency came to the meeting in a positive spirit in
the desire and intention of finalizing the paper,”  Nackaerts
said in a prepared statement, standing next to Soltanieh. “We
presented a draft which addressed Iran’s earlier concerns.”  “However, there has been no progress,” Nackaerts added.
“Iran raised issues we have already discussed and presented new
ones. This is disappointing.”  The failure came two days after Soltanieh accused the IAEA
of spying for Western intelligence agencies. Inspectors had
sought to conclude an arrangement to visit facilities, including
the Parchin military complex, that may have housed work on
nuclear weapons. Iran says its atomic program is peaceful.  Both the IAEA “and Iran have to work very carefully
because this is a special case on how to deal with these kinds
of allegations,” Soltanieh said. “This is a very delicate
matter and we have to work quietly and without politicization.”  Inspections  IAEA inspectors want to go to places inside Iran beyond
what is permitted under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
While Iran has been subject to about 4,000 man-days of
inspections inside its declared nuclear facilities since 2003,
the Vienna-based agency has repeatedly said that it cannot
ensure they’ve seen the full scope of the country’s atomic work.  While Nackaerts and Soltanieh appeared together for the
IAEA statement, the agency’s inspectors walked out of the press
briefing while the Iranian envoy stayed to answer questions. The
sides couldn’t agree on a time or place to resume talks.  “The more time we spend now, the better for future
implementation” of a deal, Soltanieh said. “We have to be very
careful in crafting this text.”  Soltanieh said the issue of Parchin, which the IAEA
reported in November may have been the site of experiments on a
trigger for a nuclear weapon, had become an “obstacle” because
it had become “politicized.”  Iran says IAEA inspectors should be sticking to their core
duty of accounting for nuclear material and shouldn’t be asked
to investigate alleged missile and military activities.  Diplomats from  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and
the U.S. meet their Iranian counterparts in Moscow on June
18-19. It will be the third round of talks in three months over
Iran’s nuclear work, which the West says is a cover for nuclear
weapons development and Iran says is peaceful.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  