-- China Banks Raise Deposit Rates Hours After Policy Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-08T07:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/icbc-leads-banks-lower-on-concern-about-deposit-war.html
China ’s biggest lenders raised
deposit rates hours after the central bank lowered its benchmark
and gave them more freedom over pricing, underscoring the
competition for funds and driving their shares lower.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and its four
biggest rivals set the rate on  demand deposits  at 0.44 percent,
according to their websites. That’s the maximum allowed under
new rules that let them pay 1.1 times the 0.4 percent policy
rate. The People’s  Bank of China  yesterday lowered the key one-
year deposit and lending rates by 0.25 percentage point.  ICBC fell to the lowest in more than five months in  Hong
Kong  trading, leading lenders down on concern the interest-rate
liberalization will undermine  profitability  by raising the cost
of funds. China is trying to bolster credit growth and change
the way it sets borrowing costs, ensuring capital in the world’s
second-largest economy is distributed on market terms.  “The changes in the lending and deposit rate bands will
accelerate bank competition and squeeze net interest margins,”
May Yan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote in a
note. After the change in regulation, investors “may start to
see differentiated bank business models and performance, which
could be long-term positive.”  Demand deposits account for about 40 percent of the
nation’s 67 trillion  yuan  ($11 trillion) in household and
corporate savings as of April, according to data from the
central bank. The five banks set rates for term deposits below
the permitted maximum.  ‘Milestone’ Reform  The PBOC yesterday said banks may pay as much as 10 percent
more than the benchmark on deposits, the first time a premium is
being allowed. Lenders are also permitted to offer a 20 percent
discount on borrowing costs, wider than the previous 10 percent,
effective today. The extra leeway banks will get to determine
rates at variance from the official setting was called a
“milestone” by UBS AG.  ICBC dropped 4.5 percent to HK$4.28, its lowest since Nov.
30, at 2:55 p.m. in Hong Kong. That was the worst performer on
the city’s  Hang Seng Index , which declined 0.9 percent.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second-largest, fell as
much as 4.4 percent, the most in about six months, before
trading 4 percent lower at HK$5.28.  Stimulus Measures  Chinese policy makers are stepping up efforts to combat a
slowdown as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens global growth. The
one-year lending rate declines by a quarter percentage point
today to 6.31 percent, the People’s Bank of China said in a
 statement  yesterday. The one-year deposit rate drops the same
amount, to 3.25 percent.  China this week also said it would delay tightening bank
 capital rules  to the beginning of next year, signaling support
for  loan growth . That followed three cuts since November to the
amount of cash that banks are required to set aside as reserves.
The government is propping up credit after new bank loans in
April dropped 33 percent from March, missing economists’
forecasts, as demand for China’s exports dropped.  “Interest-rate cuts are bad for profitability of the banks
but good for valuations,”  Mike Werner , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note,
recommending investors buy ICBC, Construction Bank and Bank of
China. “The largest overhang on the Chinese bank stocks is the
risk of a deteriorating credit cycle. An interest rate cut
should mitigate these concerns, resulting in upside to the
stocks.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  