-- Iceland Economy Grew 2.4% in First Quarter on Inventories
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-06-08T09:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/iceland-economy-grew-2-4-in-first-quarter-on-inventories.html
Iceland’s economic growth accelerated
in the first quarter as consumer and government spending rose
and inventories increased.  Gross domestic product rose 2.4 percent from the previous
quarter, after expanding 1.9 percent in three months through
December, Reykjavik-based  Statistics Iceland  said today in a
statement on its website. Output grew 4.5 percent from a year
earlier, the office said.  Household spending rose 0.3 percent in the quarter and
government spending gained 0.4 percent, while total national
expenditures climbed 3.4 percent, “owing to a considerable
increase in inventories,” the agency said. That offset an 18.6
percent plunge in investments and a 5.6 percent drop in exports.  Iceland is emerging from its 2008 banking meltdown and
economic collapse even as  Europe  struggles to contain a debt
crisis. The central bank has raised rates four times since
August, bringing its benchmark 5.5 percent. The bank signaled
last month more tightening is needed to cool the economy as
inflation was 5.4 percent May, above its 2.5 percent target.  “Low interest rates and few investment opportunities due
to the  capital controls  have a rather negative impact on the
publics’ view on savings,” Thorbjorn Atli Sveinsson, an
economist with Arion Bank hf, said in a note before the release.
“We don’t think that the growth in  consumer spending  is
sustainable in the long run, as it’s mostly driven by temporary
factors.”  Sedlabanki  anticipates it “will be necessary to continue
withdrawing the current degree of monetary accommodation as the
recovery progresses further and the margin of spare capacity
diminishes,” it said in a May 16 statement. “If inflation does
not subside in the next few months, other things being equal, it
will be necessary to raise nominal  interest rates  further.”  The island, which completed a 33-month  International
Monetary Fund  program in August, emerged from a banking crisis
in part as it renews its focus on previous growth areas such as
tourism, energy and fishing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  