-- Ikea to Consider India Entry, Plans More China Stores
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-08T09:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/ikea-to-consider-india-entry-plans-more-china-stores.html
Ikea Group, the seller of sofas,
bookshelves and cutlery, will consider entering India after
policy clarity, and open stores faster in  China  as it boosts
sales outside  Europe .  The company is watching legislative developments in India
to weigh a potential entry, Chief Executive Officer Mikael Ohlsson said in an interview in  Shanghai . In China, where Ikea
is increasing store openings to three annually from one, sales
are expected to rise by at least 20 percent this year, he said.  Expanding in  Asia  would allow the furniture retailer to
reduce its reliance on Europe, where the company gets about 80
percent of revenue. Sales at Ikea have risen  every year  since
2001, and climbed 6.9 percent to 25.2 billion euros ($31.4
billion) in the fiscal 12 months  ended  Aug. 31.  “Cautiously we are adding new markets,” Ohlsson said
today. “We have big interest in opening in  India . When the
conditions are ripe in India we can start to prepare for an
opening there.”  India’s government in January removed a 51 percent limit on
foreign ownership of stores selling a single brand, a decision
that was seen benefiting firms such as Ikea. Overseas companies
selling one brand have been still slow to enter because of rules
that mandate them to procure at least 30 percent of their
requirements locally.  ‘Positive Movement’  The Indian government is drawing up plans to ease the
foreign investment norms for single-brand retail, including the
sourcing conditions, the Hindustan Times  reported  this month
citing government officials it didn’t name.  “We are following very closely positive movement of
legislation in India and try to understand the consequences,”
Ohlsson said without providing a timeline.  Unlike Ikea,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Carrefour SA (CA)  and other
foreign chains selling multiple brands are still not allowed to
retail directly to Indian consumers.  The global economic slowdown hasn’t affected expansion,
Ohlsson said. In January the furniture company, founded in
 Sweden , said it plans to spend 3 billion euros on expanding in
the coming year to add stores, factories and retail centers.  In China, Ohlsson said he plans to keep lowering prices
after bringing them down 50 percent over the last decade.  “Over the past years we have dramatically reduced our
prices in China,” he said. “We will continue that this year
and also next year to be more affordable for more people.”  The furniture retailer is expanding in China amid slowing
economic growth in the country. The world’s second-largest
economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months of this
year, the fifth quarterly deceleration.  The company expects to add about 1,200 new jobs per year in
China, where it currently has about 5,500 employees, he said.  Ikea, which saw some of its fastest growth in Russia, China
and  Poland  last year, plans to open in  South Korea  “in a couple
of years,” Ohlsson said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Huiwen Yang in Shanghai at 
 hyang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  