-- IMF Softens Yuan Stance Even After Gains Against Dollar Halt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-09T00:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/imf-s-lipton-says-china-yuan-still-moderately-undervalued.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
softened its stance on the yuan by describing the Chinese
currency as only “moderately” rather than “substantially”
undervalued.  “China has made significant progress in reducing external
imbalances,”  David Lipton , the IMF’s first deputy managing
director, said in Beijing yesterday, citing a decline in the
current-account surplus to less than 3 percent of gross domestic
product last year from 10 percent in 2007. “We now assess the
 renminbi  to be moderately undervalued against a broad basket of
currencies.”  The assessment comes even after gains against the dollar 
ground to a halt as the Chinese economy slows and Europe’s 
debt crisis threatens exports. While China this year widened 
the trading band for the  yuan , the currency is down about
1 percent against the dollar and was described by the  U.S.
Treasury  Department last month as “significantly undervalued.”  The yuan closed at 6.3705 per dollar in Shanghai yesterday,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
currency has gained about 30 percent against the dollar since a
peg to the greenback was scrapped in July 2005.  “As China continues its reform to support consumer-based
demand and rebalances its economy, the renminbi will
strengthen,” Lipton said. “We hope China will actively move in
that direction.”  U.S. Assessment  The U.S. last month urged China to strengthen the yuan,
while declining to brand the nation a currency manipulator.
Presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has said that, if elected, he
will make such a designation on his first day in office.  In a semi-annual report to Congress on exchange-rate
policies, the U.S. Treasury said that it will continue to
“closely monitor” the pace of yuan appreciation and push for
“policy changes that yield greater exchange-rate flexibility.”  The Obama administration says China’s policies give an
unfair trading advantage to the nation that is the world’s
biggest exporter. In contrast, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March
14 that the yuan’s exchange rate may be near an “equilibrium.”  Lipton welcomed China’s interest-rate cut this week and the
central bank’s move to give lenders more freedom in setting
deposit and lending rates. The People’s Bank of China lowered
the key lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points in the
first reduction since 2008.  “Intensifying strains in  Europe ” could make it harder for
China to achieve 8 percent growth this year, the IMF official
said. “It is possible that the slowdown in Europe will be more
pronounced,” he said, adding that China can employ fiscal
stimulus to bolster growth if necessary.  Lipton met Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan yesterday and
central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  June 7. Zhou and Lipton
exchanged views on the global financial situation, the euro debt
crisis and IMF reform, according to a statement posted on the
Chinese central bank’s website June 7.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  