-- Indonesia to Sell Dollar Term Deposits as Rupiah Falls
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-06-08T04:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/indonesia-to-sell-dollar-term-deposits-as-rupiah-falls-correct-.html
Bank  Indonesia  said it will start
offering dollar term deposits in two weeks to boost supply of
the currency locally and stabilize the rupiah, which dropped to
its weakest level in more than two years today.  The move is part of efforts to deepen Indonesia’s financial
market, Governor Darmin Nasution said in a briefing in Jakarta
today. The 7-day, 14-day and 1-month term deposits will be
marketed at weekly auctions, depending on market conditions, the
central bank said.  “This move will help BI to increase dollar reserves and it
will have more ammunition to intervene in the market,” said
Lana Soelistianingsih, an economist at PT Samuel Sekuritas
Indonesia in Jakarta. “It will help to smooth out rupiah
volatility.”  Indonesia joins  India  in moving to steady its  exchange rate 
as the escalating European crisis spurs outflows from  emerging
markets , with the rupiah falling the most after the rupee this
year in a basket of 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The measure will provide an avenue for local lenders to bring
back an estimated $2 billion a day on average that is currently
being kept in overseas banks, Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor
Halim Alamsyah said.  Provide ‘Incentive’  “The Indonesian rupiah has weakened sharply recently due
to illiquidity in the onshore foreign exchange market and
deteriorating external balances,” Edward Lee, Singapore-based
regional head of rates strategy at Standard Chartered Plc, said
in a note. “We believe BI’s action will provide an incentive
for banks to place their offshore dollar liquidity onshore.
However, it is unclear how this will improve the liquidity
situation in the onshore market.”  The central bank said it will offer a “competitive rate”
for the dollar term deposits. Most of the excess foreign-
currency funds held by local lenders are held in banks abroad,
and  Bank Indonesia  aims to be an intermediary for these banks,
it said.  The move will “complement” foreign-exchange reserves and
make it easier for the central bank to enter the market, Bank
Indonesia said.  The rupiah fell 1.3 percent to 9,606 per dollar as of 4:38
p.m. in Jakarta, the weakest level since November 2009,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has lost almost 6 percent this year.  “BI’s timing to sell dollar term deposits is a bit late
considering the current situation of the rupiah,”
Soelistianingsih said. “This confirms that BI urgently needs
dollars.”  India’s central bank has also stepped up the fight to
steady the rupee this month. It curbed trading in currency
derivatives to rein in volatility and moved to boost the supply
of dollars by cutting the amount of overseas income companies
can hold in foreign currency to 50 percent from 100 percent.
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last week policy makers will take
steps as needed to curb swings in the rupee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  