-- Iranian Role in Syria Transition Stirs Controversy at UN
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-06-08T03:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/iranian-role-in-syria-transition-stirs-controversy-at-un.html
The suggested involvement of  Iran  in
ending Syria’s political strife has pitted  Russia  against the
U.S. as a United Nations peace plan unraveled with shots fired
at observers of a UN-backed truce.  With his cease-fire agreement in tatters, UN envoy  Kofi Annan  warned the General Assembly that more needs to be done to
prevent Syria from sliding into civil war after two massacres
less than two weeks apart. He joined Russia in wanting Iran, as
a country with influence in Syria, to assist efforts to seek a
possible successor to President Bashar al-Assad.  “I think Iran as an important country in the region, I
hope would be part of the solution,” Annan told reporters in
New York yesterday. Discussions on which countries belong in a
broader coalition to engineer Assad’s ouster, he said, are at a
“fairly early stage.”  The Russian-led drive to enlist Shiite Muslim Iran to help
devise an end to more than four decades of minority Alawite rule
will put President  Vladimir Putin  on a collision course with
U.S. President  Barack Obama  when they meet at an economic summit
in  Mexico  later this month.  Lobbying in European capitals and Beijing, Putin has picked
up “positive” feedback from  France ,  China  and Iran on a
proposal to gather all nations that exert sway over Assad and
the opposition to come together for talks, Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  said.  Still, the initiative was immediately rejected by U.S
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , and at the UN, the U.S.
position has not changed.  ‘Perpetuating Violence’  “I think Iran is part of the problem,” U.S. Ambassador
Susan Rice told reporters yesterday after a day of briefings on
Syria. “There is no question that it is actively engaged in
supporting the government in perpetuating violence on the
ground.”  The Islamic Republic “has not demonstrated to date a
readiness to contribute constructively to a peaceful political
solution,” she said before hosting a dinner with Annan and the
five veto-wielding powers on the  Security Council  -- China,
France, Russia, the U.K. and the U.S..  The U.S. considers Iran a rogue state that supports
terrorists and arms the Assad regime, and Russia’s effort to
recruit it as a peacemaker in Syria has added a problematic new
dimension to the international negotiations on its suspected
nuclear weapons program.  Powerless to stem the violence in a 15-month conflict that
has killed more than 10,000 Syrians, the international community
remains reluctant to use force in Syria. Russia frequently cites
the NATO military intervention in  Libya  as an example of the UN
abusing its powers to bring about a change of regime.  Civil War  In Libya, there was a more cohesive opposition that held
territory and was available for dialogue with foreign powers.
Syria’s exiled political opponents have little contact with
armed insurgents who are adopting guerrilla tactics. Moreover,
the infiltration of foreign Sunni jihadists exploiting the chaos
has raised alarms.  “If things do not change, the future is likely to be one
of brutal repression, massacres, sectarian violence and even
all-out civil war,” Annan told the world body yesterday in  New
York . Privately, he told the 15-member Security Council his
efforts to bring about peace cannot be open-ended and
international consultations must yield results, according to
diplomats who were present and described the remarks on
condition of anonymity.  Shots Fired  Adopting further measures to hasten Assad’s exit gained
urgency after UN observers were fired upon while traveling to
the village of Qubair to verify opposition reports that at least
78 people were killed by army shelling and attacks by Alawite
Shabbiha militia.  While none of the observers was injured, one of their
vehicles was damaged, according to UN spokesman  Martin Nesirky .
He said at this stage it couldn’t be ascertained who was
responsible for the shooting. The observers are among 300-odd
unarmed military monitors overseeing the cease-fire.  Norwegian Major General Robert Mood, the head of the
mission, said observers were halted at Syrian checkpoints and
some were turned back. Syrian state television blamed
“terrorists” for any atrocities and denied that the monitors
were blocked, saying a group of them had arrived at the village.  If confirmed, the massacre would be the second in less than
two weeks. On May 25, 108 people, including 49 children, were
killed in Houla in one of the worst atrocities in the 15-month
uprising against Assad’s government. The U.S., its Western
allies and other countries such as  Turkey  expelled Syrian
diplomats after the massacre, leading  Syria  to kick out the
envoys of those states.  U.S. Debate  The debate at the UN is mirrored by one inside the Obama
administration, two U.S. officials said yesterday, describing
the deliberations on condition of anonymity.  Human rights advocates in the State Department and
elsewhere argue that the U.S. should intervene to halt the
growing violence against civilians in Syria and head off a
sectarian civil war.  Some military officials, meanwhile, argue that the
administration should be preparing for possible military
intervention to secure Syria’s large stocks of antiaircraft
missiles, chemical and biological agents, and other weapons.
Otherwise, these officials argue, the arms could fall into the
hands of Sunni Islamic militants or be given to the Shiite
terrorist group Hezbollah by Syrian officials or Iranian agents.  The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Army General
Martin Dempsey, expressed some frustration at a briefing for
reporters at the Pentagon yesterday.  “I have to know what the outcome is,” he said. “So you
tell me what the outcome is, I can build you a plan to achieve
that outcome. I can’t build that plan unless I understand the
outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  