-- IRS Denial of Tax Exemption to U.S. Political Group Spurs Alarms
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/irs-denial-of-tax-exemption-to-u-s-political-group-spurs-alarms.html
An Internal Revenue Service decision
revoking the tax-exempt status of a small political nonprofit
organization may foreshadow an investigation into groups such as
Crossroads GPS and Priorities USA that spend millions on the
2012  U.S. presidential election .  At risk would be the groups’ nonprofit status, which lets
them collect millions of dollars from individuals and
corporations while keeping donors anonymous.  President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  are benefitting from such nonprofits. Crossroads GPS was
started with help from former President  George W. Bush ’s chief
political strategist,  Karl Rove . Priorities USA was co-founded
by  Bill Burton , a former Obama aide.  The recent IRS decision sends a signal that it may turn its
attention after November’s election to major nonprofits involved
in this year’s election, said Marcus Owens, a lawyer and former
IRS director who oversaw nonprofits.  “The message is groups like Crossroads need to be prepared
to explain to the IRS why they’re entitled to tax-exempt
status,” said Owens.  The IRS decision released last month involved a so-called
campaign school in which a partisan group trained candidates.  “You are not operated primarily to promote social welfare
because your activities are conducted primarily for the benefit
of a political party and a private group of individuals, rather
than the community as a whole,” said the IRS letter telling the
group it was losing its exempt status.  Emerge America  While the nonprofit wasn’t named, it was Emerge America,
its president, Karen Middleton, told Bloomberg News. The
national organization is based in  San Francisco  and works with
nine state affiliates that train Democratic women candidates.  Middleton said in an e-mail that the national and state
organizations are now incorporated under Section 527 of the  tax
code , which requires them to disclose their donors.  Critics of political nonprofits such as Crossroads and
Priorities USA said the same IRS reasoning should apply to those
groups. The organizations are incorporated under Section
501(c)(4) of the tax code, giving them exempt status as social-
welfare organizations and barring political activity as the
primary focus.  Primarily Political  “There’s a boatload of groups that they should looking
at,” said  Melanie Sloan , executive director of Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a watchdog group.
“When you look at the budgets of these groups, it’s clear that
their primary purpose is political activity.”  Sloan said donations would shrink if the nonprofits lose
their exempt status and contributors had to be identified.  “There are people who are now making the choice to give
because they want their identities hidden,” she said. That
fundraising advantage “will disappear if a few of those donors
are revealed.”  Sloan’s group yesterday asked the IRS to investigate
whether the nonprofit American Action Network qualified for tax-
exempt status. American Action Network spent $26 million in the
2010 midterm campaign to help elect Republican candidates, more
than any other 501(c)(4) group, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks campaign contributions.  Familiarity Needed  The IRS should become more familiar with the operations of
the large-scale political nonprofits, said another tax expert,
 University of Miami  law Professor Frances Hill.  “Once they decide that something is a priority, they have
capable people who have a long history of being involved in
looking at political activities of exempt entities,” Hill said.
“I don’t think they’re going to turn a total blind eye to
this.”  Even so, any IRS interest won’t affect the groups in 2012,
Hill said. “Organizations that are prepared to be super-
aggressive until the election probably can,” she said.  The IRS has faced differing pressures from the major
political parties over regulating nonprofits.  Senate Democrats 
in March urged the agency to impose limits on how much
nonprofits can spend on politics. That same month, Senate
Republicans suggested the IRS was singling out pro-Republican
Tea Party groups in seeking more information from them before
deciding whether to grant them nonprofit status. No decision has
been announced.  Court Decision  The January 2010 U.S. Supreme Court decision in the
Citizens United case removed restrictions on corporate and union
campaign expenditures, spurring an increase in nonprofit
spending on political campaigns.  Groups keeping their donors secret spent $138 million in
the 2010 midterm elections compared with $1.3 million in the
2006 midterm vote, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics.  Crossroads GPS -- whose founders include  Ed Gillespie , now
a senior adviser to Romney -- spent $21.7 million on advertising
related to the 2012 presidential race through June 4, according
to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks such
expenditures.  Priorities USA spent $3.8 million, according to CMAG.  A spokesman for Crossroads GPS, Jonathan Collegio, said the
group’s tax status shouldn’t be an issue.  “Crossroads GPS advocates for lower taxes and limited
government in the same way that well-established environmental
groups advocate” for more regulations, Collegio said. “The
only difference is the issue set -- and the government doesn’t
arbiter tax status on the basis of issue set.”  Burton, the Priorities USA co-founder, said, “We closely
adhere to all rules and regulations regarding our
organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 