-- Italian Industrial Output Declined in April on Euro Woes
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-06-08T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/italian-industrial-output-declined-in-april-on-euro-woes.html
Italian industrial  production 
declined in April as demand for the nation’s manufactured goods
slumped at home and abroad amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Output dropped 1.9 percent from March, when it rose a
revised 0.6 percent, national statistics office  Istat  said in
 Rome  today. Economists forecast a fall of 0.5 percent, according
to the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
Production fell 9.2 percent from a year ago on a workday-
adjusted basis.  Italy ’s economy fell into a recession in the fourth quarter
of last year just as Prime Minister  Mario Monti  pushed through
20 billion euros ($25 billion) in austerity measures to tackle
the debt crisis. Joblessness at 10.2 percent is the highest in
more than a decade and  consumer confidence  is at the lowest in
more than 15 years as the economy of the 17-nation euro region
grinds to a halt on the debt crisis.  Italian  consumer spending  fell for four straight months on
an annual basis through April, the last month for which data are
available. Retail sales declined in nine of the last 12 months
through March, while industrial orders fell for seven months
through March.  European Output  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted at
the fastest pace in almost three years in May, adding to signs
the region’s economy is suffering under worsening debt woes,
London-based Markit Economics said on June 5. New registrations
for cars in Italy declined in 11 of the 12 months through May.  The two fatal earthquakes that hit the Emilia-Romagna
region last month are likely to hurt industrial output there for
as long as six months, Giorgio Squinzi, the new leader of
employers’ lobby Confindustria, told reporters in Rome this
week.  Fiat SpA (F) ’s sports-car makers Ferrari SpA, based in
Maranello near Modena, and Maserati SpA temporarily suspended
operations at factories in the region after the second temblor
struck on May 29.  The affected region “makes up for more than 1 percent of
Italy’s gross domestic product, thus we risk an additional
contraction of GDP just because of the quakes,” Squinzi said.  The two quakes caused more than 4 billion euros in economic
damage, Confindustria estimates. About 600 industrial companies
employing more than 12,000 workers were “directly damaged” by
the quakes, according to the employer lobby.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  