-- Mizuho Sees 0.8% U.S. Yield as Gross Sings ‘Turning Japanese’
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-06-08T01:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/mizuho-sees-0-8-u-s-yield-as-gross-sings-turning-japanese-.html
U.S. 10-year note  yields  will drop to
match those on Japanese  government bonds , according to the
investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co. who predicted the rally
in Treasuries that began in 2010.  Prospects for deflation and additional monetary easing by
central banks will push the rate to 0.8 percent at the end of
2012, said Akira Takei, head of the international fixed-income
department for Mizuho Asset, a unit of Japan’s third-biggest
listed bank. That’s about half prevailing U.S. interest rates
and in line with current yields on Japanese government bonds
that are the lowest among the world’s 15 biggest debt markets.  The U.S. is following Japan, which is struggling to end
 deflation  and economic stagnation, Takei said. The view puts him
in the same camp as  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest
bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. and said this
month global bond markets “are turning Japanese.”  “It’s highly likely that 10-year Treasury yields will drop
to the same level as JGBs,” Tokyo-based Takei, who helps manage
about $41.9 billion, said in a telephone interview on June 6.
“Investor confidence is being destroyed and the risk of
deflation is rising.”  Europe ’s debt crisis and signs of slowing growth in the
U.S. pushed 10-year Treasury yields to a record low of 1.44
percent on June 1. Three days later,  rates  on similar maturity
Japanese government bonds touched 0.79 percent, the least since
2003.  Converging Spreads  “Bond markets are turning Japanese,” Gross wrote in a
June 4 Twitter posting. “I really think so,” he wrote, quoting
the refrain from a 1980 song by the Vapors.  U.S. two-year  yields  fell to within two basis points of
rates on same-maturity bonds in  Japan  in September. The  spread 
is now about 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage points. The
 extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year notes in the U.S.
instead of Japan has narrowed to 73 basis points from this
year’s high of 1.35 percentage points in March.  “Global yield spreads for short-term securities are
disappearing, and I expect that phenomenon to ripple into the
longer maturities,” Takei said.  U.S. 10-year yields sank to the all-time low on the day
that Labor Department data showed the nation added fewer than
half the number of jobs that economists expected. That boosted
expectations the  Federal Reserve  will increase debt purchases
when its current program of extending the maturity of bond
holdings comes to an end this month.  The decline in yields indicates investors are cutting bets
on inflation. The  difference  between rates on five-year notes
and same-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a
gauge of expectations for consumer prices, narrowed to 1.58
percentage points on June 4, the least in five months. The
average over the past decade is 1.93 percentage points.  Lost Decade  Japan’s so-called lost decade during the 1990s after the
collapse of real estate and asset bubbles saw the economy slip
in and out of recession, with higher unemployment and price
deflation.  U.S. policy makers say they’re trying to learn from Japan’s
experience.  “The lesson is, you want to be more aggressive” in
supporting the economy,  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley
said May 24. San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said in a
speech in  Washington  on June 6 that the central bank needs to
“stand ready” to avoid a Japan-like outcome.  ‘Liquidity Haven’  Takei was betting on a Treasury rally as far back as 2009.
 U.S. debt  lost 3.7 percent in 2009, returned 5.9 percent in
2010, 9.8 percent in 2011, and 1.7 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Treasuries are “perceived as a liquidity haven and as a
quality haven for the rest of the world,” Pimco’s Gross said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” on May
31. Ten-year yields will be at about 1.75 percent by the end of
2012, Gross said.  Takei’s prediction is at odds with the estimates from
economists surveyed by Bloomberg showing the the yield will rise
to 2.18 percent by year end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  