-- Japan’s DPJ Talks With Opposition to Bridge Gaps on Tax Plan
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-06-08T03:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/japan-s-dpj-holds-talks-with-opposition-to-bridge-gaps-on-tax.html
The ruling Democratic Party of  Japan 
began talks today with the main opposition party to try to win
support for Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s plan to double the
sales tax and settle differences over social security bills.  The  Liberal Democratic Party  agrees with the proposal to
raise the sales tax to 8 percent in April 2014, and 10 percent
in October 2015, from the current 5 percent, Takeshi Noda, a
member of the party’s tax panel said today. The LDP says the
ruling party must withdraw welfare bills, including one
guaranteeing a minimum basic pension, in return for its support.  “We agree with the government plan to raise it in two
stages -- there is a risk attached to a sudden 5 percent rise,”
the LDP’s Noda said. “There is also the question of what
happens to social security. None of us can agree to pushing
ahead with the  sales tax  while leaving that undecided.”  Dropping the social security bills, some of which fulfill
promises made in the run-up to the DPJ’s 2009 ousting of the LDP
from half a century of rule risks splitting the party. DPJ power
broker Ichiro Ozawa has already said he won’t support the sales
tax bill.  The two parties said they agreed to seek a deal by June 15.  “There is a possibility they won’t agree,” said Kazuhisa Kawakami, a professor of political science at Meiji Gakuin
University. “Prime Minister Noda is very determined to pass the
bills, so he may swallow the LDP’s proposals to achieve this.
That will create a rift in the  Democratic Party , but I think he
may be prepared to risk it.”  Social Security  The prime minister, who has staked his career on the tax
rise aimed at raising funds to help cover Japan’s ballooning
social security costs, is trying to pass the tax bill in the
lower house by the end of the session on June 21.  Noda, who says the bills are necessary to address Japan’s
declining birthrate and aging society, earlier this week acceded
to opposition calls to replace two of his Cabinet ministers in
order to win support for the legislation.  Failure to raise the 5 percent tax threatens to worsen the
world’s largest debt, an issue  Fitch Ratings  cited last month in
cutting Japan’s credit rating.  The public is increasingly at odds with Noda’s push to pass
the legislation. The number of voters opposed to the tax rose 5
percentage points to 56 percent this month from May, while those
in favor fell 7 points to 32 percent, an Asahi newspaper poll
showed this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  