-- Japan’s Current-Account Surplus Shrinks as Trade Slumps
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-06-08T02:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/japan-s-current-account-surplus-shrinks-as-trade-slumps-1-.html
Japan  posted a smaller-than-expected
current-account surplus in April, highlighting weak global
demand that is depressing exports.  The  excess  in the widest measure of the nation’s trade was
333.8 billion yen ($4.2 billion), the Ministry of Finance said
in Tokyo today. The median estimate of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a surplus of 440.8 billion yen. Gross
domestic product in the first quarter grew an annualized 4.7
percent, a separate report showed.  A 5.6 percent appreciation in the yen against the dollar
since mid-March, higher energy costs and falling exports have
eroded the nation’s trade position. The economy might have
peaked in the first quarter, with analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News predicting the expansion will moderate this year as
rebuilding projects to recover from last year’s earthquake are
expected to taper off.  “We can’t be optimistic going forward as things are
getting worse overseas day by day,” said  Azusa Kato , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo. “Japan will probably
maintain growth in the coming quarters because of reconstruction
demand but it’s not going to be as fast as last quarter.”  European Crisis  Spain was downgraded by  Fitch Ratings  yesterday to within
two steps of junk, adding to the turmoil in Europe that has sent
at least eight of the 17 euro-area economies into recession and
damped European demand for foreign goods. The crisis is hurting
Japanese exporters such as  Sony Corp. (6758) , whose stock fell below
1,000 yen in Tokyo trading this week for the first time since
1980.  “Economic activity in Japan’s major trading partners is
the biggest risk to Japan’s external balance,” Kiichi Murashima, chief economist at Citigroup Global Markets Japan
Inc. in Tokyo, said before the report.  A strong yen raises prices for exporters and reduces the
value of their repatriated income. Every one-yen appreciation
versus the U.S. currency leads to a 2.4 percent drop in
operating profit at  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and 3.3 percent at  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , according to a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  report in
April.  Toyota President  Akio Toyoda , speaking June 4 as chairman
of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, said the yen
is a “major concern.”  Carlos Ghosn , Nissan’s chief executive
officer, said in April the currency is the unpredictable
“1,000-pound gorilla” that makes all Japanese automakers
suffer.  Trade Slump  The trade portion of the nation’s current account was in
deficit for the first time since January, today’s report showed.
The revised GDP figure beat analysts’ forecasts after  capital
spending  and private consumption were better than the government
initally estimated last month.  All of the nation’s 50 reactors have been idled for
maintenance or safety checks following the March 2011 earthquake
and tsunami that caused the worst atomic accident since
Chernobyl at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
station. To replace nuclear power, Japan’s 10 regional power
utilities imported record amounts of liquefied natural gas in
the fiscal year ended March, and doubled their use of petroleum.  Kansai Electric Power Co. Inc. (9503)  may get approval as early as
this week to start two idled reactors at its Ohi plant, the
Nikkei newspaper reported last week. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda  said at a news conference June 4 that reactors need to be
restarted for economic development.  Income Surplus  While the nation’s income surplus, the portion of the
current account that includes earnings from overseas investment,
is preventing any immediate swing to Japan becoming a deficit
nation, Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities
Japan Co. in Tokyo, forecasts that change may come in 2015. The
BOJ’s Shirakawa disagrees with “such views,” citing the size
of the income surplus.  Japan’s net international investment position of 253
trillion yen was more than 50 percent of nominal GDP as of 2011,
suggesting that “the Japanese current account surplus will
continue for the time being,”  Shirakawa said at a conference
in  Tokyo  last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  