-- Japan Economy Grows More Than Initial Estimate
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-06-08T00:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/japan-economy-grows-more-than-initial-estimate-in-first-quarter.html
Japan ’s economy expanded more than
the government initially estimated in the first quarter, adding
to evidence that the world’s third-largest economy will sustain
its recovery this year.  Gross domestic product  grew an annualized 4.7 percent in
the three months ended March 31, the Cabinet Office said in
Tokyo today, compared with a preliminary estimate for a 4.1
percent expansion. The median forecast of 18 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News was for 4.5 percent growth.  The report includes an upward revision to private demand,
signs that the domestic economy is recovering as rebuilding from
last year’s earthquake kicks in and government incentives for
buying fuel-efficient cars boost consumption. At the same time,
Japan is at risk from a deepening  European debt crisis  that is
spurring gains in the yen that could weigh on profits of
exporters.  “Domestic demand will probably remain on a recovery trend
as the effects of the government’s measures and public
investment for rebuilding” are likely to carry into the third
quarter, said  Yoshiki Shinke , chief economist at the Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said before the report. “Yet,
there are clouds on the horizon as the downside risks from
overseas factors are rising.”  A rebound in demand in Japan and the U.S. has prompted
automakers such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  to
forecast higher profits. Toyota said on May 9 predicted profit
will more than double to a five-year high. Nissan also forecast
on May 11 that profit will rise to the highest in five years.  The  United States , Japan’s second largest trading partner,
announced in May that the economy grew an annualized 1.9 percent
during the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  