-- JAT Said to Fall 17% This Year on Consumer Stocks
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-06-08T20:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/jat-said-to-fall-17-this-year-on-consumer-stocks.html
John A. Thaler’s JAT Capital
Management LP fell 17 percent this year on wrong-way bets on
stocks including those of consumer companies, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  As a result, New York-based JAT, which has $2.3 billion in
assets, plans to focus more on technology, media and
telecommunications companies, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private.  JAT, which rose 17 percent last year to rank among the top
20  hedge funds  in a Bloomberg Markets survey, uses a long-short
strategy that seeks to profit by betting on rising and falling
stocks. The firm’s wagers against stocks backfired in the first
quarter as the U.S. market rose 12 percent through March 31.  “The performance of the funds over the last seven months
has been a great disappointment to the team and to me
personally,” Thaler said in a first-quarter letter sent to
investors May 15, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. “After any period like this, we are left to examine the
drawdown and review if a change should be made.”  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for JAT, declined to comment on
the returns.  Consumer Companies  JAT had allocated about 28 percent of its assets to
consumer companies, which contributed a 9.1 percent loss as of
April 1, according to the letter. The firm has since reduced
that portion to less than 10 percent of the portfolio and
reallocated the money to technology, media and
telecommunications, the people said.  “The consumer sector alone has contributed 81 percent of
the total year-to-date loss through April, has been a
significant contributor to the overall volatility of the funds,
and perhaps most importantly, has represented a meaningful
opportunity cost for me as it relates to my own time
allocation,” Thaler said in the letter. “We have made the
decision to allocate away from consumer going forward.”  Tempur-Pedic (TPX)  International Inc., JAT’s largest long
position as of March 31, according to regulatory filings, has
lost 51 percent since the start of the year through today as the
company lowered its full-year profit and revenue forecasts. The
filings don’t show non-U.S. securities. JAT has pared its shares
in the Lexington, Kentucky-based company since the end of the
first quarter, part of its shift out of consumer companies, the
people said.  Thaler, 36, founded JAT in 2007 after leaving Shumway
Capital Partners LLC, where he most recently managed a portfolio
of telecommunications, media and technology stocks.  JAT rose 11 percent in 2010 and 20 percent in 2009. The
firm lost 5.9 percent in 2008 and 0.7 percent in November and
December 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  