-- Jiangxi Copper Considers Halting LME Exports as Prices Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-08T04:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/jiangxi-copper-considers-halting-lme-exports-as-prices-decline.html
Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , China’s biggest
producer of the metal, is considering halting exports to London
Metal Exchange warehouses after prices declined 9 percent in the
past month.  “We’ll look at the prices and other commercial
considerations,” Su Li, president of  Jiangxi Copper ’s trading
unit, said today by telephone from  Shanghai . “We are still
fulfilling our existing contracts to export.”  Jiangxi Copper, along with most producers in the China
Smelters Purchase Team, agreed to export the metal to bring down
cash prices and help lower domestic stockpiles, Su said on May 2.
Copper for three-month delivery has fallen 11 percent on the LME
since then amid concern of an economic slowdown in China and the
unresolved debt crisis in Europe.  “The conditions under which they decided to export no
longer exist now,” said Xiao Jing, an analyst at Beijing
Capital Futures Co. “The backwardation has fallen significantly,
and at the same time prices have slid, so their short positions
should have been unwound as well.”  The China Smelters Purchase Team, which also includes
Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. and  Yunnan Copper Industry
Co. (000878) , usually represents smelters in annual discussions with
miners on processing fees.  Export plans “should be suspended given that prices have
fallen,” Pan Qifang, Jiangxi Copper’s board secretary, said by
telephone today from Jiangxi province. “If there are price
differential opportunities, then we’ll definitely do it.”  Chinese smelters use imported copper concentrates, which
are priced based on LME cash rates. Copper for immediate
delivery was settled at a premium of $149 a ton to the contract
for delivery in three months on the LME on April 27. The widest
so-called backwardation since 2008 has diminished, and changed
to a discount of $7 yesterday.  Yunnan Copper Industry Co., which is part of the China
Smelters Purchase Team, hasn’t exported any of the metal because
it doesn’t have the permit, Yang Wenjun, securities
representative for the Kunming-based company, said today by
telephone. Calls to the office of Wu Heping, spokesman for
 Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. (000630) , weren’t answered.  “While there are still significant short positions held on
the LME by Chinese smelters, the case for exports staying at
significant levels is fading, given that LME backwardation has
moderated,”  Barclays Plc (BARC)   analysts  Gayle Berry   and Nicholas Snowdon wrote in a report dated June 7. Copper cathode exports
from China will probably be 50,000 metric tons in June,
following the same amount in May, they said.  Copper inventories stored at LME-registered warehouses in
 South Korea , the nearest LME delivery point to China, jumped to
58,550 tons as of yesterday, compared with 11,725 tons at the
end of February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  