-- Jobs Report to Lead Data Seen Pointing to Slowing Economy
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/jobs-report-to-lead-data-seen-pointing-to-slowing-economy.html
Canada ’s economy may be slowing,
according to reports on jobs, trade and housing due to be
released today, just three days after the central bank said the
country’s economic momentum was intact.  Employment  growth  in the world 10th-largest economy is
forecast to slow while the country’s trade surplus may narrow,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The federal
housing agency will also report housing starts for May, which
are projected to fall to a pace of 215,000 units from 244,800.  Bank of Canada policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney 
held their  key interest rate  at 1 percent on June 5 and said the
country’s underlying economic momentum is in line with
projections, even after first-quarter growth that trailed its
earlier forecast and as risks posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis
intensify.  “Canada’s growth rate is slowing, and it was not at a
feverish pace before,” said Derek Burleton, deputy chief
economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto.  The Canadian dollar fell to a six-month low of C$1.0447 per
 U.S. dollar  this week, and traded for about C$1.0275 yesterday.
Some investors are betting the central bank will cut its key
rate by December, trading in overnight index swaps shows.  The economy grew at a 1.9 percent annualized pace between
January and March,  Statistics Canada  said June 1, less than the
central bank’s 2.5 percent forecast.  Consumer spending  grew at
the slowest pace in three years, the statistics agency said.  Fresh Stimulus  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said June 4 he’s prepared to
offer fresh stimulus if it’s required and that growth so far
this year has been about what he expected. “These continue to
be sensitive times,” Flaherty said in Toronto. His March budget
also proposed cuts in government jobs to help balance the
budget.  It’s too soon for policy makers to react to signs of a
slowdown given some contradictory risks from abroad, said  John Clinkard , chief economist at Deutsche Bank Canada in Toronto.
European leaders are still working on a solution to the region’s
debt crisis, while the U.S. Federal Reserve said June 6 that the
 U.S. economy  maintained a moderate pace of growth as factory
output rose and the real-estate market improved.  “The Bank will hang tough for a while given that the U.S.
data flow is still positive and there is still so much
uncertainty about Europe,” Clinkard said. “If the job data is
really negative it will possibly limit their scope for action.”  Today’s reports follow data from earlier this year when
Canada reported the biggest two-month increase in employment in
more than three decades and the fastest pace of housing starts
since 2007.  Trade Surplus  Canada’s trade surplus has narrowed from C$3.2 billion in
December. If the country does avoid a deficit, it would mark the
sixth straight monthly surplus -- the longest stretch since late
2008 when the country was sliding into a recession.  “Deterioration in the balance is only really a bearish
signal for the economy if it comes from weak exports,” said
 Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at  CIBC World Markets  in
Toronto. “If it’s due to strength in imports it can simply
reflect strong Canadian demand,” said Shenfeld, the most
accurate trade forecaster in Bloomberg surveys over the past two
years, who predicts today’s report will show the surplus being
erased.  A slowdown in housing would probably be welcomed by the
central bank, which said this week that some withdrawal of
monetary stimulus “may become appropriate” and that strength
in housing had led the recovery to become “less balanced,”
said Ian Pollick, senior fixed income strategist at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Toronto.  Hawkish Language  “In my mind, the Bank maintained its hawkish forward-
looking language for a reason, as growing domestic imbalances
created in the wake of low rates is beginning to have an effect
on the real economy,” Pollick said.  Demand for homes, along with public works projects and
energy projects, has helped drive the share of Canadian
employment involved in construction to a record high.  The central bank’s rate has been at 1 percent since
September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s, while five-
year mortgage rates have been at or near record lows most of
this year, averaging 5.44 percent last week.  Meanwhile some companies tied to global demand are
announcing job cuts. Bombardier Recreational Products Inc.,
which makes Sea-Doo watercraft and Ski-Doo snowmobiles, said May
31 it will shift some production to  Mexico  from Valcourt,
 Quebec , while telecommunications equipment-maker DragonWave Inc.
said June 4 it is cutting 68 jobs in Ottawa and  Israel .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  