-- JPMorgan’s Whale Trades Raise Cost of Hedging IG9 Company Debt
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-06-08T18:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/jpmorgan-s-whale-trades-raise-cost-of-hedging-ig9-company-debt.html
Trades by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
London-based chief investment office have raised the cost of
hedging debt of companies from  AT&T Inc. (T)  to  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  and
 Dell Inc. (DELL)   After JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said
during a May 10 conference call with analysts and investors that
the bank had a $2 billion trading loss in  credit derivatives ,
the 10-year Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
Series 9, created in 2007 and speculated to be one of the
biggest positions contributing to the loss, has surged 21 basis
points relative to the current most-active index, the five-year
Series 18.  The technical effect of the so-called IG9 index’s surge has
pushed credit-default swaps on the index’s constituents wider,
including AT&T, CenturyLink and Dell’s five-year contracts,
according to Hale Holden, a Barclays Plc strategist.  While “further normalization in IG9 positioning could take
these credits even wider in the near term, they stand to benefit
when technicals abate and fundamental relative value reasserts
itself,” Barclays strategists Shobhit Gupta and Eric Gross
wrote in a note dated today.  Bloomberg News reported in April that JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil had amassed positions linked to the financial health of
corporations that were so large he was driving price moves in
the $10 trillion swap-index market, earning him the nickname the
London Whale among some counterparties, according to market
participants who asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to discuss the trades.  ‘Against Bruno’  The jump in the index, fueled by the size of the JPMorgan
trades relative to the market’s liquidity, has been exacerbated
by traders anticipating an unwinding of the positions.  The distortion in the indexes and the individual-company
swaps is caused by JPMorgan or “people trading against Bruno,”
Bonnie Baha, head of global developed credit at DoubleLine
Capital LP in  Los Angeles , which oversees $35 billion, said in a
telephone interview.  Dimon declined on the conference call to discuss specific
transactions or people involved.  Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. JPMorgan used the
instruments to hedge exposure on loans and other credit risks
tied to corporations, banks and sovereign governments. The
losses emerged after the firm tried to reduce that position,
Dimon said.  Swap Prices  Swaps tied to AT&T have climbed 8.4 basis points since May
10 to 98.1 basis points as of 1:38 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg
prices show. Contracts on CenturyLink’s debt rose 62.4 basis
points to 297.8 and those on Dell have added 60.9 basis points
to 211.6, the data show. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt. The current index has
climbed 20.1 basis points to 123.  While the relationship between 10-year contracts of the IG9
and the current five-year index now looks “in line with
historical levels,” the spread may continue to widen because
dealers have sold a net $46 billion of protection on the IG9
index, while they’ve bought a net $7 billion on the current
series, Gupta and Gross wrote. Investors should buy the 10-year
IG9 contract and sell the on-the-run Series 18 five-year, they
wrote.  Client Positions  Since the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a
central repository for the market, began publishing data in
2008, dealers typically haven’t been net buyers or sellers of
more than $20 billion, and the median aggregate client position
in investment-grade index swaps was $12 billion until a year
ago, the strategists wrote. It’s almost $41 billion now, and
reached $61 billion in April, with dealers bullish on the
underlying credit by more than five times that historical
median, according to the strategists. The changes were driven
largely by trades in 2007’s Series 9 index at $46 billion, the
Barclays strategists wrote.  As the five-year contract of the series nears maturity in
December 2012, volumes typically would decline, and as it ticks
down, the change in the remaining duration will “meaningfully”
alter the balance with other parts of IG9-related trades, they
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  