-- Kenya Shilling Weakens First Time in Six Days on Dollar Demand
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-06-08T14:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/kenya-shilling-weakens-first-time-in-six-days-on-dollar-demand.html
Kenya ’s shilling snapped a six-day
rally as companies with overseas shareholders demanded dollars
for dividend payments.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.4 percent to 84.95 per dollar and was trading 0.1
percent weaker at 84.70 by 4:30 p.m., the first drop since May
31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The shilling is under pressure due to on-going dividend
payments by businesses with non-resident investors which has
occasioned increased demand for dollar,” Finance Minister
Robinson Githae told reporters today in Nairobi. “The falling
yields on  government securities  have also put off investors
seeking higher returns,” he added.  Kenya’s six-month and three-month borrowing costs both rose
for the first time in almost five months at auctions this week.  “We expect the shilling to stabilise as the payment period
comes to an end in the next few weeks hence lowering demand for
the dollar and with yields on the rise we expect investors to
return,” Githae said.  Kenya accepted 2 billion shillings ($23.5 million) of 2.4
billion shillings in bids received for term-auction deposits at
a weighted average rate of 18 percent, a central bank official
said.  Kenya’s central bank introduced “longer tenor Term Auction
Deposits as an additional instrument for liquidity management,”
it said in in its monetary policy committee statement on June 5.
The central bank retained its benchmark rate at a record-high 18
percent in its monetary policy committee meeting on June 5,
holding it for a sixth month.  The Ugandan shilling depreciated 0.2 percent to 2,485 per
dollar today, while Tanzania’s shilling weakened 0.4 percent to
1,596.50 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  