-- Nasdaq Wins Kraft Foods Stock Listing From Rival NYSE
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-08T16:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/kraft-to-switch-listing-to-nasdaq-from-new-york-stock-exchange.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  persuaded  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT)  to move its listing from the New York Stock Exchange,
scoring the largest-ever company to switch markets three weeks
after it botched Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering.  Kraft said it will shift to the  Nasdaq  Stock Market on June
26, according to a statement today. The switch will “yield
greater cost efficiencies, while providing visibility advantages
for the company’s iconic brands,” the company said. Kraft will
retain its KFT ticker symbol.  Kraft is the first Dow Jones Industrial Average company
ever to switch exchanges, according to Nasdaq spokesman Joseph Christinat, and the biggest by market capitalization to leave
the NYSE for its rival. The departure is a larger loss for the
NYSE than  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , which announced a move in
December. Kraft was valued at $67.6 billion yesterday, compared
with Texas Instruments at $32 billion on Dec. 14, the day before
its change was revealed.  “Any win by Nasdaq is going to be viewed in the
marketplace very positively,” Larry Tabb, chief executive
officer of Tabb Group LLC in New York, said in an interview.
“It’s great the Nasdaq folks were able to land it. It’s a
premier company.”  Nasdaq also won the listings of  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  and
 Analog Devices Inc. (ADI)  from its rival in 2012. NYSE lured Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and TD Ameritrade Holding Corp.  Company Split  Kraft is splitting in two this year. The original company
will be renamed Mondelez International Inc., while the spinoff
will be called Kraft Foods Group Inc. Both entities will trade
on Nasdaq, Kraft said today.  “You win some, you lose some,”  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief
Executive Officer Duncan Niederauer said today at a Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP conference in New York. “You’re not going
to win every one.”  Nasdaq OMX’s computer systems used to establish the opening
price for Facebook were overwhelmed on May 18 by order
cancellations and updates for the IPO. After the exchange
repaired the problem, order updates for 30 million shares didn’t
participate in the auction because of an error, Nasdaq said in a
notice the next day.  The second-biggest U.S. stock exchange operator is seeking
Securities and Exchange Commission approval of a plan to set
aside $40 million for brokers whose Facebook orders were
mishandled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in  New York  at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  