-- N.Z. to Boost 2023 Bond Sales to Meet Demand, Consider Linkers
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-06-08T01:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/n-z-to-boost-2023-bond-sales-to-meet-demand-consider-linkers.html
New Zealand  plans to increase sales
of longer-term  government bonds  and is considering its first
inflation-indexed issue in 13 years as demand climbs for the
nation’s securities, the developed world’s best-performing
sovereign market over the past five years.  The Debt Management Office is interested in building up the
volume of April 2023 notes, the longest-dated debt, toward a
NZ$12 billion ($9.9 billion) limit, from NZ$3.7 billion, before
issuing longer maturities, Brendon Doyle, treasurer of the
Wellington-based funding arm, said in an interview.  New Zealand’s  10-year bond yield  fell to a record this week
and the nation’s debt has returned 60 percent over the past five
years, the most across 26 sovereign bond indexes compiled by
EFFAS and Bloomberg. The government last month said it will
offer NZ$23.5 billion of bonds in 2012-14 to finance its  budget
deficit  and refinance debt, including NZ$4 billion of inflation-
indexed bonds, the first such offering since 1999.  “Demand still looks okay because we are getting done what
we need to get done in a relatively orderly and effective way,”
Doyle said. “We’re always interested in trying to develop new
investor pools for different products. Inflation bonds allow us
to access investors who might not be interested in nominal
bonds.”  Record Yield  The yield on the benchmark 5.5 percent bond maturing April
2023 fell to 3.255 percent on June 5, the least ever in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1985. It was 3.42 percent as
of 11 a.m. in Wellington. The Debt Office yesterday sold NZ$150
million of the notes at 3.39 percent.  The benchmark yield is 34 basis points higher than the
Australian 10-year yield, near the 33 basis point average over
the past 10 years.  Inflation-linked notes issued by governments worldwide
 returned  44 percent to investors over the past five years, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data show. That outpaced a 29 percent
gain for sovereign bonds that aren’t tied to consumer prices and
a 14 percent loss for the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks, including
reinvested dividends.  Issuing inflation-indexed bonds makes sense for a
government that has long-dated assets like roads, and revenue
streams that are sensitive to price movements, Doyle said.
Possible investors include pension funds that have similar long-
term liabilities, and may not currently be big investors in New
Zealand debt, he said.  Inflation Debt  Initial feedback indicates offering inflation-linked notes
won’t “cannibalize” existing sales, but the Debt Office needs
to test that proposition to see how strong the demand actually
is, he said.  The yield on New Zealand’s NZ$1.5 billion of 2016
inflation-indexed bonds, the nation’s only linkers outstanding,
was 1.07 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The government has NZ$70 billion of debt outstanding, according
to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  The Debt Office last year investigated issuing an indexed
bond maturing in September 2025 but deferred plans citing global
conditions and a preference to focus on maintaining a supply of
nominal bonds. Officials are talking to market participants to
gauge what maturity suits best, Doyle said.  Foreign investors  held 62 percent of government bonds on
issue at April 30, up from 59 percent as of Dec. 31, according
to central bank figures.  Finance Minister  Bill English  agreed to lift the limit on
bond sales in the year ending June 30 to NZ$15 billion from
NZ$13.5 billion to allow the Debt Office to tap extra demand.  With three scheduled auctions remaining, the Debt Office
has sold about NZ$13 billion. Any amounts raised beyond NZ$13.5
billion will be used to refinance bills that mature in less than
12 months.  “In a general sense, more around matching the maturity
profile of our assets, we’d have a desire to lengthen our yield
curve through time,” Doyle said. “It makes sense for a long-
dated holder of assets that the government is to do it that way,
but you can’t do it at any cost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  