-- Djokovic Beats Federer to Set Up French Final Against Nadal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-08T19:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/nadal-reaches-french-open-final-with-three-set-defeat-of-ferrer.html
Novak Djokovic moved one win away
from becoming the first man since 1969 to win four Grand Slam
tennis titles in a row by beating  Roger Federer  at the  French
Open . He’ll play six-time champion  Rafael Nadal  in the final.  The top-ranked Serb beat the 16-time major singles champion
from  Switzerland , 6-4, 7-5, 6-3 on the main Court Philippe
Chatrier at Roland Garros in Paris. Nadal has won 18 of the 32
times they’ve played.  “I’m happy with my game today,” Djokovic said in a news
conference after the semifinal. “This was a very important
moment for me. It’s the first time I’m going to be with him in
the finals here in Paris. I hope I’m going to play a good match
again, and that the level I’ll play will be high.”  Djokovic, 25, is trying to become the first man since
Australian  Rod Laver  to hold all four major titles at the same
time. Djokovic almost was knocked out in the quarterfinals,
saving four match points against Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of  France .
He came back from two sets to love down in his fourth-round
match against Andreas Seppi of  Italy .  The third-seeded Federer, who won at Roland Garros in 2009,
gave Djokovic his only Grand Slam loss of 2011 in the French
Open semifinals last year. Djokovic has won 27 matches at majors
since then, taking the titles at Wimbledon, the U.S. Open and
the Australian Open and taking the No. 1 spot from Nadal.  Nadal’s ‘Best’  Earlier today, Rafael Nadal told reporters he’d played
“one of my best matches in this court,” after he eased past
fellow Spaniard  David Ferrer  to reach the final in Paris without
losing a set.  Nadal beat Ferrer, 6-2, 6-2, 6-1 in windy conditions. The
Spaniard has lost 35 games on the way to the final, the fewest
since  Sweden ’s  Bjorn Borg  dropped 31 games in the first six
matches in 1980.  “In my opinion I did almost everything right, because my
serve worked very well, changing directions,” said Nadal, who
has only dropped his serve once in the tournament. “My backhand
was the best day so far today. I hit the forehand well during
the whole tournament. Today wasn’t an exception.”  Throughout the tournament, the Spaniard has been able to
rely on his serve, winning the point off his first serve 79
percent of the time, the most of the four semifinalists.  The match between Federer and Djokovic was delayed half an
hour because of rain. After swapping service breaks at 2-2 as
the wind blew around the court, play was back on serve until the
10th game. Serving to stay in the first set at 4-5 down, Federer
handed Djokovic the set as he made three forehand errors.  Second Set  The crowd shouted “Roger, Roger,” as Federer broke
Djokovic’s serve in the opening game of the second set, which
included a 36-shot rally that featured a between-the-legs shot
by the Serb that the Swiss won with a volley. Federer went up a
double break for 3-0 and served for the set at 5-4, only to let
Djokovic back into the match with a string of unforced errors.
Djokovic took a two-sets-to-love lead as Federer hit a forehand
long, his 35th error.  In the third set, the 30-year-old Federer continued to
struggle with the wind, dropping serve with a forehand into the
net at 2-3 down. Serving for his first French Open final at 5-3,
Djokovic won the match with a service winner.  “I thought he played well, under tough conditions,” said
Federer, who made 46 unforced errors, 29 more than the Serb. “I
wasn’t able to sustain maybe a solid enough game today, I guess.
That’s about it.”  After tying Borg last year with a sixth title, Nadal has
been overshadowed by Djokovic. The Serb beat the 26-year-old
Nadal in the finals of Wimbledon and the  U.S. Open  and outlasted
him in a championship match that took almost six hours at the
Australian Open at the start of the year.  Easy Win  Nadal was only tested in the beginning of his semifinal,
saving two break points in the fourth game. Ferrer lost his
serve in the next game at love as Nadal outplayed the 30-year-
old from the back of the court with heavy top spin shots. The
second-ranked player took the set, racing through the next four
games.  Watched by rapper Jay-Z and former Wimbledon champion  Boris Becker , Nadal broke serve in the opening game of the second set.
At 1-1, the defending champion slipped, played a drop shot while
seated on the clay, then lobbed the ball over the head of
Ferrer, who missed a forehand.  Nadal was unfazed by a 55-minute rain delay at 6-2, 4-1.
Serving at 5-2, the crowd gasped as he set up two set points
with a running forehand winner struck from the back of the
court. He took the second set with another forehand. Nadal
quickly won the third set and the match to move to his seventh
 Roland Garros  final in eight years.  Last Defeat  Nadal’s only defeat at Roland Garros was in 2009, when he
was beaten in the fourth round by  Robin Soderling  as he
struggled with knee tendinitis. The Swede, whose picture adorns
a wall in the media center at Roland Garros, has been off the
tour the past 10 months with energy-sapping mononucleosis.  The women’s final will be played tomorrow between second-
seeded  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and  Sara Errani , the 21st seed.
Sharapova is seeking to complete the career Grand Slam of all
four majors.  Errani and fellow Italian Roberta Vinci today won the
women’s doubles title, beating the Russian pair of  Maria Kirilenko  and Nadia Petrova 4-6, 6-4, 6-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  