-- Nasdaq Communication During Facebook IPO Subpar, Niederauer Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-06-08T23:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/nasdaq-communication-during-facebook-ipo-subpar-niederauer-says.html
NYSE Euronext would have done more to
communicate with customers than  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  did during
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering, Chief Executive Officer
 Duncan Niederauer  said.  Niederauer, whose company competed and lost to Nasdaq Stock
Market for the right to list the $16 billion offering, said
customers of the second-largest U.S. equity exchange operator
deserved more clarity. Nasdaq has proposed setting aside $40
million to compensate brokers who lost money because of delays
and mishandled orders.  “If a similar fate had befallen us that day when we were
trying to take a company public, you would have found us to be
much more communicative,” Niederauer said yesterday during a
Bloomberg Television interview in New York. “You wouldn’t have
had trouble finding us. We would have been telling people what
we’re going to do about it.”  Facebook, owner of the biggest social networking website,
was scheduled to open at 11 a.m.  New York  time on May 18 after
the offering was priced by underwriters. At about 11:07 a.m., a
Nasdaq official told market participants on a conference call
that the exchange was delaying the opening. Aside from
assurances that an update was coming, the phone line went silent
until just before the first trade at 11:30 a.m., according to
two people who were on the call and asked not to be identified
because the discussions were private.  CEO Discussions  Nasdaq OMX’s computer systems used to establish the opening
price for Facebook were overwhelmed on May 18 by order updates
and cancellations for the IPO. The solution Nasdaq deployed
prevented updates and cancellations for 30 million shares
submitted from 11:11 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. from being reflected in
the opening trade.  While trading began at 11:30 a.m., Nasdaq didn’t send
confirmations until 1:50 p.m. for orders submitted into the
opening auction, known as the IPO cross, that were executed and
those that were ignored. The lack of reports led to investor and
trader confusion about whether they owned shares and prevented
them from cutting their losses.  Nasdaq is seeking Securities and Exchange Commission
approval of a plan to set aside $40 million for brokers whose
Facebook orders were mishandled.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  says the plan is
unfair because about $26.3 million of the proposed compensation
is a discount on future trading fees, which may boost Nasdaq’s
market share at the expense of competitors.  “People want a little more accountability, they want more
clarity, they want more fairness,” Niederauer said yesterday.  Market Share  Robert Greifeld , Nasdaq OMX’s chief executive officer, said
at the Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP Global Exchange and
Brokerage Conference in New York on June 7 that the $13.7
million it’s paying member firms in cash will be released as
soon as the SEC approves its plan. The “vast majority” of
brokers will have their claims paid then, he said. The rest will
be reimbursed through trading fees, he said.  “People do not have to increase their market share to get
the payment compensation,” Greifeld said. “They don’t have to
give us one additional share.”  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, is facing losses of as
much as $350 million from Facebook trading, CNBC reported
yesterday, citing unidentified people. The bank was left holding
a larger Facebook stake than the million shares it meant to buy
after repeatedly entering an order that wasn’t immediately
confirmed, CNBC said.  UBS said its loss on shares of Facebook isn’t material and
declined to provide a figure.  Securities Laws  Nasdaq’s plan to compensate brokers through discounted fees
violates U.S. securities laws by proposing pricing changes to
benefit specific members,  William O’Brien , CEO of Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, an exchange operator in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
said in an interview. Exchanges can make pricing changes “but
we have a general obligation to do so in a way that still
promotes competition among exchanges,” he said.  “There’s a horrible conflict of interest for brokers who
have to decide is  Nasdaq  right because of its general value
proposition or am I motivated by getting a discount?” he said.  Nasdaq’s plan is “underwhelming at best,” Thomas Joyce,
chief executive of Knight Capital Group Inc., a market maker and
institutional broker, said on June 7 at the Sandler O’Neill
conference. The company said in an  SEC filing  last month its
losses from Nasdaq’s mishandling of the  Facebook IPO  ranged
between $30 million and $35 million. Nasdaq should “go back to
the drawing board” to come up with a better plan, he said.  Thomas Kloet , CEO of TMX Group Inc., owner of the Toronto
Stock Exchange, said Nasdaq faced a tough decision about whether
to maintain trading in Facebook shares after execution reports
weren’t disseminated to customers.  Market Halts  “No one wants to halt the market,” Kloet said in an
interview. “We’d analyze the situation and try to predict how
long it would be before the fills got out. But if we felt there
was an unlevel playing field, we’d look to take that action and
halt. It’s a judgment call.”  The Toronto Stock Exchange suffered a daylong trading
disruption on Dec. 17, 2008, after a computer failure prevented
stock quotes from being disseminated. The exchange decided to
stop all buying and selling at about 9:50 a.m., about 20 minutes
after trading usually starts in what led to the longest halt
since at least April 1997. Market participants bear the risk of
an exchange’s systems malfunctioning, Kloet said.  Bats Global Markets Inc., the Lenexa, Kansas-based exchange
operator that competes with NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX, halted
trading and then called off its own IPO on March 23 when a
malfunction in its auction system kept the first transaction
from being published properly.  Singapore Exchange  While technology mishaps can afflict any exchange,
investors and users should be updated about problems that affect
trading, Magnus Bocker, CEO of  Singapore Exchange  Ltd., said in
an interview. He was president of Nasdaq OMX from 2008 to 2009,
after Nasdaq Stock Market Inc.’s 2008 takeover of OMX AB, where
he had been president and CEO.  “Exchanges have their own rules for how market disruptions
are handled for the integrity of markets,” Bocker said.
“Exchanges have very advanced trading systems and software, but
this will and can happen to everyone. It’s important to keep
investors informed and the market well-informed.”  Nasdaq persuaded  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  to move its listing from
the New York Stock Exchange, scoring the largest-ever company to
switch markets, the foodmaker said yesterday. The $67.8 billion
company is the first  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  member ever to
switch exchanges, according to Nasdaq spokesman Joseph Christinat. It will shift on June 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  