-- New York’s Plaza Hotel Said Close to $575 Million Sale
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-06-08T16:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/new-york-s-plaza-hotel-said-close-to-575-million-sale.html
Elad Group is close to selling its
stake in  New York ’s  Plaza Hotel  to Sahara India Pariwar, and 
property co-owner  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , controlled by Saudi 
billionaire  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , will hold a 25 percent 
stake after the deal is done, said a person with knowledge of 
the transaction.  Sahara India Pariwar signed a letter of intent to purchase
the hotel for $575 million from closely held Elad and Kingdom,
which will buy back a portion, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the talks are private. The transaction is
set for completion in early July, the person said. Fairmont
Hotels & Resorts, in which Kingdom has a stake, will continue to
operate the Plaza for at least two years, the person said.  Sahara  India  Pariwar, which bought  London ’s Grosvenor House
luxury hotel in 2010, made an offer in April to buy the Plaza, a
century-old destination for socialites and celebrities near
Manhattan’s Central Park. Negotiations were complicated by
Sahara India Pariwar’s desire to take over management of the
property, according to the person with knowledge of the deal.  Kingdom has a 50 percent stake of the Plaza’s 130 hotel
rooms and public areas, and owns 25 percent of the 100 rooms
that were sold as condominiums and rented out as hotel rooms,
the person said. After the transaction is completed, Kingdom
will own 25 percent of the entire property, the person said.  Josh Greenwald, a spokesman for Elad, declined to comment.
Representatives for  Sahara India Pariwar  didn’t respond to
requests for comment. Charles Henry, a spokesman for Kingdom,
also declined to comment today.  “The prince’s objective is to be a long-term investor in
this kind of iconic asset,” Henry said in an April interview
after India’s Economic Times reported Sahara India Pariwar’s
offer.  San Francisco  Kingdom, which in 2004 sold its stake in the Plaza to Elad
and bought back a portion soon after, has retained investments
in other landmark properties. On May 8, Los Angeles-based
Woodridge Capital Partners LLC said Alwaleed would keep his
interest in the Fairmont  San Francisco  Hotel after he and
partner Maritz Wolff & Co. agreed in March to sell the Nob Hill
property to Woodridge and Oaktree Capital Management LP for
almost $200 million.  The Plaza reopened in March 2008 following a two-year
restoration that cost more than $400 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  