-- New York City Can Handle Multiple Casinos, Mayor Bloomberg Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-08T16:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/new-york-city-can-handle-multiple-casinos-mayor-bloomberg-says.html
New York City  is big enough to
accommodate more than one casino should Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
succeed in fostering more gambling in the state, Mayor Michael Bloomberg said.  “This city is big enough to have more than one,”
Bloomberg said today on WOR radio. “We have lots of different
arts venues, for example, lots of different concert halls and
stadiums.”  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, proposed in January that
 Genting Bhd. (GENT)  build a $4 billion convention center and casino in
the borough of Queens, about 40 minutes from Manhattan by
subway, as the centerpiece to a job-creation program. That plan
failed, Cuomo said last week.  Genting, which in October began operating an electronic-
lottery gaming “racino” at the Aqueduct race track in Queens,
controls  Asia ’s second-biggest casino operator by market value,
is the largest casino operator in the U.K., and owns Resorts
World Sentosa, one of Singapore’s two gambling resorts. Its
planned 3.8 million-square-foot Queens facility would have
replaced the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.  Since talks with the company failed, Cuomo has said he’s
discussing a convention center and casino with other companies.
He said he plans a competition next year after the Legislature
sends to voters a constitutional amendment that would allow Las
Vegas-style casinos in the third-most-populous state.  Less Bountiful  Bloomberg, 70, described himself as having “never been a
great fan of gambling as a way to raise revenue.” The industry
is “not the cash cow it used to be,” he said.  The best location for a casino, he said, would be “where
the population is,” as opposed to using the facility to
stimulate a neighborhood economy.  “Right around Atlantic City, they never benefited from
that and it’s true of Las Vegas, true of every one of these
places,” Bloomberg said. “If you’re going to have it, then why
not have it in  New York  City, and if you want to tax it, use the
money to help disadvantaged neighborhoods.”  Josh Vlasto , spokesman for the governor, didn’t immediately
return e-mailed requests for a response to the mayor’s comments.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  