-- New York Baseball Stays No-Go Zone as Mets-Yankees Series Begins
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/new-york-baseball-stays-no-go-zone-as-mets-yankees-series-begins.html
Not even winning records have helped
New York’s baseball teams at the turnstiles this season.  With average attendance up about 7 percent throughout  Major
League Baseball , the  New York Yankees  are drawing about 2,000
fewer fans per home game this year than in 2011, and the  New
York Mets  are down by about 1,000.  The Yankees, 31-25 and in third place in the  American
League East , tonight host the Mets, 32-26 and in third place in
the National League East, to start their interleague series.
 Johan Santana  pitches tonight for the Mets a week after
recording the first no-hitter in their 51-year history, and the
crosstown meeting may be a wakeup call to both teams’ fans,
sports business analysts said.  “It’s happening at the right time, with the Yankees
playing the way they are and the Mets surprising everyone,”
said Wayne McDonnell, an associate professor of sports
management at  New York University . “This is the spark that
everyone needs to get back out to the ballpark.”  The Yankees, winners of a record 27 World Series
championships and participants in the postseason all but one of
the past 17 years, are 10-4 since May 22. The Mets, who last
made the playoffs in 2006 and finished eight games under .500
last season, haven’t had a losing record so far this year and
were tied for the division lead as recently as June 1.  Attendance generally has exceeded 90 percent capacity for
Mets-Yankees series since interleague play began in 1997, and
this year’s matchup is likely to be heavily attended again,
McDonnell, who created NYU’s “Business of Baseball” course,
said in a telephone interview.  Seats Available  As of yesterday, the cheapest ticket available for
tonight’s game on Yankees.com was a single upper-deck seat for
$53.80. The most expensive, down the third-base line, cost
$515.80. Hundreds of initial-sale tickets were available on the
official team site for all three games, mostly at field level
and costing more than $250 each.  On the resale market, fans may even be getting a bit of a
bargain. The average secondary-market ticket price for the
Yankee Stadium games is the lowest in three years, according to
TiqIQ, an aggregator of the online resale ticket market. The
$102 resale average is 46 percent lower than the $188 price in
2010, while fans can get into any of the three games for less
than $40 because of the large quantity of seats available on the
secondary market, Chris Matcovich, a spokesman for TiqIQ, said
in an e-mail.  ‘Gold Standard’  Both Yankee Stadium in the Bronx and the Mets’ Citi Field
in Queens opened in 2009. The “gold standard” for successful
seasons is 4 million Yankee Stadium tickets sold and 3 million
at Citi Field, according to  Michael Cramer , a former president
of MLB’s  Texas Rangers  and now director of the Texas Program in
Sports and Media at the  University of Texas  at Austin. Games at
Yankee Stadium, which has about 50,000 seats, averaged 40,838 as
of yesterday, fifth in baseball. The team ranked second in
attendance last season behind the  Philadelphia Phillies .  “Forty (thousand) a game for them isn’t great,” Cramer
said in a telephone interview. “Their budget is probably based
on 45 or more. That’s hard to sustain and they don’t have that
kind of team this year, although a pennant race ultimately will
help them.”  Jason Zillo, a Yankees spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking an update on ticket sales for the series. Danielle Parillo, a spokeswoman for the Mets, didn’t return telephone and
e-mail messages seeking comment about the Mets’ sales this
season.  Mets Attendance  The Mets are ranked 18th in attendance, having averaged
27,458 in 30 games at Citi Field, which seats about 42,000. They
were 14th last season, finishing in fourth place in the  National
League East  with a 77-85 record and an average home attendance
of 30,108.  The Mets have said they lost $70 million last season and
didn’t try to re-sign All-Star shortstop  Jose Reyes  when he
became a free agent. Reyes signed with the  Miami Marlins .  On March 20, the Mets’ owners,  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz,
agreed on a $162 million settlement that ended a lawsuit by
 Irving Picard , the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, who
initially sought $1 billion for the benefit of former Madoff
customers defrauded in a  Ponzi scheme . The suit had clouded the
team’s financial future and ability to field a championship-
caliber franchise, and Wilpon and Katz sold minority shares to
help pay off loans and regain stability.  ‘Not Pretty’  “It wasn’t pretty, both on and off the field, and quite
frankly people got tired of it,” Cramer said, also pointing to
high ticket prices and a still struggling economy. “It was time
for a breather.”  The Mets’ attendance will continue to lag behind this year
due to dropped season-ticket plans, although solid play would
lead to improved game-day sales and a productive offseason,
Cramer and McConnell said.  “All they have to do is field a competitive team for the
rest of the year,” Cramer said. “Not win it. Field a
competitive team and they’ll build momentum.”  Santana, who is 5-3 with a 4.18 career earned run average
against the Yankees, will be taking the momentum of baseball’s
third no-hitter this season into tonight’s game. After throwing
a career-high 134 pitches in the 8-0 win against the  St. Louis
Cardinals , he was given extra rest in favor of a start against
the Yankees.  Attendance for the no-hitter officially was 27,069 at Citi
Field. His first time back on the mound won’t immediately
benefit the Mets’ ticket sales.  “It is unlucky that they don’t get the gate for it, but it
is lucky that it’s in  New York  and it will catch the fans’
interest,” Cramer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 