-- Suicide Attack Kills Five at Police Base in Northeast Nigeria
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-06-08T18:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/nigeria-s-military-says-suicide-bomber-attacked-police-base-1-.html
A suicide-car bomb attack in  Nigeria 
on the regional police headquarters in Maiduguri, the capital of
northeastern Borno state, killed five people and wounded at
least three others, a police spokesman said.  The bomb was detonated “right outside the gate of the
headquarters” after the attacker was “prevented from gaining
access,” Frank Mbah said in an e-mailed statement today from
Abuja, the capital. Police have “made substantial progress” in
tracking down those behind the attack, he said.  The suicide bomber is thought to be a member of the Boko
Haram Islamist group, Victor Ebhaleme, a spokesman for the
military task force in charge of security in the region, said by
telephone from Maiduguri. In a related incident, a suspected
Boko Haram member was killed when an improvised explosive device
went off as he was planting it in Maiduguri, Ebhaleme said.  Authorities in Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer,
blame Boko Haram, which wants to impose strict Islamic law in
the country, for attacks in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja
that have killed hundreds of people this year.  Sheikh Dahiru Usman, a Nigerian Muslim cleric, said on June
5 he had made contact with government officials and Boko Haram
leaders and that both sides agreed to start talks. Abul Qaqa, a
Boko Haram spokesman, denied that the group had been approached
and said a March decision to rule out negotiations had not
changed.  President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s administration said talks
will be held with the militants on the condition that they
announce a cease-fire for at least 40 days, after which the
government will stop arresting their members, Usman said.  Former Nigerian leader Olusegun Obasanjo said on May 11
that Jonathan’s government is pursuing talks with the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri, Nigeria, at
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja, Nigeria, at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  