-- Nokia Advances Most in Five Months on Takeover Speculation
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-06-08T16:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/nokia-advances-most-in-seven-months-on-takeover-speculation.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the mobile-phone maker
struggling to recover lost market share, jumped the most in five
months as investors speculated the company may receive a
takeover bid.  The stock advanced 6 percent, the most since Jan. 5, to
close at 2.36 euros in Helsinki.  Nokia had declined 41 percent this year before today as
consumers snapped up  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and smartphones running
on Google Inc.’s Android software. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia is
rebuilding its smartphone business around the Windows Phone
software from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which has been speculated to be a
possible acquirer, Exane BNP Paribas said today in a note.  “A lot of names have been mentioned as potential
bidders,” said Bo Nordberg, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Ltd. in London. “I am sure someone is looking at it, but it is
not particularly compelling. Even among the analyst community
the feeling is quite skeptical about the outlook for the
company.”  Doug Dawson , a Nokia spokesman, declined to comment on the
share-price movement or any speculation regarding mergers and
acquisitions. Microsoft representatives in London said they
wouldn’t comment on rumor or speculation.  Nokia Siemens  Nokia has lost more than 70 billion euros ($87 billion) in
market value since Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007, taking
the lead in smartphone innovation. Samsung Electronics Co.
overtook Nokia in the first quarter as the world’s largest
handset maker, according to Gartner Inc.  “With the  stock trading  just above 2 euros, it’s obvious
that there is more value than that in the assets and it’s not
difficult to understand how rumors like this make the stock
jump,” said Haakan Wranne, an analyst at Swedbank Markets in
 Stockholm .  Nokia and Siemens AG last year ended talks to sell their
unprofitable network-equipment joint venture, Nokia Siemens
Networks, to private-equity buyers.  “Interest in NSN should not be excluded,” Exane said in
the report. “Getting NSN’s worldwide footprint could prove
attractive for Samsung.”  An external spokeswoman for Samsung in London said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation.  Nokia is 16 months into a transition triggered by its
decision to abandon its homegrown smartphone operating system in
favor of Windows Phone, an attempt to challenge Apple and
Android.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  