-- Nomura Apologizes for Involvement in Insider Trading Cases
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-06-08T17:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/nomura-apologizes-for-involvement-in-insider-trading-cases-1-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  apologized for
its employees’ role in leaking information that was used for
 insider trading , confirming for the first time their involvement
in three cases being examined by regulators.  “Nomura expresses its regret concerning the findings that
non-public information was received from Nomura employees in
such cases,” Japan’s largest brokerage said in a  statement 
yesterday. Regulators earlier recommended fining First  New York 
Securities LLC for trading shares in 2010 based on information
that originated from Tokyo-based Nomura in one case.  The employees’ role in the incidents, which came to light
as Japanese regulators began penalizing the companies that
profited from the leaked information in March, may undermine
Nomura’s credibility with investors. The news may also weigh on
a stock that fell to its lowest in at least 37 years in November
as  profit  plunged.  “We can’t deny that it could damage the firm’s reputation
to some extent,” said Futoshi Sasaki, an analyst at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest
bank. “Some Japanese companies considering giving a mandate to
Nomura may choose other firms and its market share may fall.”  Shares of Nomura fell 2.2 percent to 268 yen yesterday
before the company issued its statement.  Olympus Investigator  Nomura said it will complete an internal investigation by a
group of outside lawyers by the end of June. The firm will
“implement improvement measures and disciplinary action” in
accordance with the result of the review and the Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission’s inspection, it said.  It chose Hideki Nakagome, a former High Court chief
justice, to lead the internal probe. Nakagome, who helped
investigate Olympus Corp.’s accounting fraud, confirmed his
appointment and declined to comment further. Keiko Sugai, a
Tokyo-based Nomura spokeswoman, declined to comment on the
appointment.  The SESC has refrained from identifying underwriters
involved in its probe, focusing instead on recommending fines
for the firms that traded on the information.  The commission proposed fining First New York Securities, a
U.S. proprietary trading firm, 14.7 million yen ($185,000) for
selling  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  shares with insider information
before the utility’s 2010 share sale managed by Nomura. It’s the
first time the Japanese regulator has sought a penalty for a
foreign firm as part of its investigation.  Chuo Mitsui  “We were made aware of the Japanese regulators’
recommendation early this morning,” said Russell Sherman, a
spokesman for First New York Securities. “We cannot comment on
any ongoing regulatory action but we are cooperating fully with
the inquiry.”  Nomura employees were involved in leaking information to
Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust & Banking Co., a former unit of  Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) , ahead of share sales in 2010,
yesterday’s statement confirmed.  The SESC in March sought a 50,000 yen fine for Chuo Mitsui
for using leaked information to trade shares of energy company
 Inpex Corp. (1605)  Last month, the watchdog proposed fining Chuo Mitsui
80,000 yen for trading of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  shares
before its equity offering, which was underwritten by Nomura.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust dismissed two employees following an
internal investigation, Chairman Hitoshi Tsunekage said at a
news conference in Tokyo yesterday. Company executives will take
temporary pay cuts in light of the cases, the Tokyo-based trust
bank said in a statement.  A Chuo Mitsui fund manager was entertained 39 times by a
Nomura salesperson over less than a year at a total cost of
890,000 yen, according to a report by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust’s
third-party committee.  Separate Case  In a separate case excluding Nomura and Chuo Mitsui, the
SESC last month recommended a 130,000 yen fine for Asuka Asset
Management Co. over the trade of Nippon Sheet Glass Co. shares.
The watchdog found that an employee of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
which co-underwrote the 2010 offering, leaked the information to
Asuka, according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  Nomura Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe oversaw a
60 percent decline in net income to 11.6 billion yen in the year
ended March. Moody’s Investors Service cut Nomura’s  credit
rating  to the lowest investment grade in March, saying global
competition raises questions over its profitability.  Nomura is trimming $1.2 billion of costs that soared after
it bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European
businesses in an effort to expand worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  