-- Nomura Apologizes for Involvement in Insider Trading Cases
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-06-08T11:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/nomura-apologizes-for-employees-involvement-in-insider-trading.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  apologized for
its employees’ role in leaking information that was used for
 insider trading , confirming for the first time their involvement
in three cases being examined by regulators.  “Nomura expresses its regret concerning the findings that
non-public information was received from Nomura employees in
such cases,” Japan’s largest brokerage said in a  statement 
today. Regulators earlier today recommended fining First New
York Securities LLC for trading shares in 2010 based on
information that originated from Tokyo-based Nomura in one case.  The employees’ role in the incidents, which came to light
as Japanese regulators began penalizing the companies that
profited from the leaked information in March, may undermine
Nomura’s credibility with investors. The news may also weigh on
a stock that fell to its lowest in at least 37 years in November
as profit plunged.  “We can’t deny that it could damage the firm’s reputation
to some extent,” said Futoshi Sasaki, an analyst at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest
bank. “Some Japanese companies considering giving a mandate to
Nomura may choose other firms and its market share may fall.”  Shares of Nomura fell 2.2 percent to 268 yen today before
the company issued its statement.  Olympus Investigator  Nomura said it will complete an internal investigation by a
group of outside lawyers by the end of June. The firm will
“implement improvement measures and disciplinary action” in
accordance with the result of the review and the Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission’s inspection, it said.  It chose Hideki Nakagome, a former High Court chief justice,
to lead the internal probe. Nakagome, who helped investigate
Olympus Corp.’s accounting fraud, confirmed his appointment and
declined to comment further. Keiko Sugai, a Tokyo-based Nomura
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the appointment.  The SESC has refrained from identifying underwriters
involved in its probe, focusing instead on recommending fines
for the firms that traded on the information.  The commission today proposed fining First  New York 
Securities, a U.S. proprietary trading firm, 14.7 million yen
($185,000) for selling  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  shares with
insider information before the utility’s 2010 share sale managed
by Nomura. It’s the first time the Japanese regulator has sought
a penalty for a foreign firm as part of its investigation.  Chuo Mitsui  Nomura employees were involved in leaking information to
Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust & Banking Co., a former unit of  Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) , ahead of share sales in 2010,
today’s statement confirms.  The SESC in March sought a 50,000 yen fine for Chuo Mitsui
for using leaked information to trade shares of energy company
 Inpex Corp. (1605)  Last month, the watchdog proposed fining Chuo Mitsui
80,000 yen for trading of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  shares
before its 2010 share sale, which was underwritten by Nomura.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust today dismissed two employees
following an internal investigation into the incidents, Chairman
Hitoshi Tsunekage said at a news conference in Tokyo. Company
executives will take temporary pay cuts in light of the cases,
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust said in a statement today. Salaries will
be lowered by between 10 percent and 50 percent over one to five
months, it said.  Nomura Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe oversaw a
60 percent decline in net income to 11.6 billion yen in the year
ended March. Moody’s Investors Service cut Nomura’s  credit
rating  to the lowest investment grade in March, saying global
competition raises questions over its profitability.  Nomura is trimming $1.2 billion of costs that soared after
it bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European
businesses in an effort to expand worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  