-- North Las Vegas Crisis Shows Fragility of Nevada Economy
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-08T13:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/north-las-vegas-crisis-shows-fragility-of-nevada-economy.html
From the top of the nine-story City
Hall that opened last year in North  Las Vegas , the neon lights
and redevelopment on the  Las Vegas Strip  show the economy of Sin
City recovering just five miles away.  North Las Vegas, the fastest-growing large city in the U.S.
just five years ago, hasn’t shared in the bounty.  Nevada ’s
third-largest city, whose population more than doubled to
217,482 in 2010 from 1999, is on the verge of insolvency. Facing
a $33 million budget gap, elected leaders last week declared a
state of emergency and gave the city manager unprecedented
 powers  to suspend union contracts.  The city’s travails mirror those of municipalities across
the nation including  Detroit ; Providence,  Rhode Island ; and
Stockton,  California . They have struggled to contend with the
costs of workers’ retirements and health care as the national
economy fell into the longest recession since the 1930s, revenue
flagged and population dwindled.  In North Las Vegas, as the largest U.S. casino market
charted a modest recovery, the city is saddled with the
consequences of a “false economy” based on ever-growing
homebuilding, City Manager Tim Hacker said. Property values last
year were half of what they were in 2007. One in every 216 homes
was in foreclosure in April, three times the national rate,
according to  RealtyTrac Inc.  in  Irvine , California.  Building and Cutting  “This has probably been more costly and more devastating
to North Las Vegas than any natural disaster that’s occurred
around the country,” Hacker said in his office at the granite-
and-glass City Hall. The offices, which opened in November, drew
complaints about free spending while 800 positions were being
cut.  The city fell victim to its own shortsightedness, said Jeff
Hurley, president of North Las Vegas Firefighters Local  1607 ,
one of the unions that rejected the city’s latest demands for
contract concessions and is challenging the assertion of
emergency powers.  “We’ve had foreclosure issues here,” Hurley said over a
chicken sandwich at a restaurant near the civic plaza. “And
they’re still spending $130 million on a new  City Hall . They
just kept trucking along. There were a lot of alternative
solutions. The constant has been to attack the city employees as
if they’re the problems.”  Blackjack and Beer  North Las Vegas is about 100 square miles of block-by-block
contrasts. City Hall overlooks gas stations, discount grocery
stores and a casino advertising $1 beer, a $2 “delicious”
lunch, $3 blackjack games and free check-cashing.  Gambling, Nevada’s signature industry, has rebounded on the
Strip, where gaming revenue  increased  6.6 percent for the year
ended March 31, according to the State Gaming Control Board. In
North Las Vegas, gambling revenue decreased by 0.35 percent in
the same period.  Just north of City Hall and the  Silver Nugget Casino  are
bungalows with barred doors and windows. Beyond, abutting
treeless mountains, are master-planned communities with names
like  Aliante  and Eldorado that blossomed during the housing boom
of the past decade.  With growth promising more  tax revenue , the city’s payroll
increased to 2,159 jobs in 2007 from 1,706 two years earlier,
said Juliet Casey, a city spokeswoman. Multi-year labor
contracts promised annual wage increases, according to a Fitch
Ratings report. City leaders embarked on projects such as a
 water reclamation facility  initially estimated to cost more than
$300 million.  Sapping the Center  Development on the suburban fringe of the city drew
attention away from poverty and decay in the central and
southern sections of town, said Robert Lang, who teaches urban
affairs at the  University of Nevada , Las Vegas.  “North Las Vegas may sound suburban, but it is quite urban
in its demographic composition,” Lang said by telephone. “It
has a pretty large share of urban poverty and a high minority
population.”                         On May 25,  Fitch Ratings  cut North Las Vegas’s general-
obligation debt to two steps above junk, citing the city’s
“severe fiscal distress.” The company questioned whether the
city’s attempt to suspend portions of union contracts by
asserting a state of emergency would survive a court challenge.  ‘Civil Disorder’  State law “permits the suspension of contracts in
‘situations of emergency such as a riot, military action,
natural disaster or civil disorder,’” analysts led by Shannon
Groff said in a report.  “The city plans to argue that the layoffs required
following failure to achieve the needed concessions would create
a public safety emergency,” according to the report.  In Henderson, another Las Vegas suburb and Nevada’s second-
most-populous city, assessed property value dropped by 45
percent in the same period as North Las Vegas’s fell by half.  While Henderson and North Las Vegas experienced similar
growth during the early and middle years of the past decade,
Henderson braced for a crash, said Bud Cranor, a city spokesman.  Unlike North Las Vegas, Henderson paid more than was
necessary into its workers-compensation and infrastructure funds
and suspended all capital projects in 2008, Cranor said in a
telephone interview. This year, Henderson adopted a 2 percent
across-the-board wage cut for employees, he said.  “There’s just a lot of things we’ve done differently,”
Cranor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in North Las Vegas at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  