-- Norway Credit Growth Slows in April to Ease Pressure on Rates
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-06-08T10:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/norway-credit-growth-slows-in-april-to-ease-pressure-on-rates.html
Norway ’s credit growth slowed in
April for the first time in five months, easing pressure on the
central bank to raise rates.  Credit growth was 6.7 percent in April, slowing from 7
percent in March, the Oslo-based  statistics agency said .
Economists had forecast growth of 7 percent in April, according
to the median of five estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Household
credit growth was 6.8 percent in April.  Norway’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at the lowest in two years last month as policy makers
show greater determination to curb krone gains than to cool the
country’s overheated property market. Low borrowing costs
and falling unemployment have boosted household credit
growth, pushing  house prices  to records.  “The slowdown in household credit growth should be welcome
news for the central bank which faces pressure to raise rates in
the face of strong domestic growth and higher-than-expected wage
growth,” said Ida Wolden Bache, an economist at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB, in a note to clients. “That said, today’s
figures are unlikely to have a strong impact on the immediate
interest rate decision.”  The krone was little changed at 7.5949 per euro as of 11:44
a.m. in Oslo.  The country’s financial regulator has warned that the
surging housing market is the biggest threat to the economy.
Near-record low  interest rates  and falling unemployment boosted
 home prices  almost 30 percent since 2008, according to the
Norwegian Real Estate Brokers Association.  The statistics agency said there was “some uncertainty”
in the data due to reclassification.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  