-- Nuclear Waste Storage Rules Thrown Out by U.S. Court
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-06-08T22:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/nuclear-waste-storage-rules-thrown-out-by-u-s-court.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  failed to fully evaluate risks associated with its
regulations on the storage of spent nuclear fuel and must draft
new ones, an appeals court ruled.  The commission’s conclusion that permanent storage will be
available in the future when it’s needed didn’t account for how
its absence could affect the environment now, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Washington said today in deciding a lawsuit brought
by  New York  state. The commission also failed to fully assess
the dangers of storing spent fuel onsite for 60 years after a
nuclear plant’s license expires, the court said.  “The commission’s evaluation of the risks of spent nuclear
fuel is deficient,” Chief Judge David Sentelle wrote for the
three-judge panel. Spent fuel “poses a dangerous long-term
health and environmental risk.”  Spent nuclear fuel refers to fuel rods that, after four to
six years of use in a reactor, are no longer efficient at
producing energy, according to the court filing. The rods, which
still emit dangerous radiation, are transferred to deep-water
pools for cooling. They may then be sent to dry storage in
concrete and steel casks at the site of the reactor.  Onsite storage is the industry’s only option “due to the
government’s failure to establish a final resting place,”
Sentelle said.  Nevada Repository  The ruling bolsters the case for a controversial central
waste repository in  Nevada , and could provide a new argument
against relicensing nuclear plants for opponents of atomic
energy, Margaret Harding, an independent nuclear industry
consultant, said in a telephone interview.  “It doesn’t directly put Yucca Mountain back on the table,
but it puts more pressure on the federal government to move
forward with permanent storage,” Harding said.  Activists seeking to block nuclear plants from gaining 20-
year license extensions may cite the decision in questioning
whether the power generators can adequately and safely store
waste, Harding said.  “This is a landmark victory for  New Yorkers , and people
across the country living in the shadows of nuclear  power
plants ,”  New York’s Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in
a statement. “We fought back against the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission ’s rubber stamp decision to allow radioactive waste at
our nation’s nuclear power plants to be stored for decades after
they’re shut down -- and we won.”  Legal Ramifications  Dale Klein , a former NRC chairman, said while the decision
helps make the case for central waste storage, the legal
ramifications of the ruling are limited.  “I don’t think it changes that much,” Klein said in a
phone interview. “What caught the NRC was a procedural issue:
if they had opened up the public comment period, this could have
been avoided.”  A trade group representing nuclear power plant owners and
operators urged the commission to quickly address the court’s
concerns.  “We are disappointed by the court’s decision as we believe
that the NRC supported its conclusions in the waste confidence
decision,” Ellen Ginsberg, vice-president and general counsel
of the Nuclear Energy Institute, an industry trade group, said
in a statement.  Holly Harrington, a spokeswoman for the commission, said in
an e-mailed statement that the NRC’s general counsel is
reviewing the decision.  Metric Tons  The U.S. nuclear power industry’s 104 reactors produce
about 2,000 to 2,300 metric tons of waste a year, all of which
is stored onsite, according to the  Nuclear Energy Institute .  While debate has simmered in Washington for four decades
over how to dispose of spent fuel, the industry has generated
about 67,500 metric tons of high-level radioactive waste stored
at about 75 closed and operating nuclear plant sites, according
to the Nuclear Energy Institute.  Republicans in Congress want the Obama administration to
revive a waste facility in Yucca Mountain that was built, but
never licensed, after receiving about $15 billion in industry
and government funding.  The administration scrapped the Nevada repository, about
100 miles (161 kilometers) northwest of  Las Vegas , because of
opposition in the state led by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat.  Storage Prospects  With no other prospects for long-term storage, the NRC
began drafting rules to ensure fuel could continue to be stored
safely onsite at nuclear plants.  Concerns about the accumulating waste was heightened last
year after a spent-fuel pool at one unit of the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station in  Japan  ignited when water
boiled away amid a  power failure .  A commission created by President  Barack Obama  in 2010
bolstered the case for Yucca Mountain by recommending in January
that the government lay the groundwork for central storage and
revamp a $27 billion fund to pay for nuclear waste disposal.  As for onsite storage, the NRC’s analysis of the
environmental impact was “conducted in generic fashion,”
Sentelle wrote. The petitioners, which besides New York include
 New Jersey ,  Vermont  and  Connecticut , as well as the Prairie
Island Indian community and environmental groups, argued
environmental effects should have been studied on a site-by-site
basis.  It’s unclear whether a change in leadership at NRC will aid
efforts to resolve the issue.  Gregory Jaczko , who resigned as
commission chairman on May 21, had directed the agency to wind
down its work on the Yucca project.  Allison Macfarlane, a geologist and expert on atomic waste
selected as Jaczko’s successor, has questioned the suitability
of Yucca Mountain as a proposed dump site.  The case is New York v. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 11-
1045, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  