-- NYSE Opposing Nasdaq May Delay Facebook Compensation Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/nyse-opposition-to-nasdaq-could-delay-facebook-compensation-plan.html
A battle between  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  over a proposed remedy to  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
botched initial public offering places the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in the middle of a dispute that could delay
compensation for brokers.  Nasdaq  OMX, the second biggest U.S. exchange operator, is
seeking SEC approval of a plan to set aside $40 million for
brokers whose orders were mishandled during the glitch, which
delayed trades for about 30 minutes during Facebook’s May 18
trading debut. NYSE Euronext, the biggest U.S. exchange owner,
says the plan is unfair because a portion of the proposed
compensation package is a discount on future trading fees, which
may boost Nasdaq’s market share at the expense of competitors.  Executives of exchanges Bats Global Markets Inc. and Direct
Edge Holdings LLC, which owns U.S. equity exchanges, raised
similar concerns yesterday.  Facebook’s $16 billion IPO is already the subject of an SEC
review and shareholder lawsuits. The opposition to Nasdaq’s plan
by fellow exchange operators reduces the likelihood that the SEC
will quickly approve the compensation measure.  “It definitely complicates things,” said Roberta Karmel,
a former SEC commissioner who is now a professor at Brooklyn Law
School. “It seems to be making a bad situation worse.”  Nasdaq spokesman Joseph Christinat and  Richard Adamonis , an
NYSE spokesman, declined to comment on the plan.  Facebook shares have fallen 31 percent since its IPO;
Nasdaq OMX has declined 3.9 percent in the same period.  Nasdaq hasn’t yet submitted an official filing with the SEC
explaining how the exchange wants to change its rules to allow
the compensation, SEC spokesman  John Nester  said. He declined to
comment on the plan.  ‘Novel Situation’  There is little precedent for how the SEC should handle a
technical problem that hurt trading during such a high-profile
and closely scrutinized IPO, said James Angel, a professor at
 Georgetown University ’s McDonough School of Business in
Washington.  “This is a novel situation,” he said. “This is really
the first time where a major technical glitch has led to such
major issues.”  That means the SEC will take extra care to scrutinize
Nasdaq’s proposal, which will prevent a speedy resolution for
investors, Angel said.  “Don’t expect a check in the mail anytime soon,” he said.  Facebook was sold by underwriters at $38 on May 17. The
pricing of the next morning’s first public transaction, a trade
known as the IPO cross, took 30 minutes longer than Nasdaq
planned. About 30 minutes after that, the market owner reported
an issue confirming trades.  Transaction Delays  Order updates and cancellations totaling 30 million shares
were submitted into the auction as a technical issue was being
repaired between 11:11 a.m. and 11:30 a.m.  New York  time, Nasdaq
CEO  Robert Greifeld  told reporters on May 20. About half may
involve “some level of dispute,” he said.  Nasdaq said in a May 21 notice that the 30 million shares
didn’t participate in the IPO cross. An error prevented
execution reports for the shares that entered the auction, as
well as those that were ignored, from being disseminated
immediately to brokerages, the company said.  The program Nasdaq announced June 6 would cover three kinds
of orders placed during the IPO cross: sales priced at $42 or
less that weren’t executed; purchases priced at $42; and certain
types of sell orders that should have participated in the cross
and were entered into the market at 1:50 p.m. New York time on
the day of the offering, receiving less than $42.  Discounting Trades  Under the $40 million compensation proposal, Nasdaq said it
would pay the qualified brokers $13.7 million in cash with the
rest of the money credited through lower trading fees for
members who took losses. NYSE said such discounts would
encourage customers to trade on Nasdaq to get refunds.  “Such a tactic would potentially strongly incent customers
to divert order flow to Nasdaq in order to receive compensation
to which they are entitled and allow Nasdaq to reap a benefit
from market share gains they would not have otherwise
received,” the exchange said in a statement. “This is
tantamount to forcing the industry to subsidize Nasdaq’s
missteps.”  “Horrible Conflict”  William O’Brien , the chief executive officer of Direct
Edge, said Nasdaq’s plan “violates U.S. securities laws” and
hurts competition among the exchanges. “There’s a horrible
conflict of interest for brokers who have to decide is Nasdaq
right because of its general value proposition or am I motivated
by getting a discount?” He said in an interview.  “It’s like going to a restaurant,” he added. “Are you
going there for the food or because you have a 50 percent off
coupon?”  Nasdaq’s Greifeld told CNBC on June 6 that the discounted
trades won’t increase his exchange’s market share.  “We are offering this to our customers that transact with
us every day,” he said. “They do not have to give us one
incremental share for them to earn this payment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  