-- Obama Says White House Officials Didn’t Leak Intelligence
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-06-08T16:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/obama-says-white-house-officials-didn-t-leak-intelligence.html
President  Barack Obama  said White
House officials didn’t leak classified intelligence to
journalists and that the government’s investigation into the
disclosures might lead to criminal charges.  “The notion that my White House would purposely release
classified national security information is offensive,” Obama
said in the White House briefing room. “It’s wrong.”  Details about a U.S. cyber attack against  Iran’s nuclear
program  and the president’s personal role in directing drone
attacks against terrorists was reported by news organizations
such as the  New York  Times and the  Associated Press . The Obama
administration has been accused of leaking the information to
boost the president’s national security bona fides ahead of the
Nov. 6 presidential election.  In response to a question, the president said those who
leaked “will suffer consequences” and in some instances
leaking could be considered a “criminal act.”  In a June 6 statement, Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the
senior Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said
the disclosures were “grossly irresponsible” and he says he
sees “deeper political motivation” for leaks.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  is probing the leaks,
and the Senate Armed Services and Intelligence Committees plan
hearings.  ‘Not a Game’  “This is not a game,” McCain said in the June 6
statement. “This is far more important than mere politics. Laws
have apparently been broken.”  The Central Intelligence Agency declined to respond to a
U.S. House Intelligence Committee request for information about
leaks of classified data, Representative Mike Rogers, the
panel’s chairman, said yesterday.  The committee had asked about last month’s disclosure of
details of a covert operation that thwarted plans by al-Qaeda’s
Yemen affiliate to smuggle a potentially undetectable bomb onto
a U.S.-bound airliner, according to a congressional aide who is
not authorized to speak to the media. The CIA told the panel the
information wouldn’t be provided because the matter is under
investigation by the FBI, the aide said.  Obama initially said he wouldn’t comment on the leaks
today. He then said certain issues are “classified for a reason
because they’re sensitive and because people involved may in
some cases be in danger if they’re carrying out some of these
missions.”  At a Bloomberg breakfast yesterday, Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who is chairman of the
Senate  Homeland Security  and Governmental Affairs Committee,
said he had spoken with White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew
about the leaks and Lew told him he was “sickened” by
allegations that they came from within the White House.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  