-- Obama Says Europe Must Act as Crisis Threatens Recovery
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-06-08T20:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/obama-says-congress-must-act-as-europe-puts-drag-on-u-s-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  pressed
 Europe ’s leaders to take “decisive” action to stimulate growth
while dealing with debt, saying the euro-zone crisis is putting
a serious drag on the U.S. economy.  “The sooner they act, the more decisive and concrete their
action, the sooner people and markets will regain some
confidence,” Obama said at a White House news conference.  The president also cited Europe’s financial woes to
pressure Congress for action on jobs measures that have been
stalled since he proposed them last September.  A U.S. slowdown would deal a blow to Obama’s bid for re-
election and reinforce Republican  Mitt Romney ’s main line of
attack against the president. A Labor Department  report  a week
ago showed only 69,000 new jobs were created by employers in May
and the  unemployment rate  rose to 8.2 percent, up 0.1 percent.  With the state of the economy the dominant issue in the
campaign, most national polls show Obama and Romney tied for
support among Americans. Speaking shortly after Obama’s remarks,
Romney said at a campaign appearance in Council Bluffs,  Iowa ,
that Obama is “out of touch” for saying the private sector of
the economy “is doing fine.”  Growth Push  On Europe, Obama repeated the prescription for the 17-
nation euro zone that he outlined when he met with other leaders
from the Group of Eight countries May 18 and 19.  “Even as European countries with large debt burdens carry
out necessary fiscal reforms, they’ve also got to promote
economic growth and job creation,” he said.  European leaders including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President  Francois Hollande  are “working to put in
place a growth agenda” along with “responsible fiscal plans.”  “They have America’s support,” Obama said. “Their
success is good for us.”  Hollande and Obama spoke by telephone today, both
governments announced. They “agreed on the importance of steps
to strengthen the resilience of the euro zone and growth in
Europe and globally,” according to a White House news release.  In focusing on Europe, Obama is seeking to balance his
domestic political priorities with the prospect that more
pressure may be counterproductive, particularly with Merkel, who
has advocated austerity measures to rein in debt.  “The Merkel government is really getting sick of all the
complaining and lecturing from the Obama administration,”
Fredrik Erixon, head of the European Centre for International
Political Economy in Brussels, said by phone before Obama spoke.  G-20 Meeting  Obama will be meeting with Merkel and other Group of 20
leaders at a summit in Los Cabos,  Mexico , on June 18-19, nine
days before the next EU crisis summit in Brussels.  Obama said the U.S. financial system can absorb “shocks”
better because of reforms put in place since he took office.
Still, he said, if Europe goes into a recession, “that means
we’re selling fewer goods, fewer services, and that is going to
have some impact on the pace of our recovery.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a
congressional committee yesterday that policy makers will
discuss later this month whether to do more to spur growth in
the U.S., though he said the steps they could take may have
“diminishing returns.”  Treasuries rose for a second day amid concern Spain may
become the fourth of the euro-bloc countries to require
emergency aid. The  10-year note  yield declined one basis point
today, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 4:10 p.m.
 New York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  advanced 0.8 percent to
1,325.58 at 4 p.m. New York time, extending its rally this week
to 3.7 percent, the biggest weekly gain since December.  Spain’s Banks  Obama’s remarks came ahead of weekend talks among euro zone
finance chiefs on a potential assistance request from Spain to
shore up the nation’s lenders.  A bailout for Spain, reeling from a recession and the
bursting of a property bubble, may dwarf previous rescues in the
effort to stem the turmoil that began with  Greece ’s disclosure
in 2009 that its finances were in worse shape than was
previously known.  Obama said today it is in “everybody’s” interest for
Greece to stay in the euro zone and he warned Greece that its
hardships will increase if the nation exits.  Obama said Congress should adopt major portions of the $447
billion jobs plan he offered in September that the
administration says would put construction workers back to work
upgrading roads and bridges, teachers back in the classroom and
police and firefighters on the job.  Government Workers  While private sector employers have added 4.3 million jobs,
he said, “state and local government hiring has been going in
the wrong direction.”  “Given signs of weakness in the world economy,” he said.
“It’s critical we take the actions we can to strengthen the
 U.S. economy  right now.”  The September jobs package called for $35 billion to re-
hire teachers and first responders, $30 billion to modernize
schools and $50 billion for so-called “surface
transportation,” such as road and bridges.  Republican Response  Republicans rejected Obama’s message.  “He said the private sector is doing fine,” Romney, a
former governor of  Massachusetts , said in Iowa. “Is he really
that out of touch?”  Romney said Obama’s plea to spend on hiring government
workers shows he didn’t “get the message of  Wisconsin ,”
referring to the June 5 victory of Republican Governor  Scott Walker  in a recall election sought by supporters of public
employee unions.  Obama later sought to clarify his remarks. “It is
absolutely clear that the economy is not doing fine, that’s the
reason I had the press conference,” he said in the Oval Office
after meeting with Philippine President  Benigno Aquino .  Republican leaders in Congress said that Obama’s policies
and government deficits are as much to blame for the lackluster
U.S. economy as Europe’s debt crisis.  “Remember one thing,” House Speak  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican told reporters. “It’s the debt in Europe, and if we
don’t get busy dealing with our debt, we’re going to be in the
same shape.”  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said
Obama’s proposals are off base.  “It’s baffling that, in the face of all evidence to the
contrary, this president still believes that spending money we
don’t have to inflate the government is the answer to America’s
economic problems,” McConnell said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  