-- Obama Increases Pakistan Drone Strikes as Relations Sour
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-09T00:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/obama-increases-pakistan-drone-strikes-as-relations-sour.html
President  Barack Obama  has ordered a
sharp increase in drone strikes against suspected terrorists in
 Pakistan  in recent months, anticipating the CIA may soon need to
halt such operations in Pakistan’s territory, two U.S. officials
said.  His decision reflects mounting U.S. frustration with
Pakistan over a growing list of disputes -- mirrored by
Pakistani grievances with the U.S. -- that have soured relations
and weakened security cooperation. The U.S. is withholding at
least $3 billion in reimbursements for counterinsurgency
operations and security-related funding, according to
congressional aides and Pakistani officials.  “We are reaching the limits of our patience, and for that
reason it’s extremely important that Pakistan take action” to
crack down on armed groups based there that attack American and
coalition forces in Afghanistan, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said yesterday in Kabul.  In more than a dozen interviews, diplomats from both
nations say they are trying to repair rifts that have sent
relations to the lowest point in two decades, while military and
intelligence officials are less sanguine about building trust.
At stake are billions of dollars in U.S. funding for an ally in
financial crisis, and American influence with a nuclear-armed
power as U.S. forces pull out of neighboring Afghanistan.  Remaining Base  U.S. officials, who spoke yesterday on the condition of
anonymity to discuss classified intelligence, said they expect
Pakistan may order the CIA to stop using a remaining air base
from which the officials say they have controlled Predators to
target militants sheltered in Pakistan’s tribal areas bordering
 Afghanistan .  Pakistani authorities today disputed the U.S. version of
events, insisting that the CIA officers working on the drones
program were expelled from all Pakistani air bases late last
year. Predator strikes on targets in Pakistan’s tribal areas are
being launched from bases in Afghanistan, according to two
Pakistani national security officials who spoke on condition of
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak.  The U.S. conducted drone strikes from air bases inside
Pakistan starting in 2004 with the tacit approval of authorities
in Islamabad. The strikes became extremely unpopular in
Pakistan, where politicians and the media denounce them as a
violation of sovereignty that has claimed innocent bystanders.
Pakistan’s parliament and leadership have demanded the U.S.
cease the strikes entirely.  Drones Opposition  Obama administration officials say opposition to the drones
is an example of Pakistan’s unwillingness to cooperate and crack
down on certain militant groups who they say have enjoyed
protection from security forces. The White House and the
Pentagon are so frustrated with the failure to reach a
compromise on this and other issues -- such as frozen NATO
supply lines to Afghanistan -- that the administration is
prepared to accept Pakistan aid cuts pending in Congress and
cultivate closer relations with  India , Pakistan’s longtime
rival, U.S. officials said.  Pakistan has its own set of grievances with the U.S., and
Panetta’s open scolding doesn’t help, said Pakistan’s Ambassador
to Washington Sherry Rehman.  “This kind of public messaging from a senior member of the
U.S. administration is taken very seriously in Pakistan, and
reduces the space for narrowing our bilateral differences at a
critical time in the negotiations,” she said yesterday in an
interview. “It adds an unhelpful twist to the process and
leaves little oxygen for those of us seeking to break a
stalemate.”  Stalled Cooperation  Cooperation has been at a standstill for more than six
months since Pakistan shut down NATO military supply routes to
Afghanistan after U.S. forces accidentally killed 24 Pakistani
border forces during a friendly fire incident in November. When
U.S. officials privately agreed in February to Pakistan’s
demands for a public apology, Pakistani officials asked them to
wait until a parliamentary committee completed recommendations
for a reset of relations, according to officials on both sides.  By the time the review was completed two months later, a
series of attacks in Afghanistan by Pakistan-based militants
left U.S. officials furious and no longer willing to apologize,
officials said on condition of anonymity.  Reaching Accommodation  U.S. and Pakistani officials said they are trying to
resolve the two most serious disagreements: the drone program
and military supply routes. Most spoke on condition of anonymity
to be candid about the tensions in an alliance that has fallen
to its lowest point since 1990. That year, Congress banned most
economic and military aid to Pakistan over its nuclear program,
and the U.S. refused to deliver a fleet of F-16 aircraft for
which Pakistan had paid nearly $500 million.  In conversations last month, some officials on both sides
hinted intelligence sharing might be possible to allow drone
strikes to be conducted by the two countries in concert, and
suggested a deal might be coming on supply lines. This week, no
one expressed any optimism about a breakthrough on either issue
-- or any quick resolution of many other disagreements.  “This relationship is sinking, but has yet to reach the
bottom,” said  Bruce Riedel , a former CIA analyst who led a
White House review of U.S. policy on Afghanistan and Pakistan
when Obama first took office.  ‘Extraordinarily Dissatisfied’  Riedel, now a fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington, said Pakistan is harboring three of the U.S.’s most-
wanted terrorists: al-Qaeda leader  Ayman al-Zawahiri ; Afghan
Taliban leader  Mullah Omar ; and Hafiz Saeed, the Lashkar-e-Taiba
chief blamed for masterminding the 2008 attacks that killed 166
people in Mumbai.  Panetta’s comments in Kabul -- and the fact that he did not
seek a stop in Pakistan while visiting neighboring India and
Afghanistan -- reflect U.S. officials’ frustration over what
they say is an increasing flow of money, training and arms to
the Pakistan-based Haqqani militant group, which has attacked
American and allied personnel in Afghanistan.  The U.S. is “extraordinarily dissatisfied” with Pakistan
over the Haqqani network, U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman
Army General Martin Dempsey said yesterday at the Pentagon.  The Obama administration considers the drones a vital part
of a counterterror campaign that protects both nations. U.S.
officials said a strike this week killed al-Qaeda’s No. 2
leader, Abu Yahya al-Libi, in Pakistan’s North Waziristan area.
The U.S. will continue the drone strikes from Pakistan -- as
well as from neighboring Afghanistan -- for as long as it can,
two U.S. officials said.  Pakistani Rebuttal  Pakistani national security officials, who spoke on
condition of anonymity, denied that Pakistan is aiding U.S.
enemies. Two officials said if the U.S. has evidence that the
Haqqanis maintain bases in Pakistan’s tribal areas, it should
share that information so Pakistan can eliminate them.  The Pakistani officials said the U.S. hasn’t done so and
hasn’t been able to locate and use drones to destroy Haqqani
bases in Pakistan, which they said undermines U.S. claims that
Pakistan is actively sheltering insurgents.  Pakistani security officials also said it’s insulting that
Obama refused to meet with their president at the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization summit in  Chicago  last month.  U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
they made clear that Obama would meet with President Asif Ali Zardari only if a deal was reached to reopen the NATO supply
lines to Afghanistan before the Chicago summit. U.S. officials
said they had Pakistani assurances that a deal was imminent, and
the failure to close a deal before Zardari’s arrival was one
more blow to Pakistan’s standing with the administration.  ‘Dug In’  “Both sides are really dug in and neither side is
particularly interested in making an accommodation,” said Jonah
Blank, the former South Asia policy adviser for the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, now a senior political scientist at
the Rand Corporation in Arlington, Virginia. “The level of
anger is huge.”  The relationship can no longer be compared to a
rollercoaster, he said; it’s more like a “downward spiral.”  The impasse over the NATO routes came after a series of
other flash points last year, including the killing of two
Pakistanis by a CIA contractor and the U.S. raid on al-Qaeda
leader Osama  bin Laden ’s compound without informing Pakistani
officials.  Ambassador Rehman said in an interview last week that while
this may be a low point, “It’s not as low as it looks, because
there is a fair amount of commitment on both sides to keep the
relationship going.”  Money Demands  U.S. officials said the supply-route talks are hung up
because Pakistan is demanding more money than the U.S. is
willing to pay to move cargo. Pakistan is also seeking U.S.
funding for road repairs and other infrastructure rebuilding to
compensate for wear and tear from NATO convoys, according to
U.S. officials.  Rehman said the issue is about “coming up with new
frameworks of mutual cooperation,” not money.  Pakistan is “looking for a face-saving” solution, Hasan- Askari Rizvi, an independent political and military analyst in
Lahore, said in a telephone interview. The military, he said,
“used to decide on foreign policy in the past. Now, they don’t
want to take the blame,” and the civilian leadership is
distracted and fears political criticism for making any
concessions.  Aid Suspended  In  Washington , Congress is moving to cut aid and other
payments to Pakistan. Pakistan was supposed to be the No. 3
recipient of U.S. foreign aid this fiscal year, though since
last summer the administration hasn’t released more than $1
billion in security funding for fiscal years 2011 and 2012.  Military aid was suspended following the uproar in Pakistan
over the violation of its sovereignty by the U.S. raid that
killed bin Laden in Abbottabad. Pakistan expelled U.S. military
trainers and denied visas for U.S. officials.  The U.S. acknowledges it hasn’t paid Pakistan more than $1
billion in counterinsurgency reimbursements owed since December
2010. Pakistan says that tab has now grown to almost $3 billion.  Meanwhile, the Senate Appropriations Committee last month
voted to cut by two-thirds the administration’s request for more
than $2.2 billion in foreign aid to Pakistan for fiscal year
2013, said Alan Kronstadt, a Pakistan specialist at the non-
partisan  Congressional Research Service .  The full House voted to block counterinsurgency
reimbursements until NATO supply lines are reopened, cap the
total amount of reimbursements and condition payments on proven
counterterrorism cooperation, he said.  Sesame Street  There is even a dispute over U.S. funding for Pakistan’s
“Sesame Street,” halted this week following fraud allegations
against the puppet theater that produces the show. The group
denies the charges and an investigation is under way.  “Relations are at the worst level ever and appear to be
deadlocked right now -- and it’s not likely to get better any
time soon,” said Brian Katulis, a foreign policy adviser to the
Obama re-election campaign and a Pakistan specialist at the
Center for American Progress in Washington.  Complicating matters, it’s an election year in both
nations, and neither government wants to be seen as “soft,”
given public opinion.  A Pew Research poll last June found 69 percent of
Pakistanis called the U.S. an “enemy” after the U.S. raid that
killed bin Laden; 6 percent saw the U.S. a “partner.” A CBS
poll in November found 63 percent of Americans viewed Pakistan
as an “enemy” or “unfriendly,” with 23 percent calling
Pakistan an “ally” or “friendly.”  Husain Haqqani , Pakistan’s former ambassador to Washington,
calls the core problem one of conflicting narratives.  “The depth of the sentiment in Pakistan that it is an ally
receiving bad treatment from the U.S. is not fully understood in
Washington,” he said in an interview. “And the debate in
Washington, where most people no longer consider Pakistan a
friend and an ally, is not being understood in Islamabad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  