-- Obama Dials Back Optimism After Romney Jumps on Comments
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-06-08T21:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/obama-dials-back-optimism-after-romney-jumps-on-comments.html
President  Barack Obama  sought to
contain political damage by clarifying optimistic comments about
the state of the U.S. private sector, saying it is “absolutely
clear that the economy is not doing fine.”  His remarks came after Mitt Romney and other Republicans
seized on comments the president made at a White House news
conference that they said showed Obama doesn’t understand the
state of the  U.S. economy .  “The truth of the matter is that, as I said, we’ve created
4.3 million jobs over the last 27 months, over 800,000 just this
year alone,” Obama said at a White House news conference. “The
private sector is doing fine.”  Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee,
told Iowa voters that Obama is “defining what it means to be
detached and out of touch with the American people.” House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said at a news
conference, “My question would be to the president, ’Are you
kidding?”’  The  Republican National Committee  rushed out a Web ad that
featured a video clip of Obama saying “the private sector’s
doing fine” followed by text posing the question, “How can
President Obama fix our economy if he doesn’t understand what’s
broken?”  The campaign conflict caps a week of economic and political
developments that have placed the administration on the
defensive. These include the rise of the nation’s  unemployment
rate  to 8.2 percent in May and the failure of Democrats and
organized labor in a recall campaign against Republican Governor
 Scott Walker  in Wisconsin, a state Obama’s campaign is counting
on for his re-election.  Recalling 2008  The back-and-forth recalled a key moment in the 2008
campaign. The Republican nominee,  Arizona  Senator  John McCain 
said “the fundamentals of our economy are strong” on Sept. 15
following the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
amid the financial crisis. At the time, Obama’s campaign derided
McCain as “out of touch.”  “I’m sure Democratic speechwriters, their stomachs were
turning,” independent political analyst Stu Rothenberg said.  Steve Elmendorf , a Democratic strategist who served as a
deputy campaign manager for Democrat  John Kerry ’s 2004
presidential campaign, said while Republicans would try to get
mileage out of the comment, Obama’s analysis was accurate.  “Look, the economy’s doing better than when he started out
being president,” Elmendorf said. “He made it pretty clear
he’s not satisfied with where things are and things need to
improve.”  Republican Opening  Republicans saw an opening.  “I think it’s a pretty devastating mistake,” said Rob Stutzman, a Sacramento, California-based Republican political
consultant. He compared it with McCain’s 2008 remarks, which
were widely seen as a significant blow to his election chances.  “This is the day that he really lost his grip on his re-
election,” Stutzman said of Obama.  “As John McCain learned, you can’t put toothpaste back in
the tube,” said  Dan Schnur , a former McCain aide who is now the
director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the
University of  Southern California . It may not matter in the
long-term, he said.  “But in the short term it’s not an ideal way to end up a
less than ideal week,” Schnur said.  Matter of Timing  Robert Dallek, a retired professor of presidential history
at  Boston University , said the timing may matter more than the
actual remarks.  “At this point in the election cycle people are paying
very, very little attention,” he said. “There will be so many
other things on the front page and something will come along
tomorrow that will just push this to farthest reaches of people
minds.”  Romney used Obama’s statement to reinforce his line of
attack against the president.  “Is he really that out of touch? I think he’s defining
what it means to be detached and out of touch with the American
people,” Romney said at a campaign event outside at a park in
Council Bluffs,  Iowa . “Has there ever been an American
president who is so far from reality?”  Following Romney’s jab, Obama told reporters gathered in
the Oval Office where he held an afternoon meeting with
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino , “Listen, it is absolutely
clear that the economy is not doing fine. That’s the reason I
had the press conference.”  ‘Good Momentum’  While there has been “some good momentum” in the private
sector, “there are too many people out of work, the housing
market is still weak and too many homes underwater.  “That’s precisely why I asked Congress to start taking
some steps that can make a difference.”  Obama’s re-election prospects suffered a blow June 1 after
the government reported that hiring slowed last month,
reinforcing Romney’s criticism of him.  Jobs in the U.S. grew by 69,000 in May, the fewest in a
year and less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of private economists. The unemployment rate
increased to 8.2 percent, the first rise since last June.  Romney also questioned Obama’s calls for additional federal
spending to boost job growth.  “He wants another stimulus. He wants to hire more
government workers,” Romney said. “Did he not get the message
of Wisconsin?” he said, referring to Republican Governor Scott Walker’s June 5 victory in a recall election spurred by his push
to restrict bargaining rights for public-employee unions. “The
American people did.”  Economic Proposals  Obama said Romney and Republicans in Congress haven’t
offered proposals to spur growth.  “What I’m interested in hearing from Congress and Mr.
Romney is, what steps are they willing to take right now that
are going to make an actual difference?” Obama said after the
meeting with the president of the  Philippines .  Obama’s campaign accused Romney of trying to “talk down”
the U.S. economy.  “Iowans got today what they’ve come to expect from  Mitt
Romney : angry, dishonest rhetoric about President Obama and zero
new solutions to grow the economy and strengthen the middle
class,” Obama re-election spokeswoman Lis Smith said in a
statement.  Romney was last in Iowa less than a month ago, on May 16,
and its place on his schedule signals his interest in trying to
take the state from Obama’s column in the 2012 election.  An NBC News-Marist  poll  released May 31 showed Obama and
Romney tied in Iowa, each with support from 44 percent of
registered voters, figures that include those who are undecided
yet leaning toward one of the candidates. Eliminating the
leaners, 10 percent of voters in the state are undecided, the
poll showed.  The campaign for Iowa’s electoral votes will play out in a
state with a better economic environment than the national
picture. The state’s  jobless rate  in April was 5.1 percent,
below the current national average of 8.2 percent and down from
6.3 percent in November 2010.  After his Iowa stop, Romney was scheduled to appear in  Salt
Lake City  with Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , who faces
a primary race on June 26, and attend a fundraiser there. He is
taking the weekend off from the campaign trail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  