-- Modric to Join Manchester United After Euro 2012: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-08T07:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/modric-to-join-manchester-united-after-euro-2012-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Modric to Manchester  Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Luka Modric is to join
 Manchester United  for an initial transfer fee of 25 million
pounds ($38.6 million) that may rise to 30 million pounds based
on appearances and success, the  Sun reported .  Modric, 26, will be given a four-year contract and his
wages of 125,000 pounds a week will put him among United’s
highest earners, the newspaper said. He’ll seal the move after
playing for  Croatia  at Euro 2012, the Sun added.  Teenage Talent      United has agreed to sign 18-year-old striker Angelo
Henriquez from  Universidad de Chile  for 3 million pounds, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  The Red Devils, who have been tracking Henriquez for more
than a year, will have to secure a so-called special talent visa
to sign a player who’s scored eight goals in 10 games for
Universidad, the newspaper added.  Kranjcar Leaves Spurs   Dynamo Kiev  signed midfielder Niko Kranjcar from Tottenham
on a four-year contract for about 5.5 million pounds, the
 Independent reported .  The 27-year-old, a member of Croatia’s Euro 2012 squad,
scored 11 goals in 72 games for Spurs, though struggled to get
into the team last season, the newspaper added.  Higuain Rejection  Tottenham’s bid to lure Gonzalo Higuain from Real Madrid
was rebuffed by the Argentine striker, who has opted to fight
for his place after struggling to earn a starting berth for the
Spanish champion last season, the  Daily Mail reported .  Beckham for Britain  David Beckham  will move a step closer to his dream of
playing for  Great Britain  at the London Olympics when he’s named
today in a 35-man squad to be submitted to FIFA by Team GB
manager  Stuart Pearce , the  Sun reported .  Pearce will whittle down the roster and submit an 18-man
squad to Games organizers and FIFA by July 9, the Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  