-- Oil Heads for Longest Run of Weekly Losses Since 1998
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-08T12:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/oil-heads-for-longest-run-of-weekly-losses-in-more-than-13-years.html
Oil fell a second day in  New York ,
heading for the longest run of weekly losses in more than 13
years, on speculation the economies of the U.S. and China, the
world’s biggest crude consumers, will slow and curb fuel demand.  Futures dropped as much as 3.3 percent. Federal Reserve
officials need to assess the risk from Europe’s debt crisis and
U.S. budget cuts before deciding on stimulus measures, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said to the Joint Economic Committee
yesterday. China reports economic data tomorrow after cutting
 interest rates  for the first time since 2008. Global crude
supply is sufficient, Youcef Yousfi, Algeria’s energy minister,
said before OPEC meets next week in Vienna.  “Finally the depth of the euro crisis is becoming clear,”
said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd.
in London, who correctly predicted earlier this week that oil
would fall. “We are now seeing the effects of a decade of
financial imprudence in Europe, and the extent of the re-
structuring that is required is becoming obvious. The desperate
state that Europe is in will lead to significantly lower  oil
prices  in the short term.”  Oil for July delivery decreased as much as $2.82 to $82 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $82.64 at 1:07 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday slipped 0.2 percent to $84.82, the lowest
close since June 5. Prices are down 4.5 percent this month and
poised for a sixth weekly decline, the longest losing streak
since December 1998. Oil has fallen 16 percent this year.  China Outlook  Brent for July settlement slid $1.97, or 2 percent, to
$97.96 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $15.32, compared with $15.11 yesterday.  China  reports inflation, investment and output figures
tomorrow that may signal the economy is weaker than the
government anticipated as Europe’s debt crisis threatens global
growth. The nation’s central bank reduced the one-year lending
and deposit rates by a quarter percentage point yesterday and
loosened controls on the cost of loans.  China will reduce gasoline and diesel prices by the most
since 2008 after global crude costs slumped. Retail gasoline
will fall by 530  yuan  ($83) a metric ton starting tomorrow and
diesel will be cut by 510 yuan, the nation’s National
Development and Reform Commission said today.  Data Dump  “I don’t think anybody is really going to be carrying much
of a position into the weekend with the China data dump,” said
Nick Trevethan, a senior commodities strategist at  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Singapore . “Certainly the
market is concerned about what the data may bring.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
supplies about 40 percent of the world’s crude, will study
prices to keep the market balanced when it meets in Vienna on
June 14, Algeria’s Yousfi said yesterday at the World Gas
Conference in  Kuala Lumpur . The world has enough oil, he said.  OPEC plans to export 24.1 million barrels a day of crude,
or 6.2 percent more than a year earlier, in the four weeks
ending June 23, according to Oil Movements, a tanker tracker.
The data exclude Angola and Ecuador.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, has been pumping
more than 9.5 million barrels a day since June 2011, the longest
stretch for at least 11 years, according to data from the U.S.
Energy Department. Output is currently at 10 million barrels a
day, Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said in Tokyo on May 8. That’s
the highest level since at least 1980, according to U.S.
government data.  Prices May Rebound  “If prices are pushed significantly below here OPEC may
take some supply off the market,” according to Ric Spooner, a
chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “That’s a reason
not to get too aggressive to the downside.”  Oil may rebound next week, a Bloomberg survey showed. Nine
of 25 analysts, or 36 percent, forecast prices will advance
through June 15. Eight respondents, or 32 percent, predicted
that futures will decline and eight said there will be little
change. Last week, 52 percent of analysts expected prices to
decrease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  