-- Oil Pares Losses on Spanish Bailout Speculation
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-08T20:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/oil-heads-for-longest-weekly-losing-streak-since-1998.html
Oil pared losses and struggled to the
first weekly gain in six weeks on the possibility that
discussions by European finance officials this weekend would
yield a bailout for  Spain .  Crude rebounded by $1.21 in the last 20 minutes of floor
trading as Spain prepared to become the fourth of the 17 euro-
area countries to seek emergency assistance. Earlier, oil
dropped as much as 3.3 percent after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  damped expectations for monetary stimulus.  “People are thinking that there might be some good news
coming out of Europe over the weekend,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “Maybe the worst is out and people don’t want to
be short. Bernanke’s comments really hammered the market.”  Oil for July delivery fell 72 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
settle at $84.10 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices rose 1 percent this week. They have decreased 15 percent
this year.  Brent for July settlement slid 46 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$99.47 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “There’s room for prices to go up if you get any form of
supportive government policy,” said Amrita Sen, a London-based
analyst at  Barclays Capital .  European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said
today that a Spanish request is “awaited” and will be
“exclusively directed at the recapitalization of banks.”  Conference Call  The bid may come as soon as tomorrow when finance ministers
hold a midafternoon conference call, said a German official and
a European Union aide, who declined to be identified because the
matter is confidential.  Fitch Ratings  cut Spain’s long-term credit rating to BBB
yesterday and left it two notches from junk, citing the cost of
recapitalizing the country’s banking industry and a lengthening
recession.  Nymex futures this week traded from $87.03 to $81.21, an
eight-month intraday low.  “Do I want to go home short at the bottom part of the
range and have all the headline risk?” said Rich Ilczyszyn,
chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago .
The market is “basically a letdown after Bernanke’s comments
yesterday.”  Crude also reduced losses as U.S. stocks advanced as
investors awaited the weekend talks. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index capped its best week in 2012, rising 0.8 percent today.  Spanish Bailout  “Spain is looking to officially ask for the bailout over
the weekend,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital
LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“Bernanke really let the markets down with his failure to
signal a real disposition toward more easing.”  Prices dropped to as low as $82 in intraday trading on
comments by Bernanke yesterday that Fed officials need to assess
the risk from  Europe  and U.S. budget cuts before deciding on
stimulus measures.  The Fed “remains prepared to take action as needed,” he
said in congressional testimony yesterday, refraining from
discussing steps the central bank might take to protect the
economic expansion. “The situation in Europe poses significant
risks to the U.S. financial system and economy and must be
monitored closely.”  German Exports  Prices also fell as German  exports  decreased for the first
time this year in April as Europe’s debt crisis and weaker
global growth reduced consumption, the Federal Statistics Office
in Wiesbaden said today.  “Germany is the linchpin of the whole  euro zone , and if
they are slowing, that’s going to add more negative news to the
markets,” Ilczyszyn said. “There is no growth right now, no
oil demand.”  The European sovereign debt crisis that began in  Greece  and
then moved to Ireland, Portugal, Italy and Spain has reduced
economic growth and fuel consumption.  “Big declines” in demand are foreseen in Europe and the
U.S. this year from 2011, the  International Energy Agency  said
in its monthly Oil Market Report on May 11.  China, the world’s second-biggest oil user after the U.S.,
will  reduce  gasoline and diesel prices by the most since
December 2008 after global crude costs slumped, the National
Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s top economic
planner, said on its website today. The cut is equivalent to a
5.5 percent drop in average retail gasoline prices, based on
government data.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 598,032
contracts as of 4:15 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 684,204
contracts yesterday, 21 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.46 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  