-- Thomas H. Lee Said to Weigh a $4 Billion Buyout Fund
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-06-08T19:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/thomas-h-lee-said-to-weigh-a-4-billion-buyout-fund.html
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, the
private-equity firm whose investments include Dunkin’ Brands
Group Inc. and Univision Communications Inc., is weighing a $4
billion buyout fund, half the size of its predecessor, according
to two people with knowledge of the firm’s plans.  The Boston-based firm is considering a lower target after
taking longer than average to deploy the $8 billion fund
gathered in 2006, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. A smaller fund
would be easier to invest within the five-year window that’s
customary, the person said.  Buyout firms including KKR & Co. and Carlyle Group LP are
raising less money for their latest pools compared with the
mega-funds they raised during the 2005-2007 buyout boom because
investors have grown more discriminating since the financial
crisis four years ago. The market is also more crowded, with a
record 1,858 private-equity funds seeking money, according to
data compiled by Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm.  Thomas H. Lee may seek to start raising money as soon as
year-end as its 2006 fund is about 75 percent deployed, the
people said. The firm has announced two deals in the last month,
including a $400 million transaction in which it partnered with
 Latin America ’s largest private-equity firm, GP Investments
Ltd., to acquire  Brazil ’s barbecue-restaurant chain Fogo de Chao
Churrascaria LLC. On June 5, Thomas H. Lee said it will buy a
majority stake in wholesale party supplier Party City Corp. in a
transaction valued at $2.69 billion including debt.  Matt Benson , a spokesman for Thomas H. Lee, declined to
comment.  Clear Channel  Deals that Thomas H. Lee made at the peak of the buyout
market, including Clear Channel Communications and Univision
Communications, have weighed on performance. The firm has bought
Clear Channel debt and sold some at a gain, helping offset paper
losses tied to the equity.  Thomas H. Lee, which manages about $14 billion, was one of
many buyout firms that took advantage of a more favorable market
for initial public offerings last year, selling stakes in
portfolio companies to public investors. The firm was part of
investor groups that led offerings for Dunkin’ Brands, operator
of the Dunkin’ Donuts coffee chain, and  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) , the
television-audience ratings company.  Carlyle, based in  Washington , is seeking about $10 billion
for its latest flagship North American fund, less than the $13.7
billion it collected for its 2007 fund. KKR, based in  New York ,
is also asking investors for about $10 billion; its 2006 fund
closed at $17.6 billion.  Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest private-equity
company by total assets under management, raised about $16
billion for its latest buyout fund, down from its record-setting
$21.7 billion 2007 pool.  The 2006 fund has produced an average net rate of return of
6 percent as of March 31, and the 2000 fund, a $6 billion pool,
has returned 20 percent, according to one of the people familiar
with the matter.  Thomas H. Lee has raised $20 billion in its 38-year
history. The firm is named after its founder  Thomas Lee  who left
to start his own firm in 2006, handing leadership to Scott Sperling, Scott Schoen and Anthony Dinovi.  Schoen last month
said he will step down from the firm, while remaining an
adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  