-- Monti Says Permanent Contagion Risk, Spain Are Addressed
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-08T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/monti-says-permanent-contagion-risk-spain-are-addressed.html
The 17 nations sharing the euro face
a permanent risk of contagion from the region’s debt crisis and
European Union leaders are tackling the difficulties faced by
Spain’s banks, said Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  “As far as the problem of the banks is concerned, I am
aware that everything is being followed very, very closely and
in close cooperation with the EU institutions and the Spanish
government,” Monti said at a conference on U.S.-Italian
relations in  Venice  yesterday. “I am fully confident that this
issue is being promptly and adequately dealt with.”  Spain risks becoming the fourth euro region nation to need
aid after Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  sought bailouts. Spain’s
banks may require as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) in
capital to cover bad loans and assets stemming from the collapse
of the country’s real estate markets, Fitch Ratings estimates.  Monti said that until European leaders adopt more pro-
growth policies, all countries will be under threat. He called
on his European partners to complete a pro-growth package of
measures no later than the June 28-29 EU summit in Brussels.  “There is a permanent risk of contagion, contagion from
 Greece , from other countries,” he said. “That is why
strengthening the euro zone is of such a collective interest.”  The region’s existing bailout funds should be sufficient to
defend nations that are struggling to finance their debts, Monti
said.  The funds set aside and the mechanisms created to contain
the financial crisis “are not negligible and will be effective
if needed,” the prime minister said.  Fiat SpA Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne ,
speaking at the same conference, said that a breakup of the
single currency is “possible.”  “We keep on hearing drastic messages” from southern
European countries, Marchionne said. “I think someone had
better do something before we get to the point of no return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Madrid at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  