-- Morgan Stanley Puts More Cash Into Emerging Stocks on China Cut
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-08T03:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/morgan-stanley-puts-more-cash-into-emerging-stocks-on-china-cut.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is putting more money
into emerging-market stocks after  China  cut borrowing costs for
the first time since 2008.  The  U.S. bank  will reduce cash to zero from a 2 percent
weighting it has had since February and hold a 10 percent
overweight allocation in equities, according to a report today
from  Jonathan Garner , chief equity strategist for Asian and
Emerging Markets. China reduced borrowing costs and loosened
controls on banks’ lending and deposit rates, the People’s Bank
of China said yesterday.  “We are moving back today to a fully invested stance in
our EM asset allocation model,” Garner said. China’s
“interest-rate cut yesterday is likely a significant positive
catalyst for emerging equities.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has fallen 16 percent from
this year’s peak on March 2 and was down 0.5 percent to 908.56
at 11:35 a.m. in Shanghai. Developing-nation equities have
dropped on concern China’s economic slowdown is deepening and
Europe’s debt crisis will curb exports from the Asian region.  Chinese data this weekend is expected to show fixed-asset
investment probably expanded at the slowest pace in a decade in
May, inflation matched a two-year low and industrial output grew
less than 10 percent for a second month, according to Bloomberg
economist surveys.  “Investors are quite concerned the data tomorrow may be
very bad,” said Zhang Yanbin, an analyst with Zheshang
Securities Co. in Shanghai.  Shares in the  emerging-markets  gauge have fallen 0.9
percent this year, dragging down  estimated earnings  to a
multiple of 9.8, cheaper than the 11.7 multiple for shares on
the MSCI World Index.  China Rates  The developing-nations gauge recently traded below the
brokerage’s “bear case fair value” of 900, according to the
report. Morgan Stanley had boosted its cash weight in February
after a market rally “had run too far too fast,” Garner said.
The gauge jumped 14 percent in the first quarter, the strongest
start in 20 years.  China’s benchmark one-year lending rate will drop to 6.31
percent from 6.56 percent effective today, the People’s Bank of
China said on its website yesterday. The one-year deposit rate
will fall to 3.25 percent from 3.5 percent.  The Chinese central bank last reduced rates in late 2008,
when the government unveiled a 4 trillion  yuan  ($586 billion)
stimulus package to counter the effects of the global financial
crisis.  Interest rates  have been unchanged since an increase in
July 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  