-- Lotus Fires CEO Bahar After Investigation of Conduct
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-06-08T04:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/lotus-fires-ceo-bahar-after-investigation-of-conduct.html
Lotus , the unprofitable luxury
sports-car maker, fired Chief Executive Officer Dany Bahar after
a complaint from Malaysian parent  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  about
unspecified concerns over his conduct.  Lotus’s board of directors made the decision with immediate
effect, the Hethel, U.K.-based company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Aslam Farikullah, a DRB-Hicom executive
who’s been helping run Lotus since Bahar was suspended last
month, was named chief operating officer.  DRB, controlled by billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary, is
tightening its grip over Lotus after inheriting the British
company through its purchase of Malaysian taxi-and-sedan maker
Proton Holdings this year. Bahar, who became CEO in 2009 after
being recruited from  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari, was suspended last
month amid a five-year plan to turn around Lotus.  Bahar’s turnaround plan “hasn’t been that successful and
Lotus is still losing money,” said Chong Tjen-San, an analyst
at HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn. in  Kuala Lumpur . Lotus
“shouldn’t be worse off,” he said.  Shares of DRB fell as much as 0.8 percent in Kuala Lumpur
trading, compared with the 0.3 percent drop by the  benchmark 
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. The stock traded at 2.41 ringgit
at 12:01 p.m., poised for the lowest close since June 5.  Lotus didn’t disclose details of the investigation
triggered by the complaint and Proton said today that it won’t
make further comments for the time being. Bahar didn’t respond
to an e-mail sent to his Lotus account.  Aslam is one of three executives from Lotus’s parent
companies put in charge of day-to-day management at Lotus during
Bahar’s suspension. Lukman Ibrahim and Mohd Khalid Yusof were
the other officials from  Malaysia .  Aslam, who graduated from England’s University of Bath,
worked as an engineer in the U.K. for 18 years before returning
to DRB in Malaysia in 2007, according to DRB’s  annual report  for
the year ended March 2011. He was chief operating officer for a
year at two DRB units related to trucks, buses and automotive
manufacturing before moving back to the parent, where he headed
the manufacturing and engineering division, according to DRB. He
then became chief of vehicle manufacturing projects, a division
formed in 2010, according to DRB.  Lukman, a chartered accountant, was a Proton executive for
17 years before joining DRB in 2008 as group chief of finance,
DRB said in the annual report. Lukman was later promoted to
chief operating officer at DRB.  The maker of the Elise sports car, Lotus has struggled to
compete against Porsche AG and Ferrari in  Europe , has hung on to
relevance in the  auto industry  partly because of its decades-
long expertise in designing lightweight frames.  Light Cars  The Lotus Elise, at 2,010 pounds (912 kilograms), is the
lightest performance car sold in the U.S., according to  Santa
Monica , California-based Edmunds.com.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  has
relied on Lotus chassis designs since 2008 for its Roadster
sports car.  DRB, which in March said it may sell Lotus if it doesn’t
meet performance targets, said last month it doesn’t plan to
sell the British carmaker.  In 2010, Bahar spearheaded a five-year turnaround plan to
increase sales in  emerging markets  -- especially China -- and
introduce five new models, starting with the Esprit at the end
of 2013, according to Proton’s annual report for the year ended
March 31, 2011. Bahar said in December that Lotus could break
even by 2014.  Lotus sold 1,985 units during the year ended March 2011,
according to Proton’s annual report. That compares with Ferrari,
which boosted global deliveries by 9.5 percent to a record 7,195
cars during 2011, led by sales in the U.S. and  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  