-- U.S. House May Split Up Package of Expired Tax Breaks
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-08T17:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/house-tax-writer-sees-consensus-on-wind-credit-phase-out.html
Republicans in the U.S. House of
Representatives are considering splitting up a package of
miscellaneous tax breaks, potentially making it tougher for
items with less support to survive alongside more popular
provisions.  Tax breaks with broad bipartisan support could be pulled
from a group of dozens of items and be passed in smaller groups,
said Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican on
the Ways and Means Committee.  “I think it’s very smart to break it up,” he said.  House Republicans  have been examining the so-called tax
extenders, which include breaks for corporate research,
investments in low-income communities and renewable energy.  Congress should no longer rubber-stamp those items and
extend them automatically, said Representative Patrick Tiberi,
an Ohio Republican who led a hearing today in Washington on the
expiring breaks.  The idea of splitting up the package is “under
consideration,” Tiberi said.  Most of the provisions were last extended at the end of
2010 and expired at the end of 2011. House Republicans haven’t
decided which items they’ll let expire, how they will package
them into bills or when they will seek votes.  “This is a continuation,” Tiberi told reporters after the
hearing. “We’re not done.”  He said the extensions of miscellaneous breaks probably
won’t be in a bill the Republican-led House is expected to pass
in July that would extend income tax cuts that are expiring at
the end of the year.  ‘No Leadership’  “It’s something that we would prefer to do sooner rather
than later,” Tiberi said, adding that action on the
miscellaneous breaks could wait until after the election.
“There’s been no leadership on this from the White House, which
is very frustrating.”  Congress should consider the expiring tax breaks as a group
and act quickly because many of them could help spur  job
creation  and economic growth, said Representative Mike Thompson,
a California Democrat.  Still, he said, some provisions -- such as a tax break for
donating conservation easements -- merit quick consideration
because of the long lead time for taxpayers to make decisions.  “If we can, we should,” said Thompson, who supports a
bill to extend that break that has 308 co-sponsors -- more than
half of the House.  Wind Energy  During the hearing, Tiberi said lawmakers and backers of
the production tax credit for wind energy agree that the break
should be phased out over several years.  The credit, worth 2.2 cents per kilowatt hour, is scheduled
to expire at the end of 2012.  “We had a lot of consensus from not just members but
supporters on this issue of phasing out the tax credit,” Tiberi
said.  Wind industry spending is slowing in anticipation of the
tax break’s expiration, in part because facilities must begin
producing energy by Dec. 31 to qualify for the credit.  The conservation easement bill is H.R. 1964.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  