-- How Delaware Became the King of U.S. Corporate Charters
-- B y   R o b e r t   E .   W r i g h t
-- 2012-06-08T18:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/how-delaware-became-the-king-of-u-s-corporate-charters.html
The last decade has been unkind to
investors in some of America’s most prominent corporations, from
Adelphia Communications Corp. to WorldCom Inc. Flawed governance
lay at the root of many bankruptcies (and of many near-
bankruptcies that necessitated government bailouts).  Is  Delaware  the problem? The tiny state has long chartered
most of the nation’s large, nonbank corporations. And critics of
corporate governance argue that Delaware won a “race to the
bottom,” enticing out-of-state companies to charter there by
offering the laxest regulations. Defenders counter that the
state won a “race to the top” by maintaining the best system of
governance available.  What really happened was more of a “marathon to the
middle.”  The first state to learn that it could garner significant
revenue by chartering out-of-state corporations was New Jersey,
which in the 1880s and ’90s invented and refined the interstate
holding company, an innovation that allowed the state’s
corporations to own and control out-of-state subsidiaries with
minimal fuss.  Before that, most corporations had chartered in the state
where they conducted most of their business. Interstate
corporations, such as railroads, received identical charters
from multiple states or interlocked their boards and
shareholders.  Corporate Favorite  As the economy integrated nationally after the Civil War,
such makeshifts became increasingly burdensome and were
eventually rendered moot by court decisions that allowed nonbank
corporations to conduct business across the nation, regardless
of their state of incorporation.  By 1900,  New Jersey  had grown so fat from corporate fees
that several fiscally challenged states -- including Arizona,
Delaware,  Maine , South Dakota and  West Virginia  -- followed its
example and began competing to charter as many corporations as
possible. Some states competed by charging lower fees, others
promised laxer regulations, and several offered both.  In 1913, New Jersey, fiscally secure (for the time being),
destroyed its own chartering business when it passed antitrust
measures urged by its lame-duck Democratic Governor  Woodrow Wilson , who argued that the fast-growing state no longer needed
the revenue that chartering provided.  Delaware emerged as the corporate favorite after 1913
because it adopted New Jersey’s well-understood and respected
corporate law and legal precedents, minus the antitrust
attitude. As an additional inducement, it offered the whole
package at half of what New Jersey charged.  The other charter-hungry states failed to keep pace for
several reasons.  South Dakota  offered the nation’s lowest
chartering and franchise fees, but business executives feared
its volatile political climate, which featured powerful
populist, progressive and Democratic forces. Its courts
sometimes engaged in what the local newspaper described as
“corporation lynching” and its capital was a tiny town at the
very end of the railroad line adjacent to a large Indian
reservation.  West Virginia and Arizona were also distant destinations
with reputations for violence and bad weather that rendered them
unattractive to corporate executives and their attorneys, even
if the need to visit was merely prospective.  Shoddy Securities  Most damning was that investors distrusted securities
issued by all three states because their governance systems were
much too lax. “Investors look with distrust on any corporation
which operates under one off their charters,” corporate attorney
William Lough wrote in 1909.  “The mere fact that a corporation is organized in  Arizona ,
South Dakota” or similar states, warned another contemporary,
“is sufficient to put experienced investors on their guard and
renders the sale of corporate securities difficult.”  West Virginia was arguably the worst of the bunch, “a snug
harbor for roaming and piratical companies” and the “Mecca of
irresponsible corporations,” as William W. Cook put it in his
“Treatise on Stock and Stockholders.”  “Any one who buys a minority interest in a West Virginia
corporation does so at his peril,” warned corporate attorney
Thomas Conyngton in 1901. “It is doubtful if any more thoroughly
vicious corporation laws were ever enacted.”  It took decades for Delaware to dominate corporate
chartering. Its system of governance was stricter than those of
other states jockeying for the lucrative corporate-chartering
business, and hence more acceptable to investors, but was also
more flexible, and hence more agreeable to executives than the
systems offered by  Massachusetts ,  New York ,  Pennsylvania  and
other states.  The reasons some of our biggest corporations are poorly
governed, then, are more complicated than the state in which
they’re chartered.  (Robert E. Wright is the Nef Family Chair of Political
Economy at Augustana College in South Dakota and the author of
numerous books, including, with David Cowen, “Financial Founding
Fathers: The Men Who Made America Rich.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Robert E. Wright at
 robert.wright@augie.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 