-- HP Wins $543 Million Veterans Agency Award for Wireless Tracking
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-08T22:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/hp-wins-543-million-veterans-agency-award-for-wireless-tracking.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  won a Department
of Veterans Affairs contract valued at as much as $543 million
to provide wireless tracking of hospital equipment such as
wheelchairs and defibrillators.  The world’s biggest computer maker beat five other
companies for the work, according to an award notice posted on a
federal government website.  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  was among the companies that initially expressed interest
in the project, according to previous online government
documents.  Ericka Floyd, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-based
HP, declined to comment.  The VA plans to equip its 152 medical centers with the
monitoring systems to minimize lost equipment and improve
patient care, according to agency documents. The systems also
would track whether devices are properly sterilized and would
identify patients that may have received medical products later
recalled by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  Department officials also want to use tracking tags on
patient ID bracelets and staff badges to monitor the movement of
patients and hospital workers, including how frequently staff
wash their hands, according to the documents.  Employees won’t be tracked without labor union approval,
the VA has said.  The department’s project may encourage other hospital
systems to follow suit, analysts have said. The global market
for hardware, software and services tied to wireless asset-
tracking and real-time location technology may double to $1.6
billion by 2016, Drew Nathanson, a vice president at Natick,
Massachusetts-based VDC Research Group, has said.  -- Editors: Stephanie Stoughton, Joe Winski  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  