-- Pakistan Holds Rates as Surging Prices Curb Room to Boost Growth
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-06-08T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/pakistan-holds-rates-as-surging-prices-curb-room-to-boost-growth.html
Pakistan left  interest rates 
unchanged for a fourth meeting as it struggles to contain the
fastest inflation in  Asia  while supporting economic growth.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan kept the  discount rate  at 12
percent, its spokesman Syed Wasimuddin said in Karachi yesterday.
Nine of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the
outcome. Two expected an increase of 0.5 percentage point.  Pakistan cut taxes and raised government salaries last week
in an election-year budget that risks missing a target to narrow
the fiscal deficit from a three-year high.  Government spending 
threatens to stoke an inflation rate that exceeded 12 percent in
May, adding to challenges from persistent power blackouts, an
insurgency on the Afghan border and a faltering global recovery.  “The danger is that inflation will stay in double digits
in the coming fiscal year, partly because of budget spending,”
Nurali Barkatali, an economist at BMA Capital Management Ltd. in
Karachi, said before the decision.  The central bank is not expecting a sharp increase in
inflation, which it forecasts will hover around current levels
in the year starting July 1, according to the monetary policy
statement released yesterday.  Pakistan ’s rupee has weakened about 10 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months, spurring import costs. The
benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index has risen almost 10
percent in the same period, aided by the government’s decision
to ease rules on capital-gains tax.  Narrower Deficit  Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh said on June 1 that
the South Asian nation will aim to narrow its fiscal deficit to
4.7 percent of gross domestic product in the year ending June 30,
2013 from 7.4 percent in the current year.  Inflation accelerated to a 10-month high of 12.29 percent
in May. The pace of price gains is the fastest in a basket of 17
Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The government estimates the $200 billion economy will
probably expand 3.7 percent in 2011-2012 and has a goal of 4.3
percent growth for the next fiscal year.  Dwindling aid flows from the U.S. following disputes over
how to combat terrorism and stabilize neighboring  Afghanistan 
pose another obstacle to faster economic development. Domestic
political tension has also intensified before general elections
that are due to be held by February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  