-- Palestinian Foodie Charms ‘Fadwa’; Medieval Play’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-06-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/palestinian-foodie-charms-fadwa-medieval-play-review.html
Ingrained images of the  West Bank 
from the nightly news may be shattered by “ Food and Fadwa ,” a
warm-hearted dramedy in which “Arab Idol” and the Food Network
figure almost as prominently as the tribulations of the
Palestinian people.  When we meet Fadwa, she’s mashing baked eggplant and
playing to a TV audience that exists only in her head.  “Hello, and welcome to another episode of ’Food and
Fadwa,”’ she says brightly as she prepares baba ghanoush.  The West Bank home is modern, spacious and comfortably
appointed; a cross adorns a living room wall.  Fadwa exudes sensual pleasure and no little pride in her
cooking. They’re especially evident today as she prepares the
feast for her younger sister Dalal’s wedding. Cooking might as
well be a competitive sport in her culture.  “No food, no respect. Bad food, bad reputation,” she
says. It’s practically a rebuke.  Dalal’s fiance, Emir, works in  Jerusalem  and so must pass
through several security checkpoints every working day.  His brother, Youssif, is pledged to Fadwa but he’s been in
New York seeking his fortune. When he arrives, the joyful scene
is overshadowed by the appearance of his companion, Hayat.  Cultural Traitor  She’s a longtime rival of Fadwa’s who has found fame as the
chef-owner of the trendy New York restaurant where Youssif
works. They’ve become lovers. That’s bad enough news for Fadwa;
nearly worse is Hayat’s reputation for fusion cooking. She’s a
traitor to both her sex and her culture.  All this -- the rivalries, family chatter, cooking -- comes
to a halt when sirens are heard and a curfew is instated. From
24 hours it expands to days and then weeks, without explanation,
as food and medical supplies dwindle, electricity is shut off
and Emir goes missing.  “Food and Fadwa” finds its power incrementally and, while
there is little question that the Israelis are the heavies, the
play is suffused more with sorrow than hate.  Credit this to director Shana Gold, who plays against the
darkening story by finding every element of humor and pathos,
and the script, developed by Lameece Issaq and Jacob Kader.  Enormous Charm  Issaq, lithe and animated, plays Fadwa with enormous charm
and sensitivity. That’s true for the entire cast, which includes
Laith Nakli as a father fading into dementia; Arian Moayed as
the spirited Emir and Heather Raffo as the cluelessly
insufferable Hayat.  The show is a co-production of  New York  Theatre Workshop
and Noor Theatre, its company in residence, a newcomer devoted
to plays by artists from the  Middle East . It will be interesting
to see how inclusive that notion proves to be.  Through June 24 at 79 E. 4th St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://wwww.nytw.org . Rating: ****  ‘Medieval Play’  “ Medieval Play ,” at the Signature, is “Spamalot”
without the songs, but nearly as many laughs.  Kenneth Lonergan, best known for contemporary films (“ You
Can Count on Me”  and plays (“This Is Our Youth”) goes back to
14th-century France and  Italy , where two hapless knights
alternate between crude scatological comedy and satirical
disquisitions on politics, etiquette, sex and the inconsistent
pleasures of raping, pillaging and plundering.  They’re played by  Josh Hamilton  and Tate Donovan, as funny
and in-sync as any comic pairing this side of  Will Smith  and
Tommy Lee Jones. The rest of the terrific cast play multiple
roles including cardinals, harlots and, in one scene “All
Christendom.”  This is the most ambitious show yet in the new Signature
complex. Walt Spangler’s whimsical pop-up scenery adds to the
fun. Lonergan’s writing reminded me of Thomas Berger’s great
parody, “Arthur Rex.”  “Medieval Play” is frequently hilarious and in one
divinely risque scene, sexy (thanks to Hamilton and the
extremely game Halley Feiffer).  It’s also wildly overlong, evidence of why most playwrights
probably shouldn’t direct their own work.  Through June 24 at 480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-244-
7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 