-- Palm Oil Seen Extending Drop on Falling Biofuel Appeal, Fry Says
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-06-08T07:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/palm-oil-seen-extending-drop-on-falling-biofuel-appeal-fry-says.html
Palm oil  may extend a decline from
its lowest level in seven months as a drop in crude  oil prices 
reduces the appeal of the tropical oil for use in biofuels,
according to LMC International Ltd.  Futures on the Malaysian Derivatives Exchange may retreat
to as low as 2,450 ringgit ($770) a metric ton in the fourth
quarter if the Brent crude oil falls to $80 a barrel, LMC
Chairman James Fry told a conference in Mumbai. Prices may
decline to 2,700 ringgit during July and September, he said.  Fry joins Godrej International Director  Dorab Mistry  in
predicting a decline in palm oil prices, which have slumped 19
percent since reaching a 13-month high in April as the deepening
 European debt crisis  and a slowdown in  China  reduces demand.
Prices may tumble to 2,700 ringgit in the absence of fresh
stimulus by the U.S. to revive growth, Dorab Mistry, director at
Godrej International Ltd., said yesterday.  “The basic supply-demand data on petroleum imply that
today’s high prices are unjustified and are doing their job of
boosting supply and slowing demand,” Fry said. “For that
reason, I expect Brent prices to fall further. The market is
looking ahead to the time when crude palm oil output picks up
for seasonal reasons, while demand weakens because of the new
recession.”  Palm oil may trade between 2,800 ringgit a ton and 2,900
ringgit in the second half of 2012 if crude oil traded at about
$95 a barrel, he said. The August-delivery contract on the
 Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange fell as much as 1.8 percent to
2,922 ringgit a ton today, matching the lowest intraday level
for the most-active contract reached on Nov. 2. Brent crude oil
prices have declined 8.3 percent this year.  Indonesian Taxes  Palm oil refining capacity in  Indonesia , the largest
producer, may exceed 40 million tons within the next two years
as a cut in export taxes last year fuel investments, Fry said.  Indonesia reduced taxes in October to boost exports of
processed oil. Malaysia, the second-largest grower, will take
steps to help local refiners stay competitive against Indonesian
suppliers, Minister of Plantation Industries & Commodities
Bernard Dompok said in Mumbai yesterday.  A decline in world food prices may help  India  to boost the
base import rates on refined edible oils to check a surge in
processed oil imports, Fry said.  India is considering raising the benchmark import price,
unchanged since 2006, to protect refiners, a government official
said May 28. Refined oils are taxed at 7.5 percent, while
there’s no tax on crude oils.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  