-- Papandreou Sees Greece Staying in Euro as Austerity Eased
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-06-08T21:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/papandreou-sees-greece-staying-in-euro-as-austerity-eased.html
Former Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  predicted that Greece will stay in the euro zone and
that the austerity measures required by the nation’s bailouts
might be eased.  “We can have some modifications to the program,”
Papandreou said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“Whether we can stretch out the fiscal adjustment for another
year or so will take a little bit of pain out.”  Greece on June 17 will hold its second national election in
six weeks, a vote that may determine whether the country stays
in the euro area. The inconclusive May 6 ballot showed gains for
parties, led by Syriza, that oppose terms of the country’s
bailouts from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund .  Papandreou, 59, said some of the claims being made by Greek
politicians about reneging on the budget-cutting accords should
be taken with “a grain of salt,” and they are creating
unrealistic expectations for overhauling the agreements.
Papandreou said he hopes whoever wins the elections “acts
responsibly,” and he didn’t predict the outcome.  Greece has “a few weeks” before its government runs out
of money so this is “a make-or-break period,” Papandreou said.
A Greek exit from the euro would result in hyperinflation and
bank runs as well as lower growth and wages, he said.  Bloomberg Television’s Inside Track will air the full
interview on June 11 at 6 a.m. in  New York .  Obama Comments  President  Barack Obama  said today it is in “everybody’s”
interest for Greece to stay in the euro, and he warned Greece
that its hardships will increase if the nation exits.  U.S. stocks rose, driving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
to the biggest weekly gain since December, while oil and the
euro fell as investors awaited weekend talks by European finance
officials for news of a potential bailout of  Spain .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.8 percent to
1,325.58 at 4 p.m. New York time, extending its rally this week
to 3.7 percent. It had fallen as much as 0.6 percent today.  Oil for July delivery fell 72 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
settle at $84.10 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The euro weakened 0.5 percent to $1.2500 after Spain’s credit
ranking was cut three steps by  Fitch Ratings  yesterday.  Spain is poised to become the fourth country in the 17
nation euro-area to require emergency assistance as the currency
bloc’s finance chiefs plan weekend talks on a potential aid
request to shore up the nation’s lenders.  Spanish Banks  “We have to find a way to recapitalize the Spanish
banks,” Papandreou said. Politicians must make “decisions in
time to calm the market,” and “can’t be behind the curve this
time.”  Papandreou, whose father founded his Socialist Pasok Party
in 1974, stepped down as prime minister in November and helped
put together a new government to bridge differences with
European Union leaders and officials after his proposal of a
referendum on the terms of  Greece ’s second European bailout
roiled markets.  “I did all that I could do,” Papandreou said, adding the
“personal costs” were “worth it” to serve his country. “Now
it’s up to the next government to take this package and run with
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  