-- Party Convention Tab for Taxpayers Dwarfs GSA’s: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-06-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/party-convention-tab-for-taxpayers-dwarfs-gsa-s-bgov-barometer.html
Lawmakers lambasted the  General
Services Administration  for spending $823,000 on a conference,
just a fraction of the taxpayer dollars to be spent on this
year’s presidential nominating conventions.  The BGOV Barometer shows the events where President  Barack Obama  and Republican  Mitt Romney  will formally receive their
parties’ nominations will cost taxpayers $136.5 million, up
about $3 million from 2008.  The figure includes $100 million Congress provided to pay
for security at the conventions, plus $18 million for each party
to pay for balloons, signs, alcohol, flags, lanyards and other
expenses through a program designed to reduce the influence of
campaign contributions. Senator  Tom Coburn , pointing to
lawmakers’ promises to cut the $1.2 trillion  budget deficit ,
said the parties should forgo the taxpayer funds.  “If the parties want to have a convention, let them have a
convention, but they ought to be paying for it,” said Coburn,
an Oklahoma Republican. “We can have just as good a party”
without tax dollars.  His proposal comes weeks after congressional outrage over
reports that the GSA spent $823,000 on a 2010 conference at a
Las Vegas-area resort. At least four congressional committees
have held hearings looking into the issue and a GSA
administrator was pushed to resign amid complaints of wasted tax
dollars.  Tampa, Charlotte  Republicans  will head to Tampa,  Florida , Aug. 27-30 to
formally choose Romney as their presidential nominee while
 Democrats  will follow Sept. 4-6 in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Neither event will contain much suspense, as Romney picked
up enough delegates in last week’s Texas primary to cinch his
party’s nod.  “You can’t be critical of all the other conventions and
parties and conferences that the federal government is doing and
then say we’re going to take $136 million on spend it on
conventions,” Coburn said. “For a convention on something
that’s already decided?”  Since the 1970s both political parties have relied on
primaries, rather than conventions, to choose their candidates,
a change made partly in response to complaints that the old
system gave party bosses too much power over the nominating
process.  As a result, there usually is little left to decide by
the time the parties convene.  There are relatively few constraints on how tax money can
be spent for the conventions and Coburn complains it can be used
for such things as entertainment, catering and producing
biographical films about the candidates.  Trinkets, Badges  Democrats spent $39,000 for a teleprompter, $140,000 for
the podium, $18,000 for “gifts/trinkets” and $3,320 for
“makeup artist consultant” at their 2008 convention, according
to government records. Among expenditures by Republicans in 2008
were $6,000 worth of flowers, $9,000 for “rally signs”, $3,500
for “promotional hats,” $24,000 for flags and $88,000 for
badges.  Both sides are rejecting Coburn’s call.  “Electing a president of the  United States  is a public
responsibility,” said Florida Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, chair of the  Democratic National Committee , when asked
why taxpayers should shoulder convention expenses. “Those funds
are for security and they’re absolutely essential.”  Sean Spicer, a Republican National Committee spokesman,
said “conventions serve an important role in the process of
nominating candidates.”  He said it’s up to lawmakers to decide how to fund the
events. “If Senator Coburn has ideas on how to overhaul
campaign-finance laws that will provide political parties with
viable alternative funding sources, or on the funding for future
conventions, he should address them through the legislative
process,” Spicer said in an e-mail.  Some of Coburn’s fellow Republican lawmakers oppose public
funding of conventions, though they say the party shouldn’t
reject the money unless the Democrats do.  “I don’t think they should unilaterally give it up,” said
Representative  Jim Jordan , an Ohio Republican. “The rules are
the rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  