-- Permira to Buy Equipment Maker Intelligrated for $500 Million
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-06-08T20:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/permira-to-buy-equipment-maker-intelligrated-for-500-million.html
Permira Advisers LLP, the private-
equity owner of companies from  Hugo Boss  to Birds Eye food
brands, agreed to buy equipment maker Intelligrated for about
$500 million.  Based in Mason, Ohio, near Cincinnati, Intelligrated makes
machines that move and store products in factories and
warehouses. The deal is expected to close in the third quarter
of this year, London-based Permira said today in a statement.  Buyout firms are trying to complete deals amid an uncertain
 U.S. economy  and the European financial crisis. Announced
private-equity transactions dropped 42 percent to $56.3 billion
during the first quarter of this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The acquisition of Intelligrated would be Permira’s fourth
purchase in the U.S. since the beginning of 2011. The firm
bought the Genesys call-center software unit of Alcatel-Lucent
SA for $1.5 billion earlier this year. Permira also acquired
Renaissance Learning Inc. and equipment-rental company BakerCorp
in 2011.  “We look forward to backing Intelligrated’s highly
successful management team as the company enters the next stage
of its growth plans,” John Coyle, a partner at Permira who
heads the firm’s  North America  operations, said in the
statement.  Intelligrated is owned by San Francisco-based Gryphon
Investors, which bought the company in 2001, according to its
website. Gryphon said it specializes in companies with $25
million to $250 million in revenue.  Zappos, Hershey  Intelligrated’s customers have included retailer Zappos.com
Inc. and  Hershey Co. (HSY) , as well as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target
Corp. (TGT)  Permira aims to expand Intelligrated’s operations
overseas, people with knowledge of the transaction said before
the deal was announced.  Morgan Stanley was the lead financial adviser to Permira
and  RBC Capital Markets  was co-adviser. Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP was Permira’s legal adviser.  Private-equity firms pool money from pensions, endowments
and government funds and pair that cash with debt to buy
companies. Their ultimate success rests on their ability to sell
those companies and distribute profits to those so-called
limited partners.  Permira in March agreed to sell software maker NDS Group,
which Permira owns with News Corp., to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in a
deal worth $5 billion. During the past year, Permira also has
sold interests in Galaxy Entertainment and animal-feed additives
company Provimi to Cargill Inc.  Permira told investors last month that its fourth private-
equity fund is valued at 1.26 times its cost, up from 1.1 times
in December. The sale price for NDS is expected to generate a
return of 2.25 times Permira’s original investment when the deal
closes, according to people with knowledge of the details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  