-- Philippine Peso Falls on U.S. Stimulus Delay Concern; Bonds Gain
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-06-08T08:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/philippine-peso-falls-on-u-s-stimulus-delay-concern-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso fell, snapping a
three-day gain, as speculation cooled that U.S. policy makers
will announce further stimulus measures to spur growth in the
world’s largest economy.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific index of regional shares slid as much
as 1.5 percent after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank will need to assess conditions before
deciding if more measures are required to support the economy.
Overseas investors cut holdings of Philippine shares by $19
million this month through yesterday, exchange data show.  “The market is disappointed with the Fed,” said Rafael
Algarra, executive vice president of financial markets at
Security Bank Corp. in  Manila . “People were expecting more
details on a possible quantitative easing.”  The peso fell 0.3 percent to close at 43.27 per dollar in
Manila, paring its weekly advance to 0.3 percent, prices from
Tullett Prebon Plc show. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
6.75 percent today.  The yield on 6.375 percent government bonds due January
2022 fell three basis points to 5.43 percent, according to
Tradition Financial Services. The rate dropped 18 basis points
this week.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  said today he expects
better growth in the coming quarters, after the economy expanded
at the fastest pace since 2010 last quarter. China cut  interest
rates  yesterday for the first time in more than three years to
counter what Premier  Wen Jiabao  has called increasing downward
economic pressure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  