-- Pimco Files to Open Three Active Exchange-Traded Funds
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-08T19:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/pimco-files-to-open-three-active-exchange-traded-funds.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
plans to open three actively managed bond exchange-traded funds,
after an ETF version of  Bill Gross ’ flagship fund attracted more
than $1 billion in the three months since it started.  Pimco Diversified Income ETF will invest at least 65
percent of its assets in debt of varying maturities, according
to a June 7 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pimco Real Return ETF will put at least 80 percent of its assets
in inflation-indexed bonds of different maturities, and Pimco
Low Duration ETF will have an average duration, or interest-rate
sensitivity, ranging from one year to three years.  Mike Reid, a spokesman for  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco, declined to comment on the filing.  The new funds will bring the total of actively managed ETFs
at Pimco to nine. An active ETF version of Gross’s $261 billion
Total Return Fund, the world’s largest mutual fund, has grown to
$1.29 billion in assets since it started trading on March 1. The
ETF has returned 5.6 percent since then, compared with 2.3
percent for the Total Return mutual fund.  Active ETFs are designed to blend the trading flexibility
and accessibility of ETFs with the stock- or bond-picking
ability of active management.  Pimco Diversified Income ETF will be managed by Curtis
Mewbourne, who runs the  mutual fund  version of that name and
returned 5.9 percent this year, beating 85 percent of peers,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Pimco Low Duration ETF will be managed by Marc Seidner.
Gross, Pimco’s founder and co-chief investment officer, manages
the Pimco Low Duration mutual fund. It has returned 2.8 percent
this year, ahead of 93 percent of its peers.  Pimco Real Return ETF will be overseen by  Mihir Worah , who
runs the Real Return mutual fund. That  fund  has returned 5.8
percent this year to beat 97 percent of its peers.  Active ETFs accounted for less than 0.5 percent of the
$1.19 trillion in U.S.-registered ETF assets as of April,
according to the  Investment Company Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  