-- Gilts Jump on Europe Slowdown Signs; Pound Slides Versus Dollar
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-06-08T15:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/pound-declines-against-dollar-before-factory-output-price-report.html
U.K. government bonds rose, with 10-
year yields dropping the most in a week, as a decline in German
exports and Italian industrial production underpinned demand for
safer securities.  Gilts gained for the first time in four days and the pound
weakened against the dollar after U.K. producer prices
unexpectedly dropped in May, adding to speculation the  Bank of
England  will resume asset purchases to cap borrowing costs.
Policy makers left their benchmark  interest rate  and so-called
quantitative-easing program on hold at a meeting yesterday.  “Gilts are attracting demand as a safe haven because hopes
of the euro-region being repaired are still just hopes and life
for all the peripheral economies is getting harder,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in London. “Although we didn’t get any QE yesterday, we
think there’s every chance that we get that announcement in the
next month or two and that drives gilt outperformance.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 1.64 percent at 4:14 p.m. in  London 
after dropping 13 basis points, the biggest decline since June
1. The 4 percent bond maturing in March 2022 rose 0.74, or 7.40
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,544) face amount, to 121.155. The
yield dropped to a record 1.439 percent on June 1.  German exports slid 1.7 percent in April from a month
earlier, when they gained 0.8 percent, the Federal Statistics
Office said in Wiesbaden. Italian output fell 1.9 percent from
March, when it rose a revised 0.6 percent, the national
statistics office said in  Rome . A separate report showed French
confidence declined  Weekend Talks  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said yesterday he’s
discussing with European leaders how to shore up the country’s
banks as euro finance chiefs plan to hold weekend talks on a
possible aid package. A request for help may come as soon as
tomorrow when finance ministers hold a conference call, said a
German official and a European Union aide, each of whom declined
to be identified because the matter is confidential.  “Because of problems in the euro-region, the safe-haven
demand for gilts will continue to be intense,” Bank of
America’s Wraith said. “Gilt yields can make new lows.”  The pound fell for the first time in three days versus the
dollar after the  Office for National Statistics  said U.K.
producer prices dropped 0.2 percent from April, the first
decline since December. The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 0.1 percent increase.  Sterling weakened 0.7 percent to $1.5422, and slid 0.8
percent to 122.67 yen. The U.K. currency was little changed at
80.87 pence per euro after gaining 0.4 percent yesterday.  QE Program  The U.K. Monetary Policy Committee yesterday held its bond-
purchase program at 325 billion pounds and its benchmark rate at
a record-low 0.5 percent. The decision to refrain from
increasing stimulus was predicted by 37 of 42 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Minutes of the meeting will be published
on June 20.  “The producer prices were lower than forecast,” said  John Hydeskov , chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in London. “The Bank
of England is mindful of inflation. It could do more to
stimulate the economy. Sterling has come off against the
dollar.”  The pound has declined 1.6 percent in the past month, the
worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as data pointing to
slower growth raised the prospect of additional stimulus.  ‘Inflation Credibility’  “Maintaining its inflation credibility may be less of an
obstacle to the MPC sanctioning more QE in the months ahead,”
 Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec Securities in London, said
before the inflation data was released. “It would be wrong to
rule out more QE.”  While the outlook for the U.K. economy has weakened, the
pound has advanced 3.7 percent against the euro in the past
three months and reached 79.51 pence on May 16, the strongest
level since November 2008.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said May 6
that officials stand ready to act as the growth outlook worsens
in the euro area, Britain’s biggest trading partner. While the
ECB left its benchmark rate at 1 percent that day, Draghi said
“a few” governing council members sought a cut.  Gilts have returned 2.2 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds earned 3.5 percent,
with  U.S. Treasuries  rose 1.7 percent, the indexes showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  