-- Putin Approves Bill to Increase in Fines on Demonstrators
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-08T19:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/putin-approves-150-fold-increase-in-fines-for-demonstrators-1-.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
signed into law a bill that increases fines on protesters 150
fold before a planned opposition rally in central Moscow next
week.  The legislation is in line with European practice, Putin
said at a meeting with judges in St. Petersburg today. “There
isn’t a single aspect of our law that is harsher” than in
 France , the U.K., Germany or  Italy , he said.  “The enforcement of this law should in no way violate
people’s democratic rights to expression regarding any issues of
domestic and foreign policy, including via rallies,” Putin
said. The document was published in  Russia ’s official government
newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta dated June 9 and takes effect the
date of its publication.  Russian lawmakers this week approved the bill to increase
the maximum fine for protesters who violate the law to 300,000
rubles ($9,160) from 2,000 rubles and to as much as 600,000
rubles for organizers.  Putin, who last month returned to the presidency for a
third term, has faced the biggest challenge to his authority as
tens of thousands of Russians took part in demonstrations since
parliamentary elections in December. The opposition, which
received permission today to hold its planned “march of
millions” in Moscow on June 12, condemned the initiative as an
attempt to stifle the constitutional right to free assembly.  Opposition March  A presidential human rights commission asked Putin not to
sign the measure into law, saying it violates the constitution.
The Moscow Mayor’s office authorized a march on June 12 that
will end with a rally on Prospekt Sakharov, Sergei Davidis, a
member of the Solidarity opposition umbrella movement, was cited
as saying by the Gazeta.ru online news service.  Russia may charge two more people with participating in
mass unrest and using violence against police, crimes that carry
a maximum sentence of eight years in jail, the Investigative
Committee also said today.  The charges relate to a mass protest in Moscow on May 6
against Putin’s re-election, the law-enforcement agency in
Moscow said on its  website . Prosecutors have charged one person
with these offenses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in  St. Petersburg  at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  