-- Qantas Drops Below A$1 After Slump on International Loss
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-06-08T08:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/qantas-drops-below-a-1-after-slumping-on-international-losses.html
Qantas (QAN)  Airways Ltd., which this week
forecast an annual loss, fell below A$1 for the first time,
capping a four-day slump that has wiped out about $1 billion of
market value.  Australia ’s largest carrier  dropped  8.5 percent to 97 cents
at the close in Sydney. The stock has tumbled 32 percent since
June 5, when it predicted its first annual loss since its 1995
initial public offering.  Standard & Poor’s  also put Qantas on review for a possible
downgrade today after the carrier said losses on international
routes may double to A$450 million ($444 million) in the year
ending June. Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce is struggling to
revive Qantas’s overseas unit amid competition from Emirates
Airline and other Middle East carriers, slower demand in  Europe 
and higher fuel prices.  “There are some fairly jittery shareholders out there,”
said Simon Rutherfurd, who helps manage about $2.3 billion as
Chief Investment Officer of Northward Capital in Sydney. “It’s
a vicious circle.”  Credit default swaps insuring the debt of Qantas against
non-payment rose to 375 basis points, Westpac Banking Corp.
prices show. That is near the record-high of 375.1 reached Oct.
4, according to data from CMA.  “The magnitude of the losses from Qantas’ international
business underscores the difficulty in turning around the
segment,” Standard & Poor’s credit analyst May Zhong said in a
statement. “The group’s business risk profile would weaken if
the airline’s international market position and earnings do not
recover within a reasonable timeframe.”  Share Fall  The share fall has pared Qantas’s market value to A$2.2
billion ($2.2 billion) today from about A$3.2 billion at the
close of trade on June 4, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Losses on international routes will reduce Qantas’
underlying profit this fiscal year to as little as A$50 million,
the carrier said June 5. That’s a 91 percent drop from a year
earlier. Domestic flights, including at budget arm Jetstar, are
expected to post a profit of more than A$600 million. The
company expects a full-year net loss after including
restructuring costs, Joyce said on a June 5 conference call.  Earnings have been hit by higher  oil prices , which will
help boost annual fuel costs by A$700 million to A$4.4 billion,
Qantas said. The price of  jet fuel  has averaged $127.30 a barrel
in Singapore since June 30, 18 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P Review  Qantas has a BBB rating from S&P, the highest among
airlines worldwide. The review, which will take as long as 90
days, will probably only result in a one level reduction, S&P
said. That would reduce the carrier to BBB-, the lowest
investment grade, and the same ranking as Southwest Airlines Co.
and Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Those are the only carriers not rated
as junk by S&P.  “Qantas remains one of only two airlines in the world with
two investment grade credit ratings” from S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service, spokesman Luke Enright said by e-mail.
Southwest is the other, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qantas will probably keep an investment grade because it
has “manageable”  debt levels , with A$1.3 billion maturing next
fiscal year, S&P said. The carrier will also probably retain
about A$2 billion of cash even as it buys new planes and other
investment, the company said.  Tougher Competition  The Australian airline is facing tougher competition on
domestic and international routes. At home,  Virgin (VAH)  Australia
Holdings Ltd. is rolling out business-class services to lure
corporate travelers, while budget airline Tiger Airways Holdings
Ltd. is rebuilding operations following flight cuts prompted by
safety violations last year.  On international routes, Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways
PSJC has formed a tie-up with Virgin, including buying a stake,
to help boost sales in Australia. Middle East carriers’ hubs
also allow them to offer a wider range of one-stop flights to
Europe than Qantas, which only bases planes in Australia.  Other long-haul carriers are also adding flights to
Australia. Singapore Airlines Ltd.’s budget unit Scoot Pte. made
its maiden trip to Sydney this week. Chinese carriers including
China Southern Airlines Co. have also boosted Australia services
and begun offering tickets linking the country to Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in  Singapore  at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  