-- U.S. Trade Gap Shrinks on Bigger Drop in Imports: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-08T21:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/trade-deficit-in-the-u-s-narrows-as-imports-and-exports-fall.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  narrowed in
April as a drop in imports overshadowed the first decline in
exports in five months that reflected a slump in shipments to
Europe.  The  gap  shrank to $50.1 billion, down 4.9 percent, from
$52.6 billion in March and the second decrease in the last three
months, Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.
The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 73 economists
called for the deficit to shrink to $49.5 billion.  American exports fell 11 percent to the European Union,
where a sovereign debt crisis has pushed the region to the brink
of recession and hindered the world economy. At the same time,
slower job gains, cheaper crude oil and limited corporate
investment may hold down the nation’s trade bill.  “We’re looking at a soft patch in exports, reflecting
cooling global growth,” said Ed Kashmarek, an economist at
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Minneapolis , who projected a $50.7
billion April trade gap. “Weakness in Europe is definitely
having an impact. We’re probably going to be seeing a softening
in imports along with exports, helping to keep the deficit from
widening.”  U.S. stocks rose, pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX) 
to the best weekly gain of the year, as investors awaited
weekend talks among European finance officials for news of a
potential bailout of  Spain . The  S&P 500  climbed 0.8 percent to
1,325.66 at the close of trading in  New York .  French Confidence  French business confidence and Italian output declined,
other reports showed, as recessions in at least six European
countries weighed on demand and risked causing a quarterly
contraction in  France  for the first time in three years.  Sentiment among French factory executives fell in May to 93
from a revised 94 in April, the Bank of France said today in an
e-mailed statement. Italian industrial production dropped 1.9
percent in April from March, when it rose a revised 0.6 percent,
Rome-based statistics office Istat said.  To combat a deepening slowdown as  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatens global growth,  China  yesterday cut borrowing costs for
the first time since 2008 and loosened controls on banks’
lending and deposit rates.  The U.S. trade deficit was projected to narrow from an
initially reported $51.8 billion for March, according to the
Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from gaps of $53 billion to
$45.5 billion.  Today’s report also included annual revisions that showed
the trade shortfall increased to $559.9 billion in all of 2011,
the widest in three years, from $494.7 billion in 2010.  U.S. Exports  Exports declined 0.8 percent in April to $182.9 billion
from March’s record high of $184.4 billion as overseas demand
for capital goods and industrial supplies eased.  Imports fell 1.7 percent to $233 billion from a record high
of $237.1 billion in the prior month.  Inbound shipments  of
business equipment, industrial supplies and automobiles
decreased in April.  The trade shortfall excluding petroleum narrowed to $22.1
billion in April from $24 billion. The import figures reflected
an average price per barrel of crude oil at $109.94 in April,
the highest since August 2008.  Oil prices  have cooled this
month.  Brent crude oil for July settlement slipped $2, or 2
percent, to $97.95 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  After eliminating the influence of prices, which are the
numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit shrank to $48.5 billion from $49.5 billion.  OECD Forecast  Exports may stay under pressure because of the crisis in
Europe. The 17-nation euro area will shrink 0.1 percent in 2012
and expand 0.9 percent in 2013, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said on May 22, when it trimmed its
forecast. By contrast, the OECD raised projections for U.S.
growth, to 2.4 percent in 2012 and 2.6 percent next year.  Still, “the situation in Europe poses significant risks to
the U.S. financial system and economy and must be monitored
closely,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday in testimony to Congress in  Washington .  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, is cooling. It
grew 8.1 percent in the first quarter of 2012 from a year
earlier, the fifth straight deceleration. The U.S. trade gap
with China widened to $24.6 billion in April, from $21.7
billion, today’s data showed.  DuPont Results  DuPont Co., the most valuable U.S. chemicals producer, is
among companies watching the situation in Europe. DuPont’s
first-quarter earnings exceeded analysts’ estimates as its
agriculture unit benefited from rising corn-seed demand in
 Brazil  and an early spring in the U.S. and Europe.  In “Europe the macro trends are not good right now,”
Nicholas Fanandakis, chief financial officer of Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont, said in a June 6 conference call with
analysts. “The economy is in a state of flux. Where it’s going
to come out in the end is anyone’s guess.” Even so, the picture
is mixed, with parts of the agriculture business “very strong”
and segments such as “the industrial side not as strong an
environment,” he said.  The recent pickup in the value of the U.S. currency may
make America’s exports less competitive. The  dollar  has climbed
about 5 percent from this year’s low in February against a
trade-weighted basket of currencies from the country’s biggest
trading partners, according to Fed data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  