-- Trade Gap in U.S. Probably Shrank on Cheaper Crude Oil Imports
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-08T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-shrank-on-cheaper-crude-oil-imports.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  probably
shrank in April as falling crude  oil prices  helped reduce the
nation’s import bill, economists said before a report today.  The  gap  narrowed to $49.5 billion from the $51.8 billion
shortfall in March, according to the  median  of 73 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Stagnation in  Europe  and cooling growth in China may reduce
exports of American-made goods, which have been  contributing  to
growth in the world’s largest economy. At the same time,
domestic demand will help sustain the pace of imports, making
further improvement in the trade balance more difficult.  “Trade is not going to be a big swing factor for U.S.
growth,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in
 New York . “Exports will be less of an area of strength as other
parts of the world are slowing down.”  The Commerce Department will release the  trade gap  figures
at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from $45.5 billion to $53 billion.  Cheaper oil probably helped reduce the value of U.S.
imports. The average price of  Brent crude  traded on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London  was $120.49 in April, down 4.5
percent from this year’s high of $126.22 on March 13.  Exports, which climbed to a record in March, have yet to
slow because of Europe’s stagnant economy. The 17-nation euro
area will shrink 0.1 percent in 2012 and expand 0.9 percent in
2013, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said on May 22, when it trimmed its forecast. By contrast, the
OECD raised projections for U.S. growth, to 2.4 percent in 2012
and 2.6 percent next year.  ‘Significant’ Risk  “The situation in Europe poses significant risks to the
U.S. financial system and economy and must be monitored
closely,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday in testimony to Congress in  Washington .  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, is cooling. It
grew 8.1 percent in the first quarter of 2012 from a year
earlier, the fifth straight deceleration. The country yesterday
cut borrowing costs for the first time since 2008 and loosened
controls on banks’ lending and deposit rates, stepping up
efforts to combat a deepening slowdown as Europe’s debt crisis
worsens.  DuPont Co., the most valuable U.S. chemical producer, is
among companies watching the situation in Europe. DuPont’s
first-quarter earnings exceeded analysts’ estimates as its
agriculture unit benefited from rising corn-seed demand in
 Brazil  and an early spring in the U.S. and Europe.  Agriculture ‘Strong’  In “Europe the macro trends are not good right now,”
Nicholas Fanandakis, chief financial officer of Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont, said in a June 6 conference call with
analysts. “The economy is in a state of flux. Where it’s going
to come out in the end is anyone’s guess.” Even so, the picture
is mixed, with parts of the agriculture business “very strong”
and “the industrial side not as strong,” he said.  Slowing global growth has hurt shares of equipment makers.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index, which
includes companies like Caterpillar Inc. and Deere & Co., is up
1.9 since the beginning of the year, lagging a 4.6 percent gain
for the broader  S&P 500 Index  over the same period.  The recent pickup in the value of the U.S. currency may
make America’s exports less competitive. The  dollar  has climbed
about 5 percent from this year’s low in February against a
trade-weighted basket of currencies from the country’s biggest
trading partners, according to Federal Reserve data.  The trade deficit with  China  remains a thorny issue as the
U.S. presses the Asian country to allow the  yuan  to rise against
the dollar.  The Treasury Department will continue to “closely
monitor” the pace of yuan appreciation, according to its semi-
annual report to Congress on exchange-rate policies released May
25. It will also push for “policy changes that yield greater
exchange-rate flexibility,” the report said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  