-- Rajoy Bid to Avoid Full Bailout Risks Falling Short: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-06-08T08:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/rajoy-bid-to-avoid-full-bailout-risks-falling-short-euro-credit.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s bid to restrict any European aid package to the nation’s
banks may not be enough to avert a full-blown bailout as the
economy spirals deeper into recession.  Rajoy is pushing the European Union to allow its rescue
funds to recapitalize lenders directly. Spain would channel any
such aid, which may reach 100 billion euros ($126 billion),
through the country’s bank-rescue fund, European People’s Party
Secretary General Antonio Lopez Isturiz said yesterday. Spain’s
10-year government bond yield climbed as much as 18 basis points
today to 6.27 percent.  “Once funding for the banks has been clarified, I think we
can breathe a sigh of relief,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , a  money
manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees the
world’s biggest bond fund. “But we don’t know if there are
other skeletons in the closet, ones that will be revealed as the
credit tide goes out. So it might be a short period of relief.”  Rajoy says Spain risks losing access to  capital markets , as
some banks and regional governments already have, and data show
the Treasury is increasingly dependent on domestic banks for
funding. The economy is shrinking, threatening the goal of
slashing the deficit by two-thirds in two years, and limiting
Spain’s ability to grow its way out from under its public and
private debt load.  Recession Deepens  Lending is contracting by the most on record, crimping
demand as the economic slump approaches its fourth year. Retail
sales fell almost 10 percent from a year earlier in April, the
most since the reports started, and the EU expects  unemployment ,
the highest in the  Europe  at 24 percent, to rise further this
year.  Spain wants to cut the deficit to 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year from 8.9 percent in 2011. The
International Monetary Fund predicts the country will miss those
targets as the economy contracts 1.8 percent this year, adding
to the issuance needs.  Given the depth of the recession and the size of the
country’s debt, bailing out the banks “isn’t going to be
enough,”  Stuart Thomson , who helps oversee $120 billion at
Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, U.K., said in a telephone
interview. “We expect this not to be the last bailout for
Spain. There would be a sovereign bailout further down the
line.”  Funding Squeeze  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Spain three levels late yesterday
to within two steps of junk as it increased its estimate for the
cost to the government of shoring up banks to as much as 100
billion euros. The economy will remain in recession through
2013, the company said.  Fitch said government support of 60 billion euros for the
banks would help push the nation’s debt load to 95 percent of
gross domestic product in 2015. Spain went into the crisis with
a debt-to-GDP ratio of 36 percent in 2007.  The Treasury is increasingly dependent for financing on
domestic banks, which in turn rely on the  European Central Bank .
Foreign investors reduced their holdings of  Spain ’s outstanding
debt to 37 percent in April from 50 percent at the end of last
year, while Spanish banks increased their share to 29 percent
from 17 percent, Treasury data show.  If foreign investors decide not to reinvest in Spanish
debt, domestic banks will have to pick up an additional 15
billion euros of issuance, which is “doable,”  Gilles Moec , co-
chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said in a
telephone interview.  “If non-residents continue to reduce exposure at the same
pace they did in the first quarter, then we’d be talking about a
shortfall of 50 billion euros and there’s not enough liquidity
right now for that without a drastic compression in lending to
the private sector,” he said.  Spread Narrows  The Treasury said yesterday it has satisfied 58 percent of
the country’s gross financing needs for 2012 after meeting its
issuance goal at a bond auction. It paid 6.044 percent to sell
10-year debt yesterday, the highest since November.  Spanish bond rates declined after the auction, with the
 difference  between the nation’s 10-year yield and Germany’s
narrowed to 468 basis points, the lowest close since May 22.
Today’s the gain widened to 482 basis points as of 10:05 a.m. in
Madrid trading.  Spain’s main source of weakness is its banking industry,
which has more than 180 billion euros of assets that the Bank of
Spain says have become “problematic” since the collapse of the
nation’s once buoyant real estate market. The yield on 10-year
sovereign bonds has climbed above 6 percent from as low as 4.83
percent in March.  Not ‘Excessive’  To keep down borrowing costs, which this month approached
the 7 percent level that heralded bailouts in  Greece ,  Portugal 
and Ireland, an aid package for the banks would have to be
“generous,” said  Ben May , a European economist at  Capital
Economics  in London. “It’s not about whether it’s enough, but
whether it’s perceived to be enough,” he said.  Banco Santander SA Chairman  Emilio Botin  said June 4 that
40 billion euros of European funds for four lenders seized by
the state would be enough. Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
said the next day that banks don’t need “excessive” amounts as
he called for support from European institutions.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday that its “base-case
scenario” estimates Spanish banks’ loan losses in 2012 and 2013
at 80 billion euros to 112 billion euros. The EPP’s Lopez
Isturiz said an aid package may be between 80 billion euros and
100 billion euros.  “The number should be easily around 100 billion euros or
more,” said Rinse Boersma, a  fund manager  at The Hague-based
Aegon Asset Management, which manages 220 billion euros of
assets.  Missed Opportunities  Spain has made at least four attempts to clean up its banks
since 2009, when it created the FROB rescue fund. The previous
government tightened capital rules and encouraged banks to
merge. Since the current government came to power in December,
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos has implemented two decrees to
toughen provisioning rules.  Rajoy said yesterday he was talking to European colleagues
over how to shore up the nation’s lenders and he’ll put a figure
on the industry’s capital needs once he has received stress-test
reports from two international consultants this month.  “They have missed numerous occasions to sort out the
banks,” Deutsche Bank’s Moec said.  Should Spain need a full EU and  International Monetary Fund 
bailout that covered funding needs through the end of 2014 and
included 75 billion euros to recapitalize banks, the total
package would amount to about 350 billion euros, David Mackie ,
the chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, wrote in
a May 30 report. Spain’s economy is about twice the combined
size of Greece, Ireland and Portugal, which received rescue
loans in 2010 and 2011.  “The Europeans have a very strong track record of
underestimating the scale of the problem,” said  Charles Dumas ,
chief economist at Lombard Street Research in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  