-- Spanish, Greek Woes May Prompt Downgrades, Moody’s Says
-- B y   D a v e   L i e d t k a
-- 2012-06-09T00:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/rajoy-holds-bank-talks-with-eu-as-fitch-downgrades-spain.html
An exit of  Greece  from Europe’s
monetary union and Spain’s need for financial support to
capitalize its banks may trigger additional credit-rating
downgrades in the region, Moody’s Investors Service said.  All sovereign ratings in the region, including the Aaa of
nations such as Germany, would need to be reviewed if Greece
left the 17-nation currency union, New York-based Moody’s said
in a statement yesterday. The credit standing of Cyprus,
Portugal, Ireland,  Italy  and Spain would deteriorate as the risk
of a Greece exit rose, the company said.  “The worst-case scenario is a Greek exit that destabilizes
the European economy, and that feeds into further rounds of
challenges,” said Gregory Hess, an economics professor at
 Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont,  California . “In turn it
would contribute to a ratcheting down of global economic
activity.”  Spain’s banking crisis is mostly specific to that country
and wouldn’t need to be a source of contagion to others in the
region except for Italy, which also has a rising funding
reliance on the  European Central Bank  through its banks, Moody’s
said. Spain is preparing to become the fourth euro-area nation
to seek emergency assistance as the currency bloc’s finance
chiefs plan weekend talks on potential aid to shore up the
nation’s lenders.  Conference Call  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday that a
Spanish request is “awaited” and will be “exclusively
directed at the recapitalization of banks.” The bid may come as
soon as tomorrow when finance ministers hold a conference call
at about 1:30 p.m., according to a person familiar with the
plans who declined to be identified because the matter is
confidential.  The prospect of action underscores officials’ concerns that
Greek elections on June 17 may unsettle investors as  Spain 
struggles to persuade markets it can protect troubled banks and
finance its  budget deficit . The country’s credit rating was cut
three grades by Fitch Ratings yesterday hours after Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said for the first time that he is
discussing with European leaders how to help Spanish banks.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria declined
to comment when asked at a briefing yesterday whether Spain was
seeking a rescue. She reiterated that the government will wait
until getting the reports before making a decision.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  urged euro-area policy makers to strengthen the monetary
union and share risks as they seek to restore the health of the
financial system.  Bank Repair  “The heart of European bank repair lies in  Europe ,”
Lagarde said yesterday in remarks prepared for a speech in New
York. “That means more Europe, not less.”  European Union President Herman van Rompuy is drafting
proposals on a “fiscal union” that will be discussed by
European leaders at a Brussels summit on June 28-29.  A bailout for Spain, reeling from a recession and the
bursting of a property bubble, may dwarf previous rescues in the
effort to stem the turmoil that began with Greece’s disclosure
in 2009 that its finances were in worse shape than previously
known.  Since then, European governments and the IMF have made 386
billion euros ($480 billion) in loan pledges to Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal . Spain’s economy is more than twice the size of the
three countries combined. JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist David Mackie said on May 30 that aid for the Spanish government and
banks could total 350 billion euros.  Spanish Bonds  Spain’s 10-year bond yields rose to 6.24 percent yesterday
from 6.09 percent the previous day, more than double its 3
percent record low in 2005. The euro lost 0.7 percent to $1.2487
at 6:47 p.m. in  Madrid .  Fitch downgraded Spain to BBB, within two steps of non-
investment grade. It said the cost to the state of shoring up
banks may amount to as much as 100 billion euros in the worst
case, compared with its previous estimate of 30 billion euros,
as the country will remain in a recession next year.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday that its “base-case
scenario” has Spanish banks showing loan losses of 80 billion
euros to 112 billion euros this year and next. Fitch said
government support of 60 billion euros for the banks would help
push the nation’s debt load to 95 percent of gross domestic
product in 2015. Spain went into the crisis with a debt-to-GDP
ratio of 36 percent in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Liedtka in  New York  at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  