-- Stevens Praises Australian Economy, Warns on Asset Bubbles
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-06-08T04:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/rba-s-stevens-warns-against-rate-fueled-consumer-spending-boom.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  expressed optimism about the nation’s economy and
cautioned against monetary policy settings that could reignite
asset bubbles, the risk of which he said was low.  “The intended effect of recent policy actions is certainly
not to pump up speculative demand for assets,” Stevens said in
the text of a  speech  today in the southern city of  Adelaide .
“Our judgment is that the risk of re-igniting a boom in
borrowing and prices is not very high, and this was a key
consideration in decisions to lower interest rates over the past
eight months.”  Stevens’s speech, titled “The Glass Half Full,” urged
Australians to embrace more subdued spending and borrowing, and
steadier asset prices, as a path to sustainable economic
expansion and wealth. Employment growth this year and a gross
domestic product report showing the economy grew 1.3 percent
last quarter, more than twice the level forecast, underscore the
nation’s resource-fueled strength.  “While there are clearly multiple speeds, the total speed
seems to have been one of reasonable growth and low
unemployment,” Stevens said.  ‘Quite Respectable’  Annual growth of more than 4 percent “includes the
recovery from the effects of flooding a year ago, so the
underlying pace of growth is probably not quite that fast, but
it is quite respectable -- something close to trend,” he said.  The RBA cut rates by 50 basis points late last year and a
further 75 points in the past two meetings as inflation remained
contained and the savings rate stayed above 9 percent. At 3.5
percent, the overnight cash rate target is still the highest
among major developed economies.  “ Monetary policy  has been cognizant of the changed habits
of households and the process of balance-sheet strengthening,
and has been set accordingly,” Stevens said today. “The
reduction in interest rates over the past eight months or so -
-125 basis points on the  cash rate  and something less than that,
but still quite a significant fall, in the structure of
intermediaries’ lending rates -- will speed up, at the margin,
the process of deleveraging for those who need or want to
undertake it.”  Mortgage Rates  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said today it is
passing on the RBA’s quarter-point reduction in full. The
nation’s four biggest banks have been trying to guard margins
against further erosion from elevated wholesale funding costs,
by passing through less of the central bank’s rate reductions to
mortgage holders.  The RBA is also aiming to shore up demand as the outlook in
Europe and  China  deteriorates. China,  Australia ’s biggest
trading partner, cut borrowing costs yesterday for the first
time since 2008 and loosened controls on banks’ lending and
deposit rates, stepping up efforts to combat a deepening
slowdown as Europe’s debt crisis threatens global growth.  Australia is experiencing a two-speed economy -- a phrase
the RBA uses to distinguish resource-rich regions in the north
and west that are powering growth and hiring workers, from
struggling tourism, manufacturing and retail industries across
the south and east.  Stevens, in his address, sought to reconcile the divergence
between Australia’s weak consumer sentiment and disquiet among
households, with one of the fastest-growing economies and best
performing labor markets among major developed nations.  Multi-Speed Growth  “The multi-speed economy is not just about the mining
sector squeezing other sectors by drawing away labor and capital
and pushing up the  exchange rate ,” Stevens said. “It is doing
that, but slower growth in sectors that had earlier done well
from unusually strong gains in household spending would have
been occurring anyway, even if the mining boom had never come
along.”  Australian  consumer confidence  stagnated in May near the
lowest level this year as concern about the global economy
countered the central bank’s 50 basis point rate cut May 1. The
sentiment index for May rose 0.8 percent to 95.3, a  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey taken May 7-11 of
1,200 consumers showed May 16. From a year earlier, confidence
was down 8.3 percent.  Building Confidence  “One thing we should not do, in my judgment, is to try to
engineer a return to the boom,” Stevens said, referring to
conditions before 2007. “Many people say that we need more
‘confidence’ in the economy among both households and
businesses. We do, but it has to be the right sort of
confidence.  ‘‘The kind of confidence based on nothing more than
expectations of ever-increasing housing prices, with the
associated willingness to continue increasing leverage, on the
assumption that this is a sure way to wealth, would not be the
right kind,’’ he said.  The governor also said the central bank shouldn’t neglect
retirees and others who live on income from their savings.
‘‘Popular discussion of  interest rates  routinely ignores this
element, focusing almost exclusively on the minority of the
population -- just over one-third -- who occupy a dwelling they
have mortgaged,’’ he said.  Traders are pricing in a 25 basis-point rate reduction at
next month’s policy meeting, Bloomberg data based on swaps
trading shows.  Responding to audience questions, Stevens said he felt the
need to do some ‘‘cheerleading’’ for the economy in response to
negative commentary on the nation’s prospects and weak consumer
and business confidence. The governor initially declined to
comment on the outlook for the cash rate when asked about talk
of the benchmark being cut to 2 percent before saying that the
market is ‘‘pricing for a disaster in  Europe , which might
happen, or might not.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  