-- Realogy Parent Files to Raise Up to $1 Billion in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-06-08T18:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/realogy-parent-files-to-raise-up-to-1-billion-in-ipo.html
The parent of Realogy Corp. filed to
raise as much as $1 billion in an initial public offering, five
years after  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  took the real estate
broker private in the largest buyout on record for the industry.  Domus Holdings Corp., owner of Realogy, didn’t specify the
price or the number of shares on offer today in a regulatory
filing. Apollo, the New York private equity firm run by  Leon
Black , will hold a majority of the voting common stock following
the offering, the filing shows.  Realogy, which runs the Century 21, Coldwell Banker and
Sotheby’s International Realty brands, is going public as the
U.S. housing market shows signs of hitting bottom in the midst
of the worst real estate collapse since the 1930s. While trends
suggest a recovery for real estate, a weak stock market is
sapping demand for new equity offerings, according to  Jack Ablin 
of BMO Harris Private Bank.  “The housing market and the IPO market are certainly
different,” said Ablin, who helps oversee about $60 billion of
assets as the firm’s chief investment officer in  Chicago .
“They’re certainly bucking the trend by bringing this deal.”  The real estate services provider announced IPO plans even
after U.S. stocks sank to a six-month low this month and demand
for offerings dried up. No companies have completed or set
pricing terms for U.S. IPOs since  Menlo Park , California-based
Facebook Inc. raised $16 billion in its May 17 sale.  Housing Strengthens  Realogy is well-positioned to take advantage of the
strengthening recovery in residential property, Domus said in
the filing. Sales of previously owned houses climbed 3.4 percent
in April to a 4.62 million annual rate in April, close to
January’s 4.63 million pace, which was the highest in almost two
years, the National Association of Realtors reported.  U.S.  home prices  advanced 1.1 percent in April compared
with a year earlier, according to data provider CoreLogic’s
monthly Home Price Index released June 5. It was the second
straight year-over-year rise and the first time two consecutive
increases occurred since June 2010.  “A successful IPO for Realogy will depend on investors
believing we are in a sustainable U.S. residential real estate
recovery.” said Emile Courtney, a New York-based credit analyst
at  Standard & Poor’s .  Apollo paid $6.6 billion for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Realogy in the biggest leveraged buyout of a real-estate
services firm on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Apollo announced the deal in December 2006, five
months after home prices peaked, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller Index.  Domus Expenses  Domus has reduced operating costs by about $500 million
since 2005. Still, the company reported net losses every year
since at least 2008 and also in the first three months of this
year, the filing shows.  Domus also is allowing Apollo and Paulson & Co., the hedge
fund run by  John Paulson , to convert about $2 billion of
convertible notes for stock in conjunction with the IPO,
according to the filing. Paulson owns $493.5 million of
convertible notes, the filing shows.  Assuming the notes are converted, Apollo would hold 66
percent of Domus’s Class A stock prior to the IPO, and Paulson
would own 22 percent. The filing didn’t elaborate on how much
they will own following the offering.  Domus’s offering may allow Paulson to raise cash as the
billionaire hedge-fund manager seeks to reverse record losses in
2011. Paulson has agreed to hold his Domus stock for as much as
180 days following the IPO.  Caesars Offering  Apollo’s IPO of  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  earlier this
year also opened the way for Black and Paulson to reap cash from
an investment. The Las Vegas-based casino chain’s February
initial offering raised $16.3 million, and the shares have risen
34 percent through yesterday.  Realogy’s $491.8 million of 11.5 percent bonds due April
2017 rose 5 cents to 95.5 cents on the dollar to yield 12.8
percent at 12:17 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Realogy’s brands, which also include Better Homes and
Gardens, The Corcoran Group and ERA, have about 13,800
franchised and company-owned offices in more than 100 countries,
according to the company’s website.  Realogy didn’t say in its filing whether it had hired
underwriters for the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  