-- Treasuries Gain on Bets Europe’s Crisis Harming Growth
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-08T21:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/treasuries-gain-on-bets-europe-s-crisis-harming-growth.html
Treasuries fell for the week as bets
that  Spain  may win financial assistance damped demand for refuge
and the U.S. prepared to sell $66 billion in notes and bonds.  U.S. bonds erased earlier gains today on speculation their
surge from record lows couldn’t be sustained. European officials
prepared for a conference call this weekend to discuss a
potential aid request to shore up Spain’s lenders. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the U.S. has
options for further monetary easing, even as he added that
further steps could have “diminishing returns.”  “There is a belief that there will be some sort of bailout
for Spain, and that Europe will start to get itself together,
and it is taking the bid out of the Treasury market,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader in New York at Societe Generale SA, one of the
21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “But obviously the
fear concerns are not over, and that should put a lid on how
high yields can go.”  The 10-year note  yield  was little changed today at 1.64
percent at 5:04 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. Earlier it fell eight basis points, the most
since June 1. The 1.75 percent security maturing in May 2022
advanced 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 1/32.  The benchmark note’s yield  increased  18 basis points this
week, the most since March. It advanced to 1.68 percent
yesterday, the highest level since May 30.  Thirty-year bond 
yields were little changed today at 2.75 percent, after dropping
earlier as much as nine basis points. They climbed 23 basis
points for the week.  Record Lows  Ten- and 30-year yields reached record lows of 1.4387
percent and 2.5089 percent on June 1. They touched 2012 highs in
March, 3.49 percent for the long bond and 2.4 percent for the
10-year note.  Treasuries have returned 3 percent this quarter, compared
with a 2 percent gain by sovereign debt of all Group of Seven
nations, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The U.S.’s AA+ credit rating was affirmed today by  Standard
& Poor’s . The ratings company kept the outlook negative, citing
political and fiscal risks it said may lead to another downgrade
by 2014.  S&P stripped the U.S. of its top AAA ranking on Aug. 5,
criticizing the nation’s political process and saying that
spending cuts agreed on by lawmakers wouldn’t be enough to
reduce record deficits.  Expensive Securities  A valuation measure showed Treasuries are at almost the
most expensive level ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.83 percent after
closing on June 1 at negative 0.94 percent, the record. The
average over the past year is negative 0.44. A negative reading
indicates investors are willing to accept yields below what’s
considered fair value.  While the 10-year note has surged amid the  European debt
crisis  and concern U.S. economic growth is faltering, its yield
is only about 10 basis points rich to fair value given the
negative performance of other markets, including equities and
commodities, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, a primary
dealer.  “The outlook and corresponding behavior within other
markets has been so dramatic that even while rates have rallied,
they have in some senses moved from rich to closer to the fair-
value yield,” analysts at the firm, including Eric Van Nostrand
in  New York , wrote in a report June 7. “Looking at prior
richening trends, there appears to still be scope for Treasury
yields to make a move lower should the Fed decide to ease
further.”  Japanese Match  U.S. 10-year note yields  will drop to match those on
Japanese  government bonds , 0.8 percent, according to the
investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co. who predicted the rally
in Treasuries that began in 2010.  Prospects for deflation and additional monetary easing by
central banks will push the U.S. yield to its Japanese peer’s
level at year-end, said Akira Takei, head of the international
fixed-income department for Mizuho Asset, a unit of  Japan ’s
third-biggest listed bank. He spoke in an interview.  The U.S. will auction next week $32 billion of three-year
notes, $21 billion of 10-year securities and $13 billion of 30-
year bonds. The three sales start June 12.  Bernanke said yesterday the European debt crisis “poses
significant risks to the U.S. financial system and economy and
must be monitored closely.” Speaking to Congress’s Joint
Economic Committee in  Washington , he refrained from discussing
steps the Fed might take to protect U.S. growth.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  opens a two-day policy
meeting on June 19.  Inflation Bets  Yields indicate investors expect inflation to hold in check
in the U.S., providing Bernanke room for further stimulus.  The  difference  in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, which represents traders’
expectations for inflation over the life of the debt, was 2.14
percentage points, down from this year’s high of 2.45 percentage
points in March. The average over the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  Increases in U.S. consumer prices, excluding food and
energy, slowed to 2.2 percent last month from a year earlier
after rising 2.3 percent in April, a Bloomberg News survey
forecast that a Labor Department report will show on June 14.  Reports showing German exports and Italian industrial
production declined in April added to evidence  Europe ’s crisis
is harming the global economy.  Spain Downgrade  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Spain yesterday by three levels to
BBB, taking the rating to two steps off non-investment grade.
The cost to the state of shoring up banks may amount to as much
as 100 billion euros ($124.6 billion), compared with its
previous estimate of 30 billion euros, Fitch said.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield climbed as much as 18 basis
points to 6.27 percent today. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
for the first time he’s discussing with European leaders how to
help Spanish banks.  European finance ministers will discuss this weekend a
possible aid package for Spain, according to a German official
who declined to be identified because the matter is
confidential. Three of the 17 nations in the euro block,  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal , have received international bailouts.  “It is a different version of the same story every
morning,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at the
broker-dealer BTIG LLC in New York. “There are concerns about
Europe, the stability of the banking system and what it means
for the global economy.”  The U.S. central bank bought $1.9 billion of Treasuries
today due from February 2036 to November 2041. The purchases
were part of its program to replace $400 billion of shorter-term
debt in its holdings with longer maturities by the end of this
month to keep down borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 Ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  