-- Renewable-Power Boom Leaves Nations Without Backup, Report Shows
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-06-08T07:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/renewable-power-boom-leaves-nations-without-backup-report-shows.html
Nations adding wind and solar power
aren’t doing enough to ensure their electricity systems can meet
demand when renewable-energy output falls short, according to a
Bloomberg Industries analysis.  Countries must do more to establish so-called capacity
markets, which reward utilities to run coal- and gas-fired
plants as a backup when alternative energy is insufficient,
 Chris Rogers , an analyst in  London , said in a report.  European countries including  Germany  and the U.K. are
overhauling their energy industries to raise the share of
renewables, helping to counter a power shortfall as fossil-fuel
and nuclear plants are taken out of service. That expansion
can’t do away with coal- and gas-fired generation altogether
because wind and solar output varies according to the weather.  “Liberalized markets and many regulated systems have
failed to address the issues of rising intermittency,” Rogers
said. “Capacity markets are failing to deliver high enough
prices to incentivize refurbishment of old plant, or building of
new plant.”  Companies operating backup stations that can be switched on
and off quickly must be rewarded to keep the facilities open,
Rogers said. Gas-fired plants need a daily “capacity payment”
of at least $230 a megawatt to make it worth their while, he
said.  European utilities including EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  have held
off building new gas-fired plants, citing concern that the
investment won’t be profitable.  As well as Germany and Britain,  France  and the U.S. states
of Texas and  California  also need to establish capacity markets,
the report shows. Additional capacity can be created by building
new  power plants  or by controlling consumption at peak times.  “The growing value of capacity is an opportunity for all
generators,” Rogers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  