-- Repsol Cut to Step Above Junk as Fitch Questions Plans After YPF
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-06-08T15:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/repsol-cut-to-step-above-junk-as-fitch-questions-plans-after-ypf.html
Repsol SA (REP) , the Spanish oil producer
whose Argentine unit was nationalized in April, was cut to the
lowest investment grade by  Fitch Ratings , the first downgrade
since reducing dividends to shore up its finances.  Fitch reduced Repsol’s  credit rating  one level to BBB-, the
first reduction by any agency since Repsol announced a strategic
review on May 29. The outlook for the rating is negative, Fitch
said in a statement today.  “The negative outlook is mainly driven by the uncertainty
surrounding the execution of the strategic plan at this stage
and weakness in the Spanish macroeconomic environment,” Fitch
said. “After implementing its financial action plan, Repsol’s
ratings could be further downgraded to non-investment grade” if
the company doesn’t reduce its debt enough.  Spain’s biggest oil producer last month lowered its
dividend payout ratio to 40 percent to 55 percent of this year’s
profits on May 29. It also plans to bolster production from its
remaining assets outside of Argentina by 7 percent a year
through 2016 and add new reserves covering 120 percent of the
oil pumped.  Chairman  Antonio Brufau  met investors last month to explain
his plans to reshape the Madrid-based company after Argentine
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  nationalized its YPF
unit, her country’s largest oil company. Analysts’ concerns have
focused on how Repsol will finance its expansion after the
seizure.  Standard & Poor’s  reduced the credit rating to BBB- in
April, saying it may cut the company’s debt one more step to
junk unless borrowings are lowered.  A spokesman for Repsol wasn’t immediately available for
comment.  Repsol shares have declined 46 percent this year. YPF
contributed 26 percent of 2011 operating profit and had 45
percent of Repsol’s 2.2 billion barrels of proven reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  