-- Tribune Judge May Rule on Bankruptcy Exit Plan by July
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-08T19:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/tribune-judge-may-rule-on-bankruptcy-exit-plan-by-july-1-.html
Tribune Co., the biggest newspaper
publisher in bankruptcy, may learn by early July whether it has
won the first of two rulings it needs to leave bankruptcy this
year, lawyers involved in the case said.  Should the judge overseeing the case approve the company’s
reorganization plan by early July, Tribune may be able to exit
bankruptcy by August, or by the end of the year at the latest,
depending on how long it takes the Federal Communications
Commission to make a key second ruling, Chief Reorganization
Officer Don Liebentritt said in an interview today.  “The FCC is the wild card,” Liebentritt said.  Tribune finished the last major court hearing in its
bankruptcy today in Wilmington, Delaware, asking U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Kevin Carey to approve a plan that would divide ownership
of the television and newspaper company among its senior
lenders, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and hedge funds Oaktree
Capital Management LP and Angelo, Gordon & Co.  Should Carey approve that plan, the company would need to
win approval from the FCC to transfer its television and radio
licenses to the new owners before it can exit bankruptcy.  Carey said he would hold a status conference on his
decision in early July, if necessary. Lawyers for the company
and creditors said after the hearing today that means Carey may
rule by then.  Second Attempt  Tribune, based in  Chicago , is trying for the second time to
win approval of a reorganization plan that settles legal claims
against the senior lenders that funded the company’s 2007
buyout, which critics said left the television and newspaper
company insolvent.  Objectors include hedge fund Aurelius Capital Management
and other holders of pre-buyout debt who are being repaid less
than the senior lenders.  Once Tribune leaves bankruptcy, pre-buyout creditors,
including a group of retirees, have said they will press
lawsuits filed in  New York  against shareholders they say wrongly
benefited from the buyout, which added more than
$8 billion in debt to the company.  Tribune owes creditors about $13 billion. The company is
now valued at more than $7 billion, Tribune said in court
papers.  The company’s 4.875 percent bonds that were due in 2010
rose 4.1 percent today to 32 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  