-- Richard Li’s PCCW Agrees to Buy Vodacom’s African Carrier Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-06-08T16:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/richard-li-s-pccw-agrees-to-buy-vodacom-s-african-carrier-unit.html
PCCW Ltd. (8) , the Hong Kong-based phone
company controlled by billionaire Richard Li, agreed to buy
 Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) ’s satellite-services unit as it builds out
its African operations.  PCCW Global will pay $26 million to acquire the carrier
unit of Gateway Communications from Vodacom, the South African
mobile-phone company controlled by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , according
to a Vodacom statement today.  PCCW is expanding its networks business for multinationals
and carriers in Africa to counter domestic competition from
companies including China Mobile Ltd. and  Hutchison
Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (215)  The company will
retain Vodacom as a customer under the deal.  Vodacom is disposing of parts of Gateway after paying about
$700 million for the unit less than four years ago. The company,
the largest provider of wireless services to  South Africans , is
selling the division after traffic volumes slumped to focus on
its own wireless operations in southern Africa.  “Gateway covers huge swathes of the continent and doesn’t
have a great strategic fit with Vodacom,” said David Lerche, an
analyst at Avior Research Ltd. “Why own a carrier business that
serves Nigeria, for instance, when you don’t have an operator
there?”  Vodacom fell 1.8 percent to 96.98 rand at the close in
Johannesburg trading.  Networks Business  PCCW’s  HKT Trust (6823)  and HKT Ltd. unit offers international
telecommunications to businesses and carriers and is the biggest
fixed-line operator in Hong Kong. PCCW Global, the international
arm of HKT, is buying the assets from Vodacom.  The initial public offering of HKT in November raised
HK$9.3 billion ($1.2 billion) for parent PCCW.  The unit’s full-year profit rose 32 percent as mobile-phone
revenue increased. PCCW now focuses on pay-television and
computer services operations, and retains more than 50 percent
of HKT after last year’s listing.  Vodacom acquired Gateway in 2008, adding the seller of
telecommunications links to businesses and phone companies
across  Africa . The company took an impairment charge of 3.2
billion rand ($378 million) on the unit a year later after
traffic volumes over satellite declined following the deployment
of additional fiber-optic cables into east and west Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  