-- Ridley Scott’s ‘Prometheus’ Looks Fantastic: Film Reviews
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-06-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/ridley-scott-s-prometheus-looks-fantastic-film-reviews.html
The marketing campaign for  Ridley Scott ’s visually magnificent sci-fi thriller “ Prometheus ” is
all but alien-free.  Yet the new 3-D film is so clearly related to the
director’s 1979 masterwork “ Alien ” we half-expect  Sigourney Weaver  to show up as her own granny.  Instead, we have the charismatic  Noomi Rapace  ( Sweden ’s
original girl with the dragon tattoo) undertaking the requisite
monster-mashing, and  Michael Fassbender , looking like a life-
size Ken doll, as the sort of deviously solicitous android
portrayed by Ian Holm in 1979.  No one could blame Scott and screenwriters  Jon Spaihts  and
“ Lost ” creator  Damon Lindelof  for running from the franchise’s
increasingly dumb sequels. Really, “Alien vs. Predator?”  But the film’s killer “Alien” genes (including design
that references Swiss surrealist  H.R. Giger ’s groundbreaking
original work), is the most effective immunity against the
hamfisted philosophizing that Lindelof carries over from his
“Lost” days.  “You must feel like your God abandoned you,” snipes
Fassbender’s robot as the human body count mounts.  Science, Faith  His target is Rapace’s Elizabeth Shaw, an archeologist
whose scientific training coexists with her faith. The cross she
wears around her neck wouldn’t get more screen time in a vampire
movie.  The year is 2093. Shaw is aboard the Prometheus, a space
cruiser funded by a dying gazillionaire after ancient cave
drawings provide a road map to humankind’s far-off creators.  In a brief, gorgeous prologue, “Prometheus” shows a pale-
skinned, oversize humanoid traversing a young, harsh Earth. As
his saucer hovers overhead, the E.T. sips a dark liquid and
disintegrates, seeding Earth with his DNA.  Few aboard Prometheus share Shaw’s enthusiasm for meeting
their makers, and for good reason. The cavernous, underground
 space station  they find is littered with humanoid bones, and
something very creepy lurks about.  What happens next isn’t so much about to whom, but in what
order: The plain-spoken captain (Idris Elba)? The abrasive
geologist ( Sean Harris )? The icy boss ( Charlize Theron )?  “Prometheus” amps up everything that made “Alien” work.
But bigger and louder isn’t always better. An overbearing
musical score replaces the older movie’s eerie quiet, and the
once-shocking, chest-bursting alien is mostly just disgusting
when it pops up during a very graphic C-section.  As for those ponderous Big Questions about faith and
reason, the answers will have to wait until the bluntly
telegraphed sequel.  “Prometheus,” from 20th Century Fox, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: *** (Evans)  ‘Peace, Love’  Diane is a conservative Manhattan lawyer, all fight. When
her husband announces he wants a divorce, she gathers their
high-school-age son and their college-age daughter and drives
them up to Woodstock to see Grace, her mother.  Grace is an unreconstructed hippie who grows pot in her
basement, circle-dances when the moon is full and can’t open her
mouth without spouting wisdom. (“I prefer not to name animals -
- they’re nature’s children, not ours.”) Diane has been
avoiding her for 20 years.  I wasn’t clear on why Diane chose this miserable moment to
make the trip, but her children take to their earth-mother
granny at once. This drives Diane nuts. She only starts to melt
when Grace produces a manly woodworker to woo her. Both kids
have dreamboats waiting for them, too. Woodstock is groovy!  Fonda, Keener  There should be fines for writers who turn out screenplays
as hackneyed and predictable as the one for “ Peace, Love and
Misunderstanding .” (Even the title hits the ear with a clink.)  But  Christina Mengert  and  Joseph Muszynski  get away with it, 
sort of, because Grace and Diane are played by  Jane Fonda 
and  Catherine Keener , and those two actresses are a blissful
mismatch.  Since Keener’s specialty is playing frowning killjoys whose
cluelessness is tormenting to them, but funny to the audience,
Diane never quite comes off as a harridan. You can’t help
rooting for her when she starts to loosen up.  And Fonda is the ideal actress to play a local legend.
(“They say Dylan had a thing for her!”) Grace is such a force
of nature that she could probably talk  Mitt Romney  into smoking
a joint and posing nude for one of her oils.  The director,  Bruce Beresford , has a history of drawing
good performances from actors (in “ Driving Miss Daisy ,” for
example).  And I have to grant the writers something: Keener and Fonda
wouldn’t have kept cracking me up if there hadn’t been something
in their ridiculous lines for them to work with.  I have no such reservations about the costume designers.
They’ve outfitted the cast for a hippie Halloween party --
bright vests, tie-dye, beads. They deserve jail time.  “Peace, Love & Misunderstanding,” from  IFC Films , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Seligman)  ‘Dark Horse’  Self-centered, lazy and with the social graces of an angry
eighth grader, 35-year-old Abe ( Jordan Gelber ) lives with his
parents, works (or occupies a desk) at dad’s office and keeps
track of every penny his mom owes him for their nightly
backgammon games.  Abe, the heart of Todd Solondz’s touching sad-sack comedy
“Dark Horse,” can be exhausting company.  His chance at salvation is Miranda (Selma Blair), a pretty,
heavily medicated city refugee whose depression has led her to
the sanctuary of her own childhood bedroom. She’s smarter than
Abe, certainly better looking, but (possibly) within his
emotional league.  Solondz has walked these lonely streets before -- Abe could
be the spiritual older brother of nerdy Dawn “Wiener Dog”
Weiner in the director’s 1996 breakthrough “ Welcome to the
Dollhouse .”  But “Dark Horse,” cruelly sharp and poignant, is narrower
and less memorable than Solondz’s recent films, especially the
ensemble tragi-comedies “ Happiness ” and “ Life During
Wartime .”  “Dark Horse,” from Brainstorm Media, is playing in  New
York . Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lewis
Lapham  on books.  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 