-- Romney Says Obama ‘Out of Touch’ on Strength of Economy
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-08T20:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/romney-calls-obama-out-of-touch-on-strength-of-economy-1-.html
Mitt Romney and other Republicans
mocked President  Barack Obama  for his comments earlier today
about the private sector, casting the incumbent as out of touch
with economic reality as he campaigned in a swing state.  “He said the private sector is doing fine,” the
presumptive Republican nominee told several hundred gathered
outside at a park in Council Bluffs, Iowa. “Is he really that
out of touch? I think he’s defining what it means to be detached
and out of touch with the American people. Has there ever been
an American president who is so far from reality?”  The  Republican National Committee  weighed in with a Web
video playing off Obama’s comments on the private sector, asking
how he could fix the economy “if he doesn’t understand what’s
broken?”  Placed on the defensive, Obama sought to clarify his
comments when asked to respond to Romney’s criticism.  “It is absolutely clear the economy is not doing fine,”
Obama told reporters this afternoon during a meeting between
Obama and Philippine President  Benigno Aquino . While there has
been “some good momentum” in the private sector, “there are
too many people out of work, the housing market is still weak
and too many homes underwater.”  Obama Comments  At issue were remarks Obama made earlier in the day at a
White House news conference to discuss the economy.  “The truth of the matter is that, as I said we’ve created
4.3 million jobs over the last two -- 27 months; over 800,000
just this year alone,” Obama told reporters. “The private
sector is doing fine.”  Obama’s re-election prospects suffered a blow June 1 after
the government reported that hiring slowed last month,
reinforcing Romney’s main line of attack against him.  Jobs in the U.S. grew by 69,000 in May, the fewest in a
year and less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of private economists. The  unemployment rate 
increased to 8.2 percent, the first rise since last June.  Romney today hammered at Obama’s assessment of the economic
environment.  “For the president of the  United States  to stand up and
say the private sector is doing fine, is going to go down in
history,” he said. “It’s an extraordinary miscalculation and
misunderstanding by a president who is out of touch.”  RNC Video  The RNC video flashes headlines on last week’s employment
report, including “Economy stalls as job growth slows” from
the  Detroit News , and then twice replays Obama’s comment that
“the private sector is doing fine.” It ends with the question
about how well he understands the struggling economy.  Romney also questioned Obama’s calls for additional federal
spending to boost job growth.  “He wants another stimulus. He wants to hire more
government workers,” Romney said. “Did he not get the message
of Wisconsin?” he said, referring to Republican Governor  Scott Walker ’s June 5 victory in a recall election spurred by his push
to restrict bargaining rights for public-employee unions. “The
American people did.”  Economic Proposals  Obama said Romney and Republicans in Congress haven’t
offered proposals to spur growth.  “What I’m interested in hearing from Congress and Mr.
Romney is, what steps are they willing to take right now that
are going to make an actual difference?” Obama said.  The president’s campaign accused Romney of trying to “talk
down” the  U.S. economy .  “Iowans got today what they’ve come to expect from  Mitt
Romney : angry, dishonest rhetoric about President Obama and zero
new solutions to grow the economy and strengthen the middle
class,” Obama re-election spokeswoman Lis Smith said in a
statement.  Romney was last in Iowa less than a month ago, on May 16,
and its place on his schedule signals his interest in trying to
take the state from Obama’s column in the 2012 election.  Obama won Iowa in 2008 over his Republican opponent,
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , 54 percent to 44 percent. As
president, he’s frequently visited the state, including on May
24 when he dropped reminders about the time he’d spent
campaigning there before his win in  Iowa ’s 2008 Democratic
caucuses set him on the path to his party’s nomination.  Poll Results  An NBC News-Marist  poll  released May 31 showed Obama and
Romney tied in Iowa, each with support from 44 percent of
registered voters, figures that include those who are undecided
yet leaning toward one of the candidates. Eliminating the
leaners, 10 percent of voters in the state are undecided, the
poll showed.  Pottawattamie County, where Romney appeared today, was won
by McCain four years ago with 50.4 percent of the vote.  Republicans have touted figures showing they now outnumber
Democrats in Iowa. The latest registration data from the Iowa
Secretary of State’s office shows 607,936 registered Republicans
and 595,423 Democrats. As in many states, independents will
probably decide the outcome in Iowa and represent a larger group
than registered Republicans or Democrats: 663,969.  Romney and his rivals in the Republican nomination race
repeatedly visited before its caucuses that kicked off the
nomination contest on Jan. 3. The state is one of about a half-
dozen Democratic and Republican strategists say are most likely
to determine the election.  Romney, 65, was initially declared the winner of the Iowa
caucuses before a subsequent review gave a 34-vote victory to
former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania . Santorum, who
emerged as Romney’s main challenger, ended his bid for the
Republican nomination on April 10.  State’s Economy  The campaign for Iowa’s electoral votes will play out in a
state with a better economic environment than the national
picture. The state’s  jobless rate  in April was 5.1 percent,
below the current national average of 8.2 percent and down from
6.3 percent in November 2010.  After his Iowa stop, Romney was scheduled to appear in  Salt
Lake City  with Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , who faces
a primary race on June 26, and attend a fundraiser there. He is
taking the weekend off from the campaign trail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  