-- Romney Executive Style Forged in Faith He Rarely Mentions
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-08T00:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/romney-executive-style-forged-in-faith-he-rarely-mentions.html
When  Mitt Romney  was serving as
bishop of his church in 1981, one of his two counselors wrote
home to his mother with a prediction: This guy could wind up in
the White House.  In the then-34-year-old Romney -- who would put in long
hours at his consulting job at Bain & Company only to spend
early mornings, late nights and weekends visiting ward members
in need and administering church business -- Philip Barlow said
he saw the marks of an unusually effective leader, and someone
who “epitomized Mormon culture.”  “I found his executive ability so extraordinary that I
remember writing home to my mother that this guy could be
president of the  United States ,” said Barlow, now a professor
of Mormon history and culture at Utah State University in Logan.
“He’s got a strong dose of Mormon can-do optimism -- an
optimistic confidence and resilience about overcoming
challenges. I almost got a sense that he was ready to jump out
of his chair and leap to action.”  Romney, now 65 and the presumed Republican presidential
nominee, often speaks about the experiences that have shaped his
leadership skills and business acumen -- which he cites as his
prime qualifications for the White House -- including his work
at  Bain Capital  LLC, the private-equity firm he founded, his
turnaround of the scandal-plagued 2002  Olympic Games , and his
tenure as governor of Massachusetts.  Faith Questions  Yet Romney hardly ever names his religion or discusses his
service in the church in public. He shuns questions about the
beliefs and practices of the Church of  Jesus Christ  of Latter-
day Saints, saying he does not want to be its spokesman. When he
visits  Salt Lake City  today for a fundraiser, he’ll hold no
public events, save for an airport photo-op, in the spiritual
and organizational home of Mormonism.  That silence is testament to the political risk his
campaign sees lurking as Romney seeks to make history by
becoming the first Mormon president.  It’s striking to those who have worked with Romney in
church and business because they say his faith offers valuable
insight into his leadership style, his success in the corporate
world, and what drives him to seek the presidency.  It also undercuts the portrait President  Barack Obama  and
his campaign are painting of Romney as an uncaring corporate
raider bent on profiting in business at the expense of workers.  Solving Problems  “He was in leadership capacities in the church roughly for
a period of 14 years, and during that time he would spend from
10 to 15 hours a week doing nothing other than confidentially
meeting with, and trying to help do what he personally could, or
calling on the resources of other people in the area to help
with the everyday problems of life -- whether it was
 unemployment , whether it was a wayward child, whether it was an
illegal immigrant, whether it was a marriage falling apart,”
said Grant Bennett, another one of Romney’s counselors and Bain
co-workers, who succeeded him as bishop in Belmont,
 Massachusetts .  It was just one of the ways in which Romney’s world view
and business approach have been defined by the teachings of his
church, say friends, former associates and experts on the Mormon
faith.  The Mormon church, which has no professional clergy, puts a
premium on individual leadership. Boys as young as 12 or 13 give
sermons and men at 19 or 20 years old undertake two-year
conversion missions -- Romney’s was in France -- during which
they face adversity, experience rejection, and learn to
persevere.  Early Lessons  “Young men and young women have a number of opportunities
to serve in leadership roles where they learn to speak in front
of people, they learn to think about agendas, they learn to
think about accomplishing things, and about success,” said Gary Cornia, the dean of the Marriott School of Management at  Brigham
Young University  in Provo,  Utah .  There is also a premium placed on being industrious and
tenacious, Barlow said. Those are traits referred to in the Book
of Mormon as “deseret,” which means honeybee -- a symbol among
church organizations and on Utah’s state seal. Barlow saw that
in the way Romney once rushed to shed his business suit and don
blue jeans to help a ward member with a leaky roof.  Geoffrey Rehnert, who worked with Romney at Bain Capital,
noticed similar tendencies in the workplace. Romney “just went
a million miles an hour -- he just had this energy level and
vitality that just didn’t slow down,” Rehnert said. “At first,
I’d say to myself, ‘Well gee, this guy’s really wired today,’
and then after a while, I realized this is how he is all the
time.”  Business Model  Romney’s way of constructing his business also had
parallels with the Mormon church, whose volunteer ministry
prizes consensus building, teamwork and a bottom-up leadership
style.  “He created an organization without him micromanaging the
other people who were in the organization like me, who were
junior to him, where it was kind of a mix of Mitt being the CEO
and a partnership arrangement,” Rehnert said. “He was never a
command-and-control guy.”  Romney’s campaign declined to make him available for an
interview and referred questions to the church.  Eric Hawkins, a church spokesman, said while scripture is
full of leadership lessons, one teaching unique to Mormonism
states: “that men and women ‘should be anxiously engaged in a
good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring
to pass much righteousness.’”  Successful Mormons  The aspects of Mormonism that have shaped Romney and a
prominent list of politicians and business leaders of the same
faith have been well-documented. In his 2007 book “The Mormon
Way of Doing Business,” journalist Jeff Benedict profiled
successful Mormon executives and leaders, including  David Neeleman , the co-founder of  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) ;  Kevin Rollins , former chief executive of  Dell Inc. (DELL) ; Deloitte & Touche
LLP Senior Partner Jim Quigley; former Madison Square Garden
Chief Executive Officer Dave Checketts; and former Citigroup
Inc. Chief Financial Officer  Gary Crittenden .  A section of the book also is devoted to Romney, whose
estimated wealth is as much as $250 million, according to his
campaign.  “Mormon scriptures suggest that God created a plan for
mankind that would ultimately make them all successful: You will
succeed in business, you will succeed in church work, not
without adversity, not without hardship, but you will succeed --
and Mitt has that in spades,” said Rollins, who worked with
Romney at Bain. “He believes there’s a destiny here that he can
fulfill.”  Evangelical Opposition  The former Massachusett’s governor’s faith remains a
political challenge in part because some evangelicals, who are a
force in the  Republican Party , believe that Mormonism is a cult
or otherwise at odds with Christianity.  The Reverend Robert Jeffress, a Baptist minister from
Dallas who supported  Rick Perry  during the Republican primary,
said while introducing the Texas governor in October that Romney
was “not a Christian.”  A study released May 21 concluded that Romney is
encountering a political “stained glass ceiling,” based on the
public’s inability to accept his Mormon faith, and said his
religion was “a formidable obstacle” to his campaign.  “His Mormon faith, in particular, makes many people
uneasy,” said  John Green , a political scientist at the
University of Akron in Ohio who co-authored the study. “And
that unease has political consequences.”  2007 Speech  After much debate among his advisers during his first
presidential campaign, Romney made a speech in December 2007
designed to confront such concerns in which he pledged that as
president he would answer to “no one religion.”  “I believe in my Mormon faith and I endeavor to live by
it,” Romney declared then, yet he said it would be
inappropriate for him or any candidate to become “a spokesman
for his faith.”  He’s unlikely to reprise the speech during this run, his
advisers say, preferring to keep his focus on the economy and
jobs and discontent with Obama. In a May 12 commencement speech
at Liberty University, an evangelical Christian school in
Lynchburg, Virginia, Romney touched on themes of faith and
family yet never uttered the word “Mormon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  St. Louis ,  Missouri  at  
1890 or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 