-- RTS Futures Gain Before Europe Finance Talks: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-06-08T22:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/rts-futures-gain-before-europe-finance-talks-russia-overnight.html
RTS stock-index futures gained and
 Russian equities  traded in the U.S. had the biggest weekly
advance in 2012 ahead of European Union finance ministers’ talks
today.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies rose 0.5 percent to 85.60 in New York
yesterday, gaining 8.1 percent for the week, the most since
December.  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PLZLY) ,  Russia ’s largest
producer of the metal, jumped to the highest level in five weeks
and OAO Gazprom Neft advanced to a two-week high. Futures
expiring on June 15 on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS Index
climbed 1.4 percent to settle at 130,205. Russian markets are
open today and closed on June 11 and June 12.  EU finance ministers will hold a conference call as they
try to tame the region’s debt crisis. European Central Bank Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday that  Spain ’s request
for emergency assistance is “awaited” and will be
“exclusively directed at the recapitalization of banks.”
 Europe  is Russia’s biggest trade partner and a major market for
exports, including oil, natural gas and metals.  “A lot of investors are looking for some news out of
Europe this weekend,” said  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $35
billion at New York-based Van Eck Associates Corp., including
Russian stocks. “Europe is the biggest market for Russian
energy exports. If its GDP shrinks, demand for energy declines.
A lot of Russian companies have operations in Europe.”  Russia ETF Surges  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 0.6 percent to $25.09 yesterday, the
highest level since May 21. The fund gained 8 percent during the
week, ending six weeks of drops. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the index futures, rose 0.6 percent
to 42.64 in New York yesterday.  Oil may rise next week as Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries ministers gather in Vienna on June 14 to
discuss the group’s output, U.S. crude supplies drop and
countries take steps to bolster slowing economies, a Bloomberg
survey showed. OPEC supplies about 40 percent of the world’s
crude.  Nine of 25 analysts, or 36 percent, forecast crude will
advance through June 15. Eight respondents, or 32 percent,
predicted that futures will decline and eight said there will be
little change.  Above $100  “ Oil prices  should be pretty positive,”  David Semple ,
director for international equity at the Van Eck  Emerging
Markets  Fund, said in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in
 New York  yesterday. He “can certainly see a scenario” for oil
prices above $100 a barrel this year. “We want to be in the
game in terms of Russia. It’s a tough place to buy when oil goes
down.”  Oil, Russia’s major export earner, which together with
natural gas accounted for about 50 percent of budget revenue in
2011, has retreated 15 percent this year.  Crude oil for July delivery fell 0.8 percent to $84.10 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped 0.5 percent to $99.47
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals
crude, Russia’s chief export blend, rose 0.8 percent to $98.24,
gaining 1.4 percent from last week. That was the first weekly
gain in six.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index fell 0.7 percent to
588,17, trimming its weekly gain to 1.2 percent and rising for
the first week in six.  Russia’s Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 0.3
percent to 1,332.92 in Moscow, paring its weekly advance to 2.7
percent.  Polyus Listing  Polyus’s  American depositary receipts  jumped 4.3 percent to
$2.94 in New York yesterday, the highest since May 3. The miner
was the biggest gainer on the Bloomberg Russia-US Index
yesterday and during the week.  Polyus plans a primary listing of shares on the  London 
Stock Exchange on or about June 19, according to the company’s
statement yesterday. The company seeks the LSE listing to expand
its access to funding from international investors, said
analysts, including Valentina Bogomolova at UralSib Capital in
Moscow. Polyus will offer to convert its global depositary
receipts traded in London into the shares, the company said in a
May 17 statement.  OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the oil arm of OAO Gazprom, Russia’s
biggest company by value, advanced 3.8 percent to $21.16,
trading at a 2.6 percent discount to the Moscow-listed shares,
the most since Sept. 22. In Moscow, Gazprom Neft  shares  rose 6.9
percent to 141.36 rubles, or the equivalent of $4.35. One ADR
equals five ordinary shares.  Alexander Dyukov, Chief Executive Officer at Gazprom Neft,
said in Moscow yesterday that the company isn’t considering
buying a stake in its larger competitor, TNK-BP.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , the Nasdaq-listed Russian media company,
fell 1.6 percent to $8.56, the lowest since Dec. 19. The stock
declined 3.2 percent during the week, its seventh consecutive
five-day retreat. CTC Media was the only decliner on the
Bloomberg Russia-US Index for the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  