-- Rupiah Set for Best Week Since January on Central Bank Pledge
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-06-08T09:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/rupiah-set-for-best-week-since-january-on-central-bank-pledge.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah was poised for its
biggest weekly advance since January and bonds rose after the
central bank vowed to stabilize the currency.  Bank Indonesia  may unveil further measures to ease
volatility in the rupiah, Executive Director Edi Setiadi said
this week after policy makers pledged last month to start
offering term deposits in the U.S. currency. The nation’s
 foreign-exchange reserves  declined to $112 billion in May from
$116 billion in April, suggesting that policy makers sold the
greenback to support the local currency.  “The rupiah is gaining because investors see our
resilience during this crisis,” said Wiwig Santoso, the head of
treasury and markets at PT DBS Bank Indonesia in Jakarta. “The
reserves are meant to be utilized when necessary. It shows we
are managing the market well.”  The rupiah strengthened 1.5 percent this week, the most
since the five days ended Jan. 20, to 9,388 per dollar as of
4:02 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 0.7 percent today.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, dropped 313 basis points this week
to 12.88 percent. The gauge rose 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, today.  The government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022 gained for a
third week, with the  yield  dropping two basis points to 6.48
percent, according to prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association. The yield lost one basis point today. Global
investors reduced ownership of  sovereign notes  by 1.2 trillion
rupiah ($127 million) this week through June 6, finance ministry
data show.  There was “a lot of hot money in Indonesia,”  Tim Condon ,
chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets, wrote in a note
to clients today. “We believe it’s gone and unlikely to
return.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  