-- Ryan Says Tax Impasse Won’t End Before Election (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-06-08T22:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/ryan-says-tax-impasse-won-t-end-before-election-transcript-.html
U.S. House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al
Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that the November election may
determine whether Congress can break its partisan impasse over
taxes and spending.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with the House Budget
Committee chairman, Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. Thank you for
being with us, Mr. Chairman.  PAUL RYAN: Good to be with you.  HUNT: As you know, the Bush tax cuts expire and
sequestration is supposed to take effect Jan. 1. You’ve
expressed skepticism about getting anything done with the
current Democratic leaders. What are the odds that anything
will be done on these two issues before year end?  RYAN: Well, what we’re doing here in the House is we’re
passing the bills that we think ought to deal with this. We’ve
already passed what we call our reconciliation package to deal
with the sequester. That’s the bill sitting over in the
Senate, and it’s exactly what we think we ought to do - how to
cut spending to replace the sequester for the first year.
We’re going to then probably later this month - perhaps July -
bring a bill to the floor on the taxes. We want to extend the
current tax code for a year so that businesses, investors, you
know, have certainty. And then we want to create a system of
fast-track authority for  tax reform .  HUNT: For taxes. But you’ve got to cut a deal with Obama
to do that.  RYAN: Right, so - well, like I said -  HUNT: Do you think that’s possible?  RYAN: I don’t know the answer to that question. I really
don’t, Al.  RYAN: I think a lot of this will depend on who wins the
election. The president is dead set against, you know, letting
these taxes stay where they are -  HUNT: Right.  RYAN:  - irrespective of the advice that we’re getting
from former Obama administration advisers that these tax
increases would hurt the economy. We want to -  HUNT: Like who?  RYAN:  Larry Summers ,  Peter Orszag , you know -  HUNT: No, Larry Summers and Peter Orszag didn’t say that.
Larry - Larry Summers says he is for ending the tax cuts for
the upper income.  RYAN: But they’re saying that - they’re saying the CBO -
everybody is saying if we have these tax increases at the end
of the year, that’s going to hurt the economy.  HUNT: But doesn’t CBO also say that spending cuts, if
they took effect too quickly, would hurt the economy?  RYAN: Yep, they do. They do. And so that’s why we also
are replacing the sequester with longer, bigger spending cuts
that take place over time. The president is committed to these
tax increases. That means we have an impasse. So to answer
your question, we have an impasse on economics, and it seems
to me that it might take the election to break this impasse.
What we’re going to do is keep all taxes where they are for a
year, because we still think this  tax code  needs reforming.  HUNT: But let me ask about your proposal there, because
you have been very specific on the tax cuts that you would
like to see, and you’ve said you’ll make up the revenue by
closing loopholes -  RYAN: Right.  HUNT: But you haven’t told us any loopholes you’d close.  RYAN: Yeah, so - so the budget doesn’t do that. The
budget is not a tax bill.  HUNT: No, but you’ve been specific on what - what cuts -
what tax cuts, so why not?  RYAN: No, we’ve been specific on what spending cuts,
because budgets are built on spending cuts.  HUNT: But you’ve given a lower  tax rate , and you’ve
talked about -  RYAN: Right.  HUNT:  - you know, the estate tax, and you talk about
other things. So my question is, what loopholes?  RYAN: What loopholes? Right. So what we don’t want to do
is cut some backroom deal and then tell the country what we’re
going to do.  HUNT: Right.  RYAN: What we want to do in the Ways and Means Committee
is have hearings in plain view, in the public, and we will
basically say, we want to lower our tax rates. That means
we’re going to have to broaden the base. Let’s have public
hearings about which ones matter the most.  HUNT: So home mortgage deduction will have to be
curtailed?  RYAN: I don’t know the answer to that.  HUNT: But if you look at the numbers, they have to be.  RYAN: Because what - if you look at the numbers, there’s
fiscal space left for some tax priorities, meaning tax
expenditures. And my personal view is, we should not look at
as much as what’s in the tax code, but who gets them. Higher-
income individuals disproportionately use tax write-offs and
tax shelters. And what we’re saying is, if you deny these
write-offs to higher-income people, more of their income is
subject to taxation -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: So what’s higher income?  RYAN: Well, if you take a look at the top two tax
brackets, that’s what we’re talking about, if you look at the
top two tax brackets -  HUNT: You’re talking about people making over $200,000 a
year?  RYAN: Yeah, and if you look at those income areas -  HUNT: But they would have to lose some of their tax -  (CROSSTALK)  RYAN: Yeah, that’s my opinion, yeah. And that’s the kind
of thing we’re saying.  HUNT: But you’re talking about home mortgage deduction,
charitable, state and local, health care exclusion. Those are
the big ones.  RYAN: Ethanol, you name it. There’s a lot of stuff.  (CROSSTALK)  RYAN: So that’s what we want to do.  HUNT: But do you agree that the big ones are going to
have to be addressed somehow?  RYAN: Yeah, I do.  HUNT: You’re not saying the home mortgage deduction will
be eliminated, but you’re saying it’s going to have -  (CROSSTALK)  RYAN: Right. And we should look at who gets them. So
should we, in exchange for lower tax rates, give higher-income
individuals these kinds of tax shelters?  HUNT: Would you tell us what the cutoff would be?  RYAN: I think the answer is no.  HUNT: Would it be $200,000?  RYAN: We’ve got to - that’s what - I’m not going to
negotiate with myself right now. What I’m trying to say, Al,
is we want to have this done in public view. We want to do
this with hearings. We want to go through the regular process,
not a backroom deal, and say we’re going to lower our tax
rates, just like  Ronald Reagan  and  Tip O’Neill  did, broaden
the base to get better economic growth, to help small
businesses -  HUNT: But they increased corporate taxes, of course, by a
great deal when - to do that.  RYAN: They increased  capital gains  taxes to do that.  HUNT: And corporate taxes. The corporate tax went up a
great deal.  RYAN: Yeah, that was a mistake. We think that’s a
mistake.  HUNT: So you can’t do that. Would you do 401 - would you
lower the write-offs for 401(k)s or capital gains and
dividends?  RYAN: I don’t know the answer to your question. What I do
know is, we think the smart thing to do - a lot of other
countries have done this - is to lower our tax rates.  HUNT: Would it be revenue-neutral, what you do?  RYAN: That’s what we think we ought to do, yes.  HUNT: Base-broadening would make up for the - for the
lower rates.  RYAN: That’s right.  HUNT: Let’s talk about entitlements. And usually it’s
Medicare. I want to ask you instead about Medicaid. And I
think, you know, over 10 years again, it would be about $800
billion less than would have been spent on the year proposed.
That’s going to hit a lot - a lot of poor people, isn’t it?  RYAN: No. What we’re saying is, here’s the problem. Lots
of states are tied, and they’re not able to kind of customize
their Medicaid benefits to meet the unique needs of their
populations because of all these rules from  Washington . So
what we’re saying - and lots of governors are telling us, give
us this freedom.  We’re going to block grant Medicaid to the states. We
will continue to grow Medicaid spending. It will grow at
inflation plus  population growth , which is what we have - so
Medicaid spending under our budget continues to grow each and
every year. It just doesn’t grow at that feverish pace that
the president is proposing, because we think that’s
unsustainable, but in exchange for that slower growth rate of
Medicaid spending, we give the states the freedom to customize
their Medicaid benefit to meet the unique needs of their
states.  New York  is different than  Wisconsin  which is
different than Mississippi.  HUNT: But many - but many of those Medicaid recipients -
as you know - are people with disabilities, children with
disabilities. I mean, if you go and you -  RYAN: And their spending will continue to rise each and
every year -  HUNT: But the -  RYAN: But we’re going to give the governors and the state
legislatures the ability -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT:  - it would be devastating for a lot of these
families, because those include some middle-income families,
because it’s so expensive.  RYAN: Here’s the problem with Medicaid. It’s going
bankrupt. It can’t keep spending at its unsustainable rate.
It’s growing at a race - at a rate that will bankrupt not only
state budgets, but the  federal budget . That’s point number
one.  Point number two is more and more doctors aren’t even
taking Medicaid, Al.  HUNT: That’s true.  RYAN: The surveys show us that about half of doctors in
America don’t even take Medicaid patients.  HUNT: If you were convinced that this would hurt people
with disabilities, these cuts, would you revisit it?  RYAN: Yes, but I don’t believe that that’s the case. I
believe - just, look, I worked with Tommy Thompson years ago
to get these waivers from HHS called BadgerCare. It has really
worked to improve our program, and it was really difficult to
get these waivers.  HUNT:  Scott Walker , who just had a stunning victory in
your state of Wisconsin, says  Mitt Romney  should pick you as
his running mate. You really want to -  RYAN: With friends like that, you know -  HUNT: But you - but you want it now, don’t you?  RYAN: No, I’m not -  HUNT: You don’t want it?  RYAN: I’ve got an important - look, we’re here in the
House Budget Committee -  HUNT: You do. You are incredibly important. You don’t
want to be vice president?  RYAN: It’s not something I am seeking out. It’s - look, I
want to do what I can -  HUNT: But you’d still like it, wouldn’t you?  RYAN: I want to do what I can to help save this country
from a debt crisis, get back to an opportunity society.
Congress - don’t underscore how important Congress is. I feel
like we’ve done a lot to move the center of gravity in this
debate. I believe America is on the cusp of a renaissance, an
opportunity society, upper mobility, economic growth, for -  HUNT: If you could be part of an administration that
would want to do that -  RYAN: If I ever - if that bridge ever comes, I’ll decide
-  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: You won’t rule it out. One final question. The
greatest job growth we’ve had of any president in the last 40
years was not Reagan, it was not  George W. Bush , it was  Bill
Clinton . Why? And what role did government play?  RYAN: Bill Clinton had bipartisan agreements with a
 Republican Congress  to keep taxes low and keep spending low
and to do entitlement reforms.  HUNT: Had a lot higher rates than we have now.  RYAN: The ’97 budget agreement is to me the best budget
agreement that occurred in those times. He brought capital
gains down -  HUNT: And kept the 39 percent top rate.  RYAN: Well, he kept the capital gains tax down and, more
or less, he cut spending, as well. And he went after
entitlement spending. So to me, what happened was, Bill
Clinton did not release a sea of regulators to chill
innovation. He got spending under control. He had - he helped
bring down the tax on capital, and that helped finance a dot-
com boom -  HUNT: You sound like a Clintonite, Mr. Chairman.  RYAN: You know, I guess they’d say Republicans are more
like that these days. Look, what I saw in the Clinton
administration, I guess they call it triangulation - I saw
moderation in the second term. I saw a Democrat who did not
look at Republicans as his enemies. He looked at them as
adversaries that can be compromised with. We don’t see that
from this president.  HUNT: Mr. Chairman, we thank you. We’ll look forward to
all those experiences. And when we come back, we’ll talk to
Bloomberg reporters about this presidential race.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS
PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY
KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND
PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE.
BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO
LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS,
LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL
OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING,
PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE
INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT
CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF
SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610708.1204164.2.1.99.8.25>#
 