-- Ryan Predicts No Break in Fiscal Impasse Until Election
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/ryan-predicts-no-break-in-fiscal-impasse-until-election.html
U.S. House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan  said November’s election may determine whether
Congress is able to break a partisan stalemate over taxes and
spending.  “We have an impasse on economics, and it seems to me that
it might take the election to break this impasse,” the
Wisconsin Republican said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” airing this
weekend.  Lawmakers are facing a fiscal collision at the end of this
year when tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush  expire
and $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts triggered by last
year’s debt ceiling agreement will begin to take effect.  “A lot of this will depend on who wins the election,”
Ryan said. “The president is dead set against, you know,
letting these taxes stay where they are.”  Ryan is the most influential congressional Republican on
budget matters, and this probably will increase pressure for a
short, temporary postponement of the automatic spending
reductions and expiration of the tax cuts. A new Congress and a
re-elected or new president would address the issues then.  As soon as this month, Ryan said, the Republican-controlled
House will consider legislation freezing the current  tax code 
for a year and setting up a fast-track framework for a
comprehensive tax overhaul.  “What we’re going to do is keep all taxes where they are
for a year because we still think this tax code needs
reforming,” Ryan said.  Senate Democrats  That legislation probably won’t advance in the Democratic-
controlled Senate; nor will a House-passed  budget  blueprint and
a separate proposal to replace scheduled cuts in defense
spending with cuts to  food stamps , federal workers’ benefits and
other domestic programs.  The House-passed budget blueprint would reduce the top tax
rates for individual and corporate income to 25 percent from 35
percent and eliminate the alternative minimum tax. It would
compress the number of individual income-tax brackets to two
from six, with the bottom rate set at 10 percent.  That proposal would reduce federal revenue by $4.5 trillion
over 10 years, compared with what the tax code is raising with
today’s rates, according to the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center .
To offset that change, Ryan proposes to eliminate or curtail tax
breaks.  Revenue Neutral  Ryan wouldn’t specify which tax breaks he would eliminate
to offset the revenue losses. To make the plan revenue neutral,
which he said it would be, would require curtailment of popular
 tax deductions , such as the home mortgage interest write-off,
which would prove politically perilous in an election year.  “What we don’t want to do is cut some back-room deal and
then tell the country what we’re going to do,” Ryan said. He
said he preferred that decisions about which tax breaks to
eliminate come from public hearings by the Ways and Means
Committee, of which he is also a member.  Ryan said the discussion probably would have to include tax
benefits with the potential to yield the most revenue, such as
the one letting homeowners write off mortgage interest.  “We should look at who gets” tax benefits, Ryan said.
“Should we, in exchange for lower tax rates, give higher-income
individuals these kinds of tax shelters?”  Ryan said he wants to focus reductions of tax write-offs on
upper-income taxpayers. The fiscal and political difficulty of
the Ryan plan is underscored by a comparison: he would reduce
individual taxes by about $3.4 trillion over a decade.  Mortgage Interest  Broadening the tax base to offset that amount would require
eliminating all or most of the deductions for home mortgage
interest, charitable contributions and state and local taxes, as
well as the exclusion of health-care benefits from taxable
income. Reducing those benefits only for higher-income taxpayers
would raise less revenue.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed limiting those and
other tax breaks to 28 percent for people who would otherwise
benefit from them in the 36 percent or 39.6 percent tax brackets
the president wants to restore. That proposal, which hasn’t
advanced in Congress because of bipartisan opposition, would
generate $584.2 billion over 10 years, according to the
administration.  On the spending side, Ryan said the multi-year cap on
 discretionary  spending enacted in last year’s debt-ceiling law
“pales in comparison” with the projected growth in spending on
entitlement programs, which he said must be slowed.  Medicaid Spending  Ryan’s budget would reduce Medicaid spending by $800
billion over the next decade and give states more flexibility to
determine who gets what benefits.  “In exchange for that slower growth rate of Medicaid
spending, we give the states the freedom to customize their
Medicaid benefit to meet the unique needs of their states,”
Ryan said. “ New York  is different than  Wisconsin , which is
different than  Mississippi .”  Ryan said he didn’t believe his Medicaid proposal would
harm people with disabilities, as Democratic opponents say it
would.  While Ryan didn’t rule out accepting a spot as Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s running mate, he said he
was focused on his job as chairman of the Budget Committee.  “It’s not something I am seeking out,” he said of the
vice presidential nomination. “If that bridge ever comes, I’ll
decide.”  ’Opportunity Society’  In the meantime, Ryan said he will work “to help save this
country from a debt crisis, get back to an opportunity
society.”  Ryan drew a contrast between Obama and former President
 Bill Clinton , who said June 5 that Congress may have to
temporarily extend the expiring tax cuts to give lawmakers time
to reach a deficit-reduction deal. Clinton is “a Democrat who
did not look at Republicans as his enemies,” Ryan said.  “We don’t see anything close to that from this
president,” he said. If Romney wins the presidency and
Republicans make gains in Congress in November, they will reach
out to moderate Democrats “who want to work with us to save
this country,” the congressman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  