-- Samruk Says Temirbank Board Remiss in Relying on Absentee Voting
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-06-08T16:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/samruk-says-temirbank-board-remiss-in-relying-on-absentee-voting.html
Temirbank, a Kazakh lender taken over
by the state after its default in 2009, skirted best corporate
governance practice by relying on votes in absentia at its board
meetings, said the lender’s parent, Samruk-Kazyna.  The bank’s board of directors approved “strategically
important documents” with votes cast in absentia by proxy,
Samruk-Kazyna’s representative told Temirbank’s annual
shareholder meeting in Almaty on May 28, according to the
 minutes  published on the Kazakh Stock Exchange’s website today.  The issues covered in the documents included credit policy,
internal audit and other topics requiring a compulsory review,
said the official, identified as A.I. Satybaldiyev, director of
the legal department at TOO Samruk-Kazyna Finance.  Kazakhstan’s sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna holds the
government’s  79.9 percent  stake in Temirbank after it was
brought under state control three years ago. The fund is
discussing its merger with AO Alliance Bank, another lender
taken over by the government in 2009.  While Temirbank’s board of directors met 42 times last year
and considered 148 issues, only 26 percent of its meetings were
face-to-face, Satybaldiyev said. That precluded detailed
discussions at the meetings, which considered as many as 28
issues at each one, he said.  Shareholders elected Kanat Dosmukametov to Temirbank’s
board of directors as a representative of Samruk-Kazyna,
replacing Erzhan Shaikenov, according to the minutes. Temirbank
Chief Executive Officer Erzhan Shaikenov was demoted to the post
of first deputy CEO on April 27, while the bank’s former
Chairman Murat Baisynov became CEO, according to Temirbank’s
website.  Temirbank shareholders voted against paying dividends on
ordinary shares, allowing the bank to keep last year’s net
income of 1.37 billion tenge ($9 million), according to the
minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  