-- Sandusky’s Fate Hinges on Testimony of Sex-Abuse Accusers
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/sandusky-s-fate-hinges-on-testimony-of-sex-abuse-accusers.html
Former Pennsylvania State University
assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky, a jury and the public
may soon hear eight young men describe how, when they were boys,
they were allegedly befriended and sexually assaulted.  That testimony may send Sandusky, 68, to prison for the
rest of his life. The Nittany Lions defensive coordinator under
late coach  Joe Paterno  may fare better if jurors doubt the
childhood memories of the witnesses and prosecutors’ version of
events, beginning with opening statements June 11 in state court
in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, legal experts said.  “If these eight men are not believable or there are gaps
in their stories, or if one of them doesn’t seem credible --that
could threaten the government’s case,” said Michael McCann,
director of Vermont Law School’s Sports Law Institute, who has
been following and writing about the case.  The eight accusers, whom Sandusky met through a charity he
founded in 1977, now range in age from 18 to 28. They will be
identified publicly for the first time in court. Judge John M.
Cleland, who is presiding over the case, denied their request to
use pseudonyms. The identities of two other alleged victims are
still unknown to authorities.  The 52 counts against Sandusky include 11 charges of
involuntary deviate sexual intercourse, each punishable by as
long as 20 years in prison. Sandusky was initially accused Nov.
5 of crimes involving eight boys. Prosecutors added more counts
the following month after two new accusers came forward.  Second Mile  Prosecutors say Sandusky used the charity,  The Second Mile ,
to recruit victims, “grooming” them with gifts, trips to
football games and money. The children ranged in age from 10 to
15 when the alleged abuse occurred.  Sandusky maintains his innocence. In an interview in
November with  Bob Costas  on NBC’s “Rock Center,” Sandusky,
while admitting to showering and “horsing around” with boys,
said he isn’t a pedophile and denied the charges against him.  “Publicly, he gives off the persona that he just doesn’t
get it,” said Lisa Friel, former chief of the Manhattan
District Attorney’s sex crimes unit and now vice president of
sexual misconduct consulting for T&M Protection Resources LLC, a
security and investigations company. “That’s not unusual with a
pedophile, the inability to see the world as the rest of us
do.”  Assets Transferred  Second Mile served children with physical, emotional and
academic needs, according to its website. The charity said last
month that it would close and transfer its assets to a Houston-
based nonprofit. Those assets more than tripled from 2002
through 2009, according to Internal Revenue Service filings.
Second Mile had revenue of $2.7 million and net assets of $9
million, according to its 2010 annual report. Sandusky was the
group’s primary fundraiser.  Second Mile supporters with ties to  Penn State  included
former university spokesman Steve Hevner and Dorothy Huck, the
wife of Penn State emeritus board trustee Lloyd Huck, who sat on
the charity’s state board of directors.  In 2002, Penn State sold land for a new learning center to
Second Mile, according to documents submitted to the state as
part of charity’s application for a $3 million construction
grant. State officials dropped the grant in November after
Sandusky was charged.  Sandusky had envisioned a center with classrooms and a
dormitory space for overnight accommodations, according to
columns he wrote for Second Mile newsletters.  ‘Linebacker U.’  Sandusky was an assistant coach under Paterno from 1969
until his retirement at the end of the 1999 season. He was the
architect of defenses that built the school’s reputation as
“Linebacker U.”  The case against Sandusky led to the firings of Penn State
President  Graham Spanier  and Paterno, who died of  lung cancer  at
85 in January. Paterno won 409 games and two national
championships in 46 years as Penn State’s coach. He was fired
Nov. 9 amid criticism he didn’t do enough to stop Sandusky.  Penn State said it’s cooperating with investigations by the
state attorney general, the U.S. Education Department, the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  and federal
authorities. The university said in a June 5 statement that it
wouldn’t comment on specifics of Sandusky’s case.  “The acts that Jerry Sandusky is accused of committing are
horrible and if proven true, deserve punishment,” the school
said on a  website  it created to chronicle its handling of the
scandal and its aftermath. “We are further hopeful that the
legal process will start to bring closure to the alleged victims
and families whose lives have been irrevocably impacted.”  Paying Investigators  Penn State said this year that it has paid $9.6 million to
investigators, public-relations consultants and lawyers as a
result of the Sandusky case.  Payments for a special investigation led by  Louis Freeh ,
the former  Federal Bureau  of Investigation director, and to  Reed
Smith LLP , the Pittsburgh-based  law firm  hired to advise the
school on the Sandusky fallout, totaled about $6.5 million as of
March 31, the school said on the website. A legal defense fund
for Spanier and two other school officials accounted for another
$543,979, the university said.  The case against Sandusky, while strong, confronts
prosecutors with a few hurdles, said Wesley Oliver, a law
professor at  Widener University  in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .  Case ‘Weaknesses’  “There are weaknesses in each of the allegations,” said
Oliver, who teaches criminal law. “It’s not an open-and-shut
case anymore.”  Memories have faded in the years since the incidents are
said to have occurred. A police investigation more than a decade
ago led to no charges. Eyewitnesses are few, and two of the
alleged victims haven’t been identified.  The accounts of victims begin in September 1995, with
alleged indecent contact involving a person identified in court
documents as Victim 7. The man, now about 26, told a grand jury
last year that he met Sandusky in 1994 at the age of 10. An
invitation to a Penn State football game led to overnight stays
at Sandusky’s home before games at Beaver Stadium, he said.  Victim 7 said he has a “blurry memory” of some contact
with Sandusky in the shower of the Lasch Football Building on
Penn State’s campus and was unable to recall it clearly,
according to a grand jury report released the day Sandusky was
charged.  Fifty Times  Sandusky is accused of abusing another boy, Victim 4, more
than 50 times from October 1996 to December 2000, starting with
indecent contact and progressing to digital penetration of the
victim’s anus, oral sex and intercourse in the first half of
2000, according to court documents.  Victim 4, now 27, told the grand jury that Sandusky
assaulted him in the football practice building and at a local
hotel. He said he attended the 1999 Alamo Bowl in  Texas , where
Sandusky threatened to send him home when he resisted his
advances, according to court documents.  In 1997, Sandusky began abusing another person identified
as Victim 10, who was 10 at the time he met Sandusky, according
to charging documents filed in May. He said the coach performed
oral sex on him during wrestling sessions at his home and on one
occasion exposed himself in a car and requested oral sex,
according to the grand jury report.  In 1998, Sandusky was questioned by police after the mother
of another boy, identified as Victim 6, complained about a
shower incident in a university locker room. The police
departments of Penn State and the town of  State College ,
Pennsylvania, investigated.  Two Conversations  The grand jury report describes how Ronald Schreffler, a
university detective, and Ralph Ralston, a State College
detective, eavesdropped on two conversations the mother had with
Sandusky in May 1998. She asked Sandusky whether his “private
parts” touched her son during a hug and Sandusky replied, “I
don’t think so ... maybe,” according to the report.  “I was wrong,” Sandusky told the mother, according to the
report. “I wish I could get forgiveness. I know I won’t get it
from you. I wish I were dead.”  The investigation was closed after Ray Gricar, the Centre
County district attorney at the time, decided there would be no
criminal charges, according to the grand jury report. Gricar
disappeared April 15, 2005. His laptop computer’s hard drive was
found in the Susquehanna River and, at the request of his
daughter, a judge declared him to be dead last year. A state
child welfare investigator said last year that there wasn’t
enough evidence to take action against Sandusky at the time.  Basement Bedroom  In 1999, Victim 3, now 24, met Sandusky through Second
Mile, according to charging documents. He told the grand jury
that Sandusky assaulted him in a basement bedroom whenever he
spent the night at the former coach’s home. Sandusky allegedly
gave him shoulder rubs, blew on his stomach and touched his
genitals, according to the grand jury report.  In November 2000, a janitor at  Penn State  allegedly saw
Sandusky performing oral sex on a boy between the ages of 11 and
13, identified as Victim 8, in the football building showers
according to the grand jury report. The janitor told his
supervisor, who testified before the grand jury.  Prosecutors still don’t know the identity of the boy, and
the former janitor, who now suffers from dementia and resides in
a nursing home, can’t testify.  On Feb. 9, 2001, another Penn State assistant football
coach,  Mike McQueary , saw in the football building showers what
prosecutors allege was Sandusky having anal sex with a boy.  McQueary, then a graduate assistant, initially told a grand
jury that the incident took place in March 2002. Prosecutors
amended the date last month, citing “specific and authenticated
findings” from an investigation. The identity of the boy,
Victim 2 in the grand jury report, is still unknown.  School Officials  McQueary’s testimony is at the center of a related case
against two university officials, Timothy Curley and  Gary Schultz , who are accused of lying to a grand jury about the
original allegation and failing to report the incident to
police.  Joseph Amendola, Sandusky’s attorney, argued that charges
involving the two unknown victims should be thrown out. Any
testimony by other people concerning Victim 8, the unidentified
boy first described by the janitor, would constitute
impermissible hearsay, Amendola said in court papers.  Cleland yesterday denied a defense motion to dismiss the
charges.  The date change in McQueary’s account won’t be as important
to either side as the testimony of the eight men, according to
McCann, the Vermont professor.  Dates, Gaps  “But if McQueary testifies and there are gaps in his
story, that’s going to help Sandusky,” he said.  In August 2001, Sandusky began abusing a boy identified as
Victim 5, prosecutors said. In one incident in Penn State’s
 football  locker rooms, Sandusky allegedly placed the victim’s
hand on his genitals during a shower, according to the grand
jury report.  The grand jury report initially said Victim 5, now 22, met
Sandusky through Second Mile in 1995 or 1996 when the boy was
about 7 or 8. Sandusky began to touch him inappropriately from
1996 to 1998 when he was 8 to 10 years old, according to the
grand jury report. Prosecutors amended the date of offense to
August 2001 in charging documents filed last month.  In June and July 2005, Sandusky allegedly began abusing two
boys identified as Victim 1 and Victim 9. Sandusky allegedly
attempted to engage in anal penetration of Victim 9, now 18, on
at least 16 occasions and at times did so, according to court
documents.  Screamed for Help  The man told the grand jury that on at least one occasion
he screamed for help, knowing Sandusky’s wife, Dorothy, was
upstairs, according to court documents. No one came, he
testified. Sandusky also allegedly abused him in the swimming
pool and whirlpool bath of a hotel in State College.  Victim 9 contacted Pennsylvania State Police after Sandusky
was arrested. Dorothy Sandusky said in December that the
allegations were false.  “He had a modus operandi in how he dealt with these
children,” Friel, the former prosecutor, said. “It’s the
typical MO of a pedophile.”  By early 2009, the Pennsylvania attorney general began an
investigation after a Clinton County, Pennsylvania, teenager
identified as Victim 1 told authorities that Sandusky had
inappropriately touched him several times over four years. The
teenager, who met Sandusky through Second Mile, told the grand
jury that the abuse took place at Sandusky’s home, the Hilton
Garden Inn in State College and Central Mountain Middle School.  Sandusky was barred from a  Clinton County  high school the
victim attended after the boy’s mother called the school to
report the alleged behavior. Sandusky, who assisted the school
with varsity football, had “unfettered access,” according to
the grand jury report.  Six Years  According to the grand jury report, Second Mile learned in
2002 about the shower incident reported by McQueary. The charity
didn’t move to limit Sandusky’s access to children until
November 2008. Sandusky retired from day-to-day involvement with
the charity in September 2010, saying he wanted to spend more
time with family and handle personal matters.  An insurance policy lists Sandusky as an officer and
director of Second Mile as late as April 2011.  In papers filed in May, Sandusky said allegations regarding
four victims lack specificity and are so general that he can’t
adequately prepare a defense.  Those arguments make the testimony of the accusers that
much more crucial, said Jules Epstein, who teaches criminal law
and evidence at Widener University’s Wilmington, Delaware,
campus.  “The legal argument, and if he loses his trial he may
renew it on appeal, is that people should not have to stand
trial for a crime that you can’t pin down the date it
happened,” Epstein said. “A jury might say, ‘You have so few
details about this I don’t believe you.’”  Still, Sandusky might be put away for life as long as
jurors believe one accuser, McCann said. The alleged victims
will need to offer details, not generalities, when they testify,
he said.  “Their story of what happened better be right,” he said.
“If it turns out that the facts are different than as they’ve
been presented, I think the defense will really exploit that.”  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  