-- Saygin of Turkey Sees Annual Sales of $100 Million From Ethiopia
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-06-08T08:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/saygin-of-turkey-sees-annual-sales-of-100-million-from-ethiopia.html
Saygin Group of Turkey said its
Ethiopian subsidiary may generate $100 million in revenue a year
from textile manufacturing, amid plans by the Horn of  Africa 
country to boost the industry’s exports to 10 times that amount.  Saygin Dima Textile Share Co., which opened a factory three
months ago in Dima, about 30 kilometers (19 miles) southwest of
the capital, Addis Ababa, is targeting output of 50,000 meters
(164,000 feet) of fabric a day to export around the world,
General Manager Ahmed Turan Yangin said. The company is taking
advantage of power costs that are a third of Turkey’s, and wages
that are one-twentieth those in its home market, he said.  “It’s the major aspect for a textile investor to invest in
Ethiopia,” Yangin said in an interview today at the plant.
“It’s incomparable cost.”  Ethiopia  earned $71 million from textile exports in the 10
months through April, an increase of 50 percent from the same
period a year earlier, said Textile Industry Development
Institute spokesman Fekadu Ethiopia. The country plans to
increase annual export earnings to $1 billion in the fiscal year
that ends July 7, 2015, according to a five-year growth plan.  Ethiopia should capitalize on its abundant labor, land and
raw materials to develop light manufacturing industries with low
set-up costs such as textiles, leather, wood, metal and agro-
business, the  World Bank  said in March.  Power costs in Ethiopian industrial areas are 3.5 cents per
kilowatt hour, compared with as much as 10 cents in  Turkey ,
Yangin said. Electricity produced at the country’s hydropower
facilities costs $1.5 million per megawatt to generate, compared
with a world average of $2.5 million, according to Access
Capital, an Addis Ababa-based research group.  Privatization Agency  Saygin’s $80 million plant is 60 percent-owned by
Ethiopia’s  Privatization and Public Enterprises Supervising
Agency , Yangin said. It was established in 2009 after relocating
from Kayseri in central Turkey.  The factory employs about 800 Ethiopians at its plant that
spins, weaves and dyes natural and synthetic fibers. Workers
earn 600 Ethiopian birr ($34) a month for a 48-hour working
week, Yangin said. Duty-free access to European and U.S. markets
for Ethiopian-made goods is also an important factor, he said.  Else Addis Development Plc, also Turkish-owned, invested
about $65 million in fabric production and ginning factories in
Nazreth, Project Coordinator Dilek Durular said in an interview.  The plant, which is about 90 kilometers southeast of  Addis
Ababa  in the Oromia region, began production a year ago, she
said on April 26 in Addis Ababa. The state-owned  Development
Bank of Ethiopia  loaned Else 70 percent of the capital, she
said.  Seven new textile plants run by companies from countries
including India, Turkey and  Pakistan  are expected to be
operational by July, Fekadu said by phone.  Saygin also plans to open a $200 million factory to produce
power and telecommunications cables in September, said Yangin.
The plant in Dima, operated by Saygin BM Technology Group,
received a loan of 1.5 billion Ethiopian birr from the
 Development Bank  of Ethiopia to start operations, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  