-- HSBC Asks Occupy Hong Kong Protesters to Leave Premises in City
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2012-06-08T18:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/hsbc-asks-occupy-hong-kong-protesters-to-leave-premises-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  asked protesters of
the Occupy Central movement in Hong Kong to leave the premises
of its Asian headquarters after an eight-month stay, as similar
groups in London and  New York  were evicted.  “In preparation for a number of community events in the
plaza at the HSBC main building later in the year, we have
formally asked the occupiers to vacate the area voluntarily,”
 Gareth Hewett , a spokesman of the lender, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. “We continue to work with the authorities
regarding the matter.”  Protesters for  Occupy Wall Street , whose movement to
highlight inequality spread to other cities globally, were
evicted in November, and others in London were told to leave
their Finsbury Square camp this month. In  Hong Kong , protesters
numbering about 50 at the peak have pitched tents and laid out
couches as they played guitars, ran photography classes and read
Chinese novels on the ground floor of HSBC’s building.  “We won’t leave,” Leung Wing-lai, a participant of Occupy
Central, said by telephone. “HSBC didn’t give us a deadline on
when we need to move out.”  Hong Kong is one of several Asian cities including Seoul,
Taipei and  Tokyo  which have seen protests inspired by the Occupy
 Wall Street  movement in New York spread to their streets last
October.  Sharing Space  The Hong Kong movement has had to share the space with
long-standing demonstrators seeking compensation for the Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.-linked structured notes they bought. On
weekends, maids on their day off would also lay out mats in the
same space to share meals, play cards and chat.  Jojo Wong, a 22-year-old saleswoman in a bookstore, said
she drops by the site before and after work, helping to organize
language and photography lessons for passersby.  “We don’t normally talk about sharing anymore in this
capitalistic society, everything needs to be exchanged at a
certain cost,” said Wong. “We don’t like this idea. That’s why
we offer free music, books and lessons at the very heart of the
financial center.”  The occupants have free classes scheduled until the end of
next month, according to Leung.  A  London  authority won its court bid to evict protesters
from the Finsbury Square camp on June 1, one of the last
remaining in the city. Demonstrators from Zuccotti Park in lower
 Manhattan  were evicted last November.  In a e-mailed response to questions yesterday, Hong Kong’s
police department didn’t comment directly about its role in any
eviction of protesters from HSBC’s premises.  “Police respect the rights of individuals to peaceful
assemblies and to express their views” in a “peaceful and safe
manner,” the department said in a statement. “In managing
public order events, major considerations are public safety and
public order.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  