-- Sberbank Buys Denizbank From Dexia for $3.53 Billion
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-06-08T13:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/sberbank-buys-denizbank-from-dexia-for-3-53-billion.html
OAO Sberbank (SBER)  of  Russia , the biggest
lender in eastern Europe, bought  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  from Belgium’s
Dexia SA for 6.47 billion liras ($3.53 billion.)  Sberbank and Dexia signed the sale agreement today in
Istanbul, where Denizbank is based, Dexia said in a filing with
the  Istanbul Stock Exchange . The sale is expected to be
completed in the fourth quarter after regulatory approvals and
the price may increase to as much as 7.09 billion liras, or 3.09
billion euros ($3.85 billion) at an exchange rate of 2.293,
depending on changes to asset value, it said.  Sberbank is the first Russian lender to buy a bank in
 Turkey , joining  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  in a country where the economy expanded 8.5 percent last
year. The deal would be the largest in eastern Europe, the
 Middle East  and  Africa  this year and the biggest in Turkey since
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  bought 24.9 percent of
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  for $5.8 billion in March last year.  “Penetration level in the Turkish banking sector is
relatively low and the market has great potential for growth,”
 German Gref , Sberbank’s chief executive officer and chairman of
the management board, told reporters at a news conference in
Istanbul today. Turkey will be the most attractive market in
Europe over the next 15 years, he said.  Eastern Europe  Sberbank is seeking growth outside of the former  Soviet
Union  as some western European lenders sell their subsidiaries
in Eastern Europe to comply with capital rules or state aid
conditions. It bought most of  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG’s (VBPS) 
eastern European business for 505 million euros in February as a
platform for expansion in the region.  “Turkey’s lending growth was above 30 percent last year
and loans/GDP was around 50 percent versus Russia’s 39 percent
but we see this as still underpenetrated with further room for
growth,” Leonid Slipchenko, senior analyst at UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow, said in an e-mailed report today.  The sale includes Denizbank’s Austrian and Russian units,
Dexia said in the statement.  The sale price is 1.33 times Denizbank’s book value of 4.86
billion liras at the end of the first quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Denizbank’s shares traded at 1.85 times
book value today.  Denizbank jumped 5.5 percent to 12.4 liras at 4:00 p.m. in
Istanbul. Sberbank dropped 2.8 percent to 81.1 rubles ($2.5) in
Moscow. Dexia gained 6.7 percent to 16 euro cents in Brussels.  Staff Retained  Sberbank will retain the existing Denizbank staff,
including the chief executive Hakan Ates, and improve their
remuneration terms, Gref said.  Net income at Denizbank more than tripled to 423.1 million
liras in the first quarter from a year ago, the bank said on May
8. The lender had 47.6 billion liras of assets at the end of
May, 32.5 billion liras of loans and 30 billion liras of
deposits on a consolidated basis, Ates said at the news
conference.  Profit in Turkey’s banking industry climbed 11 percent to
7.66 billion liras in the first four months from the same period
of last year, the banking regulator in Ankara said on June 6.  Sberbank has stopped acquisitions “for now” after the
Denizbank purchase, which was the biggest for the Moscow-based
bank in recent years, Gref said. “We now want to focus on
integrating our operations.‘‘  Sberbank will grow organically and turn Denizbank into an
innovation center for  Europe , he said.  Dexia Loss  Dexia, based in Brussels and Paris, may have a loss of as
much as 700 million euros on a consolidated basis on the sale of
Denizbank, depending on how much the lira appreciates against
the euro from 2.37 used in the calculation of the loss, Dexia
chief executive Pierre Mariani said at same the news conference.
The lira strengthened 0.5 percent to 2.2843 per euro at 2:38
p.m. in Istanbul.  ‘‘On a solo basis Denizbank’s value is 2.8 billion euros in
our books and we are neutral,’’ Mariani said.  Dexia bought Denizbank in 2006 at a price to book multiple
of 4.62 compared with 1.33 in its sale, Mariani said in an
interview after the news conference. Dexia then paid $3.25
billion to Turkish businessman Ahmet Nazif Zorlu and minority
shareholders for a total 96 percent stake in the Istanbul-based
lender.  Turkiye Garanti, the biggest listed bank by market value in
Turkey, trades at 1.39 times book value.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , part-owned
by Citigroup Inc., has a price-to-book ratio of 1.24.  Turkiye Is
Bankasi (ISATR)  AS, the country’s biggest bank by assets, trades at 0.99
times book.  Rescue Plan  Dexia put Denizbank up for sale as part of a rescue plan
imposed by the French and Belgian governments when the debt
crisis eroded its ability to obtain funding. The Denizbank sale
would have a positive impact on Dexia’s creditworthiness,
Moody’s Investors Service said May 28.  Dexia will improve its capital adequacy ratio, or Tier 1
ratio, by four percentage points to five percentage points after
the Denizbank sale, Mariani said.  Sberbank entered into exclusive negotiations with Dexia on
Denizbank on May 24. Sberbank’s advisers were Deutsche Bank AG,
Rothschild and Troika Dialog, while Dexia’s adviser was Bank of
America Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  