-- Scene NYC: Chilton, Krawcheck, Royce, Lagerfeld, Chiquet
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-06-08T14:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/scene-nyc-chilton-krawcheck-royce-lagerfeld-chiquet.html
Just outside the  New York  Botanical
Garden’s transporting exhibition of flowers from Monet’s
Giverny, a tuxedoed hedge-fund manager last night recalled his
own favorite flower.  “I give my wife yellow roses,” said Richard L. Chilton Jr., chief executive and chief investment officer of Chilton
Investment Co. “It’s my signature. Yellow is the symbol of
love.”  Isn’t red more typical?  “It’s my husband’s symbol of love,” Maureen Chilton, the
chairwoman of the garden, said.  Whatever the concerns of the day had been, guests were
feeling romantic at the Conservatory Ball. That’s what happens
when trumpeters and valet parkers herald your arrival, a rainbow
appears in the sky as you are handed a cocktail, and the beauty
of these 250 acres, miraculously tucked away in the Bronx,
surround you.  All the gussying up resulted in $1.7 million raised for a
nature oasis that is open to the public almost every day of the
year.  The event gathered 670 guests including  Sallie Krawcheck ,
who had given a speech to a group called WomenUp! in  Boston 
earlier in the day, and Charles Royce, the president, CEO and
founder of Royce & Associates LLC, who said in his own garden he
likes to sit by the firepit at night.  In the dinner tent, Chanel fit the bill for such luxury
accoutrements as linen napkins with black edging and a first
course of caviar (a more humble entree of roasted chicken
followed). The decorations by  Van Wyck & Van Wyck  featured a
mirrored entrance, bouquets of hot-pink peonies on dinner tables
and more than a dozen chandeliers.  Dance Floor  The song that filled the dance floor: last summer’s hit
“Pumped Up Kicks” by Foster the People.  Chanel had hosted a party the night before, too, to open an
exhibition of photographs by Chanel designer  Karl Lagerfeld  and
fashion editor Carine Roitfeld featuring celebrities and models
in the “little black jacket.” The exact jacket was from the
2010 Cruise-St. Tropez collection, and is no longer for sale, so
guests made their own fashion statements. Chanel’s global chief
executive, Maureen Chiquet, recently elected a trustee of Yale
Corporation, wore a sleeveless gold top and skinny leather
pants.  Even she got only the briefest of moments to say hello to
Lagerfeld when he arrived.  UJA-New York  Howard Lutnick , chairman and CEO of Cantor Fitzgerald LP,
mingled with friends at the UJA-Federation of New York Downtown
Event at Capitale on June 6.  “It’s important to come together as a community,” Lutnick
said. “This community comes together all the time.”  This week, the UJA held several events, including a June 4
dinner honoring Pershing Square Capital Management LP CEO  Bill Ackman .  Lutnick said he was ready for a break.  “On Sunday I get to travel with my kids. I’m taking my
family to  Italy . Last year we went to  London , this year  Rome .
I’m a pasta and pizza kind of guy.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  