-- Senate Dealmaker Baucus Turns to Rewrite of U.S. Tax Code
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/senate-dealmaker-baucus-turns-to-rewrite-of-u-s-tax-code.html
Senator  Max Baucus , the Montana
Democrat who has centered his 37-year congressional career on
attempts to build bipartisan consensus, is preparing to take on
the U.S.  tax code .  Baucus, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, plans to
outline his principles for a tax overhaul June 11. He has met
with lawmakers of both parties in advance of the speech, and
those conversations probably will help him determine what can be
achieved, said Evan Liddiard, a former tax adviser to Senator
 Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican.  “When he gets up and talks about his vision, it’s likely
already kind of a consensus of where he thinks his members are
and what he thinks he can accomplish,” said Liddiard, now a tax
lobbyist.  Baucus has announced plans to seek a seventh term in 2014
in a  state  that often supports Republicans. He faces multiple
pressures on the tax policy front.  Many Democrats, including President  Barack Obama , want to
generate more  tax revenue , particularly from high-income earners
and multinational companies’ overseas operations. The
Republicans whose votes Baucus would need to move major tax
legislation in the Senate want to avoid such increases and
lessen the tax burden on corporate foreign income.  Tax Increases  Baucus was an author of the 2010 health-care law, which
included tax increases for health-related businesses and top
earners. Meanwhile, he supported the 2001 tax cuts that were
championed by President  George W. Bush  and opposed by most
Democrats.  “He’s always been quite pro-business and easy to work with
for people like Senator Hatch and other Republicans,” Liddiard
said. “I think he’s always walking a line between where the
more liberal part of his caucus is and where he might want to
be.”  Baucus’s speech comes amid a congressional debate on how to
address the end-of-year “fiscal cliff,” which includes the
expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts that were extended in 2010.
If Congress doesn’t act by Dec. 31, tax rates for wages,  capital
gains , dividends and estates will increase.  Obama and many Democrats want to let tax cuts for the top-
earning 2 percent of households expire. Republicans want at
least a one-year extension of all the tax cuts.  Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, has suggested a fast-track process under which
Congress would act in 2013. Camp is a Michigan Republican who
last year released a draft of international tax changes and who
wants to reduce top rates to 25 percent.  Overhaul’s Timing  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat on the Finance
Committee, said he was particularly interested in hearing
Baucus’s comments on the timing of a tax overhaul. Without
something else on the table, Wyden said, that will create
pressure to keep extending the expiring tax cuts, year after
year.  “The psychology of seeing bipartisan  tax reform  would be
considered a real plus,” said Wyden, who has proposed a
bipartisan tax overhaul with Indiana Republican  Dan Coats . “The
business community likes it, because we’re talking about  job
creation  and pro-growth. And Republicans are going to pick up on
that message. And Democrats like the fact that you’re going
after tax loopholes and special preferences.”  Baucus has been laying the groundwork for a tax code
overhaul through hearings and meetings over the past year and a
half, said a Finance Committee aide. He recognizes, the aide
said, that building consensus is necessary for such a massive
effort.  Senator Grassley  Baucus met with Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican, about three weeks ago to discuss a tax overhaul,
Grassley said.  Baucus’s method on this issue is the same as it has always
been, Grassley said. He talks to members, he wants the committee
to function and he wants to produce legislation. Grassley said
the “black cloud” over the process is the Democratic
leadership that he said interferes with Baucus.  Some Democrats and advocacy groups criticized Baucus’s
attempts to seek Republican votes for the health-care measure,
saying it was a wasted effort that sapped time and political
momentum for the overhaul. Grassley was one of the Republicans
Baucus unsuccessfully courted.  Other than describing the speech as being about
“principles,” Baucus hasn’t provided clues about what he might
say.  ‘Awfully Hard’  “It’s awfully hard for somebody to go first with regard to
details,” said Mel Schwarz, a partner at Grant Thornton LLP in
 Washington  who said details about removing or limiting tax
breaks are what would provoke opposition.  The speech will be seen as noteworthy if Baucus provides
details, said  Michael Linden , director of tax and budget policy
at the Center for American Progress, a Washington group aligned
with Democrats.  “Any specifics at all would be appreciated,” he said.
“Which tax expenditures are most in need of reform? Which ones
are not? How should we reform them?”  Those details will be particularly interesting if and when
Baucus provides them, Linden said, because of his essential
position on  tax policy .  Baucus, he said, “knows better than anybody just how
difficult a real tax reform is going to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  