-- Senegal’s Sall Tackles Corruption in Bid for Investors
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-06-08T18:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/senegal-s-sall-tackles-corruption-in-bid-for-investors.html
Senegalese President Macky Sall has
shut 59 state institutions and begun audits of government
projects after ending the 12-year rule of  Abdoulaye Wade ,
improving investors’ outlook for the West African nation.  Sall, 50, won a March 25 presidential election in the
second-biggest economy in West Africa’s monetary union,
defeating 86-year-old Wade, whose last year in office was marked
with violent protests against power cuts and his bid for a third
term in office.  During his campaign, Sall pledged to make government more
transparent and curb spending in the $13 billion economy, which
is forecast to expand 3.9 percent this year from 2.6 percent in
2011, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The growth
rate lags the IMF’s sub-Saharan African projection of 5.4
percent for this year.  “Macky Sall has embarked on far-reaching public-sector
governance reforms which are likely to improve the
predictability of  Senegal ’s business environment,” Alpha
Diedhiou, senior Africa analyst at Bath, U.K.-based risk
advisory company Maplecroft, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on May 31. The changes are “likely to be well
received by investors as they promote greater transparency and
accountability.”  Since coming into office, Sall has kept promises to audit
state institutions and programs, including a 650 billion-CFA
franc ($1.2 billion) energy-crisis program started by Wade’s son
Karim, who was energy minister.  Economic Crimes  Investigations into members of Wade’s administration are
under way and Sall has pledged to set up a court to prosecute
economic crimes and look into alleged misuse of public funds.
The main port at Dakar and the office heading a $500 million
airport project have new directors.  “All sectors will receive the same treatment,” Moubarak
Lo, Sall’s deputy chief of staff, said by phone on June 5.
“Sanctions will be implemented if necessary, under the mandate
of the judiciary.”  The changes may extend to mining-contract renegotiations,
“where the former regime granted a number of licenses without
observing due process,” said Diedhiou. He declined to give
details about what deals may be reviewed.  Audits should include all members of Wade’s administration,
including Sall, who was prime minister from 2004 to 2007, said
Serigne Mbacke Ndiaye, a spokesman for the former president.  Zircon, Gold  “They must audit everyone who was in power from 2000 to
2012 so that the Senegalese can see the whole picture, and of
course this means President  Macky Sall ,” Ndiaye said by phone
on June 6. Sall has a “moral obligation” to allow himself to
be audited, even though the country’s laws don’t permit a review
of a sitting president, he said.  Senegal earns foreign currency from exports of fish,
peanuts, while  Mineral Deposits Ltd. (MDL)  of Australia mines zircon,
Vancouver-based  Oromin Explorations Ltd. (OLE)  is developing a gold
project and  Teranga Gold Corp. (TGZ)  produces the metal.  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  has 42 percent stake in telecommunications company
 Sonatel (SNTS) , the largest listing on the regional stock market in
Abidjan by capitalization.  The changes and audits “are a good sign for investors,”
Abdou Fall, Senegal analyst at the Institute for Security
Studies in  Pretoria ,  South Africa , said in an interview on May
30. “There needs to be more transparency in contract tenders.”  The yield on Senegal’s $500 million Eurobonds due in 2021
has fallen 66 basis points in the period since Sall was elected
and traded at 7.380 percent by 7:16 p.m. in  London , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Fragmented’  “Senegal’s yields are slightly above those of those of the
other issues and I think that’s a reflection of that slow,
grinding process” of enacting reforms,  John Bates , head of
fixed income at Silk Invest Ltd., which holds Senegalese
Eurobonds in about $140 million of assets they manage, said by
phone from London yesterday.  Ghana ’s $750 million Eurobonds yielded 6.015 percent, while
Gabon’s dollar bonds due 2017 traded at 4.638 percent and
 Nigeria ’s yield was 5.533 percent.  “To get material progress you need a lot of different
people to move in the same direction,” Bates said. “It’s
notoriously very fragmented, the Senegalese government.”  Senegal needs “to give a loud signal about governance to
attract investors,” Sall said in a Feb. 12 interview. He
pledged to curb budget spending with “virtuous management of
public resources.”  Deficit Widening  Government workers’ salaries were made public and Sall
promised to cut them to less than 5 million francs a month. He
stopped first-class travel for government officials and is
selling one of two presidential jets, which Wade had refurbished
at a cost of 17 billion francs, according to a report in Dakar-
based newspaper le Soleil in March.  Sall is aiming to keep spending in check, with the  budget
deficit  expected to reach 6.4 percent of gross domestic product
this year from 6.2 percent in 2011, according to the IMF. The
projection is likely to be attained “through major efforts to
reduce government current spending and the postponement of some
non-priority capital expenditure,” the lender said.  The moves to curb spending should show investors Sall’s
cleanup will improve doing business in Senegal, said Mamadou
Alhadji Ly, an analyst at Dakar-based Consortium for Economic
and Social Research.  “If everything is done in the proper way, future investors
or those who are already there have nothing to worry about,” he
said by phone on May 31. “These reforms won’t put off investors
or make those already investing leave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  