-- Sept. 11 Cancer Victims to Get Medical Coverage From U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/sept-11-cancer-victims-to-get-medical-coverage-from-u-s-.html
The U.S. may spend as much as $147
million through 2016 to pay for the medical care of responders
to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks who are diagnosed with breast,
liver and other types of cancers.  About 50 cancers will be covered by the money, which is
part of a  $1.5 billion federal health-care fund  for rescuers,
cleanup crews and others exposed to carcinogens at or near New
York’s World Trade Center. The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention made the  proposal  in a regulatory filing yesterday,
which would also cover the other Sept. 11 sites, at the Pentagon
in suburban Washington and in Shanksville,  Pennsylvania .  “Cancer incidence among responders and survivors is a
tragic fact, and we must continue to do everything we can to
provide the help that those who are sick need and deserve,”
U.S. Representatives Carolyn Maloney, Jerrold Nadler and  Peter King , all of New York, said in a statement.  The  proposed decision  by  John Howard , director of the
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, reverses
the government’s position that there was insufficient evidence
directly linking toxic debris and smoke to cancers developed by
some responders. A study by the  New York  Fire Department found
that firefighters who worked in the rubble of the trade center
were 19 percent more likely to develop cancer than their peers.  “We recognize how personal the issue of cancer and all of
the health conditions related to the World Trade Center tragedy
are to 9/11 responders, survivors and their loved ones,” said
Howard, who oversees the program, in a statement on its website.  Smoke, Debris  The government estimates cancer care paid for by Howard’s
fund will cost $65 million to $147 million through 2016. The
larger figure is based on an assumption that the number of
people treated by the fund almost doubles, to 110,000, and that
cancer rates among them are 21 percent higher than in the  U.S.
population .  Almost 3,000 people were killed when terrorists hijacked
and crashed four commercial airliners at three sites in
September 2001. The $1.5 billion medical fund was created on
Jan. 2, 2011, when President  Barack Obama  signed legislation
reactivating a program that operated from 2001 to 2003 to help
those suffering from the attack and its aftermath. Cancer wasn’t
included as an ailment that qualified a person for compensation
from the new funds.  A scientific advisory committee  recommended  March 31 that
the fund cover many cancers, including those of the lungs,
breast and digestive system. The committee cited the New York
firefighters study, and said it based the recommendation
primarily on the existence of about 70 known and potential
carcinogens detected in smoke and debris from the attack.  Victims’ Fund  The special master of a related non-medical victims’
compensation fund, Sheila Birnbaum, has said that covering
cancer may cause the health fund to run out of money faster than
expected.  Responders and survivors with cancer, or their families,
may also be eligible for payments from Birnbaum’s $2.8 billion
fund because of Howard’s decision. People seeking compensation
from that fund must prove they or their family member were at a
site of attack before May 30, 2002, and that their conditions
resulted from the attacks or the cleanup, she said in a
statement.  Among the cancers that are excluded from coverage are
pancreas, prostate and brain, according to the filing.  Howard’s agency is taking public comments on the proposal
for 30 days before he makes a final decision on coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  