-- South African Investor Makes Bid for First Uranium Stake
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2012-06-08T22:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/south-african-investor-makes-bid-for-first-uranium-stake.html
South African investor Mandla “Bear” Kumalo said he offered to buy a stake of 26 percent in
Canada’s  First Uranium Corp. (FIU)  in an effort to block the sale of a
mine to Australia’s  Gold One International Ltd. (GDO)   Kumvest (Pty) Ltd., Kumalo’s wholly owned  investment
company , would acquire new shares of First Uranium for 37
Canadian cents apiece, he said today in a telephone interview
from Johannesburg. The offer is more than double First Uranium’s
closing  share price  in Toronto yesterday.  First Uranium said in a statement that the bid is “highly
conditional” and doesn’t include any evidence of financing. Its
shares rose 27 percent to 19 cents in Toronto, giving the
company a market capitalization of C$45.2 million.  First Uranium has plunged 98 percent in the past five years
after uranium prices dropped and its South African operations
faced delays. The Toronto-based company is selling assets for
$405 million to help pay off debt, including about C$150 million
($146 million) due June 30.  Kumalo said the transaction is conditional on the company
appointing a new chief executive officer, financial director and
chief operations officer. He’s also seeking the new management
be given 90 days to present a turnaround plan.  AngloGold Deal  Kumalo said he wants to stop First Uranium’s agreed sale of
its Ezulwini gold and uranium mine to Gold One for $70 million.
The company is also selling its Mine Waste Solutions unit to
Johannesburg-based  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  for $335 million.  “Management has done a bad job,” Kumalo said. “The board
doesn’t have to sell all the assets.”  First Uranium has scheduled a June 13 shareholder vote on
the asset sales.  The Kumvest deal would also enable First Uranium to satisfy
 South Africa ’s black empowerment regulations that compels all
mine operators in the country to sell 26 percent of their assets
to black investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  