-- South African Horse Exports Could Surge as Controls Recognized
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-06-08T12:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/south-african-horse-exports-could-surge-as-controls-recognized.html
South Africa ’s horse exports could
rise fourfold if the recognition of the country’s controls on
African Horse Sickness by the World Organization for  Animal
Health  eases shipments,  Racing South Africa  said.  The controls were recognized late last month, South
Africa’s Department of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries said on
June 6. The country has the immediate potential to export 300
horses annually, Peter Gibson, the chief executive officer of
Durban-based Racing South Africa, said in an e-mailed response
to questions late yesterday.  “With improved protocols, this figure could double within
24 months,” Gibson said of the country’s potential exports.  Before 1950 South Africa exported a total of about 300,000
horses, according to Racing South Africa. The continent was
declared endemic for African Horse Sickness in the late 1950s
meaning that South African horses had to be quarantined before
if they were sold to buyers in the U.S, boosting costs. The
first exports from South Africa took place in 1788.  An outbreak of the disease near the town of Stellenbosch in
2004 halted all exports for two years and horses sent to  Hong
Kong  and the  United Arab Emirates  were subjected to lengthier
quarantine periods.  South African horses are prized for sporting use, most
notably endurance races and thoroughbred racing, Gibson said.
They are also used for polo.  The new measures will help improve the way infected
countries export by having proper controls or surveillance, more
flexibility and better protection to resume exports faster
following an outbreak, Gibson said.  The industry currently has 500 registered breeders and
3,500 foals are produced a year, according to Racing South
Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  