-- Spanish Bank Aid Request Seen as Moody’s Cautions
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-06-09T17:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/spanish-bank-aid-request-seen-as-moody-s-cautions.html
Spain  may today move closer to
becoming the fourth euro-area nation to receive aid, as the
 International Monetary Fund  said the country’s banks need at
least 37 billion euros ($46 billion) to bear a weaker economy.  Euro-region finance ministers held an almost three-hour
conference call on Spain today, and Spanish Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos will brief reporters at 7:30 p.m. in  Madrid . The
eurogroup will also issue a statement on the call, said a
European official who declined to be named. European Central
Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday that a
Spanish request for a bank bailout is “awaited.”  Spain may receive as much as 100 billion euros ($126
billion) in a rescue of its banks, El Mundo reported on its
website today.  The IMF released a report overnight disclosing its estimate
for the extra capital Spain’s banks need to cope with a
worsening economy. Spain may need to go beyond the 37 billion
euros of capital needs identified and build a buffer of 60
billion euros to 80 billion euros, an official at the
Washington-based IMF, who declined to be named, told reporters.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has been resisting pressure
from European officials to accelerate any request for help as
Greek elections loom and Spain’s access to markets narrows. He
said June 7 he won’t take any decisions about how to shore up
lenders until seeing the results of the IMF analysis and similar
tests by two international consultants due this month.  Spain Reeling  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria declined
to comment when asked at a briefing yesterday whether Spain was
seeking a rescue. Rajoy said on May 28 there would be no bailout
for Spanish banks.  A bailout for Spain, reeling from a recession and the
bursting of a property bubble, may dwarf previous rescues in the
effort to stem the turmoil that began with Greece’s disclosure
in 2009 that its finances were in worse shape than was
previously known.  Since then, European governments and the IMF have made 386
billion euros in loan pledges to Greece, Ireland and Portugal.
Spain’s economy is more than twice the size of the three
countries combined.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  economist David Mackie
said on May 30 that aid for the Spanish government and banks
could total 350 billion euros.  Rubicon Crossed  “Spain is the Rubicon that should have never been
crossed,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy said in a note to clients. “Not only would a limited
bailout for Spain fail to restore confidence in the markets, it
could fuel fears that more aid will be needed at a later stage
and could also put  Italy  under more pressure.”  Spain has been toppled by its banking industry and one of
the highest private debt levels in the euro region, even as its
public debt remains below the European Union average. The
country had budget surpluses in the three years through 2007,
allowing it to go into the crisis with a debt burden equivalent
to 36 percent of gross domestic product. That ratio was 69
percent last year.  The country has made at least four attempts to clean up its
banks since the collapse of the real estate boom in 2008,
tightening provisioning rules, encouraging mergers and coaxing
lenders onto the stock market. The IMF said that “gradual
approach” had allowed weak banks to undermine financial
stability.  Rapidity Needed  Constancio told reporters in Lisbon that the request for
help should be made “with some rapidity.” ECB council member
Jens Weidmann urged Spain to request aid from the euro area’s
rescue fund if the country can’t meet its financing needs, Die
Welt am Sonntag reported, citing an interview.  The government shouldn’t hold out against seeking help, the
Berlin-based newspaper quoted Weidmann as saying. Hoping for the
ECB to jump in to avoid conditions attached to a rescue “is the
wrong way.”  Still, Rajoy said he wouldn’t act until he has received the
results of stress tests by  Roland Berger  and  Oliver Wyman , due
by June 21, and has made repeated calls for European
institutions to help bring down the nation’s borrowing costs.  Spain Blinks  “The Spanish government was making noises to the effect
that ECB was going to step in and Spain wasn’t going to blink,”
said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-region market economist at BNP
Paribas SA in a telephone interview. “Well now Spain is going
to blink.”  “The cost to the credibility of the sovereign has been
pretty high,” he said.  Moody’s Investors Service said late yesterday the
increasing prospect of Spain seeking aid, as well as growing
estimates of the cost of helping banks, may prompt downgrades to
its A3 rating.  If  Greece  leaves the single currency, “posing a threat to
the euro’s continued existence,” the company would review all
euro-area sovereign ratings, including those of the Aaa nations,
Moody’s said.  The IMF report, which said the “core of the system appears
resilient,” said the 37 billion euros of capital needs
estimated for weaker lenders could rise due to unanticipated
losses. The assessment incorporated  Bankia group , which was
nationalized on May 9, and put its needs at 13 billion euros to
14 billion euros, compared with the 19 billion euros the bank’s
new management has demanded, the IMF official said.  Previous Bailout  Bankia group also went beyond the government’s provisioning
rules when calculating the need for 19 billion euros of state
support, which comes on top of 4.5 billion euros it received in
a previous bailout. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said two
weeks earlier that 15 billion euros would be enough to fulfill
the second of two decrees passed this year.  Even as the government said Bankia was a specific case,
investors extrapolated the losses to the rest of the industry,
undermining confidence and the government’s credibility. De
Guindos told banks to take 84 billion euros in provisions and
capital buffers, on top of 100 billion euros of provisions made
since 2008.  Rajoy’s failure to restore confidence in its banks has
prompted foreign investors to shun Spain’s bonds, making the
Treasury increasingly dependent on Spanish lenders. Rajoy, who
in November won the biggest majority that any Spanish party has
clinched since 1982, is also losing support among voters as
austerity measures fail to stem the crisis that has pushed
unemployment to 24 percent. Governments in Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  were toppled after those three countries took bailouts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  