-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Macedonia (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-08T16:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-macedonia-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Macedonia:  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2011 Article IV  Consultation with  Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia  On June 1, 2012, the Executive Board of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation
with Macedonia.  Background  The economic recovery is losing steam due to adverse external
developments. Growth was 3 percent in 2011, but was slowing in
the second half of the year, which was visible in softening
exports, sales, production, and credit. Growth is expected to
slow to 2 percent in 2012. The absence of significant imbalances
in the Macedonian economy and limited external financial linkages
will help to contain the impact on Macedonia of weak growth and
financial stress in the euro area. Meanwhile, inflation peaked at
3.9 percent on average in 2011 on the back of sharp rises in food
and fuel prices, but  core inflation  was lower at 1.1 percent.
Inflation is expected to decline to 2 percent in 2012. The
current account deficit was contained in 2011, at 2.8 percent
of GDP, as a pick-up in domestic demand and higher fuel prices
were largely offset by private transfers. The current account
deficit is expected to widen and then level off at around 5
percent of GDP in the medium term, largely matching the inflow
of foreign direct investment. Meanwhile, international reserves
increased significantly to over €2 billion at end2011, which
is a broadly adequate level, and have been stable in 2012.  In the financial sector, non-performing loans (NPLs) remained
at elevated levels at just below 10 percent. Still, provisions
exceed NPLs, and the system remained free of pressures on
liquidity or solvency. Moreover, the banking system remained
profitable after provisioning, capital adequacy ratios remained
close to 17 percent, well-above their regulatory minimum, and
bank liquidity was ample. Reliance on domestic deposits as the
primary funding source, combined with minimal reliance on
external funding and the lack of exposure to risky external
assets, have helped shield the banking system from euro area
developments. Both deposits and loans have continued to
increase modestly.  On fiscal policy, the authorities achieved their 2011 deficit
target on a cash basis, by reducing spending in line with revenue
shortfalls, although the deficit would have been somewhat larger
if arrears on government payments and VAT refunds were included.
The 2012 budget called for a deficit of 2½ percent of GDP, but
was based on highly optimistic growth and revenue assumptions.
The supplementary budget submitted to parliament in April 2012
reduced projected revenues and also reduced expenditures,
preserving the original deficit target. The revised revenue
assumptions are still somewhat optimistic--by about 1 percent
of GDP according to staff projections--but the government has
committed to adjust expenditures further if necessary to achieve
its deficit target. In this context, Macedonia has a track
record of meeting its cash deficit targets, cutting expenditure
when needed to achieve its target.  The authorities announced that they have secured a foreign  bank
loan  that will meet remaining 2012 fiscal financing needs and
provide resources to repay a Eurobond maturing in January 2013.
The loan is expected to be disbursed in the first half of 2012.  The National Bank left  interest rates  unchanged from December 2010
until April 2012, while modestly relaxing prudential requirements
that had been tightened as a crisis response in 2008-09.
In April, it introduced a set of measures aimed at easing credit
conditions and furthering money market development, including a
gradual reduction in the amount of outstanding 28-day central
bank bills, the introduction of a 7 day and overnight deposit
facility and a weekly repo auction. In early May 2012, it lowered
the maximum rate on central bank bills by 25 bps to 3.75 percent.
These gradual easing measures were taken against a background of
favorable balance of payments conditions, slowing growth, subdued
inflation, and modest credit growth.  Executive Board Assessment  Executive Directors noted that, while economic growth has slowed,
Macedonia’s mediumterm outlook remains generally favorable.
To address challenges posed by possible adverse spillovers from
the euro area, Directors encouraged the authorities to persevere
in their pursuit of macroeconomic and financial stability,
building on advances made thus far.  Directors considered the current fiscal stance appropriate.
They noted that continued fiscal consolidation will be important
to stabilize the debtto-GDP ratio at prudent levels. In this
context, Directors were reassured by the authorities’ intention
to meet the 2012 deficit target but noted that further expenditure
restraint might be needed. They underscored that a sound
mediumterm fiscal framework would help prioritize needed social
spending.  Directors agreed that measures to improve public debt management
and deepen the domestic debt markets should remain policy priorities.
Progress on these fronts would reduce dependence on external financing,
which could be volatile. Directors also emphasized the need for stronger
public financial management that would improve budget planning and
prevent arrears.  Directors agreed that the current exchange rate arrangement has served
Macedonia well. They encouraged the central bank to stand ready to
increase policy rates in the event that external risks materialize and
exchange rate pressures emerge.  Directors concurred that the banking sector remains stable and well
capitalized. They noted its limited reliance on external financing and
ample liquidity. Nonetheless, Directors recommended continued vigilance
and encouraged the authorities to make further progress on addressing
regulatory gaps and strengthening their crisis response capacity.  Directors agreed that welldesigned infrastructure investments and
further labor market reforms are essential to raise potential growth
and durably reduce unemployment. Steps in these directions would
also cement Macedonia’s success in attracting foreign direct
investment.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 