-- Steepest Global Slide Since Recession Pushes Rate Cuts
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-08T14:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/steepest-global-slide-since-recession-pushes-central-bank-cuts.html
Monetary-policy makers from around
the world are being pressed into action to shore up a global
economy that is suffering its steepest slowdown since the
recession ended in 2009.  On the heels of a June 5 interest-rate cut by  Australia ,
China yesterday unveiled its first reduction in borrowing costs
in more than three years to counter what Premier Wen Jiabao has
called increasing downward economic pressure.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  left the door
open at a June 6 press conference to a rate cut, while
highlighting the limitations of the ECB’s tools in countering
the region’s financial turmoil.  And Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a
Congressional committee yesterday that policy makers will
discuss later this month whether to do more to spur growth,
though he said the steps they could take may have “diminishing
returns.”  “Across the board, we’re seeing the central banks being
galvanized into action by weak growth around the world,” said
 Nariman Behravesh , chief economist in Lexington, Massachusetts,
at IHS Inc.  The global economy will grow 1.7 percent this quarter and 2
percent next, after expanding at an annual pace of 2.5 percent
in the final quarter of 2011, economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in New York said in a June 1 report. The result is “an extended
soft patch as weak as anything experienced in the past two
decades outside the Great Recession,” they wrote.  Forecasts Trimmed  Economists have trimmed their forecasts for global growth
for this year and next. They now see the world economy expanding
by 3.2 percent in 2012 and 3.7 percent in 2013, down from 3.4
percent and 3.9 percent in May, according to the median forecast
of more than 25 economists surveyed from June 1 to June 5.  U.S. stock markets pared gains yesterday after Bernanke
refrained from explicitly pledging further steps in testimony
before the Joint Economic Committee in Washington.  European stocks retreated today, with the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP)  sliding 0.7 percent to 240.96 at 2:28 p.m. in London,
after German exports slumped more than forecast and Fitch
Ratings cut Spain’s credit rating.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 2.39 points to 1,312.6
at 10:30 a.m. in New York, still higher than its 1,278.04 finish
a week ago on June 1.  ‘Loosely Coordinated’  David Hensley , director of global economics at JPMorgan in
New York, looks for a “loosely coordinated round of global
policy easing,” with the Fed moving at its June 19-20 meeting,
followed by an ECB rate cut in July and further steps by the
Bank of Japan and the Bank of England to boost growth.  He predicts the Fed will extend its pledge to keep its
benchmark rate at “exceptionally low levels” into 2015 and
will continue its Operation Twist program to bring down long-
term rates beyond the scheduled completion this month.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said today that while the ECB still has tools to help
Europe’s economy withstand the crisis it won’t act in isolation
from other European institutions.  “Rate policy and liquidity must be seen in connection with
measures of European financial policy,” Nowotny said.  The Fed has held the target for the federal funds rate at a
record low between  zero and 0.25 percent  since December 2008.
The ECB returned its benchmark rate to a record low in December.  Emerging Markets  Emerging markets  probably will join in, with both Brazil
and India reducing rates further in the coming months, according
to Behravesh. Brazil has cut borrowing costs by four percentage
points to a record low 8.5 percent since August. India’s
monetary authority reduced its repurchase rate by 50 basis
points to 8 percent in April and has trimmed its reserve ratio
by 125 basis points this year to 4.75 percent.  China  coupled its rate cut -- it lowered the benchmark one-
year lending rate to 6.31 percent from 6.56 percent -- with
moves to give banks extra freedom to set the amounts they pay on
deposits and charge for loans.  “This is a very positive pro-market move that is quite
bullish,”  Donald Straszheim , senior managing director of New
York-based ISI Group, said in a note to clients.  Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist with Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. who has worked for the ECB, said China’s
move is “the beginning of a rate-cut cycle” and predicted “at
least one more reduction this year.  Stabilize Growth  Wen called for steps to stabilize growth and offset
downward pressure on the economy in a speech last month in the
southern Chinese province of Hunan, according to the Hunan Daily
newspaper.  Industrial output in China, the world’s biggest producer of
steel and cement, probably rose 9.8 percent last month from a
year earlier, close to the slowest pace in three years,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
27 economists ahead of a report due June 9.  Fixed-asset investment may have grown at a slower pace in
the first five months, with  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
largest maker of construction and mining equipment, among
companies reporting a slowdown in sales.  In spite of decelerating growth, China had held off from
cutting rates because it was worried that such steps would push
inflation back up and reflate a housing bubble, Hensley said.  Elevated Inflation  South Korea today kept its benchmark unchanged, citing
elevated inflation expectations even while flagging that risks
to growth are increasing. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo
told reporters in Seoul that China’s move will have an
‘‘indirect” impact on his nation’s economy, Asia’s fourth
largest.  The ECB also has been reticent about taking further action
to tackle a spreading recession and financial-market instability
in the 17-nation euro area. Having already cut its benchmark
rate to 1 percent and injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of three-year loans into the banking system, the ECB
is reluctant to do more heavy lifting as governments
procrastinate over the reforms it deems necessary to put the
monetary union on a sustainable footing.  Draghi said the ECB stands “ready to act” should the
sovereign-debt crisis damp the euro-area economy further, and
“a few” Governing Council members pushed for a rate reduction
at the June 6 policy meeting.  ’Limited’ Impact  Still, “we have to be aware that the context is one where
you have liquidity constraints and tensions in financial
markets,” he said after keeping rates on hold. “Price signals
in this situation have a relatively limited immediate effect.”  Draghi also cast doubt on the impact of further longer-term
refinancing operations, or LTROs, saying the full effects of
previous loans have yet to be felt.  Former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  said the
ECB and the region’s governments must do more to restore
confidence amid the euro-area debt crisis.  “A central bank wants to bend over backwards to be
reassuring, to reassure people that liquidity is there,” the
Harvard University professor told Bloomberg Television on June
6. “The overwhelming imperative of the situation is to instill
more confidence than there is today.”  While the euro area narrowly avoided falling into a
recession in the first quarter, unemployment was a record 11
percent in March and April and economic confidence is at the
lowest since 2009. Behravesh said the mounting gloom will push
the ECB into cutting  interest rates  next month.  Debate at Fed  In the U.S., Fed officials are divided over whether the
central bank should take additional steps to support an economy
that is being buffeted by the financial strains coming out of
Europe. The next meeting of the policy-making Federal Open
Market Committee will come just days after Greece holds
elections on June 17. The results could hand power to parties
that oppose the terms of the nation’s rescue package,
precipitating its exit from the monetary union.  More easing isn’t necessary, regional Fed Presidents
 Richard Fisher  in Dallas and  James Bullard  in  St. Louis  said in
separate speeches June 5. Additional stimulus would be “pushing
on a string,” Fisher said, while Bullard said there’s time to
assess the economy and no need to change policy now. Neither is
currently a voting member of the FOMC.  Three of their colleagues, led by Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , suggested on June 6 that conditions may warrant some
action.  ‘Adverse Shocks’  “Scope remains for the FOMC to provide further policy
accommodation,” Yellen said in a Boston speech. “It may well
be appropriate to insure against adverse shocks that could push
the economy into territory where a self-reinforcing downward
spiral of economic weakness would be difficult to arrest.”  Bernanke, for his part, didn’t tip his hand during his
testimony yesterday. Instead, he outlined the course of
discussion he foresees at the next meeting of the FOMC.  “The main question we have to address has to do with the
likely strength of the economy,” Bernanke said. “Will there be
enough growth going forward to make material progress on the
 unemployment rate ?”  U.S. employers added 69,000 workers last month, the fewest
in a year, while the jobless rate rose to  8.2 percent  from 8.1
percent in April.  AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  said
June 1 that smaller companies have reduced hiring as business
conditions get “tighter and tighter,” cutting demand for the
largest U.S. phone company’s services.  With growth slowing around the world, “the central banks
are in motion,” Hensley said. “Some of the motion is action.
Some of it is rhetoric.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  