-- Sweden’s Higher Rates Create Instability, Svensson Says
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-08T07:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/sweden-s-higher-rates-create-instability-svensson-says-1-.html
Higher benchmark  interest rates  in
 Sweden  create financial instability as banks are forced to go
abroad for short-term funding, Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars E.
O. Svensson said, adding an argument to his call for rate cuts.  “Swedish banks are now choosing to fund themselves by
short-term borrowing in foreign currencies, which is cheaper
than borrowing in Sweden,” he said in a speech published on the
Stockholm-based bank’s website. “But this entails some risks as
foreign investors are an unstable source of funding.”  Svensson has advocated deeper rate cuts than the majority
of the bank’s board and reiterated that rates have been too high
as inflation has undershot the bank’s 2 percent target over the
past 15 years. The objective shouldn’t be “prejudiced” out of
consideration for financial stability, he said.  “The fact that inflation has undershot the target appears
to have led to a significant real economic cost in the form of
higher average unemployment,” he said.  The Riksbank in April voted 4 to 2 to keep its main rate
unchanged at 1.5 percent and predicted no more cuts amid signs
of a pickup in growth. The bank has cut rates twice since
December after the economy contracted at the end of last year.  Two of six Riksbank board members, Svensson and Karolina Ekholm, argued for a cut to 1 percent as inflation lags
behind estimates. Inflation has trailed the bank’s target in the
first four months of the year, and has averaged 1.6 percent
since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  European Central Bank ’s main rate is at 1 percent,
while the U.S. Federal Reserve’s rate is close to zero.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  