-- U.K. Producer Prices Unexpectedly Fall on Oil-Price Decline
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-08T10:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/u-k-producer-prices-unexpectedly-fall-on-oil-price-decline-1-.html
U.K.  factory-output prices 
unexpectedly fell in May as petroleum products dropped the most
since the depths of the financial crisis in 2009.  The price of goods at factory gates slipped 0.2 percent
from April, the first decline since December, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The median forecast of
18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent
gain. Raw-material costs fell 2.5 percent, the most since
December 2008.  The  Bank of England  left its  stimulus plan  on hold
yesterday after some policy makers pointed to risks from above
target  consumer-price inflation . Still, food and crude-oil
prices are falling, while a U.K. factory survey last week showed
inflation pressures eased in May, which may give the Monetary
Policy Committee more room to restart so-called quantitative
easing to aid the economy if needed.  The producer-price report “adds to survey evidence
suggesting that the recent weakness of demand has forced
manufacturers to cut their prices,” said Samuel Tombs, an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “Today’s figures
bolster the arguments of those members on the MPC who are
seeking to restart quantitative easing.”  The cost of petroleum products dropped 3 percent in May
from April, the most since January 2009, the statistics office
said. Out of the 10 categories of factory-gate prices tracked by
the ONS, two fell on a monthly basis, five rose and three were
unchanged.  From a year earlier, producer prices rose 2.8 percent in
May, the least since November 2009.  Core Prices  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the data
were published. It traded at $1.5438 as of 11:18 a.m. in London,
down 0.5 percent from yesterday. The yield on the 10-year
government bond dropped 11 basis points to 1.61 percent.  Core producer prices , which exclude the costs of food,
alcohol, tobacco and petroleum, were unchanged in May from the
previous month and rose 2.1 percent from a year earlier.  Within input prices, oil costs dropped 7.7 percent in May
from April, the biggest drop since December 2008. On an annual
basis, input prices were up 0.1 percent.  Crude-oil prices have plunged about 20 percent in the past
two months. In addition,  global food prices  had their biggest
drop in more than two years in May as the cost of dairy products
slumped. An index of 55 food items tracked by the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization fell 4.2 percent from
April, the Rome-based agency reported on its website this week.
That was the biggest percentage drop since March 2010.  BOE Stimulus  The Bank of England held its bond-purchase target at 325
billion pounds ($502 billion) yesterday and kept its key
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent. Minutes of the
meeting, showing how officials voted, will be published June 20.  In a separate report, the central bank said British
consumers’  expectations for inflation  rose last month and a
measure of their satisfaction with the institution dropped close
to the lowest on record. Consumers anticipated prices to
increase 3.7 percent in the coming 12 months, up from 3.5
percent in February, the Bank of England said in a quarterly
survey. Net satisfaction with the central bank fell to 11
percent from 20 percent in the prior report.  Also today, the statistics office said construction orders
rose 4.6 percent in the first quarter from the previous three
months and were down 3.6 percent from the same period a year
earlier. There were “large increases” in private industrial
and commercial new work and decreases in infrastructure and
private new housing.  The ONS said new orders in the  construction industry  remain
“at a relatively low level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  