-- S&P 500 Caps Best Week in 2012 Amid Optimism on Spain
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-08T20:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/u-s-stock-futures-fall-on-europe-economic-data.html
U.S. stocks rose, giving the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index its biggest weekly rally in 2012, on optimism
that weekend discussions among European finance officials may
result in a bailout for Spain to shore up its lenders.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
advanced at least 1.8 percent to pace gains among the biggest
companies.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the operator of the world’s largest
social network, climbed 3 percent after researcher ComScore Inc.
suggested that marketers can use the site effectively to spur
purchases.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  retreated 2.6 percent as
the nation’s second-biggest coal producer said it is shutting
mines in Kentucky and closing U.S. regional offices.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.8 percent to 1,325.66 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time, reversing an earlier decline of as much as 0.6
percent. It rallied 3.7 percent this  week . The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  increased 93.24 points, or 0.8 percent, to
12,554.20. About 5.8 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges today, or 15 percent below the three-month average.  “The risk-on trade emerged,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management
in Birmingham,  Alabama . “There’s more of a conviction that
something is going to happen with Spanish banks that’s going to
be positive. Anything that could address the situation in a
favorable way could have a positive impact.”  European Central Bank Vice President Vitor Constancio said
today that a Spanish request is “awaited” and will be
“exclusively directed at the recapitalization of banks.” The
bid may come as soon as tomorrow when finance ministers hold a
conference call, according to a person familiar with the plans
who declined to be identified.  Economic Data  Earlier today, U.S. equities joined a global slump as
German exports dropped in April for the first time this year as
weaker global growth curbed demand. French business confidence
and Italian output also declined. The trade deficit in the U.S.
narrowed in April as a drop in imports overshadowed the first
decline in exports in five months.  “Short-term investors aren’t enamored with risk,” said
Lawrence Creatura, who helps oversee $363.6 billion as a
Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors
Inc. “The economic data coming out of Europe just served as a
reminder that all is not well yet.”  The  S&P 500  rallied this week as China cut interest rates
and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials
stand ready to act. Most stocks fell yesterday as an early gain
fizzled after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank will assess the economy before deciding if more
stimulus is needed.  Biggest Gains  Telephone, financial and technology shares had the biggest
gains among 10 groups in the S&P 500 today. Wal-Mart Stores, the
world’s largest retailer, rose 3.6 percent to $68.22. Intel, the
biggest chipmaker, added 1.8 percent to $26.41. JPMorgan
advanced 2.7 percent to $33.68.  Facebook rose 3 percent to $27.10. Companies marketing to
Facebook users who have signaled they “like” a business or
have mentioned a brand in a post can have a “a statistically
significant positive lift on people’s purchasing,”  ComScore 
said in a blog post. The findings counter a Reuters/Ipsos poll
earlier this week that showed sagging interest in the site and a
minority of users being influenced by advertising when deciding
what to buy.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  rallied 2.9 percent to $18.36. The
U.S. energy explorer, which is facing a  $22 billion  cash
shortfall because of falling natural-gas prices, agreed to sell
its pipeline interests to Global Infrastructure Partners for
more than $4 billion.  Internal Probe  Separately, shareholders rejected the re-election of two
directors involved in the internal probe of Chief Executive
Officer Aubrey McClendon’s personal finances.  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  advanced 18 percent to $28.36.
 Carl Icahn  disclosed he boosted his stake in the maker of
International brand trucks.  Quiksilver Inc. (ZQK)  climbed 12 percent to $2.74. The maker of
clothing for skateboarders and surfers climbed after avoiding a
wipeout in its European sales. It posted second-quarter revenue
growth in constant currency in the region while rivals reported
declines.  Alpha Natural Resources dropped 2.6 percent to $9.32.
Operations will end at eight mines in Kentucky, including four
owned by affiliates and four contract facilities, and production
will be cut at others. The moves will reduce thermal-coal
shipments by 2 million tons this year and 4 million tons in
2013, Alpha said. About 150 jobs will be eliminated.  Analyst Downgrade  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  retreated 3.1 percent to $30.33. The seller of
hardware and software for storing data was downgraded at
Barclays Plc. The share-price estimate is $34.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  dropped 0.7 percent to $87.75. The world’s
largest restaurant chain said sales at stores open at least 13
months rose 3.3 percent globally last month, falling short of
analysts’ estimates, as sales declined in Japan and China.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. persuaded  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  to move
its listing from the New York Stock Exchange, scoring the
largest-ever company to switch markets three weeks after it
botched Facebook’s initial public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  