-- U.S. Debt Rally to Endure on Crisis, UBS’s Bory Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-08T19:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/u-s-debt-rally-to-endure-on-crisis-ubs-s-bory-says-tom-keene.html
Treasury bonds and high-grade
corporate debt are set to extend gains with a bailout of  Spain 
imminent following talks this weekend by European leaders, said
George Bory, chief corporate credit strategist at UBS AG.  Yields on benchmark 10-year government notes will test new
lows after  dropping below  1.5 percent for the first time June 1,
Bory said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene.  Bonds of U.S. companies with
investment-grade ratings are also poised to rally, tightening
their spread to government benchmarks by as much as 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, this year, Bory said.  “You have a clear crisis out of  Europe , a credit crisis
across the board, which is forcing investors into safe-haven
securities and then in addition to that, the growth story in the
U.S. is clearly decelerating,” Bory said. “We could go a
little bit lower if things don’t improve out of Europe. The
prospect of perhaps some Fed intervention could push 10-year
yields meaningfully below 1.5 percent.”  Spain may become the fourth European sovereign to receive
emergency aid as it struggles to shore up confidence in its
banks and plug a  budget deficit . Investors are speculating
whether the  Federal Reserve  will add more stimulus when the
 Federal Open Market Committee  meets on June 19-20. High-grade
corporate debt will benefit from the flight to quality,
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Bory said.  “Let’s say Treasuries drop a little bit and the economy
slows but doesn’t collapse. I would expect that spread
differential between corporates and Treasuries to narrow,” Bory
said. “You could see bond yields for investment-grade
corporates below 3 percent. I think you could see 25, maybe 50
basis points of tightening.”  Tough Target  Government bond yields fell to a record June 1 after the
Labor Department reported U.S. employers added 69,000 jobs in
May after an increase of 77,000 the previous month. The rally in
Treasury bonds means the minimum return money managers typically
target is eluding them, Bory said.  “Six percent’s tough to come by when the government is
only paying you 1.5 percent,” he said. “Many of those
investors are falling short of that target yield.”  European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said
today that a Spanish request is “awaited” and will be
“exclusively directed at the recapitalization of banks.” The
bid may come as soon as tomorrow when finance ministers hold a
conference call, according to a person familiar with the plans
who declined to be identified because the matter is
confidential.  The Fed plans to wind down at month-end its so-called
Operation Twist program to swap $400 billion of short-term debt
with long-term debt to lengthen the average maturity of its
holdings.  “You’re owning Treasuries for safety and for liquidity,”
Bory said. “It’s a safe place to hide. I think your absolute
gain is somewhat limited.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  