-- U.S. Stocks Rally in S&P 500’s Best Week Since December
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-06-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/u-s-stocks-rally-in-s-p-500-s-best-week-since-december.html
U.S. stocks rallied, driving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its best weekly gain since
December, amid speculation European and American central banks
will join China in trying to spur economic growth.  All 10 S&P 500  industry groups  rose during the week as
financial companies jumped the most, adding 4.7 percent.
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  soared 18 percent, leading gains in
commodity producers amid plans to replace almost half its board
and an agreement to sell its pipeline interests. Home Depot Inc.
climbed 9.2 percent after boosting its share repurchase program.
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  slipped 2.2 percent for its third straight weekly
loss since it went public in May.  The S&P 500 rose 3.7 percent to 1,325.66, rebounding from a
3 percent slump last week. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
climbed 435.63 points, or 3.6 percent, to 12,554.20, the biggest
increase since Dec. 23, after dipping below its 2011 closing
level on June 1 amid a worse-than-forecast jobs report.  “The optimism comes from the belief that there is going to
be some kind of coordinated activity from central banks,” Bill Greiner, who oversees $13 billion as chief investment officer at
Mariner Wealth Advisors in  Kansas City , Missouri, said in a
phone interview. “The question in my mind is how close to the
edge do the world of investors have to move before the central
banks start to move in the direction that they need to.”  Investors gravitated toward stocks during the week after
the  S&P 500  retreated 9.9 percent from an April high, pushing
its  valuation  to 12.9 times earnings from the last 12 months.
That’s 21 percent below the average of 16.4 since 1954,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stimulus Moves  Optimism that policy makers would take steps to stimulate
economic growth gave benchmark indexes their biggest gains of
the year on June 6, with the S&P 500 and Dow advancing at least
2.3 percent. Equities rallied the next day as China cut  interest
rates  for the first time since 2008 and European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said officials stand ready to act. The
rally fizzled after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank will assess the economy before deciding if
more stimulus is needed.  Economic reports sent out mixed signals, with a measure of
 service industries  showing a surprise increase while factory
orders unexpectedly dropped. Optimism grew that Europe was
making progress on its debt crisis. Finance officials will hold
discussions this weekend on a potential bailout of Spain as the
nation is poised to become the fourth of the 17 euro-area
countries to require emergency assistance.  ‘Overriding Factor’  “The overriding factor that’s driving the market is really
Europe,” Greg Woodard, a portfolio strategist at Manning &
Napier in Fairport, New York, which manages about $40 billion,
said in a phone interview. “Equities overall are very
attractively priced. But over the past several years, equities
have not been trading on valuations, they have not been trading
on underlying fundamentals. When we get positive news out of
Europe, we get a risk-on type of environment. And when we get
negative news, it’s risk off.”  Greiner of Mariner Wealth said his firm began selling
stocks two months ago and he’s not ready to put the cash back to
work.  “I don’t think we’re out of the woods,” he said. “We
have some further volatility and potential downside movement in
front of us. The probability of the U.S. slipping into some sort
of economic contraction in 2013 is building. With that in mind,
valuations don’t look particularly cheap, to be frank.”  Most-Tied  The Morgan Stanley  Cyclical Index (CYC)  of companies most-tied to
the economy jumped 4.4 percent for the week, the biggest advance
since Dec. 2. A gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes rallied 4.6
percent, as  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  climbed 8.7 percent to $8.98 and
 Lennar Corp. (LEN)  advanced 6.1 percent to $26.55.  The KBW Bank Index added 4 percent, the most since March
16.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  surged 12 percent to
$30.48, leading gains among financials.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  climbed
9.4 percent to $27.77, while  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  advanced 7.7
percent to $7.56.  Chesapeake surged 18 percent to $18.36. The energy
explorer, battered by collapsing natural-gas prices and growing
investor mistrust, said it will replace almost half its  board 
under pressure from billionaire investor  Carl Icahn . The company
also agreed to sell its pipeline interests to Global
Infrastructure Partners for more than $4 billion.  Home Depot (HD)  rose 9.2 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$52.35. The largest U.S. home-improvement retailer boosted its
stock repurchase plan by $500 million for fiscal 2012, bringing
the total to $4 billion.  Iron Mountain  Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)  soared 19 percent, the most in the S&P
500, to $32.72. The document-storage company approved a plan to
convert to a real estate investment trust following pressure
from activist investor Elliott Management Corp.  Facebook slipped 2.2 percent to $27.10, extending its loss
from its debut to 29 percent. No large U.S. company is
attracting more attention from short sellers than the world’s
biggest social-networking amid bets the stock will keep falling.  Short interest  on Facebook reached 6.8 percent of shares
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Data
Explorers Ltd., a New York-based research firm. None of the S&P
500 companies with at least $50 billion in market capitalization
has short interest higher than 3.1 percent, the data show.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  had the  biggest decline  in the
S&P 500, sinking 11 percent to $9.32. The second-biggest U.S.
coal producer is shutting mines in Kentucky and closing some
offices as cheap natural gas and clean-air rules slash demand
from electricity generators.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  slipped 6.7 percent to $27.96. The world’s
largest provider of hydraulic-fracturing services said North
American profit margins this quarter will shrink more than
previously forecast because of higher material costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  