-- U.S. Political Risk May Spur Downgrade by 2014, S&P Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-06-08T22:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/u-s-political-risk-may-spur-another-downgrade-by-2014-s-p-says.html
Political and fiscal risks may lead
to another downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating by 2014 by
 Standard & Poor’s , which affirmed its negative outlook on the
nation’s debt.  S&P stripped the U.S. of its top AAA ranking on Aug. 5,
cutting it to AA+ while criticizing the nation’s political
process and saying that spending cuts agreed on by lawmakers
wouldn’t be enough to reduce record deficits. Treasuries surged
after the move. While Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have kept their top grades on the U.S., both have a
negative outlook.  “The credit strengths of the U.S. include its resilient
economy, its monetary credibility and the U.S. dollar’s status
as the world’s key reserve currency,” S&P said today in a
report.  Weaknesses “include its fiscal performance, its debt
burden, and what we perceive as a recent decline in the
effectiveness, stability, and predictability of its policymaking
and political institutions, particularly regarding the direction
of fiscal policy.”  Treasuries have gained 1.67 percent this year after
appreciating 9.8 percent in 2011, the best performance since
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Debt Burden  The U.S. deficit as a percentage of gross-domestic-product
is forecast to decline to 9 percent this year and to 5 percent
by 2016, from 10 percent in 2011, S&P said. The government’s
ratio of debt to GDP will climb to 83 percent this year and to
87 percent by 2016, the New York-based firm said.  Lawmakers last year wrangled over raising the debt ceiling
until the U.S. almost reached its borrowing limit. A 12-member
bipartisan committee was created in August by the Budget Control
Act to find ways to reduce the deficit as part of the debt
ceiling agreement. The group reached an impasse amid Democrats’
opposition to reductions in programs such as Medicare and
Republicans’ reluctance to increases in  tax revenue , setting off
$1.2 trillion of automatic discretionary spending cuts set to
begin in 2013.  “Last summer’s debt ceiling debate raised some concern
about Congressional commitment to avoiding default on  U.S.
government debt ,” S&P said. “ Although the 2012 elections
could resolve the U.S. fiscal debate, we see this outcome as
unlikely.”  Tax Cuts  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said May 15 that the
“expiring tax measures and automatic spending cuts should be a
very powerful incentive for people on both sides of the aisle to
figure out a balanced package of dealing with these kind of
things.”  Politicians will likely avoid a “sudden fiscal
adjustment” at the end of this year that’s part of current law
as they seek to support an economy that’s beset with an 8.2
percent unemployment  rate , S&P said. The firm said it expects
politicians in  Washington  to extend the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts
“indefinitely” and that the alternative minimum tax will be
indexed for inflation after 2011.  “Recent shifts in the ideologies of the two major
political parties in the U.S. could raise uncertainties about
the government’s ability and willingness to sustain public
finances consistently over the long term,” S&P said.  John Piecuch, a spokesman for S&P in  New York , couldn’t
immediately be reached by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  