-- U.S. April Wholesale Inventories Rise 0.6%, Sales Climb 1.1%
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-08T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/u-s-april-wholesale-inventories-rise-0-6-sales-climb-1-1-.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
in April at a faster pace than the prior month as companies
strove to keep unsold goods in line with demand.  The 0.6 percent gain in  stockpiles  followed a 0.3 percent
increase in March, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . Sales climbed 1.1 percent in April after rising 0.4
percent a month earlier.  Moderating economic growth combined with a global slowdown
may encourage companies to refrain from building up inventories
in anticipation of a pickup in sales. Wholesalers had goods on
hand to last 1.17 months at the current sales pace, unchanged
from the prior month.  “We’re in an uncertain situation with everything going on
in  Europe ,”  Jay Bryson , senior global economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said before the
report. “You don’t want to be building a lot of inventory. If
things don’t turn out really badly and we continue to grow,
businesses will wake up.”  The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 28 economists
called for a 0.4 percent gain. Forecasts ranged from no change to
an increase of 1.1 percent.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, were little changed in April after a 0.1 percent
rise, the Commerce Department said on June 4. Retail stockpiles,
which make up the rest, will be included in the June 13 business
inventory report.  Durable Goods  Wholesalers’ inventories of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, rose 1.1 percent, today’s report showed.
Sales of durable goods increased 0.1 percent, led by car sales,
which jumped 3.8 percent.  Stockpiles of non-durable goods fell 0.1 in April following
a 0.6 percent decline in March.  Stockpiles contributed less to economic growth in the first
three months of 2012 than in the fourth quarter. The world’s
largest economy expanded at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, slower than the fourth quarter’s 3 percent pace.
Stockpiles contributed 0.21 percentage point to gross domestic
product during the period, down from 1.81 percentage points in
the final three months of 2011.  Customers remain cautious, said  Tim Johnson , senior vice
president of  Big Lots Inc. (BIG) , a Columbus, Ohio, retailer that sells
excess and closeout goods.  “We still see a consumer out there who is making some tough
choices,” Johnson said at a June 5 conference. “We think there
is still a little bit of anxiety, a little bit of caution on the
part of the consumer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  