-- U.S. Bancorp Says Rules Should Reward Good Risk Managers
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-06-08T15:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/u-s-regional-bank-chiefs-press-for-tailored-regulations.html
U.S. Bancorp Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Davis  joined regional bankers urging regulators to craft
rules that won’t unfairly constrain lenders who handled the
financial crisis better than their Wall Street rivals.  “One size shouldn’t fit all,” and overreaching by
rulemakers helped slow the global recovery “because banks were
precluded from taking appropriate risks,” Davis said in a
June 6 interview. “We need a fair head to prevail, that says,
look, we need not to reduce the entire industry to a stymied
outcome.”  Davis, who never posted a loss since becoming CEO in 2006,
spoke a day before the  Federal Reserve  formally proposed rules
to meet higher international capital standards, known as Basel
III, for banks with $500 million or more in assets. CEOs at
other regional banks, including  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) ’s Robert Wilmers,
also have said regulations are becoming too complex and costly
for “Main Street” banks.  Regulators ought to consider how financial firms fared
during and after the 2008 financial crisis, said Davis, 54,
whose bank ranks fifth by deposits for U.S. commercial lenders.  “The test is whether or not going forward they can let us
all move forward at independent, different speeds based on the
performance that either we had going in, or the confirmation of
our performance coming out,” Davis said.  Crisis Victims  Wilmers has said some Main Street banks are victims of the
crisis rather than contributors to it. Higher compliance
expenses and  capital requirements  will boost customers’
borrowing costs and hurt economic growth, Wilmers wrote in his
Feb. 23  annual letter  to shareholders.  “One has the sense that little or no thought has been
given to the cumulative effect of the new directives, both on
costs and operations,” wrote Wilmers, 78. “Our goal is not to
seek favors or special dispensation -- but rather to have the
chance to do our part in helping craft a regulatory regime that
does not impede, but rather enables sustainable economic
growth.”  M&T, ranked 13th by deposits for commercial banks, also
remained profitable throughout the financial crisis. Both
lenders received funds from the U.S. Treasury Department’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2008.  Executives at Buffalo, New York-based M&T, which has yet to
repay the bailout, have said the company was reluctant to accept
it in the first place. U.S. Bancorp, based in  Minneapolis ,
repaid TARP about seven months after receiving the rescue. Both
banks count  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the insurance and holding
company run by billionaire  Warren Buffett , among their biggest
stakeholders.  ‘Strong Enough’  “There was a lot of pressure on banks to prove that they
were strong enough to receive it,” M&T Chief Financial Officer
Rene Jones said in April. “We took the minimum to show that we
were strong enough to qualify but also strong enough not really
to need it.”  KPMG LLP’s survey of 100 executives last month found
69 percent citing regulatory and legislative pressures as the
most significant barrier to growth over the next year. Bank
managers will be spending most of their time on cutting costs in
the next two years, according to 43 percent of the respondents.  Regional banks are grappling with increased compliance
costs from regulations including stricter capital rules and
provisions of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act such as the Volcker rule,
which limits lenders from making bets with their own money in
so-called proprietary trades. The rule would burden smaller
banks with having to prove that they’re not in the proprietary-
trading business, M&T executives  have said .  Bank Behavior  Executives at the biggest banks aren’t engaging in behavior
to “intentionally harm” the industry, Davis said. Still, when
it comes to scrutiny placed on the banks, “we should not act
like we don’t know why it’s there,” he said.  Davis had increased net income eight straight quarters
until the three-month period ended March 31. The company’s
return on equity and return on assets, two measures of
profitability, are tops among 15 U.S. banks with market values
exceeding $5 billion. Davis has steered his bank away from
riskier businesses, such as  investment banking .  “There’s still plenty of time for the banks that do well
to be permitted to move forward,” Davis said. “The banks that
either have more to do or haven’t done something need to stay
back until they get it right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 