-- UCLA Faculty Approves Making Anderson MBA Self-Supporting
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   A l i s o n   D a m a s t
-- 2012-06-08T16:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/ucla-faculty-approves-making-anderson-mba-self-supporting.html
The  University of California ,  Los
Angeles , business school’s MBA program can separate itself from
state support, freeing up funds for the rest of the campus, the
university’s faculty said.  The UCLA academic senate voted 53-46 to allow the Anderson
School of Management to replace public funding for its master of
business administration program with private money, the school
said late yesterday in a  statement . The move needs the approval
of the UC systemwide senate and President Mark Yudof.  California  cut the budgets for its state universities and
community colleges by $1.4 billion, or 12 percent, this year,
and Governor  Jerry Brown  has threatened an additional $800
million reduction if voters don’t approve a plan to raise taxes.
Dropping state support for the MBA would free about $8.8 million
for the rest of the university, UCLA said. Anderson would still
rely on state support for undergraduate and doctoral programs.  “We are in a different era now and unfortunately we are in
a public higher-education system that is under real stress,”
Judy Olian, dean of the Anderson School, said in an interview.
“We have to think of innovative solutions.”  Under the plan, Anderson would make up for the loss of
state revenue through donations and streamlined operations,
Olian said. Alumni have already pledged $19 million in gifts
under the condition that the MBA program becomes self-
sufficient, she said.  ‘Domino Effect’  The school would have the authority to moderate tuition
increases and have more flexibility in hiring faculty, according
to Olian, who said the new funding model could be implemented by
July 1 if the systemwide senate and Yudof give the green light.  The vote by UCLA’s faculty is significant because it’s the
first time any mainstream segment of the state’s public higher-
education community has “decided they would be better off going
it alone,” said Hans Johnson, of the  Public Policy Institute of
California , a nonprofit, nonpartisan think tank. The proposal
has been controversial because it could set a precedent for
other professional schools in the state to follow, he said.  “The concern is it could create a domino effect, with
other schools who are able to fund themselves going off to do
it,” Johnson said.  The Anderson School of Management, founded in 1935, has
more than 1,600 students enrolled in MBA and doctoral programs
annually, according to its  website . Former students include  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., and  Larry Fink , chief executive
officer of BlackRock Inc.  UCLA, founded in 1919, has about 27,000 students.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Damast in  New York  at 
 adamast@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  