-- Ukraine’s Hryvnia Drops Most in Two Years Amid Euro 2012 Tension
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-06-08T15:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/ukraine-stocks-sink-to-2009-low-amid-euro-2012-political-boycott.html
Ukraine’s hryvnia fell the most in
two years against the dollar amid a deepening crisis in  Europe 
and as foreign officials skip Eastern Europe’s biggest sporting
event since the breakup of the  Soviet Union .  The Ukrainian currency lost 0.8 percent to 8.0945 per
dollar, the sharpest drop since September 2010. The benchmark
Ukrainian Equities Index declined as much as 9.7 percent before
closing up 3.9 percent at 860.8.  Global attention is focused on Ukraine as the former Soviet
republic and  Poland  host the Euro 2012 soccer championship, the
region’s biggest sports tournament since Sarajevo’s Olympics in
1984. U.K. ministers will not attend the opening stages of the
championship, which starts today, because of human-rights
concerns, the British foreign office said yesterday. French
government ministers won’t be allowed to go to matches, Prime
Minsiter Jean-Marc Ayrault said June 1.  “There’s a cloud of negativism spawning around,”
Alexander Valchyshen, head of research at Kiev-based Investment
Capital Ukraine, said by e-mail. “It started well back in 2011
when politics turned sour and the former prime minister got a
jail sentence. Prospects of dismal economic performance have
forced foreign investors out.”  Former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  was found guilty in
October of overstepping her authority as premier when signing a
gas accord with  Russia  in 2009. She was sentenced to seven
years’ imprisonment.  Devaluation ‘Inevitable’  The hryvnia may be devalued by as much as 10 percent after
elections in October this year as part of negotiations with the
 International Monetary Fund , according to Vladimir Tsibanov, a
Moscow-based economist for Societe Generale SA’s OAO  Rosbank (ROSB) 
unit.  “Euro 2012 will be a temporary relief, but of course the
sentiment for the Ukrainian economy is deteriorating very
rapidly,” he said by e-mail. “Hryvnia devaluation is
inevitable, from our point of view, as the IMF requires a more
flexible exchange-rate regime.”  VAT Ukrnafta, a state-controlled oil producer, dropped 0.7
percent to 163.3 hryvnia, the lowest price since October 2009.
Ukrainian stocks are the cheapest of any emerging market
compared with their estimated earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s very little demand for Ukraine’s locally-listed
stocks,” Roman Zakharov, a Kiev-based analyst at Troika Dialog,
said by phone. “Amid the risk-off mode, general sentiment
toward the country is still cautious. Ukraine is floating in a
tiny boat amid big storm waves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  