-- Lululemon CEO Eyes Holidays After Sales Miss
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-06-08T21:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/lululemon-ceo-eyes-holidays-after-sales-miss.html
Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU)  Chief
Executive Officer Christine Day was unapologetic after
projections for second-quarter sales missed analysts’  estimates ,
sparking the biggest stock decline in 10 months.  Day cited “strong double-digit” growth in same-store
sales and said the company was focused on innovation that will
position the Vancouver-based yoga clothier for a strong year-end
holiday season.  “We really don’t feel the need to apologize for that level
of performance and growth track record that we have,” Day, 50,
said on a conference call.  Lululemon shares rose 1.5 percent to $64.77 at the close in
 New York , paring its two-day loss to 7.5 percent. They’ve
advanced 54 percent in the past 12 months, compared with 3.6
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The company also
doubled revenue to $1 billion in the past two years as shoppers
showed themselves willing to pay premium prices for stylish
workout gear, including $118 yoga pants.  Still, the retailer may face weaker demand as economic
growth slows in the U.S. and  Canada , which account for more than
90 percent of Lululemon’s sales. Canada’s economy added just
5,000 jobs last month,  Statistics Canada  will probably say
today. The economy grew at a 1.9 percent annualized pace between
January and March, as  consumer spending  grew at the slowest pace
in three years. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday that the situation in  Europe  “poses significant
risks” to the  U.S. economy .  The company, which has added running gear and men’s
clothing and expanded its ivivva athletica brand, may be
susceptible to fewer purchases by affluent customers, said
 Edward Yruma , an analyst at Keybanc Capital Markets in New York.  Luxury Consumer  “We do have some concerns that the U.S. luxury consumer
may be slowing,” Yruma, who recommends holding the shares,
wrote in a May 24 note to clients. “While we understand that
the demand dynamics between high-end jewelry and activewear are
not the same, we do believe that global economic issues do have
a more profound impact on the affluent U.S. consumer.”  Full-year profit will be as much as $1.60 per share, the
company said yesterday in a statement. Analysts projected $1.63,
the average of 24 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue for
the year will total as much as $1.34 billion, trailing the $1.35
billion average of analysts’ estimates. In March, Lululemon had
projected full-year profit of as much as $1.57 a share on sales
of a maximum of $1.33 billion.  “It would be a uniquely aggressive management team in a
slow-growth environment to get too aggressive in forward
guidance, and I think that is a big part of the pullback in the
stock,”  Mark Schultz , who manages the $260 million Wilmington
Mid-Cap Growth Fund from Baltimore, said in a telephone
interview. “Nothing we’ve seen in this quarter changes our
investment thesis in the name,” said Schultz, whose fund bought
Lululemon shares in 2008.  Inventory Rises  Lululemon boosted inventory to $107.7 million in the
quarter from $64.4 million a year earlier.  Lululemon’s production team is focusing on “innovation
versus chasing product,” Day said in the earnings call.  In the past, Lululemon would divert the attentions of its
product team and manufacturers by ordering products that had
sold well in previous quarters, reducing their ability to work
on new fashions and products, and occasionally resulting in
apparel that didn’t mix well with the latest items, Day has
said.  “They’re very cognizant of the potential to disrupt their
factories to chase sales in the second and third quarter at the
expense of their fourth quarter,” said Sharon Zackfia, an
analyst at William Blair & Co. in  Chicago , with an outperform
rating on the stock. “It’s still a relatively young company and
sometimes these choices have to be made.”  Earnings Growth  Lululemon’s stock trades at a price-to-earnings ratio of
40,  compared  with the average 17.5 for the S&P 500 Retailing
Index, 15.7 for Gap Inc., which owns rival Athleta, and 15.2 for
Limited Brands Inc., which is also expanding into women’s
athletic apparel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The earnings growth versus valuation disparity that has
existed is likely to converge, and we expect that stock
appreciation from today’s corrected levels may be more measured
and more in line with actual earnings growth prospects,”
 Adrienne Tennant , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
wrote in a note. Tennant, who has a buy rating, anticipates 30
percent earnings growth for the company for the next several
years, she wrote.  Lululemon’s revenue has grown at an annual rate of 42
percent over the past three years, second among 58 retailers
with a market value of $1 billion or more, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Strong Christmas  “They had three incredibly strong Christmases in a row,
and they’re very focused on having another really, really strong
Christmas,” Zackfia said.  First-quarter  net income  rose 40 percent to $46.6 million,
or 32 cents a share, in the period ended April 29, from $33.4
million, or 23 cents, a year earlier, the company said. That
compares with the average analyst  estimate  of 30 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 53 percent
to $285.7 million.  Same-store sales on a constant dollar basis in the first
quarter advanced 25 percent, Lululemon said. The company’s
online sales more than doubled to $38.4 million in the first
quarter from $13.7 million a year earlier, according to its
quarterly  filing .  Lululemon had 180 stores in  North America ,  Australia  and
 New Zealand  at the end of the quarter. The company got 60
percent of its revenue from the U.S. in the quarter, according
to the filing.  Lululemon’s management “has impressed us with a thoughtful
approach to building the brand and building the franchise,”
said Schultz. “It is possibly seductive in the short-term but
dangerous in the long-term to part from disciplined product
strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  