-- Hungary’s Economy Contracts as Industrial-Output Growth Falters
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-06-08T07:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/hungary-s-economy-contracts-as-industrial-output-growth-falters.html
Hungary’s  economy  contracted for the
first time in more than two years in the first three months of
the year as the  European debt crisis  sapped demand for Hungarian
exports, the engine of the country’s economy.  Gross domestic product fell 0.7 percent from a year
earlier, declining for the first time since the last quarter of
2009, after a 1.4 percent expansion in the last three months of
2011, the Budapest-based statistics office said today. GDP
dropped 1.2 percent from the previous quarter compared with a
preliminary figure of a 1.3 percent decline.  Hungary is seeking to revive bailout negotiations with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union to cut
financing costs and bolster investors’ confidence at a time when
commercial banks curb lending, raising the risk of a credit
crunch, the central bank said last month. The government
estimates 0.1 percent economic growth this year, while the
European Commission predicts that GDP will shrink 0.3 percent.  “Nearly half of the sectors in the economy stagnated in
the first quarter,” the statistics office said, adding that the
expansion of industrial output, which drove growth in the past
two years, came to a halt. Industrial output helped GDP decline
0.1 percent in the period, it said.  Industrial output unexpectedly plunged an annual 3.1
percent in April as mobile phone and television production
continued to fall, data published yesterday showed.  Agriculture output fell 7.8 percent from a year earlier,
shaving 0.2 off the GDP figure, the statistics office said.
Household consumption spending declined 0.7 percent from the
year-ago period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  