-- Unipol Deal May Be at Risk After Ligrestis Refuse Condition
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-06-08T12:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/unipol-deal-may-be-at-risk-after-ligrestis-refuse-condition-1-.html
Jonella and Paolo Ligresti, members
of the family that controls insurer  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA) , refused
to agree to conditions set by Italy’s securities market
regulator for  Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA (UNI) ’s proposed merger, a
move that could jeopardize the deal.  Jonella and Paolo Ligresti refused to revoke an exemption
from eventual legal action granted to them by Unipol in January,
they said in a stock-exchange statement today. Italian regulator
Consob said last month that the exemption must be eliminated in
order to avoid a mandatory bid for minorities. The Ligresti
siblings also said they want time to review alternative offers
to Unipol’s proposed merger transaction.  Sator Capital Limited, led by Matteo Arpe, and Palladio
Finanziaria SpA today formally presented an offer to provide 400
million euros ($500 million) of capital to Fondiaria as part of
an alternative to rescue unprofitable Fondiaria.  “This Ligresti statement can be read as a move to open to
Sator and Palladio’s offer,” Fidentiis Equities said in a
research note today. “If a bid on minorities becomes mandatory
we expect Unipol to revoke the offer, paving the way for Sator
and Palladio.”  Shares Up  Fondiaria, based in Turin, climbed as much as 14 percent,
the most since May 11, and was up 13 percent to 1.13 euros at
2:30 p.m. in Milan trading. That gives the insurer a market
value of about 485 million euros. Premafin rose 8.4 percent to
23.04 cents, while Unipol rose 3 percent to 19.6 euros.  Fondiaria will discuss on June 11 the offer it received
from funds Sator and Palladio as well as the consequences of the
decision by the two Ligresti family members, it said in a
separate stock-exchange statement.  Arpe’s fund and its partner Palladio, an Italian investment
firm, today proposed rescuing Fondiaria through an 800 million-
euro capital increase, half of which would be funded by them.
Sator and Palladio raised the lower end of the  price range ,
offering 2 euros per share to 2.5 euros per share for their part
of the capital plan, compared with a previous range of 1.5 euros
to 2.5 euros announced in May. The rest of the capital would
come from a sale of stock to existing shareholders at a 50
percent discount, Sator and Palladio said in a statement.  Their offer competes with one made by Unipol, which is
proposing a four-way merger involving Fondiaria’s biggest
investor,  Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) , and Fondiaria’s unit  Milano
Assicurazioni SpA. (MI)   A Unipol spokesman declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  