-- Universal’s Bid for EMI Music Business Faces EU Complaint
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-08T12:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/universal-s-bid-for-emi-faces-next-stage-in-eu-antitrust-probe.html
Universal Music Group ’s bid for EMI
Group’s recorded-music business faces a formal antitrust
complaint from European Union regulators amid concerns the deal
could harm competition in the digital  music industry .  The European Commission will send a so-called statement of
objections listing possible problems with the deal, an EU
official said today, speaking on condition of anonymity because
the process isn’t public.  Regulators have a Sept. 6 deadline to rule on the bid by
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal, which they have said would create a
company “almost twice the size of the next largest player” in
 Europe . Universal may not be sufficiently constrained by smaller
rivals, customers’ buying power or illegal music downloads, the
EU said when it opened an in-depth probe in March.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  is preparing to
take his review of the Universal bid to the next stage, he said
today in a speech in St. Gallen,  Switzerland . The antitrust
agency must ensure the combined company “would not be in a
position to shape the future landscape in the digital music
market to the detriment of users and artists,” he said.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed in November to sell EMI Group’s
recorded-music and publishing businesses in separate
transactions for a combined $4.1 billion. Universal will buy
EMI’s record labels, home to Katy Perry and Coldplay, for 1.2
billion pounds ($1.85 billion). A Sony Corp.-led group that
includes billionaire  David Geffen  will pay $2.2 billion for the
publishing unit, according to statements in November.  Detailed Response  Universal will prepare a detailed response to address the
commission’s concerns once it receives the EU’s complaint, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  “We will continue to work closely with the commission and
look forward to securing regulatory clearance,” Universal said.
“A statement of objections is part of the European Commission’s
due process when considering mergers and is expected.”  Dylan Jones , a spokesman for EMI, declined to comment.  A statement of objections sets out regulators’ case for
blocking a deal. Companies may seek an oral hearing to argue in
favor of the deal and can offer to sell units or assets to
resolve concerns. The EU blocked two deals in the last two
years, including Deutsche Boerse AG’s bid for NYSE Euronext.  Digital Market Power  “A company with a large and popular catalog can have
significant market power over digital platforms, which would
have a keen interest to strike a deal with it,” Almunia said.  Impala, a group representing independent record labels that
opposes the Universal bid, expects a “strong statement of
objections” finding the combined company “is a danger in the
physical as well as the digital market because it cannot be
adequately constrained by competitors, customers or piracy,”
said Helen Smith, Impala’s executive chairwoman, in an e-mail.  Impala challenged the EU’s 2004 approval for Sony and
Bertelsmann AG to create the Sony BMG record label at the EU
courts, forcing a re-examination by regulators. The deal was
eventually approved in 2007.  Sony won EU approval to buy EMI’s publishing unit in April
after it agreed to sell right to hit songs.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Aoife White in  St. Gallen  via 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  