-- Uralkali Cuts Potash Output Target, Delays New Asian Deals
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-06-08T16:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/uralkali-cuts-potash-output-target-delays-asian-deals-to-august.html
OAO Uralkali, the largest producer of
potash by output, cut its 2012 production target and said supply
deals with  China  and India may be signed later than expected.  Uralkali will produce and sell 10 million metric tons of
the fertilizer this year, Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner told reporters in Moscow today. That compares with a
forecast of 10.2 million to 10.5 million tons unveiled in April.  The company, based in Berezniki,  Russia , is among producers
coping with weak demand for the form of potassium used to make
plants more drought resistant.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
cut output at Canadian mines in the first quarter, while  Mosaic
Co. (MOS) , the biggest U.S. producer, said it planned to reduce
production 20 percent because of lower demand for the material.  Uralkali advanced 0.6 percent to 229.49 rubles by the close
of trading in Moscow.  World potash use this year and next won’t exceed 2011’s 57
million tons, Baumgertner said. New large potash ventures will
probably be delayed and only so-called brownfield projects based
around already existing infrastructure may succeed, he said.  Uralkali expects to sign potash-supply contracts with China
and India no earlier than August, Baumgertner said. The company
previously agreed a second-quarter deal with China after failing
to get a half-year accord and said it would seek to sign a new
contract for the second half. It previously proposed to complete
an agreement with  India  in as early as July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 