-- Vietnam Lowers Policy Rates for Fourth Consecutive Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-08T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/vietnam-lowers-policy-rates-for-fourth-consecutive-month.html
Vietnam’s central bank cut  interest
rates  for the fourth straight month to spur an economy that may
expand at the slowest pace in more than a decade, joining policy
makers from  Brazil  to  China  in countering a global slump.  The central bank’s  refinancing rate  was cut to 11 percent
from 12 percent, while the discount rate was lowered to 9
percent from 10 percent, the  State Bank  of Vietnam said in a
statement on its website yesterday. The reductions are effective
June 11, it said.  Monetary-policy makers from around the world are being
pressed into action to shore up a global economy that is
suffering its steepest slowdown since the recession ended in
2009. Vietnam’s gross domestic product rose 4 percent in the
first quarter, and  growth  this year may be as low as 5.2
percent, central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh said June 7,
which would be the slowest pace since a 4.8 percent rate in
1999.  “With the benign outlook for inflation you can’t blame the
SBV for what they’re doing,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , a London-
based portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset Management, who helps
oversee about $8 billion of emerging market debt, including
Vietnamese bonds. “Whether it will have much of an impact is
another question because the global headwinds are very strong.”  Maintaining macroeconomic stability is a government
priority, Deputy Prime Minister Hoang Trung Hai said in a
meeting with lending agencies and donor nations this week in the
central town of Dong Ha, according to a release from the World
Bank.  The negative impacts of controlling inflation, especially
on enterprises and employment need to be addressed, Hai said at
the meeting.  Credit Crunch  Companies are facing a credit crunch after the central bank
raised borrowing costs last year to fight inflation, which was
then the fastest in  Asia . Commercial bank lending fell 0.66
percent through April from the end of 2011, Dau Tu newspaper
reported last month.  “If you take a situation where credit growth has been
negative, they have to ask some questions,” Victoria Kwakwa,
the  World Bank ’s Vietnam country director, said before the rate
cut decision. “It makes sense for them to be concerned about it
and to say, did we go too far?”  Short-term lending rates will be capped at 13 percent for
some sectors, according to the central bank statement.  The monetary authority will cut its rate cap on dong
deposits by two percentage points to 9 percent from June 11, in
line with easing inflation, Binh told the National Assembly on
June 7.  Vietnam’s  inflation rate  slowed to 8.34 percent in May from
23.02 percent in August 2011, the lowest in 21 months. The pace
of price gains may be 7 percent to 8 percent at year-end, Binh
said.  Fuel Costs  Falling crude prices led Vietnam to cut fuel costs for the
third time in a month this week, lowering gasoline by 3.5
percent. Diesel, fuel oil and kerosene prices were also reduced.  “Decelerated global commodity prices, especially food, and
lower-than-expected domestic demand growth” are helping to keep
Vietnamese inflation under control,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said yesterday.  China yesterday unveiled its first reduction in borrowing
costs since 2008 to counter what Premier  Wen Jiabao  has called
increasing downward economic pressure. Brazil and  India  have
also cut borrowing costs in recent months.  Still, Vietnam should prioritize containing inflation and
be cautious about lowering interest rates further, the
 International Monetary Fund  said on June 4. The country has a
history of prematurely loosening policy and the government
should be careful not to shift to an expansionary stance too
soon, the World Bank said the same day.  Inflation is likely to reverse its slowing trend in the
second half, due to moves to liberalize prices of inputs
including coal, higher wages for civil servants, and an easing
monetary policy, the World Bank said in a report on June 4.  “As the government eases its policy stance, it risks
renewing concerns about its commitment to  price stability ,”
 Standard & Poor’s  said on June 6, as the credit-ratings company
raised its outlook on  Vietnam ’s long-term sovereign credit
rating to stable from negative.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  