-- Vodacom Said to Sell African Enterprise Division to PCCW
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-06-08T13:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/vodacom-said-to-sell-african-enterprise-division-to-pccw.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the South African
mobile-phone company controlled by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , agreed to
sell its terrestrial and satellite-services unit to  PCCW Ltd. (8) ,
said people with knowledge of the matter.  PCCW, the Hong Kong-based phone company whose chairman is
billionaire Richard Li, has signed an agreement to buy the
carrier unit of Gateway Communications from Vodacom and an
announcement may be made by next week, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Vodacom is disposing of parts of Gateway after paying about
$700 million for the unit less than four years ago. The company,
the largest provider of wireless services to  South Africans , is
selling the division after traffic volumes slumped to focus on
its own wireless operations in southern  Africa . The unit may
fetch about $100 million, according to analyst estimates at
Afrifocus Securities.  “Gateway covers huge swathes of the continent and doesn’t
have a great strategic fit with Vodacom,” said David Lerche, an
analyst at Avior Research Ltd. “Why own a carrier business that
serves Nigeria, for instance, when you don’t have an operator
there?”  Representatives of Vodacom, Vodafone and PCCW declined to
comment.  Vodacom fell 1.4 percent to 97.39 rand at 3:36 p.m. in
Johannesburg trading.  Networks Business  PCCW is expanding its networks business for multinationals
and carriers in Africa to counter domestic competition from
companies including  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and  Hutchison
Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (215)  The company will gain
Vodacom as a customer under the deal, one person said.  PCCW’s  HKT Trust and HKT Ltd.  unit offers international
telecommunications to businesses and carriers and is the biggest
fixed-line operator in  Hong Kong . PCCW Global, the international
arm of HKT, is buying assets from Vodacom, a person said.  The initial public offering of HKT in November raised
HK$9.3 billion ($1.2 billion) for parent PCCW.  The unit’s full-year profit rose 32 percent as mobile-phone
revenue increased. PCCW now focuses on pay-television and
computer services operations, and retains more than 50 percent
of HKT after last year’s listing.  Vodacom acquired Gateway in 2008, adding a seller of
telecommunications links to businesses and phone companies
across Africa. The company took an impairment charge of 3.2
billion rand ($378 million) on the unit a year later after
traffic volumes over satellite declined following the deployment
of additional fiber-optic cables into east and west Africa.
Vodacom said in its annual report on May 21 that it was in “an
advanced stage of disposing” of Gateway.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  