-- World Bank Chief Zoellick Says Chavez’s ‘Days Are Numbered’
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-08T19:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/world-bank-chief-zoellick-says-chavez-s-days-are-numbered-.html
World Bank  President  Robert Zoellick 
said Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s “days are numbered”
economically and politically and that the region should prepare
to move into a new era of democracy on his eventual exit.  Zoellick spoke last night at the  Organization of American
States  in Washington where the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy
analysis group, held a reception celebrating its 30th
anniversary. He said countries dependent upon Venezuela’s aid
like  Nicaragua  and Cuba will face difficulties if subsidies are
cut, which may pave the way for rapid policy changes.  “Chavez’s days are numbered,” Zoellick said. “If his
subsidies to Cuba and Nicaragua are cut, those regimes will be
in trouble. There will be an opportunity to make the Western
Hemisphere the first democratic hemisphere. Not a place of
coups, caudillos, and cocaine -- but of democracy, development,
and dignity.”  The Venezuelan leader will be challenged for the presidency
in October by Henrique Capriles Radonski, a 39-year-old former
governor of Miranda state who won a primary election by a
landslide in February and has been endorsed by a group of
opposition parties.  Chavez, a 57-year-old former paratrooper who is seeking to
extend his 13-year rule until 2019, has undergone three
operations in Cuba as part of his battle with cancer in the past
year. The government has refused to say what type of cancer
Chavez has or provide a prognosis, leading to speculation that
his health may be worse than he has let on.  ‘Necrophilic Right-Wing’  “Zoellick’s comments are an expression of the hatred from
the necrophilic right-wing of the world,” Andres Izarra,
 Venezuela ’s information minister said in an e-mail in response
to requests for a comment. “The predatory capitalism that the
World Bank promotes has numbered the days for all of humanity.”  Chavez often criticizes the World Bank and the
 International Monetary Fund  for being instruments of what he
calls the U.S. “empire” and for dictating market-friendly
policies that fail to improve the lives of the region’s poor.  Venezuela sends Cuba about 100,000 barrels of oil a day in
exchange for more than 20,000 doctors who work in state-run
Venezuelan clinics. Nicaragua also receives oil from Venezuela,
through the Petrocaribe agreement, which is repaid over as many
as 25 years and can include food and textiles as payment.  Zoellick said that the Americas should look toward the
future rather than bicker about past U.S. intervention in the
region, echoing comments by U.S. President  Barack Obama .  Arbitration Exit  Chavez said in January that he’s pulling Venezuela from the
World Bank’s arbitration court -- the International Centre for
the Settlement of Investment Disputes, known as ICSID -- this
year as investment dispute cases have mounted against the South
American country after a wave of nationalizations. He also
threatened to withdraw from the IMF in 2007.  Zoellick, whose term as World Bank president winds up at
the end of this month, served as U.S. Trade Representative in
the administration of former President  George W. Bush .  The U.S. needs to deepen its commitment to free-trade
agreements in the Americas as the country is “no longer leading
the open trade agenda,” and “relies increasingly on defensive
measures,” Zoellick said in the speech.  The World Bank chief said Latin American countries need to
continue to pursue trade ties with Asia, develop  capital markets 
in local currencies, invest in infrastructure, diversify away
from commodity-dependent economies and to focus on maintaining
productivity to achieve sustainable growth.  “Many developing economies make early rapid gains. But
then productivity and growth tend to slow,” he said. “Many
Latin American countries will need to translate the commodity
boom into broader, more diversified economies. This region has
lived through roller-coaster booms and busts before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 