-- Myanmar President’s Aide Denies Suu Kyi Rift After Criticism
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-06-08T04:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-08/myanmar-president-s-aide-denies-suu-kyi-rift-after-criticism-1-.html
Myanmar President  Thein Sein  has no
rift with opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi after she warned
investors last week against “reckless optimism” about moves
toward democracy, according to one of his advisers.  “A difference in opinion is quite natural in democratic
societies,” Ko Ko Hlaing, the president’s top political
adviser, told Bloomberg News in  Singapore  today. “She expressed
her idea and we expressed our ideas. That’s all. There is no
unhappiness, like brother and sister.”  Investors are watching for signs of discontent between
Thein Sein and Suu Kyi amid concerns over the sustainability of
the country’s political opening. Suu Kyi last week made her
first overseas trip in 24 years and plans to visit Geneva,
 Norway ,  France  and the U.K. later this month.  Myanmar’s leaders are wooing companies to invest and create
jobs after about five decades of military rule left it among
 Asia ’s poorest countries. The U.S. and European Union eased
sanctions after April by-elections that saw Suu Kyi’s party win
43 of 45 seats, giving it some representation in the 664-member
Parliament still dominated by Thein Sein.  Myanmar’s 64 million people are demanding electricity,
roads, education, health care and a freer media, Ko Ko Hlaing
told a seminar in Singapore hosted by the Institute of Southeast
Asean Studies today. The reform process will continue at a swift
pace because “everybody in our country from the president to
the layman” wants change, he said.  “Rome cannot be built overnight,” Ko Ko Hlaing said. “We
are trying our best but we have many challenges.”  Job Creation  In a speech to the  World Economic Forum  a week ago, Suu Kyi
called  job creation  her top priority while declining to name
industries the government should seek to attract. She called for
“healthy skepticism” of Myanmar’s reform process.  “These days I’m coming across a lot of what I would call
reckless optimism,” Suu Kyi told the World Economic Forum
participants. “That is not going to help you. It’s not going to
help us.”  She dismissed speculation yesterday that her trip had
raised tensions with Thein Sein, who abruptly canceled an
appearance at the same forum. Suu Kyi said yesterday she gave
her remarks “so that people can make a correct assessment of
the country,” according to the  Associated Press .  In a sign of the challenges to governing the country, where
more than a dozen ethnic armies control border areas, about 10
Muslims were killed this week by a mob following the rape and
murder of a young woman in Rakhine state. The government has
started an inquiry and the situation is under control, Ko Ko
Hlaing said.  Oil, Gas Transparency  Industry Minister Soe Thane told the conference in
Singapore that the government is seeking investments in the
tourism and natural resources sectors. Myanmar plans to
implement the  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative ,
which calls for governments to disclose all payments from oil,
gas and mining companies, Soe Thane said in a video address.  Natural gas exports increased to about $3 billion last year
and are set to “increase sharply” in 2013 as more gas fields
and pipelines become operational, according to the  Asian
Development Bank .  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and China National
Petroleum Corp. are among companies with oil and gas investments
in Myanmar, which is also rich in gold and gemstones.  “We want to intensively court foreign investments,” Soe
Thane said. “Necessary steps, accordingly, have been taken to
create an investment friendly climate for foreign investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  