-- ‘Apple Fever’ Prompts Predictions of $1 Trillion Value
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-04-03T20:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/-apple-fever-to-push-stock-to-1-001-within-year-analyst-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose to a record after
two analysts said the stock could surge past $1,000 a share,
putting the maker of the iPhone on a path toward becoming the
first $1 trillion U.S. company.  Apple, already the world’s most valuable company, climbed
1.7 percent to $629.32 in  New York  after analysts from Piper
Jaffray Cos. and Topeka  Capital Markets  said demand for the
iPhone and iPad, growth in  China  and the potential debut of a
new television product would propel shares.  “Apple fever is spreading like a wildfire around the
world,”  Brian White , the Topeka analyst, said in a report that
initiated coverage of the company with a buy recommendation.  White’s new 12-month target of $1,001 is the highest among
the 45  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg and represents a 59 percent
increase over today’s closing price. He said Apple’s market
value will eventually top $1 trillion.  Gene Munster , the Piper Jaffray analyst, said a prolonged
stock surge will be boosted by the introduction of a new iPhone.  “Shares can reach $1,000 based on our belief that Apple
will continue to win in global mobile devices,” Munster wrote
in a note, predicting that the stock can reach $1,000 in 2014.
At $1,000 a share, Apple’s market capitalization would be $932.4
billion.  JPMorgan Target Raised  Munster raised his 12-month price target to $910 from $718.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. also raised its price target for Apple --to
$715 a share, from $625.  Apple will debut a TV within a year, White predicted. The
company also plans to release an upgraded iPhone that works with
speedier wireless networks, he said.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the
Asian country’s largest wireless network, will start carrying
the iPhone in that same period, he said.  The television would create a new $100 billion market
opportunity for the company, White said. China, meanwhile,
offers some of the best growth prospects. Mobile-phone
subscribers in the country with access to 3G wireless networks
could reach 230 million by the end of this year, adding millions
of new potential iPhone buyers, White said.  Some of the boost in Apple stock is a result of the
relatively seamless management transition since the death of co-
founder Steve Jobs, White said. The stock has risen more than 60
percent since he died in October.  Tim Cook  had assumed the role
of chief executive officer from Jobs the previous August.  $1 Trillion in Sales  “ Steve Jobs ’s health was such a fear that was hanging over
the stock,” White said in an interview. “Now you’ve seen that
Tim Cook is doing a good job.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  Apple’s management should aim to become the first company
to generate $1 trillion in revenue, a goal that’s achievable in
the next decade, White said. Apple had sales of $108.2 billion
in its last fiscal year, which ended in September.  A risk for Apple is the uncertainty over who will make
critical decisions about future products, White said. Cook’s
experience is with Apple’s supply chain and operations, and less
with product development, the area where Jobs excelled.  The stock has risen 55 percent this year, spurred by
soaring iPhone revenue and the debut of a higher-resolution iPad
last month. Apple’s market value is $586.8 billion, far above
the previous leader,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , which is valued at
$404.5 billion.  Dividend, Buyback  Apple investors also are benefiting from a $2.65-a-share
dividend, starting in July, and a $10 billion stock buyback
plan. The company announced both initiatives last month.  White previously covered Apple for Ticonderoga Securities
LLC, where his last price target was $666. The next closest
prediction to the new projection is Munster’s, at $910.  White said Apple can hit his target because its iPhone and
Mac computers still have relatively low market share, giving
them room to grow. He also foresees Apple introducing iPads with
a smaller screen size, letting them compete more directly with
tablet computers from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and other rivals.  PetroChina Co. was the world’s first company to be valued
at $1 trillion, achieved on its first day of trading in  Shanghai 
in November 2007. The company’s current market value is about
$280 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  