-- ‘Why Nations Fail’ Is Not Quite as Good as They Say
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-04-03T23:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/-why-nations-fail-is-not-quite-as-good-as-they-say.html
“Why Nations Fail” by Daron Acemoglu and  James Robinson  is getting lavish praise. Mostly,
the book deserves it.  A kind of antidote to Jared Diamond’s megaselling “Guns,
Germs, and Steel,” it asks why some countries are rich and
others poor. The answer isn’t geography, as Diamond argued --
ingeniously though implausibly. It isn’t culture either, as
others say. According to Acemoglu and Robinson, it’s politics.
Get the politics right, and you’ll prosper.  It’s admirable to grapple with a question of such vast
consequence and offer such a big, bold answer. The authors make
getting there a rare intellectual treat. Nonetheless, I dare to
be disappointed. “Why Nations Fail” goes wrong, I think, in a
couple of important respects.  The book’s geographical and historical range is remarkable.
It describes the varying economic and political impacts of the
Black Death in  Europe ; the legacy of British colonialism in the
U.S. and the shockingly different imprint it left on  Africa ; the
contrast in the 1500s between, on the one hand, the Charruas and
Querandi of what is now  Argentina  and, on the other, the Guarani
of what is now  Paraguay ; political unrest in England in the 18th
century; and political unrest in  Egypt  in 2011. One chapter is
described as: “What Stalin,  King Shyaam , the Neolithic
Revolution, and the Maya city-states all had in common and how
this explains why  China ’s current economic growth cannot last.”  Why Institutions Matter  Timid it is not. And no reader will suspect these authors
of bluffing. The scholarship is carried lightly -- the book is
an easy, engaging read -- but wide and deep.  Better still, the truth the authors keep coming back to is
one whose importance would be hard to exaggerate. Prosperity
depends not on culture or geography or rulers’ expertise but on
“institutions, institutions, institutions,” and on these above
all: property rights, economic freedom, equality before the law,
and trusted enforcement of contracts. Markets aren’t enough. For
economies to prosper, governments must supply these
institutions, and only governments can. Without them, people
have no incentive to work, invest and innovate.  The trouble is, as an explanation of development,
“institutions matter” may be true, but it isn’t new. To have a
theory of development to call their own, the authors needed to
go further. They do this by arguing in effect that politics is
more fundamental than economics. You need property rights -- but
how does a system come to create property rights? Through
politics, obviously. So the challenge isn’t so much to create
the right economic institutions. It’s to create the right
political institutions. Do that, and the right economic
institutions will emerge.  As for what those right political institutions might be,
the authors’ answer is that they should be “inclusive” --
meaning, essentially, more democratic rather than less. The best
protection against the depredations of an elite through slavery,
arbitrary confiscation, punitive taxation and history’s many
other systems of extraction is inclusive politics. Empower the
broad mass of people, and property rights, contract enforcement
and freedom of choice will follow.  Aside from lending the authors’ ideas the desired novelty,
this shift of emphasis from economics to politics has a nice
presentational benefit. It subdues a right-wing talking point
(what matters is property rights and incentives) and dials up
one more congenial to the left (empower the masses). Clever.
Here’s a theory of development that everyone can love.  Natufians and Lentils  The trouble is, these extensions are less convincing than
the simpler idea we came in with -- that institutions matter.
For one thing, the priority of politics over economics calls for
a sharp distinction between the two. That’s not easy. Is secure
title on your property an economic liberty or a political
liberty? It’s both.  The authors’ insistence that politics is the deeper force
also has a chasing-the-tail quality. Why did  England  move toward
universal education and the beginnings of a welfare state?
Politics: The masses were enfranchised in the Reform Acts of the
19th century. But surely it was economics that made those
reforms possible: The Industrial Revolution had given new power
to a broader mass of the citizenry. Well, politics lay behind
that, too: The Industrial Revolution happened when and where it
did because the Glorious Revolution of the 17th century gave
England a relatively pluralist political system. True, but that
was because the English elite gained economic power from the
expansion of the Atlantic trade during the 16th century. No
doubt, but that was because the Tudor monarchs...  You get the idea. In a sequence like this, who knows
whether the economics or politics came first? And who cares,
actually?  The limit of this kind of regression is to argue -- as the
authors do, in fact -- that politics preceded economics in the
domestication of peas and lentils in what is now  Syria , circa
9,500 BC. “The evidence indeed suggests that the  Natufians 
developed a complex society characterized by hierarchy, order
and inequality -- beginnings of what we would recognize as
extractive institutions -- a long time before they became
farmers.”  That’s interesting, and the authors seem to think it
matters for the novel part of the theory they’re advancing. But
I can’t see that the importance of property rights in post-
Soviet Russia (say) hinges in any significant way on whether the
Natufians got lentils before they got hierarchy or the other way
round.  The worst thing, though, is that word “inclusive.” No
right-thinking person could be against anything inclusive. The
term demands approval and deadens the critical faculties in the
same way as sustainable development, good corporate citizenship
and change you can believe in.  Getting to Inclusiveness  What does it even mean? The book asks the idea to carry a
truckload of analytical weight, but its content is never
carefully unpacked. We know that property rights, the sine qua
non of development, are in there. But that’s already a problem
for inclusiveness. If I own my property, you don’t. To a critic
of capitalism, one man’s inclusion is another man’s extraction.
“Property is theft,” said Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, and he had a
point.  For that matter, consider progressive taxation as a remedy
for inequality. Up to a point, if the proceeds are spent on
valuable public goods, it promotes growth as well as leveling
incomes. But keep raising taxes and you do so much harm to
incentives that the policy becomes self-defeating even for the
putative tyrant collecting the cash. The authors would call the
first kind of progressive taxation inclusive and the second kind
extractive, but this sheds no light on the trade-offs involved.
The idea of inclusion imparts a warm fuzzy feeling that invites
you not to think about it.  The late  Mancur Olson , a pioneer of the “institutions
matter” school, wrestled with this and with the political
economy of democracy and despotism more generally. I was
surprised Acemoglu and Robinson found his ideas unworthy of
discussion.  What they call inclusive institutions, Olson called market-
augmenting government -- a less seductive term, but more
informative. Olson agreed that democracies are better guardians
of economic freedom, and had a deeper explanation of why this
is. But he also had a lot to say about rival economic interests
within democratic systems, how they compete at the expense of
others to redistribute income in their direction, and why some
democracies therefore do better than others. This harder-headed
perspective, I think, is more productive than “inclusion is
good.”  Still, I want to end on a note of praise. The strength of
“Why Nations Fail” is its ambition, its range and above all
its fabulous richness of examples. The authors have brought off
an extraordinary undertaking. On the main things, moreover,
they’re right. I just wish they hadn’t said “inclusive.”  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  systemically important
financial entities  and sanctions as  tools of diplomacy ;  Peter
Orszag  on  student performance and food stamps ; William Pesek on
 Japan ’s  embrace of Herbert Hoover ; Clive Crook on  “Why Nations
Fail” ; and Clare Malone on  Yale’s campus in illiberal Singapore .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 