-- MTA’s Lhota Says Subway to N.J. Won’t Happen in ‘Our Lifetime’
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-04-03T20:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/mta-s-lhota-says-subway-to-n-j-won-t-happen-in-our-lifetime-.html
A proposal to extend  New York City ’s
No. 7 subway line under the Hudson River to  New Jersey (STONJ1)  probably
won’t happen in “our lifetime,” Metropolitan Transportation
Authority Chairman Joseph Lhota said.  Lhota, speaking at a meeting of the New York Building
Congress in Manhattan today, said the No. 7 train extension
would be too expensive, require building rail yards in  New
Jersey  and would face pricing issues.  “Of course New Jersey would like to have it because they
think they’re going to get across the river for $2.25,” Lhota
said, referring to the subway fare, according to transcripts
provided by a spokesman. “Not a chance. It’s not going to
happen in our lifetime; not in anybody’s lifetime.”  New York  Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s administration raised
the idea of the No. 7 extension in November 2010 as a less-
costly alternative to a proposed  New Jersey Transit  tunnel that
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie killed.  “Hopefully it happens in somebody’s lifetime,” Bloomberg
told reporters today in Queens, when asked about Lhota’s
remarks. “Those people may not have been born yet. I have great
respect for Joe Lhota, and he’s a realist. We can keep trying.”  Bloomberg said having more Hudson tunnels “would clean the
air” because there would be fewer traffic jams. The mayor is
the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  Lhota said he supported a proposal by  Amtrak  for a $13.5
billion project that would put two rail tunnels under the Hudson
from New Jersey to New York by 2020 as an alternative to the
project Christie killed. The so-called Gateway project would
allow New Jersey Transit and Amtrak to increase rail capacity
into  Penn Station .  The MTA, the biggest U.S. transit agency, runs the subways
as well as the Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road commuter
lines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  