-- ABB Mismanagement Cost 401(k) Plan $35.2 Million, Judge Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-03T00:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/abb-mismanagement-cost-401-k-plan-35-2-million-judge-says-1-.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ’s U.S. unit and its
retirement plan managers cost plan participants more than $35
million through breaches of fiduciary duty, a U.S. judge ruled.  ABB Inc. and managers of its Personal Retirement Investment
and Savings Management (Prism) plans failed to control record-
keeping fees and didn’t pursue rebates, for which U.S. District
Judge Nanette K. Laughrey in  Kansas City , Missouri, found them
liable for $13.4 million.  They lost $21.8 million more by approving the transfer of
assets from a Vanguard Group Inc. fund to a Fidelity Investments
fund, she said in her 81-page March 31 ruling.  “The court finds that the plan must be compensated for its
losses and any ill-gotten gains by defendants when they used
plan assets for their own benefit,” Laughrey ruled, finding two
Fidelity units liable for $1.7 million she called “lost float”
interest earned on overnight transactions.  ABB Ltd. is a maker of power generation, transmission and
distribution products, instrumentation and control systems. Its
headquarters is in Zurich.  Its U.S. unit, based in Cary,  North Carolina , offered union
and non-union workers comparable Prism plans, matching 50
percent of participant contributions to the company’s 401(k)
plan as much as 6 percent of their annual pay, according to the
court’s ruling.  ‘Retain Employees’  “The Prism plan was used by ABB to attract and retain
employees,” Laughrey said. Fidelity Trust acted as its record-
keeper.  The group lawsuit was filed in December 2006 on behalf of a
class of more than 12,800 participants, according to the
complaint. It was tried before Laughrey without a jury in
January 2010.  “Our executives are reviewing the decision,” ABB
spokesman Barry Dillon said in a telephone interview. The
company is “evaluating all options including the possibility of
an appeal,” he said.  Fidelity’s corporate media department didn’t immediately
reply to an an after-hours e-mail request for comment.  The case is Tussey v. ABB Inc., 06cv4305, U.S. District
Court, Western District of  Missouri  (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  