-- Abu Dhabi Stages Love Story as Gulf States Race for Art
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-04-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/abu-dhabi-stages-russian-love-story-as-gulf-states-race-for-art.html
Abu Dhabi started a partnership with
 London ’s Royal Opera House with a show featuring Simon Russell Beale, the latest effort by the Gulf emirate to attract the
world’s best-known arts institutions to the region.  “Beloved Friend,” the love story of Peter Tchaikovsky and
his muse Nadezhda von Meck, was staged for 150 people in Abu
Dhabi after the U.K. opera company teamed up with  Abu Dhabi
Music and Arts Foundation , founded by Hoda Kanoo in 1996.  The United Arab Emirates capital follows Dubai, which last
month announced plans for a modern-art museum and opera house
near Dubai Mall, the world’s biggest shopping center, and Burj
Khalifa, the tallest tower. Oman, the biggest Arab oil exporter
that isn’t a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, opened the  Royal Opera House Muscat  in October.  “We’ve been looking to engage globally with like-minded
institutions, and we liked Mrs. Kanoo’s twin aims of bringing
artistic excellence and educational sessions to  Abu Dhabi ,”
Tony Hall, chief executive officer of the Royal Opera House,
said in an interview before the April 2 performance.  Some 20 opera singers, ballet dancers, musicians and actors
performed in the Emirates Palace hotel for an audience seated on
stage with them. The work by Oscar-winning playwright Ronald Harwood was inspired by 1,200 letters written over 12 years
between the Russian composer, played by Beale, and von Meck,
played by Harriet Walter.  Royal Ballet  The readings were interspersed with performances of
Tchaikovsky’s work including “Eugene Onegin” and “ Swan Lake ” by
dancers from the  Royal Ballet .  “The recital was created to raise funds,” said June
Chichester, who is on the board of trustees. A new performance
to raise funds for the London opera house focuses on
Shakespeare’s influence on opera composers, she said.  The show has been performed twice before, in 2009 for a
fundraising event at London’s  opera house  and in 2011 at
 Buckingham Palace  for Prince Charles.  Abu Dhabi’s plan to use its oil wealth and become an
international cultural destination includes music, arts and
educational events. It is constructing its own Louvre and
Guggenheim museums.  Cezanne’s Players  Qatar, the world’s biggest liquefied natural gas exporter,
is building its own art collections. Last year, it bought Paul Cezanne’s painting “The Card Players” for $250 million, the
most paid for a work of art, Vanity Fair magazine reported.
Sheikha Mayassa bint Hamad Al Thani, daughter of Qatar’s Emir
and chairwoman of the Qatar Museums Authority, was named the art
world’s most influential person by Art & Auction magazine in
November.  Oman’s opera house, a complex of marble colonnades
surrounded by gardens, opened last year with performances by
Placido Domingo and  Andrea Bocelli . Its productions from  Europe ,
 Asia  and the  Middle East  are often sold out weeks in advance.  “We’re very proud of it,” said Mohammed al-Rumhy, the
country’s oil minister, who attends regularly. “It’s too early
to say what impact it will have on society. But it’s an icon in
the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Abu Dhabi at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 