-- African Conservationists Agree Plan to Fight Rhino Extinction
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-04-03T15:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/african-conservationists-agree-plan-to-fight-rhino-extinction.html
African conservationists agreed on
measures including paramilitary training for rangers to stop
rhino poaching in a bid to save the species from extinction.  The “emergency plan of action” was agreed during a
meeting of national wildlife authorities, scientists, owners of
private rhino reserves and security experts in Nairobi,  Kenya ’s
capital, for implementation over the next six to nine months,
according to a statement signed by participants at the meeting
and distributed to reporters today.  “We need to use technology and expertise to fight this
tsunami of rhino poaching,” Pelham Jones, chairman of the
Private Rhino Owners Association of  South Africa , told a
conference organized by African Wildlife Foundation and Kenya
Wildlife Service in Nairobi.  More than 900 rhinos have been killed for their horns by
poachers on the continent over the last three years, a record
number, according to the statement. At the current rate of
slaughter, rhinos in the wild face extinction by 2025 in Africa,
where South  Africa  has about 90 percent of the 25,000 animals
remaining.  The spike in poaching has been fueled by criminal
syndicates that deal in the illegal trade of rhino horns, which
by weight can sell at higher prices than gold, according to the
statement. Kenya, Botswana, Namibia, Tanzania, Zambia and
Zimbabwe, Swaziland, Mozambique, Malawi,  Angola , and  Uganda  have
populations of the animals.  Demand is driven from nations including China, Vietnam and
 Thailand  for use in cultural practices and as an ingredient in
traditional remedies. In East Asia, rhino horn is used as a
medicine to purportedly cure cancer, the groups said.  The recommendations also include wider use of security
technologies such as night-vision goggles and thermal imaging,
tougher criminal penalties for poaching, and the appointment of
a United Nations special envoy for rhino conservation to boost
public awareness, the participants said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  