-- Lagarde Seeks IMF Resources, Says Turmoil Would Hurt U.S.
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-03T16:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/lagarde-seeks-imf-resources-says-turmoil-would-hurt-u-s-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
needs more resources to protect the global economy from a
potential relapse that would not spare the U.S., Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  Now that European governments increased their firewall
above a symbolic $1 trillion mark, the time has come to boost
the IMF’s own firepower, Lagarde said today in Washington.
Strengthening the Washington-based fund is needed as rising oil
prices, strains on Europe’s financial system and high
unemployment are threats to the world economic recovery, she
said.  “We can provide a circle of protection against global
turbulence, and help members adjust to changing circumstances
with minimal disruption,” Lagarde said in remarks to the
Associated Press annual meeting. “But to do this effectively in
today’s world, we need more resources.”  Lagarde’s efforts over the past six months to get $500
billion in additional lending resources have been met with
member countries’ reluctance to pitch in as long as  Europe 
didn’t do more to help itself, as well as a steady U.S. refusal
to participate. In today’s speech, she stressed the U.S.
financial and economic exposure to Europe and the rest of the
world and the consequences for the U.S. if Europe’s crisis was
to worsen.  ‘In Jeopardy’  “If the European economy falters, the American recovery
and American jobs would be in jeopardy,” Lagarde said. “So
America has a large stake in how Europe fares -- and how the
world fares.”  Foreign banks hold about $5.5 trillion of U.S. assets and
U.S. banks have $2.5 trillion of foreign assets, Lagarde said.
About a fifth of U.S. exports are directed to Europe, she said.  “The IMF has substantial financial resources available
today, and it has the ability, as it has demonstrated in the
past, to mobilize temporary resources if that were necessary to
help contain the damage from a further intensification of the
crisis in Europe,” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
told lawmakers last month. “For these reasons, we have no
intention to seek additional U.S. resources for the IMF.”  The fund currently has about $367 billion  available  to
lend.  ‘Multiple Conversations’  Lagarde, who seeks $600 billion from member countries to be
able to boost loans by $500 billion, said she is having
“multiple conversations” around the world.  “It’s promising,” she said.  Euro-area finance ministers decided March 30 that 500
billion euros ($667 billion) in fresh money would go along with
300 billion euros already committed to create an 800 billion-
euro defense against the two-year-old turmoil.  Lagarde welcomed the decision and said it should help stop
the contagion. She said she saw no political intention of
breaking up the 17-country euro region.  The U.S., which has low borrowing costs, should not move
too quickly to reduce its debt, Lagarde said. She recommended
the administration “aggressively” implement measures to ease
households’ debt burden, which is holding back the country’s
economic recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  