-- Thai Inflation Quickens First Time in Five Months on Oil
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-04-03T04:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/thai-inflation-quickens-first-time-in-five-months-on-oil-1-.html
Thai inflation accelerated for the
first time in five months in March on rising  oil prices , posing
a risk to the nation’s recovery after last year’s flood crisis,
and limiting the scope for further interest-rate cuts.  An index of  consumer prices  climbed 3.45 percent from a
year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce said in Nonthaburi
province outside Bangkok today. That compared with a 3.35
percent increase reported for February. The median of seven
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 3.2 percent pace.  Retail fuel prices in  Thailand  have risen more than 20
percent since the start of the year on costlier crude and lower
state subsidies, Energy Policy and Planning Office data show.
Central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul, who kept  interest
rates  unchanged last month after two previous cuts, has said
inflation may accelerate later on oil and higher minimum wages.  “Despite higher oil prices, we think overall inflation
will remain manageable,” Julia Goh, an economist at CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur , said before the release.  Wage rises and strengthening demand may pose risks to
inflation later this year, “but the probability of a rate hike
remains low at this point,” she said, adding they expect the
policy rate to stay at 3 percent until year-end.  Core inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel prices,
was 2.77 percent last month. The central bank uses the measure
to guide monetary policy and aims to keep it at less than 3
percent. The median of seven estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a reading of 2.5 percent.  “The inflation pressure in Thailand is still benign
compared to other neighboring countries,” Yanyong Phuangrach,
the permanent secretary for commerce, said at a briefing today,
adding he expects consumer prices will remain “well within our
target of between 3.3 percent and 3.8 percent this year.”  Wages in Bangkok and six other provinces will rise to 300
baht ($9.7) a day from this month, according to the labor
ministry. In the rest of the country, pay will initially climb
an average of 40 percent, and to 300 baht per day by 2013.  The  finance ministry  last month raised its growth forecast
this year to 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  