-- Alabama Lawmakers Have 15 Days to Find County Bankruptcy Fix
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/alabama-lawmakers-have-15-days-to-find-county-bankruptcy-fix.html
Alabama (BEESAL)  lawmakers, with 15 working
days left in their legislative session, are considering at least
two ways to fix a revenue shortfall that prompted bankrupt
 Jefferson County (3681MF)  to miss a $15 million bond payment.  The measures seeking to solve the county’s financial woes -
- including a wage tax -- aren’t assured passage, as lawmakers
race to finish their business in a session that began about two
months ago.  The urgency to find a solution increased yesterday after
the missed payment and a downgrade of the county’s general-
obligation debt to the third-lowest junk level by Moody’s
Investors Service. The county already has fired workers, closed
courthouses and has been unable to promptly pick up road kill.  Jefferson County (3681MF)  filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy in
November after state and local officials, a court-appointed
receiver and bondholders failed to implement a deal to reduce $3
billion in debt tied to the failed financing of a sewer
renovation by about $1 billion. The county also has about $200
million of general-obligation bond debt and $814 million of
school-construction bonds.  The financial crisis in the county, the state’s most
populous, was caused by years of corruption and bond deals gone
bad. It was aggravated last year by the loss of an earlier wage
tax, which had generated about $70 million in annual revenue.  State Permission Needed  The county, which needs state permission to raise new
money, announced last week that it wouldn’t make a $15 million
general-obligation bond payment due today. Officials said they
would dip into reserves to pay holders of building authority
bonds.  One of the proposed legislative solutions, which has yet to
be introduced, would allow Jefferson County to restore a wage
tax struck down in court last year -- although only for 27
months, said Democratic Representative Patricia Todd of
Birmingham. She said she has seen the proposal as it was being
negotiated between the county’s Democratic and Republican
lawmakers.  “It would sunset right at the time we’re running for re-
election,” Todd said in a phone interview.  The other measure was announced in a news conference
yesterday and is scheduled to be introduced today in the
legislature in Montgomery. It would reinstate the wage tax for
several years and then replace it with a  sales tax  now dedicated
to schools. The legislation also would divert $12 million of the
estimated $60 million in wage-tax revenue to support medical
research at the  University of Alabama  at Birmingham.  ‘Band-Aids’  Representative Jack Williams, a Republican lawmaker from
the Jefferson County town of Vestavia Hills who crafted the
measure, said he wants a long-term solution.  “What they are talking about will get us through the next
election and then fall apart,” he said in a phone interview.
“I’m not voting for Band-Aids or calamine lotion.”  Jefferson County Manager Tony Petelos said the county needs
a long-term fix to emerge from bankruptcy more quickly.  The county’s general-obligation debt is unsecured. In its
bankruptcy petition, the county listed the top three unsecured
creditors as Munich’s  Bayerische Landesbank (BLGZ) , the Depository
Trust Co. and a unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Politics have stymied attempts to help the county.  In the weeks before bankruptcy, Republican Governor Robert Bentley tried and failed to get local lawmakers to agree on a
solution, saying a bankruptcy would hurt the entire state.  Killing Legislation  In  Alabama , one member of a county delegation can kill a
local bill. The 18-member Jefferson delegation remained divided
along party lines, with Democrats favoring a new tax and
Republicans pushing to use sales-tax money earmarked to help the
poor.  In an e-mail last week, a Bentley spokesman said he was
watching the Legislature’s actions.  “We are monitoring the Jefferson County financial
situation very carefully,” said the spokesman,  Jeremy King .
“Jefferson County needs to pay its debt, and the legislative
delegation needs to come to a consensus on a solution so that
the county does not run out of money. Governor Bentley looks
forward to working with the delegation to help craft a solution
in the current legislative session.”  Bentley now believes Jefferson’s bankruptcy hasn’t affected
the rest of the state because investors realize that Jefferson
County’s situation is unique, he said.  The Legislature can decide when to use its 15 remaining
working days between now and May 21. That gives little time to
either of the two proposals.  Alabama law requires bills to be advertised for four weeks.
Williams’s proposal has been. The other proposal hasn’t been.  The 27-week proposal has the reluctant support of most of
the Jefferson delegation, Todd said.  The Williams proposal, she said, doesn’t.  “It will die in committee,” Todd said.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  