-- Algeria Wheat Prospects Mixed on Early Halt to Rain, FAO Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-03T15:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/algeria-wheat-prospects-mixed-on-early-halt-to-rain-fao-says.html
Algeria ’s grain prospects are mixed
after an early end to rain in the west of the country and
average to above-average rain in central and eastern parts, the
 United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization said.  Satellite observations indicate poor vegetation conditions
in western regions as of late March, while the center and east
had enough moisture for growing crops most of the season, the
Rome-based UN agency wrote in a  report  on its website today.  Algeria is  Africa ’s second-largest wheat importer after
 Egypt , according to data from the International Grains Council.
Domestic production of wheat and barley fluctuates according to
rainfall during the growing season.  “Timely onset of seasonal rains in November was followed
by an early cessation of precipitation during December in
western parts,” the FAO wrote. “Continued rains during April
are important for the later stages of the crop cycle.”  The grain harvest will start from about June, the FAO
wrote. Snowfall in February and cold temperatures may have
reduced yield potential, though probably didn’t cause “grave
damage” to crops, according to the agency.  Wheat production last year fell 11 percent to 2.75 million
metric tons, while the barley crop fell 10 percent to 1.35
million tons, FAO data show. Grain imports in the year through
June 2012 are estimated at 9.15 million tons, rising from 8.65
million tons last year.  “Following the reduced 2010 and 2011 harvests, cereal
imports have increased,” the FAO wrote. “An estimated 6
million tons of wheat were imported in the 2011-12 marketing
year, about 15 percent more than in the previous year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  