-- Halyk CEO Urges Kazakhstan to Scrap BTA Debt Restructuring
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-04-03T15:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/halyk-ceo-urges-kazakhstan-to-scrap-bta-bank-debt-restructuring.html
Halyk Savings Bank (HSBK)  is calling on the
Kazakh government to abandon a planned debt restructuring of
state-run  BTA Bank (BTAS)  and forbid the lender from attracting
deposits, Chief Executive Officer Umut Shayakhmetova said.  “A horrible end is better than horror without end,”
Shayakhmetova told reporters in Almaty today. “We understand
that the more than $7 billion in state funds already invested in
this bank won’t be recovered. Today another figure of $5 billion
or more is mentioned. The question is whether it’s appropriate
to spend $12 billion to support BTA, which isn’t now a
systemically important bank.”  BTA failed to make an interest payment on its July 2018
dollar bonds in January. The country’s biggest bank before its
default on $12 billion of debt in 2009 is seeking a deal with
creditors on its second restructuring by September, according to
a March 22  presentation  published on its website.  The lender is losing its systemic importance to the Kazakh
financial industry three years after its takeover by the state,
central bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko said last month, adding
that an agreement with creditors is “possible and necessary.”  Kazakh sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA in
February 2009. The Almaty-based lender accounted for 11 percent
of Kazakh banking assets with 1.48 trillion tenge ($10 billion)
as of March 1, down from a 24 percent share in January 2009,
according to the central bank’s financial oversight committee
website.  Attracting Deposits  “Why does the regulator still allow this bank, which has
negative capital, continuing to post losses and is in default,
to attract deposits, especially from households,” Shayakhmetova
said. Under a “negative scenario,” the entire state deposit
insurance fund of 248 billion tenge will be used to compensate
BTA depositor losses at their current level, she said.  BTA’s capital shortfall may reach about $6 billion by the
end of 2012, according to its presentation. The bank in January
predicted the gap would reach $5.1 billion by the end of the
year.  It held 238 billion tenge of Kazakh individual savings as
of March 1, while Halyk had 584 billion tenge in deposits,
according to central bank data. Halyk, the country’s largest
lender by assets, is controlled by President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s daughter and son-in-law.  ‘Most Effective Restructuring’  “The people who took part in the restructuring and were at
one time in regulatory bodies, where perhaps they overlooked
something, said it was the most effective restructuring, setting
an example for the whole world banking community,”
Shayakhmetova said. “Now they are again overseeing a
restructuring and offer the same methods and problem solving.”  BTA Chairman Anvar Saidenov and  Yelena Bakhmutova , the
former head of the disbanded Agency for Financial Supervision
and now a deputy chief executive officer at Samruk-Kazyna,
didn’t immediately respond to e-mail messages seeking comment.  Shayakhmetova also said the government has been
“inconsistent” in its management of  Alliance Bank (ASBN)  and
Temirbank, which were brought under state control in 2009 and
restructured their debt. The lenders may be merged, Bakhmutova
said in February.  “It was announced that the restructuring was carried out
to sell those banks” and “when the situation more or less
stabilized, discussion shifted to a merger,” Shayakhmetova
said. “There’s also the question of how effective a merger will
be as opposed to a sale of these two more-or-less functioning
banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  