-- Amazon Testing In-App Purchases to Challenge Apple
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-04-10T00:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/amazon-tests-in-app-purchase-service-to-challenge-apple-google.html
(Corrects number of Amazon apps in ninth paragraph of story
that ran April 3.)  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, is testing a service that lets tablet users
make purchases through mobile applications, a sign it may enter
a market pioneered by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The service being tested allows both subscriptions and
purchases of individual items within apps, according to Maria
Ly, co-founder of  Skimble Inc. , a seller of physical fitness
programs that has been involved in Amazon’s pilot for about a
month. Sally Fouts, a spokeswoman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment.  Selling items from within downloadable software can
generate revenue for developers as well as companies, such as
Google and Apple, that distribute apps through online stores.
Amazon could use the transactions to wring more sales from its
Kindle Fire tablet and the widening array of applications that
can be downloaded to the device. So-called in-app purchases will
generate $5.6 billion in revenue in 2015, up from $970 million
last year, according to  IHS .  “We really wanted to attack the Kindle Fire market, but
also have access to the payment methods that support our
business,” Ly said.  Most of  Skimble’s  sales come from subscriptions and in-app
purchases, such as specific workout regimens, she said.  Taking a Commission  Amazon plans to charge a 30 percent commission to clients
for its in-app purchase service, the same rate as it charges
developers for app sales, Ly said. The shares increased less
than 1 percent to $199.66 today in New York.  The move would be an important step toward making Amazon
more competitive as developers look to in-app purchases to
increase profit, said  Brian Blair , an analyst at Wedge Partners
Corp. in  New York .  “Amazon needs to be positioned to capitalize on this,”
Blair said in an e-mail. “It’s a smart model. Some of the best
new apps in Apple’s app store are free so users can easily
download and see the application, but to get any meaningful use,
in-app purchases are required.”  Amazon has to catch up to Google and Apple, which both have
more than 450,000 apps available in their stores, compared with
about 34,000 on Amazon’s store.  Amazon’s stock has fallen 20 percent from a  high  in October
after spending on fulfillment and Kindle devices sent operating
expenses up 44 percent last year and shaved 2.3 percentage
points off margins.  San Francisco-based  Skimble  charges $24.99 for a three-
month membership of its workout program and an average of $9.99
for individual programs. It would offer both packages with the
new Amazon app service, Ly said.  “It’s still kind of in its early stages,” Ly said of the
services being tested. “But we’re very optimistic about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  