-- Amazon Prime Extends Netflix Competition to PlayStation 3
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-04-03T21:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/amazon-prime-extends-netflix-competition-to-playstation-3.html
Online retailer  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
added its streaming films and TV shows to  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s
PlayStation 3 console, playing catch-up with rival  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   The PS3 is the first game device to get Amazon Instant
Video film and TV rentals, Bill Carr, the Seattle-based
company’s vice president of video and music, said today in an
interview. The service is already available on televisions, Blu-
ray players,  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  and Roku set-top boxes, he said.  The deal also includes Amazon Prime, a $79-a-year two-day
shipping service that provides 17,000 television shows and older
movies at no extra charge. Amazon Prime will join Tokyo-based
Sony’s PlayStation Network, giving customers access through the
PS3, which has sold about 20 million units in the U.S. through
February, according to Sony.  “A lot of our customers have been asking us to make our
services available on the PlayStation 3 for a long time,” Carr
said. “It’s all about building the best digital video service
available.”  Amazon is chasing Netflix, which has 21.7 million U.S.
streaming viewers paying $7.99 a month and is on devices
including the PS3,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox and  Nintendo Co. (7974) ’s
Wii. Carr wouldn’t say whether Amazon Prime was coming to the
Xbox, the top-selling video-game console for the past two years.  Amazon Prime has 3 million to 5 million subscribers, people
with knowledge of the matter said in February.  Exclusive Shows  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, offers more than
20,000 film and TV titles. The company has been trying to
distance itself from competitors by adding exclusive content,
including the recently released “Lilyhammer,” “House of
Cards,” scheduled late this year, and new episodes of cult
television favorite “Arrested Development.”  Amazon rose 0.8 percent to $199.66 at the close today in
 New York , and has added 15 percent this year. Netflix lost 0.9
percent to $112.96 and is up 63 percent so far in 2011.  The relatively late move onto video consoles may mean
Amazon’s costs are higher to secure new customers,  Anthony DiClemente , an analyst with Barclays Capital in New York, said
in an interview.  “They’re not a first mover, so the product has to be very
solid,” DiClemente said. “That means they need to make the
right content investments and perhaps spend a little more than a
first mover might have to spend.”  DiClemente lowered his rating on Netflix to “equal
weight” today from “overweight,” citing increased competition
and rising content costs.  Amazon’s U.K. business, Lovefilm, offers streaming titles
on the Xbox 360 and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, Carr said. A software
maker Amazon acquired last year called Pushbutton created the
applications for the PlayStation and Xbox services, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  