-- American Men Dominate Job Gains Taking 88% of Spots: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-03T20:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/american-men-dominate-jobs-recovery-taking-88-of-spots-economy.html
It took David Jeffrey more than a
year to get back on his feet after losing his job at  Sallie Mae .
As of February, he is witness to the factory rebound that has
boosted confidence among American men.  “If you’re not in manufacturing, jobs are hard to find,”
said Jeffrey, 33, now a floor worker at a Panama City,  Florida ,
plant for  Arizona Chemical Ltd. (ARZ) , a producer of biodegradable
materials. “I have a lot of friends who are still out of
work,” he said, thinking of some of the almost 700 people let
go at the same time in late 2010 by the student-loan provider in
the coastal resort town on Florida’s panhandle.  Men, who lost more than twice as many jobs as women during
the worst economic slump since the Great Depression, have landed
 88 percent  of the non-farm jobs created since the recession
ended in June 2009. The share of men saying the economy was
improving jumped to 41 percent in March, compared with 26
percent of women, according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index’s monthly expectations gauge.  “The recovery is a mancovery,” said Heather Boushey, a
senior economist at the Washington-based Center for American
Progress. “I don’t see improvement for women in the past year,
whereas for men this is the best year in years.”  The  jobless rate  for males 16 years old or older has
dropped 2.3 percentage points since the recession ended, falling
to 8.3 percent in February from 10.6 percent in June 2009. It
has barely budged  for women  over the same period, moving to 8.2
percent from 8.3 percent, according to figures from the Labor
Department.  Retail Sales  Retailers are taking notice of the divergence as men are
propelling a revival in demand for items from pickup trucks to
suits and underwear.  Part of the reason is that traditionally male-dominated
fields like construction and manufacturing are waking from
hibernation. Factories expanded in March at a faster pace,
driven by gains in employment and production, a report from the
 Institute for Supply Management  showed yesterday. Housing starts
hovered in February near a three-year high and building permits
rose to the highest level since October 2008, according to the
Commerce Department.  Shares of companies in the two industries are climbing as a
result. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH) ,
which includes companies like Caterpillar Inc. and Eaton Corp.,
is up 17 percent so far this year. The S&P Supercomposite
 Homebuilding (S15HOME)  Index has advanced 23 percent.  Manufacturing Shares  Both measures have outpaced the gain in the broader market.
The  S&P 500 Index  has climbed 12 percent over the same period.
The measure dropped 0.4 percent to close at 1,413.31 in  New
York , a day after reaching the highest level since 2008, as
minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s latest policy meeting damped
expectations for additional monetary easing.  An improving job market, rising stock prices and easier
credit are combining to lift the American economy just as  Europe 
slides into a recession and  China ’s economy decelerates,
indicating the U.S. may be emerging as an engine of growth.  Because American voters look more favorably on the
incumbent when the economy is picking up, the improved outlook
for men may translate into more votes for President  Barack
Obama , who already has an advantage with women.  Obama won 56 percent of women and 49 percent of men in the
last election, according to the Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press in  Washington . He now holds a 20-point
advantage among women voters over Republican front-runner  Mitt
Romney  and runs about even with men, Pew found in a  March poll .  Construction Stabilizing  Alan Amdahl is living the change in construction’s
prospects. After the collapse in subprime lending made credit
hard to get, the  Sioux Falls ,  South Dakota , builder had to cut
about half of his full-time workers and took on renovations to
bring in revenue.  Late last year, things picked up. Amdahl, 54, has added
three people in recent months, bringing his staff to nine, and
he’s still hiring. Business is so good he’s had to turn down
work.  “I’ve sold more homes this year than I did all of last
year,” said Amdahl, who has been self-employed for 35 years.  The percentage of men 20 years old and older who are
employed has grown in the past two years and now stands at
almost 68 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Current Population Survey (EMPWMEN) . Women have lost ground in each of the
past five years.  ‘Disproportionate’ Gain  “Men and women saw the same rate of job loss in the first
two years” of the recession, said Heidi Shierholz, an economist
with the  Economic Policy Institute , a Washington research group
funded in part by labor unions. “Since then, it’s not been
equal. In the recovery, men have seen disproportionate job
gains.”  Retail sales reflect the shift. More men are hitting the
mall to shop and brands that long have catered to women are
trying to expand their customer base. Last year, men spent 4.2
percent more on clothes than a year earlier, compared with a 3.1
percent gain for women’s fashion, according to market research
firm NPD Group Inc.  Large  pickup trucks  sales have been trending up since
January 2011, from about 93,000 to nearly 120,000 in February,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group, which compiles vehicle
data. Sales of cars and light trucks climbed to a 15 million
annual rate in February, the best showing in four years.  While men’s confidence in the economy is growing, it is
still tempered by lingering effects of the downturn.  ‘Deeper Hole’  “The bottom line is men are still down a much greater
number of jobs, a much greater percentage of jobs, than they
were before the recession started,” Shierholz said. “They’re
still in a deeper hole.”  Jeffrey knows that all too well. A month into his job, he
and his wife are paying off bills and rebuilding their savings
account, working to “repair the damage” done by his long
unemployment, he said. Some of his friends still struggle.  “I know a lot of people who went from jobs making $40,000
and they’re working at Wal-Mart,” he said. “It’s still
rocky.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lorraine Woellert in
Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  