-- Arabtec Jumps Most in 3 Years on Aabar Stake Boost: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-03T11:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/arabtec-jumps-most-in-2-years-on-aabar-stake-boost-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) , the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest construction company, surged the most in more
than three years after Abu Dhabi’s state-owned  Aabar Investments
PJSC (AABAR)  boosted its stake in the Dubai builder.  The shares soared 15 percent, the largest gain since
October 2008, to 3.45 dirhams at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The
stock led gains in Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which
advanced 2.4 percent. Aabar Real Estate now owns 5.13 percent of
Arabtec, according to  data posted on Dubai’s stock exchange. 
Aabar Petroleum Investments Co., which in 2008 sold its energy
assets to state-owned Mubadala Development Co., holds 5.32
percent up from 5.28 percent last month.  “Now that a second Aabar entity has raised its head above
the 5 percent parapet, speculation on further accumulation or an
acquisition will be rife,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based
director of institutional sales trading at EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE. “I would expect retail investors to jump on the
bandwagon.”  Aabar canceled in 2010 a plan to buy most of Arabtec, a
builder of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai, for an estimated
$1.74 billion. It had offered to buy 70 percent of the company
through the purchase of bonds that would have been exchanged for
shares at 2.3 dirhams.  Arabtec has surged 117 percent this year on speculation
investors are accumulating the stock amid bets it will benefit
from regional infrastructure spending. That compares with a 25
percent gain for  Dubai’s benchmark index.  The  volume of Arabtec 
shares traded today was the highest since Feb. 9.  ‘Clear Signal’  “The question is, what level of ownership does Aabar want
to reach, and will they be influencing the management of
Arabtec,” said Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $100 million
at The National Investor in  Abu Dhabi . “The raising of the
stake is a clear signal of a possible intention to buy more.”  A unit of Arabtec in January won a 25-month contract valued
at 561 million dirhams ($153 million) for expansion works at the
Dubai International Airport. One of its units also won contracts
in Abu Dhabi valued at 256 million dirhams.  Arabtec may post a 57 percent gain in  first-quarter profit 
to 41.9 million dirhams, according the estimates of EFG-Hermes
and  National Bank of Kuwait , data compiled Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  