-- Stocks, Treasuries, Gold Fall on Fed; Dollar Strengthens
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-04-03T20:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/asian-stocks-won-gain-on-china-services-data-yen-climbs.html
U.S.  stocks  slid, while Treasuries
and gold tumbled and the dollar rallied, as Federal Reserve
minutes showed central bankers saw no need for more monetary
stimulus unless economic growth slows.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to close
at 1,413.38 at 4 p.m. in New York, retreating from an almost
 four-year high . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  decreased 64.94
points to 13,199.55. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes surged 11
basis points to 2.30 percent after falling as much as three
basis points. The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against
six major peers, climbed 0.7 percent. Gold, silver and oil lost
more than 1 percent to lead the  S&P GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of commodities
down 0.3 percent.  Minutes from the March 13 Fed policy meeting showed the Fed
is holding off on increasing monetary accommodation unless the
U.S. economic expansion falters or prices rise at a rate slower
than its 2 percent target. The S&P 500 surged 1.4 percent on
March 26, its second-biggest gain of the year, after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that stimulative monetary policy
is still need to spur job growth.  “Bernanke’s been clear that he stands ready to support the
economy if needed and he’s certainly not in favor of removing
the stimulus that we have, but there hasn’t been any indication
from him that he’s planning to go another round,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $3 billion at Oakbrook
Investments in Lisle,  Illinois , said in a telephone interview.  Four-Year Highs  The S&P 500 yesterday closed at the strongest level since
May 2008 and the Dow reached the highest since December 2007.  Gauges of commodity producers and financial companies led
declines in nine of the 10  main industry groups  in the  S&P 500 
today. Bank of America Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Exxon Mobil Corp. fell at least 1.4 percent to
pace losses in the Dow.  General Motors Co. sank 4.6 percent after posting vehicle
sales that trailed estimates. Apple Inc. advanced 1.7 percent to
a record $629.32 after two analysts said the stock could surge
to $1,000.  Wall Street strategists cut their recommended holdings in
U.S. equities to almost the lowest level since 1998, a sign that
the six-month stock rally may have more room to go, according to
Bank of America Corp.  Strategist Calls  Strategists advised investors to reduce equity allocations
in six out of the past eight months, with money earmarked to
stocks falling to 55.8 percent in March. The level was the
lowest since January 1998, except for the seven months ended
July 2009, and compared with a 15-year average of 60.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America.  Savita Subramanian, head of U.S. equity and quantitative
strategy at Bank of America, said the decline in recommended
stock holdings signaled rising pessimism that she considers as a
contrarian indicator because investors who have sold shares now
have more money to purchase stocks.  Stocks extended losses today as the Fed minutes showed
decreased urgency to add more monetary stimulus, with  no
sentiment expressed for additional easing without a
deterioration in conditions.  The Fed last month affirmed its plan, first announced in
January, to hold  interest rates  near zero through late 2014 as
the economy may fail to grow fast enough to continue bringing
down the  unemployment rate . Bernanke has defended the pledge as
appropriate since the meeting, saying that despite some
improvement in the economy it’s “far too early to declare
victory.”  Commodities Retreat  Among the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI index, 15
retreated. Gold futures tumbled 1.9 percent to $1,647.60 an
ounce, silver sank 1.4 percent and oil slid 1.2 percent to
$104.01 a barrel.  The dollar strengthened against 13 of 16 major peers,
rallying 0.9 percent against the yen and 0.6 percent to $1.3236
versus the euro. Two-year Treasury yields increased four basis
point to 0.37 percent and 30-year rates added nine points to
3.43 percent.  The Fed minutes will cause even more scrutiny of the
government’s monthly jobs report on April 6, according to  Alan Ruskin , New York-based global head of Group-of-10 currency
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG. The median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg survey projects growth of 201,000 jobs in March.
Ruskin said a gain of less than 150,000 jobs would “quickly
reawaken QE expectations.”  “Ironically, the more bonds sell-off now, the more they
will be forced to contemplate such actions,” Ruskin wrote in a
note to clients.  “It seems clear that bonds in particular are
vulnerable and need serious support from weak employment data.
Equities generally are likely to be more resilient,” he said,
since better-than-expected jobs data may overshadow reduced odds
the Fed will buy more bonds to suppress  interest rates .  Factory Orders  Earlier losses  in U.S. stocks came amid concern the rally
that sent the S&P 500 to an almost four-year high has outpaced
prospects for economic growth. Commerce Department data showed
orders to U.S. factories climbed 1.3 percent in February,
trailing the median economist forecast for an increase of 1.5
percent.  European markets closed before the release of the Fed
minutes, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipping 1.1 percent.
Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl led a gauge of banking shares
lower, sliding 6.6 percent. Cairn Energy Plc advanced 4 percent
as the U.K. oil company exploring in Greenland agreed to buy
Agora Oil & Gas AS to expand in the  North Sea .  Germany ’s DAX Index slipped 1.1 percent today, while
benchmark gauges in  Italy  and  Spain  slid more than 2 percent.  DAX Rally  German stocks are posting their best start to a year
relative to the U.S. since 2006 as investors bet companies in
 Europe ’s biggest economy will benefit most from improving global
growth. The  DAXK Index (DAXK) , a German equities gauge that strips out
gains from dividends, surged 19 percent in 2012 through
yesterday after sinking to the cheapest valuation in at least
six years in 2011. That’s the largest advance since 1998 and 6.3
percentage points more than the S&P 500’s increase, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Germany’s benchmark DAX Index topped every developed market
tracked by Bloomberg this year through yesterday as Citigroup
Inc. and BNP Paribas SA raised forecasts for economic expansion
after efforts to tackle Europe’s debt crisis succeeded in
bringing down borrowing costs from record highs.  The ECB will keep its benchmark rate unchanged at a record
low 1 percent tomorrow, according to the median of 57 economist
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Haircut’ Concern  Bonds in Portugal, Spain and Italy extended losses after
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
Portugal was headed for a debt “haircut” -- a restructuring
that imposes losses for investors -- after yields on the
nation’s 10-year note today touched the highest level in a week.  Spanish 10-year bonds fell for the first time in three days
after a report showed registered unemployment rose for an eighth
month. Spain’s public debt will rise to a record this year as it
sells almost 37 billion euros ($49 billion) of bonds to finance
a  budget deficit  that was nearly three times the euro-area limit
last year.  Total borrowing will reach 79.8 percent of gross domestic
product as the country breaches the European Union’s deficit
rules for a fifth year. That’s the highest since before the
country’s return to democracy in 1978 and up from 68.5 percent
last year, according to the 2012 budget that the government
presented to Parliament today in  Madrid .  The yield on Spain’s 10-year securities climbed 10 basis
points to 5.45 percent. Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose five
basis points to 5.16 percent and Portugal’s yield increased 17
basis points to 11.84 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.6 percent, taking
its three-day increase to 2 percent. The Jakarta Composite Index
jumped 1.2 percent as PT Bank Danamon Indonesia surged 39
percent after DBS Group Holdings Ltd. offered to buy the lender
for about $7.2 billion. Taiwan’s Taiex index sank 1.3 percent on
concern the government may impose capital-gains tax on stock
trades. The Micex Index advanced 1.5 percent in Moscow and the
ISE National 100 Index climbed 0.5 percent in  Turkey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  