-- Asia’s Oldest Bourse Loses CEO to Tata as Competition Increases
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-04-03T18:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/asia-s-oldest-bourse-loses-ceo-to-tata-as-competition-increases.html
Madhu Kannan, chief executive
officer of Asia’s oldest bourse  BSE Ltd. (SENSEX) , will join Tata Sons
Ltd. as business development head after his term ends in May.  In his new role, Kannan, 38, will report to Tata Sons’
chairman-designate Cyrus P. Mistry, India’s biggest business
group said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Kannan, who
joined the exchange in 2009, will work with BSE’s board to
ensure “seamless succession,” the bourse said in a statement.  BSE, founded in 1875 as the Bombay Stock Exchange, has lost
ground to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.-backed  National Stock
Exchange (NIFTY)  of India Ltd., which handles  twice  BSE’s volume. BSE,
partly owned by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , had 264 million shares
traded daily on average in the past year, or less than half the
649 million shares on the NSE. Average daily turnover in
 derivatives  in the past month on the BSE was 2 percent of the
NSE’s $24 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The two
bourses began trading equity futures in 2000.  “The BSE had lost its prime positioning,” U.R. Bhat,
managing director of Dalton Capital Advisors  India  Pvt., said by
phone from Mumbai. “He was taking some steps to redeem the
exchange. Let’s see if they can find someone to continue the
good work.”  Kannan initiated steps such as a derivatives incentive
program for brokers that raised the value of open contracts on
the exchange more than 3,000-fold in an effort to narrow the gap
with its larger rival. The BSE had also formed an alliance with
bourses in Brazil,  Russia ,  Hong Kong  and  South Africa  for cross-
listing of futures based on each others benchmark indexes.  More competition for BSE is expected with MCX Stock
Exchange Ltd. awaiting approval from regulators to start India’s
third national bourse.  Kannan previously worked at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
as a managing director for global strategy. Before that he was a
senior vice president in the global corporate client group at
NYSE Euronext, in charge of the Asian, Middle Eastern and North
African markets.  He declined to comment on when he will join Tata Sons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  