-- Astellas Overactive Bladder Drug Raises Risks, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-03T12:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/astellas-overactive-bladder-drug-raises-risks-fda-staff-says.html
Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) ’s drug to treat
overactive bladder has side effects including increased blood
pressure that need to be considered when weighing whether the
medicine should be approved, U.S. regulators said.  The medicine, mirabegron, also increased  heart rate  and was
associated with hypersensitivity reactions ranging from painful
rash to anemia, the  Food and Drug Administration  said today in a
report ahead of an April 5 meeting of advisers on the drug.  Overactive bladder -- the strong, sudden urge to
urinate -- affects 42 million people in the U.S., Nancy Martin,
medical director of scientific and medical affairs for Tokyo-
based Astellas, said by telephone. Mirabegron is the first in a
new class for the condition, according to Astellas.  “Although the safety results from the clinical trials
database appear generally reasonable, the special safety
concerns, especially the increases in  blood pressure  and pulse”
need additional consideration, FDA staff wrote.  There were 11 deaths in trials that “appear unlikely to be
related to mirabegron,” according to the  report .  Reduced Incontinence  The drug reduced the number of times patients were
incontinent, or involuntarily urinated, in a 24-hour period, the
staff wrote.  Mirabegron eliminated baseline incontinence in 32 percent
of patients taking 50 milligrams and reduced incidents of
incontinence by half in 54 percent of those in final-phase
studies of 862 patients taking the medicine, compared to 878
people on placebo, Martin said.  The treatment also was linked to tests revealing potential
liver disease, a small number of urinary tract infections and
malignant tumors, FDA staff wrote. The reason mirabegron would
lead to tumor formation is unknown.  Drugs on the market to treat overactive bladder block a
receptor that causes contractions that make someone feel the
urge to urinate though they also can affect the ability to empty
the bladder, Martin said. Mirabegron enhances bladder storage
without affecting patients’ ability to urinate.  Current treatments include  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Detrol,  Warner
Chilcott Plc (WCRX) ’s Enablex and Astellas’s Vesicare. Vesicare
generated $1 billion in sales last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Patients also often stop taking drugs on the market because
of dry mouth, according to Martin. She said incidents of dry
mouth with mirabegron were similar to placebo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  