-- Masters’ Golf Tradition Renews Woods’s Scrutiny of Long Putters
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-04-03T14:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/masters-golf-tradition-renews-woods-s-scrutiny-of-long-putters.html
Bubba Watson, who plays golf with a
pink driver, is a traditionalist when it comes to his putter.  Watson opposes so-called belly putters, such as the 43-
inch-long  Callaway Golf Co. (ELY)  club Keegan Bradley jammed into his
stomach in winning the  PGA Championship  in August. It was the
first time one of golf’s four major titles was won with a
putting method in which the top of the shaft is anchored to a
player’s body.  As this season’s first Grand Slam event, the  Masters
Tournament  in Augusta, Georgia, prepares to start April 5,
critics such as Watson, 14-time major champion Tiger Woods and
Hall of Fame member Arnold Palmer are calling for the clubs to
be banned.  “The long putter really does not have a place in the
game,” Palmer, 82, a four-time Masters champion, said in an
interview at last month’s  Arnold Palmer  Invitational in  Orlando ,
 Florida .  The U.S. Golf Association and the Royal and Ancient Golf
Club of  Scotland , the sport’s rule-making bodies, said in
February that they were going to take a “fresh” look at the
long putter, which has been a boon to club manufacturers
battling a drop in a marketplace worth almost $150 million.  It wasn’t until Woods, 36, declared himself a
“traditionalist” and said he had “never been a fan” of belly
putters during the Pebble Beach National Pro-am in early
February that the USGA said it was going to discuss the issue.  “What we’re really going to learn on this whole belly
putter issue is if a player has enough clout to force the rule-
making bodies into a decision,” said  Stewart Cink , who used a
belly putter for eight years before making the switch back to a
shorter club. Cink won the 2009 British Open using a traditional
putter.  Tiger Rules  Woods, who is seeking his fifth Masters title this week,
proposed a rule that bars a player from using a putter longer
than the shortest club already in his golf bag.  “With that wording, we’d be able to get away from any type
of belly anchoring,” Woods said in a press conference.  Long putters have been used in golf for more than 20 years,
at first primarily on the 50-and-over senior tour.  Paul Azinger was the first to use the belly putter in a
U.S. PGA Tour event and the first to win with it, at the 2000
Sony Open, according to Tour records. Five of the final seven
tournaments last year were won with either a belly or long
putter.  Spirit Violated  It wasn’t until Bradley’s victory in August that opponents
began to say that the long putters violated the spirit of the
game. There is no specific rule against anchoring a club to a
player’s body. Critics say good putting should be the product of
steady hands, not bracing a club against the chest or stomach.  Mike Davis , USGA executive director, didn’t respond to a
telephone message seeking comment on the issue.  Augusta National Golf Club, site of the Masters, may
influence any long-putter decision, as it did 45 years ago when
 Sam Snead  was spotted by tournament co-founder Bobby Jones
putting with a “croquet-style” stance. The following year,
Snead’s stance, in which he straddled the ball and swung the
putter between his legs, was outlawed. The USGA, acting on
Jones’s input and citing tradition, ruled that players must
stand to the side of the ball when hitting putts.  Such a ruling, if followed with belly putters, wouldn’t
make the club itself illegal. The method of use would be the
issue, players said.  Pink Driver  Watson, who uses a pink driver in support of  cancer
research , said any support of the putter gives a player an
unfair advantage.  “I think anchoring the putter like that is wrong,” Watson
said in an interview. “The greatest putters who ever played the
game putted with a normal putter.”  The Masters, owned and operated by Augusta National, could
institute its own rule barring belly putters from the
tournament. Cink and other players said they doubted it would
come to that.  Charles Howell III, an Augusta native and seven-time
Masters entry who switched to a belly putter in May, disagrees
that the putting style gives a player an unfair advantage.  “You still have to read the putt and get the speed
right,” Howell said in an interview. “It doesn’t make putts
for you.”  Three-time Masters winner  Phil Mickelson  experimented with
a belly putter during the 2011 Deutsche Bank Championship, then
reverted to the shorter version. Everyday golfers are following
the long-putter trend to try to improve their game.  Sales Soar  After Bradley and his Odyssey brand putter won the PGA in a
playoff over  Jason Dufner , sales began to take off, said Steve
Boccieri, founder of Scottsdale, Arizona-based Boccieri Golf.  In the three months after Bradley’s win, Boccieri said,
belly putter versions of his company’s line of Heavy Putters
accounted for about 40 percent of sales, up from less than 5
percent a year earlier. He declined to provide specific sales
figures.  The putter industry has struggled to sell clubs. In 2011,
sales of putters at golf courses and in golf-specific shops
accounted for $141.3 million, down 30 percent from $200 million
in 2003, according to figures provided by Kissimee, Florida-
based Golf Datatech. It was the ninth straight year of declining
sales. Golf Datatech doesn’t yet track sales of belly putters.
In the first two months of this year, 100,540 total putters were
sold, an increase of 3.1 percent, producing $14.7 million in
sales, up 10.4 percent from the same period in 2011, the company
said.  “The putter market has been flat and it’s shrinking,”
Boccieri said in a telephone interview. “This is the shot in
the arm that the putter category needed.”  Palmer says it’s a shot off-target.  “I would not be upset if they changed the rule,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta,  Georgia  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  