-- AstraZeneca to Work With Amgen on Inflammatory Therapies
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-04-03T08:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/astrazeneca-to-work-with-amgen-on-inflammatory-therapies.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  agreed to share in
the development of five drug candidates in  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s pipeline
as the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker by sales seeks to replace
revenue that will be lost to generic competition.  AstraZeneca, based in  London , will make a one-time $50
million upfront payment and pay about 65 percent of the costs
until 2014, the companies said in a  statement . The experimental
products are monoclonal antibodies, proteins that mimic those
naturally produced by the body’s immune system, and will be
studied in inflammatory diseases.  AstraZeneca is seeking new medicines as two of its best-
selling treatments, Seroquel for schizophrenia, and Nexium for
ulcers, face generic competition. Together the two drugs
generated more than $10 billion in sales last year. Amgen, the
world’s biggest biotechnology company, said it will benefit from
AstraZeneca’s regulatory and commercial experience with
inflammatory-disease products.  “This collaboration has the potential to bring more
therapies to patients sooner, across more geographic areas,”
said Kevin Sharer, chief executive officer of  Thousand Oaks ,
California-based Amgen, in the statement.  The companies said they will co-develop AMG 139, AMG 157,
AMG 181, AMG 557 and brodalumab. AstraZeneca will lead
development and commercialization of AMG 139, AMG 157 and AMG
181, while Amgen will lead development and commercialization of
brodalumab and AMG 557.  Brodalumab is about to enter a pivotal trial for psoriasis
and is in mid-stage clinical tests for asthma and psoriatic
arthritis. The other drug candidates are in early-stage trials.  Amgen will retain a low single-digit royalty for brodalumab
and a mid-single digit royalty for the rest of the treatments,
after which the companies will share the profits equally, they
said.  The agreement excludes territories where Amgen has already
signed agreements for brodalumab with  Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. (4151)  and
AMG 557 with  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 