-- AT&T May Face Strike by Union Employees as Contracts’ End Looms
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-04-03T18:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/at-t-may-face-strike-by-union-employees-as-contracts-end-looms.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  may face a strike by about
40,000 employees if the phone company fails to reach an
agreement with unions over issues from health-care benefits to
vacation before current contracts expires this weekend.  The  Communications Workers of America  is renegotiating four
separate contracts with the largest U.S. phone company, all of
which expire at 12:01 a.m. on April 8, said Candice Johnson, a
CWA spokeswoman. On March 31, union members  voted  to authorize
CWA to call strikes if new contracts can’t be reached.  AT&T and the unions disagree on matters ranging from
guaranteed weekend  days off  to wellness and health-care costs,
according to the unions. CWA, which represents about 16 percent
of Dallas-based AT&T’s approximately 256,000 workers, is
organizing rallies and meetings to help push for a deal.  “We are working very hard to finish negotiations and get a
fair contract,” Johnson said in an interview.  AT&T and main rival  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  regularly
negotiate with unions representing larger parts of their
workforce. About 55 percent of AT&T’s employees were represented
by CWA, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or
other unions, according to the company’s  annual report .
Contracts covering approximately 120,000 employees will expire
during 2012, the company said.  “As one of the largest employers in America we’re proud of
the number of high-paying, middle class careers we’ve
produced,” Marty Richter, an AT&T spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“Our goal is to do everything in our power to protect those
careers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland , Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at   vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  