-- Aussie Dollar Weakens After Unexpected Trade Deficit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-04-04T06:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/aussie-dollar-remains-lower-on-concern-rate-gap-to-shrink.html
Australia’s dollar dropped against
most major counterparts after the nation unexpectedly posted a
trade deficit, adding pressure on the  Reserve Bank  to cut
 interest rates  as the economy slows.  The so-called Aussie touched an 11-week low after the RBA
signaled a willingness yesterday to ease policy, while minutes
showed the  Federal Reserve  is holding off from additional
stimulus in the U.S. New Zealand’s dollar slid for a second day
before U.S. data that may point to a job market recovery.  “There are some concerns that exports are really slowing,
and that’s pretty negative for the Aussie,” said Lee Wai Tuck,
a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “It seems
that the RBA is on the easing bias for now.”  The Australian dollar slid to $1.0264, a level unseen since
Jan. 16, before trading at $1.0289 at 4:27 p.m. in Sydney, 0.4
percent lower than yesterday’s close. It touched NZ$1.2576, the
weakest since Oct. 6. New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi,
fell 0.2 percent to 81.74 U.S. cents.  Australia ’s  three-year bond yields  lost as much as four
basis points to 3.41 percent, the lowest since Feb. 7.  Imports outpaced exports by A$480 million ($494 million) in
February from a revised A$971 million deficit the prior month,
the Bureau of Statistics said today in Sydney. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists was for a
surplus of A$1.1 billion.  The RBA said yesterday that its board “thought it prudent
to see forthcoming key data on prices to reassess its outlook
for inflation, before considering a further step to ease
monetary policy.” The central bank maintained the overnight
cash-rate target at 4.25 percent.  U.S. Outlook  Stimulus could be needed if the  U.S. economy  “lost
momentum,” minutes of the Fed’s March 13 meeting released
yesterday showed. At that gathering, the central bank reiterated
its pledge to keep interest rates “ exceptionally low ” at least
through late 2014.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 in a
bid to boost the economy.  “Our economists note that the minutes have laid a marker
for eventual altering of the ‘late 2014’ guidance,”  Geoffrey Yu , a UBS AG strategist in  London , wrote in a report today.  Data due today from ADP Employer Services may show U.S.
companies added 206,000 workers to payrolls last month following
a gain of 216,000 in February, according to the median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg survey. A Labor Department report
on April 6 is projected to show employment rose by more than
200,000 workers for a fourth month in March.  Yield Gaps  In the U.S. “it seems that policy easing is not being
considered,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in
Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest
bank. “The  U.S. dollar  is likely to keep rising, and the Aussie
and the kiwi are likely to keep falling.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Australia’s two-
year government notes instead of similar-maturity  U.S.
Treasuries  narrowed to 3.07 percentage points yesterday, the
least since Feb. 3. The spread between New Zealand’s two-year
interest-rate swap and its U.S. equivalent fell to 2.39
percentage points today, a level unseen since Feb. 17.  New Zealand’s budget deficit was wider than estimated in
the eight months through Feb. 29 as tax revenue slowed, the
Treasury Department said today. A report by ANZ National Bank
Ltd. showed the country’s  commodity export prices  declined in
March to the lowest level since 2010.  The kiwi also fell after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,
the world’s largest dairy exporter, said whole-milk powder
prices slid for the eighth-straight auction to a 20-month low.  Credit Ratings  The kiwi has advanced 5.9 percent in the past six months,
while the Aussie has gained 5.4 percent, making them the best
performers among the 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The  benchmark yield  on Australia’s 10-year debt has fallen
to 4.08 percent from 5.54 percent a year earlier. That’s still
the most among the eight countries that have the highest credit
grades from all major rating companies with stable outlooks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fourth-quarter  data  released by the  International Monetary
Fund  on March 30 showed that 5.1 percent of global foreign-
exchange reserves was “other currencies,” which may include
the Australian dollar. That’s the most on record going back to
1995 and the first time the figure exceeded 5 percent.  “We like the Australian dollar,”  Todd Elmer , head of
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy for Asia excluding  Japan 
at Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore , said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “We’re going to see very heavy buying on
any further dip from the corporate sector, as well as
potentially from sovereigns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  