-- Australia Holds Key Rate at 4.25% as Domestic Growth Weakens
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-03T07:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/australia-holds-benchmark-rate-at-4-25-on-europe-u-s-optimism.html
Australia ’s central bank signaled
today it may resume cutting  interest rates  as soon as next month
if weaker-than-forecast growth slows inflation, sending the
local currency and bond yields lower.  “The board judged the pace of output growth to be somewhat
lower than earlier estimated, but also thought it prudent to see
forthcoming key data on prices to reassess its outlook for
inflation, before considering a further step to ease monetary
policy,” Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a statement after
leaving the overnight cash-rate target at 4.25 percent.  The communique indicates the next rate reduction hinges on
an April 24 report on first-quarter inflation, as recent data
showed the economy is probably growing slower than the central
bank had predicted. The  Reserve Bank of Australia  has decided
against lower borrowing costs at its three meetings this year as
the global recovery stabilizes and a mining boom sustains
domestic growth.  “A clear easing bias was introduced,” said  Annette Beacher , the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities Inc., referring to the comment on inflation. “This
statement could easily have supported a rate cut today.”  A gauge of Australia’s annual inflation rate slowed in
March below the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target
range as housing, clothing and footwear costs declined.  Inflation Slows  Consumer prices rose 1.8 percent last month from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in two years, after a 2 percent annual
gain a month earlier, according to an index compiled by TD
Securities and the Melbourne Institute released in Sydney
yesterday.  Stevens said today that inflation will stay within its 2
percent to 3 percent target range for the next one to two years.  The so-called Aussie dollar bought $1.0403 at 3:56 p.m.
compared with $1.0443 before today’s decision. The Australian
dollar has risen in six of the past seven quarters, reaching
$1.0856 in late February. The yield on three-year Australian
bonds fell as much as 10 basis points to 3.42 percent, the
lowest since Feb. 7.  Australia’s economy lost 15,400 jobs in February and
recorded the first increase in the  unemployment rate  since
August, to 5.2 percent, which is still less than half the euro
zone’s 10.8 percent level.  Mining Bonanza  The central bank is relying on A$456 billion ($474 billion)
of resource projects to meet Chinese and Indian demand to drive
economic growth and support employment.  “Growth in  China  has moderated, as was intended, and is
likely to remain at a more measured and sustainable pace in the
future,” Stevens said today. “The  U.S. economy  is continuing a
moderate expansion.”  In the past month, Australian government reports have shown
fourth-quarter gross domestic product expanded at half the pace
economists forecast, and the weakest exports in almost three
years led to Australia’s first trade deficit in 11 months in
January.  China is Australia’s biggest trading partner, and the RBA
has said it expects Chinese demand for commodities to remain
strong even as recent data painted a mixed picture of the
world’s second-largest economy.  A  Purchasing Managers ’ Index of manufacturing in China rose
to a one-year high of 53.1 in March, the country’s logistics
federation and the National Bureau of Statistics said April 1.
The gauge has a pattern of rising each March. In contrast, a PMI
from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  an Markit Economics showed manufacturing
contracting and export orders falling.  U.S. Economy  The U.S. may be emerging as a main engine for global
growth. An improving job market, rising stock prices and easier
credit are combining to lift U.S. consumer confidence and
spending, with optimism measured by the Bloomberg Comfort Index
near a four-year high. Personal-consumption expenditures
increased by the most in seven months in February, rising 0.8
percent, the Commerce Department said last week.  Australia has grown more dependent on resources as
employment in manufacturing dropped by about 30 percent since
2007, while mining and government rose by more than 50 percent,
HSBC estimates.  In Australia, “credit growth remains modest,” Stevens
said today. “Housing prices have shown some signs of
stabilizing recently, after having declined for most of 2011,
but generally the housing market remains soft.”  The RBA board’s next policy meeting is scheduled for May 1,
a week before the federal government delivers its 2012-13
budget. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in a statement today that
“returning the budget to surplus helps ensure the  Reserve Bank 
has the flexibility to cut rates further -- after two rate cuts
last year -- if it thinks that’s necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  