-- Australia February Retail Sales Rise 0.2%, Matching Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-03T02:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/australian-retail-sales-rose-0-2-in-february-matching-forecast.html
Australian retail sales advanced in
February for a second straight month, led by gains at department
stores and newsstands in an economy driven by mining investment.  Sales (AURSCHNG)  climbed 0.2 percent from a month earlier, when they
increased 0.3 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. The result matched the median  forecast  in a Bloomberg
News survey of 22 economists. The figure hasn’t declined for
eight straight months.  Subdued spending is allowing room for  Australia ’s biggest
resource investment expansion since the 1850s Gold Rush to
unfold without accelerating inflation.  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens has kept the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 4.25 percent this year and is expected to extend
the pause today, after cutting it twice late last year as job
growth stalled and house prices slumped.  The release “shows more of the same softness that we’ve
been seeing for a while now,” said Ben Jarman, a Sydney-based
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. who predicts the central bank
will keep borrowing costs unchanged for the rest of the year.
“I don’t look at this report and see anything that will flash
something new to the RBA.”  The local dollar bought $1.0443 at 12:55 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0419 late yesterday in  New York . The Australian currency
has risen in six of the past seven quarters, gaining close to a
seven-month high of $1.0856 in late February.  Newspapers, Books  Today’s data showed spending on other retailing, which
includes newspapers, books and pharmaceutical products, rose 1.8
percent, consumers spent 0.7 percent more at department stores
and 0.3 percent more on food. They spent 1.4 percent less on
clothes and footwear and 0.7 percent less at cafes and
restaurants, it showed.  Weaker spending is curbing demand for designer fashions as
shoppers take advantage of the higher Australian dollar to buy
from overseas websites.  Paul Zahra, chief executive officer of  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) ,
Australia’s second-largest department store chain, plans to
increase the number of online product lines tenfold, to give a
bigger range than  Macy’s Inc. (M) , in an attempt to win back
customers.  “As households look to save more of their income, they are
shifting what they do spend away from conventional shop-front
retail and towards consumption of services and online,” Jarman
said.  Online Sales  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s largest retailer, projects
annual online sales will reach A$1 billion ($1.04 billion) by
the end of 2014 as consumers shift to buying through websites
and smartphone applications.  The target will be met through businesses including the
grocery unit, Woolworths’ largest division, as well as home
improvement and wine, Chief Executive Officer Grant O’Brien said
Feb. 24. The Sydney-based company, which had total sales of A$52
billion last year, didn’t specify how much it currently
generates online.  Woolworths is tapping an increase in website shopping in
Australia, where online spending rose 37 percent to A$12.3
billion last year, according to  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  The S&P/ASX 200 Index of stocks advanced 0.8 percent in
February and the local currency gained 1 percent against the
 U.S. dollar .  Australian consumers have also been concerned about high-
profile job losses at companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM) , according to Jarman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  