-- Australian Services Contract for Fifth Month in Six on Currency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/australian-services-contract-for-fifth-month-in-six-on-currency.html
Australia ’s services industry shrank
in March, the fifth contraction in the past six months, as the
sustained strength of the currency cut sales and curbed new
orders, a private survey showed.  The performance of services  index  was 47 last month from
46.7 in February, close to the weakest reading since March last
year,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and the Australian Industry
Group said in Sydney today. Fifty is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  Australia’s central bank signaled this week it may resume
cutting  interest rates  from 4.25 percent as soon as next month
if weaker-than-forecast growth slows inflation. The economy in
February recorded its first increase in unemployment since
August, to 5.2 percent, as the currency drove job losses at
companies including Toyota Motor Corp. and General Motors Co.  “The bad news is that this pattern of growth is likely to
persist through 2012 and into 2013,” Commonwealth Bank senior
economist John Peters said in a statement. “The Australian
dollar is unlikely to substantially depreciate due to the
ongoing high terms of trade, and ongoing wide interest rate
differentials with currencies of the advanced economies like the
U.S.,  Japan , the U.K.” and the euro area, he said.  The Australian dollar has risen in six of the past seven
quarters, reaching $1.0856 in late February, as a mining
investment boom to meet demand from  China  and  India  intensifies.
Earlier today the so-called Aussie traded at $1.0314.  Today’s report showed the index’s gauge for selling prices
rose to 45.7 from 44.2 and the employment measure gained to 48.9
from 47.5.  Sales declined to 44.6 from 47.5, and the reading for new
orders increased to 47.7 from 45.6. The wages indicator slipped
to 55.2 from 57.7, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  