-- Bayer Says Drug Held Off Gastrointestinal Tumors in Study
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2012-04-03T07:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/bayer-says-drug-held-off-gastrointestinal-tumors-in-study.html
Bayer AG’s (BAYN)  regorafenib prevented
gastrointestinal tumors from worsening in a clinical trial, the
second study this year to show the drug works against cancer.  Regorafenib met the main goal of “statistically
significantly improving” the length of time that the disease
didn’t spread in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors,
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer said in a statement today,
citing preliminary results from a study dubbed GRID. The trial
is the last of three stages of studies typically needed for
regulatory approval.  Bayer plans to seek regulators’ clearance of the drug in
gastrointestinal tumors based on the GRID results, the company
said. The research will be presented at a medical meeting, it
said. A trial in colorectal cancer showed the drug kept patients
alive longer, Bayer said on Jan. 18. The drugmaker plans to
submit regorafenib for approval in metastatic colorectal cancer
this year.  Regorafenib has the potential to generate more than
1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in annual sales if it’s approved
in several different types of cancer, Bayer said in December.  Bayer  rose  as much as 0.7 percent to 54.22 euros and was
trading up 0.3 percent at 9:50 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  The GRID trial, led by George Demetri of the Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute and  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston , looked at
patients whose tumors had spread or couldn’t be removed, and
whose cancer didn’t respond to treatment with other drugs.  Bayer (BAYN)  agreed last year to pay U.S. biotechnology company
 Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  a 20 percent royalty for the use of
regorafenib in oncology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  