-- Bio-Rad Rises on Bet Family May Seek Sale: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-03T22:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/bio-rad-rises-on-bet-family-may-seek-sale-san-francisco-mover.html
Bio-Rad Laboratories Inc. (BIO) , a maker
of medical screening and research equipment, rose the most in
more than three years on speculation the family-run company may
be open to a sale after the death of its founder.  Bio-Rad  jumped  11 percent to $114.25 in  New York , its
biggest percentage gain since November 2008. It has a market
value of about $3.2 billion.  Chairman David Schwartz, who founded Bio-Rad in 1952, died
April 1 at age 88, the Hercules, California-based company said
in a statement. Schwartz was considered by investors to be
opposed to selling the company, Junaid Husain, an analyst at
Dougherty & Co. in  Minneapolis , said by telephone.  “The prevailing wisdom is that the day David Schwartz
passes away is the day this company is in play,” said Husain,
who has a “buy” rating and doesn’t own the stock.  Bio-Rad had $2.1 billion in 2011 sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Treasurer Ron Hutton said in a telephone
interview that the company isn’t for sale.  “Mr. Schwartz, before he passed, and his family have
always averred that the company would remain independent and the
family would continue their involvement for as long as they
certainly can,” Hutton said. “I don’t see anything, with
David’s passing, that has changed that.”  Long-term investors probably would prefer the company stay
in the family’s hands, according to  Jeff Matthews , a founder of
Ram Partners in Greenwich,  Connecticut , who said he has owned
Bio-Rad shares for about 12 years.  ‘Great Culture’  “It’s got a great culture and it’s got great long-term
potential,” Matthews said by telephone. “Investors have
benefited immensely from the way the company was run as-is.”  Matthews invested in Bio-Rad after he saw the company
mentioned in a news article as one of the only producers of a
test for Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, commonly known as
mad-cow disease.  During a meeting with Schwartz after a scare on the disease
in the U.S., the Bio-Rad founder recognized both the promise and
limitations of his product, Matthews recalled.  “He said, ‘Look, this a one-shot thing. This is not going
to be sustainable. Yeah, we’re going to see orders now and it’ll
be good for a couple years, but then it’ll tail off,’” Matthews
recalled. “What he was saying was, we’re going to use this
cash. We’ve got a window, we have a good opportunity and then
we’re going to use this cash to invest in other business
opportunities when they come along.”  Family Members  Hutton confirmed the company’s success selling BSE tests.  “I think sales peaked in the low hundred million dollar
range,” he said. “At the time, it was a very strong business
for us. Like the rest of our products, we were able to put the
money back into our business.”  The Schwartz family controls a majority of the voting
shares of the company, making a hostile takeover difficult, said
Alastair Mackay of GARP Research & Securities Co. in Baltimore.  Schwartz was the largest shareholder in the company as of
December, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. His wife,
Alice Schwartz, sits on the  board , and his son Norman is
president and chief executive officer.  Norman Schwartz, who took over as CEO in 2003, is
considered more amenable to a deal than his father, Husain said.
The company is well managed and could be an acquisition target
for other life sciences companies such as  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE) , Husain said.  “It’s a very nice business,” he said.  Matthews, though, said that he’d “be more surprised if
they sold than I would if they said we’re not interested in
selling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  