-- BlackRock Returns to Italy After Monti Replaces Berlusconi
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-04-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/blackrock-returns-to-italy-after-monti-replaces-berlusconi.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, is buying Italian stocks amid optimism that Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  will succeed in cutting debt and boosting
economic growth.  Monti, who replaced Silvio Berlusconi in November as
Italian bond yields jumped to euro-era records, is implementing
a 20 billion-euro ($26.7 billion) package of spending cuts and
tax increases to eliminate the  budget deficit  next year and trim
the nation’s 1.9 trillion-euro debt. The austerity measures are
weighing on growth, with the European Commission forecasting in
February that the economy will contract 1.3 percent this year.  “We’ve gone back overweight Italy, after having had
virtually nothing there for a number of years,” Nigel Bolton,
who oversees about $14.6 billion as head of BlackRock’s European
equities, said in an interview. “As the direct result of
Berlusconi going, we started to put money back into Italy and
it’s our second-biggest overweight country in Europe.”  New York-based BlackRock, which manages about $3.51
trillion globally, owns shares in Italy’s largest energy company
 Eni (ENI)  SpA and favors utility companies whose valuation are linked
to the performance of  government bonds .  The nation’s banks, including Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, “look
more interesting,” Bolton said. Eni shares rose 9.9 percent to
17.59 euros in the first quarter. Intesa gained 3.9 percent to
1.344 euros during the same period while the benchmark  FTSE MIB
Index (FTSEMIB)  added 5.9 percent.  Labor Reform  “I was really amazed and really positive about the
transformation in Italy,” Bolton said at the company’s
Edinburgh office on March 29. “Labor reform is the tough one,
and if we get through that, I think Italy is well on the way to
solving some of the issues.”  Monti’s Cabinet passed proposals on March 23 to overhaul
 Italy ’s labor market. The draft law reduces temporary work
contracts and allows employers more leeway in firing.  Italy’s unemployment rate reached 9.3 percent in February,
the highest since the first quarter of 2001, the national
statistics institute Istat said two days ago. Joblessness among
Italians aged between 15 and 24 increased to 31.9 in February
from a revised 31 percent in January, Istat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  