-- BNY Mellon to Face Claims Over Role as Mortgage-Bond Trustee
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-03T23:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/bny-mellon-to-face-claims-over-role-as-mortgage-bond-trustee-1-.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  must
face claims by pension funds that sued the bank over its role as
trustee for mortgage-bond investors, alleging it caused billions
of dollars in damages.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in  Manhattan  dismissed
some of the claims raised in the lawsuit filed against the bank
last year and said others would proceed, according to a decision
filed today.  BNY Mellon disregarded its duties as trustee for investors
in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds, according to the
complaint brought by a group of pension funds, including City of
Grand Rapids General Retirement System and the Retirement Board
of the Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of the City of
 Chicago .  The bank failed to review loan files for mortgages that
backed its securities to ensure there were no missing or
defective documents, the funds said. BNY Mellon also failed to
act on behalf of investors to make sure that loans with
“irregularities” were removed from the pools of mortgages,
according to the complaint.  The bank caused bondholders to suffer billions of dollars
in damages and created “considerable uncertainty” regarding
investors’ ownership interest in the  mortgage loans  backing
their securities, the funds said.  BNY Mellon spokesman Kevin Heine said the bank would defend
against the remaining claims.  ‘Substantially Narrowed’  “We are pleased that the court substantially narrowed the
issues to be considered and removed the vast majority of trusts
from this action,” he said in an e-mail. Pauley dismissed
claims related to trusts in which the plaintiffs never invested.  The decision comes as BNY Mellon is seeking court approval
for an $8.5 billion settlement with  Bank of America Corp.  that
would resolve claims from investors in Countrywide mortgage
bonds.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America acquired
Countrywide in 2008.  Beth Kaswan, an attorney for the pension funds, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Retirement Board of the Policemen’s Annuity and
Benefit Fund of the City of Chicago v. Bank of  New York  Mellon,
11-5459, U.S. District Court Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  