-- Bonds Riskier Than Stocks to Goldman Sachs’s Cohen
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-03T15:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/bonds-riskier-than-stocks-to-goldman-sachs-s-cohen.html
Abby Joseph Cohen, the senior U.S.
investment strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
investors are taking more risk by buying bonds at negative real
yields than by putting money in equities as the economy grows.  “There are many investors who really are just so nervous
about equities,” she said in a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The
long-term question is: Should they be more nervous about bonds
right now? That to me is riskier than the stock market.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  surged 29 percent through
yesterday from its 2011 low in October as economic data beat
economists’ forecasts and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said he will keep  interest rates  low through at least
late 2014 to spur growth. Ten-year Treasuries are yielding about
2.17 percent, less than the 2.90 percent year-over-year increase
in American consumer prices in February.  The U.S. may be emerging as a main engine for global growth
as Europe slides into recession and  China’s economy  decelerates,
with optimism measured by the  Bloomberg Comfort Index (COMFCOMF)  near a
four-year high. Personal-consumption expenditures rose by the
most in seven months in February, the Commerce Department said
last week, while data today showed  orders  to U.S. factories
climbed in February for the third time in four months.  “One of the things we are seeing in the economy is that
corporate spending on business equipment continues at a good
pace, and critically, they are also now hiring new workers,”
Cohen said before the factory-orders report. Speaking during a
separate interview on Bloomberg Television, she described U.S.
economic growth as “good, solid, steady.”  Equities may extend gains this year because of cheap
valuations, fueled by a shift in  risk aversion  among investors,
Cohen said.  “We are talking the S&P at 1,500 to 1,600,” she replied
when asked for a year-end forecast for the  stock index . The
benchmark measure of U.S. equities closed at 1,419.04 yesterday.
 David Kostin , the chief U.S. investment strategist at Goldman
Sachs, has a year-end projection of 1,250, according to a weekly
survey by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  