-- BP Amasses Diesel as France Bolsters Strategic Fuel Inventories
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-04-03T14:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/bp-amasses-diesel-as-france-bolsters-strategic-fuel-inventories.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
company, increased purchases of diesel for delivery into  France 
more than 10-fold last month before the country raises the
amount it requires companies to hold in emergency fuel reserves.  BP bought about 380,000 metric tons of diesel in March
bound for the French ports of Lavera and Le Havre, according to
data from Platts, the news and pricing unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.
That’s up from about 30,000 tons in each of the previous two
months, the data show.  France, which was among consumer nations that released
strategic fuel stocks in 2011 in response to reduced supply from
 Libya (OPCRLIBY) , increased the volume it requires oil companies to hold in
storage from July. The  International Energy Agency , which
coordinated last year’s release, said on March 29 that it is
ready to act again in the event of supply disruption.  “France is currently building its strategic stocks with
the plan to increase them further in the second half of the
year,” said  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Petromatrix
GmbH, a Zug, Switzerland-based researcher.  Robert Wine , a
London-based spokesman for BP, declined to comment on operations
when contacted by phone yesterday.  Oil  stockpiles  held by member states of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development were below the five-
year average for a seventh month in January, according to the
IEA. “Inventories, notably crude in Europe and the Pacific,
look very tight in absolute terms,” the agency said in its
monthly report on March 14.  Emergency Stockpiles  France requires  oil companies  to hold the equivalent of
29.5 percent of 2011 consumption in storage from July 1, Jean-
Marc Tenneson, executive officer of Comite Professionnel des
Stocks Strategiques Petroliers, or CPSSP, said today by phone
from Paris. That’s up by 1 percentage point from last year. The
CPSSP is responsible for Sagess, which manages the country’s
strategic oil reserves.  France issued a tender in February to buy 350,000 cubic
meters of diesel, or 295,750 tons, for delivery to Lavera,
according to Tenneson. “As of the beginning of April, no
delivery has been made,” he said.  Crude oil dropped to a six-week low in New York last week
amid speculation that the U.S. and European governments may
agree to draw down emergency inventories. French Prime Minister
 Francois Fillon  told France Inter Radio on March 29 the
prospects of an accord were “good.”  “Any further release would slow down their restocking
efforts,” Jakob said today by phone, referring to France.  Rising Prices  The volume of BP’s diesel shipments was calculated by
Bloomberg based on transactions in a daily forum known as the
Platts pricing window, which matches buyers and sellers. In
addition to the shipments to France, the company bought about
140,000 tons bound for  Italy  and the U.K., the data show. This
doesn’t show volumes of oil products delivered through private
transactions.  Diesel for delivery into northwest Europe  gained  2.5
percent to $1,045 a ton, a third monthly advance, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Prices for shipments into the Mediterranean
 rose  2 percent to $1,047 a ton last month.  The IEA coordinated the release of about 60 million barrels
of crude and oil products over 30 days last year. France
contributed 3.2 million barrels, of which about 2.4 million
barrels was diesel. Those reserves had been refilled as of the
end of December, Tenneson said, adding the decision to raise
stockpile levels was taken in June last year. It has no link
with the European Union decision to restrict crude imports from
 Iran , he said.  Crude traded at $105 a barrel today on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, up about 5.9 percent this year. Futures
closed at $102.78 on March 29, the lowest settlement since Feb.
16.  Brent crude  was at $125 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London , up 17 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  