-- Brazil Real Gains as Rousseff Orders Economic Stimulus Measures
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-04-03T22:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/brazil-real-gains-as-industrial-output-rises-more-than-forecast.html
Brazil ’s real rose for the first
time in three days as President  Dilma Rousseff  ordered economic
stimulus measures and a report showed the nation’s industrial
production increased the most in a year.  “Industrial production was more than expected,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA,
said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The government’s
packet of measures is also creating expectations.”  The real rose 0.4 percent to 1.8246 per  U.S. dollar . It
briefly erased gains as Federal Reserve minutes indicated U.S.
policy makers are holding off on increasing monetary stimulus,
sapping demand for higher-yielding assets.  The real fell 6 percent in March, the biggest decline among
all currencies, as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  expanded
financial taxes to discourage capital inflows and the central
bank stepped up dollar purchases. It was the real’s biggest
monthly slide since a 15 percent plunge in September.  The currency rallied today as Rousseff ordered tax cuts and
other stimulus measures to protect the country’s industry from
what she said were “predatory” trade practices by wealthy
nations.  As part of a package of measures announced today, the
government will eliminate a  payroll tax  for employers in 15
industries hardest hit by a surge in imports and expand
subsidized lending by the state development bank to boost
exports and investment.  1.80 Per Dollar  Brazil will also take more steps “as needed” to drive
down the currency, Mantega said, adding that a real weaker than
1.80 per dollar is reasonable.  The central bank said it bought dollars in the foreign-
exchange market at an auction today at a rate of 1.8242 reais
each.  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2014 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 9.47 percent as traders pared bets on how much the central
bank will cut borrowing costs. Policy makers have lowered the
benchmark rate 2.75 percentage points since August to 9.75
percent to bolster growth.  Industrial production increased 1.3 percent in February
from the previous month, the national statistics agency said.
The median estimate of 44 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for an increase of 0.6 percent.  Rousseff’s stimulus package and the rebound in industrial
output following a 1.5 percent drop the previous month “reduce
the likelihood that the central bank will be dovish and make
further cuts,” Italo Lombardi, a Latin America economist at
Standard Chartered Bank, said by phone from  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  