-- Rousseff Orders $35 Billion Stimulus to Aid Brazil Industry
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-04-03T21:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/brazil-industry-output-improves-as-rousseff-readies-stimulus-1-.html
Brazil ’s President  Dilma Rousseff 
ordered tax cuts and other stimulus measures worth about 65
billion reais ($35 billion) to protect the country’s struggling
industry from what she said were “predatory” trade practices
by rich nations.  As part of a package of incentives announced today to boost
growth, the government will eliminate 12.1 billion reais in
payroll taxes through 2013 for employers in industries hardest-
hit by a surge in imports. State development bank BNDES will
also expand subsidized lending, backed by a 45 billion reais
injection from the Treasury. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  also
pledged to take more measures to weaken the currency, which has
rallied 47 percent since 2005, more than all major currencies.  Latin America ’s biggest economy has been struggling to cope
with the currency rally, which has nearly halved the country’s
trade surplus from a record $47.8 billion in May 2007. To try
and reverse that trend, worsened as rich nations see their
currencies weaken with  interest rates  near zero, Rousseff has
already slapped higher tariffs on imports, raised taxes on
foreign investment inflows and taken steps to boost consumption.  “We won’t hesitate to do whatever needs to be done, within
our laws, to defend our companies, jobs, and growth,” Rousseff
told business leaders at the presidential palace in Brasilia.
“The government won’t abandon Brazil’s industry.”  Recovery Underway?  The package of incentives, which also includes measures to
boost government purchases of locally-made goods and tougher
enforcement of trade rules, were announced after a report showed
that industrial  production  rose more than economists expected in
February.  Output rose 1.3 percent in February, higher than 40 of 44
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts whose median
estimate was for a 0.6 percent expansion. Output fell 3.9
percent from a year ago, the national statistics agency said
today in  Rio de Janeiro .  The elimination of a 20 percent payroll tax, a longstanding
demand of Brazilian employers, will go into effect in July for
15 industries including manufacturers of airplanes, computers,
car parts and capital goods, Mantega said.  The measures will cost an estimated 4.9 billion reais in
lost  tax revenue  from this year -- 7.2 billion reais in 2013 --
and will be partially compensated by a 1 percent to 2 percent
tax levied on company revenues and higher taxes on imports,
Mantega said.  ‘Not Protectionism’  Tax breaks to attract investment to Brazil’s car industry,
which had to compete against a 30 percent surge in auto imports
last year, will also be implemented. Carmakers including Daimler
AG’s Mercedes-Benz and General Motors Co are among manufacturers
that have ordered mandatory worker furloughs in Brazil this year
as assembly lines are idled by growth that slowed to 2.7 percent
last year -- less than  Germany  amid Europe’s debt crisis -- from
7.5 percent in 2010.  “It’s not protectionism,” Mantega said during a 56-page
presentation to announce the measures, the second phase of the
“Bigger Brazil” industrial policy the government announced
last year. “But we can’t remain inert while other nations
practice hidden protectionism.”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said that if the stimulus fails to lift
industry then there’s a risk Brazil could become a more closed
economy.  “When you give incentives to this segment and not to that
one, at the end of the day you may create distortions,” Santos
said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . ”The measures may
help a few companies, but the impact for the economy as a whole
is uncertain.”  Currency Measures  While Mantega didn’t say what currency measures the
government is considering “the most important in relation to
the currency aren’t the measures that we’ve already taken but
rather the measures that we still are going to take.”  The real was the world’s best performing major currency in
the first two months of the year, prompting the government to
raise taxes on foreign loans and bonds. Since the beginning of
March the currency slid 5.9 percent, the biggest devaluation
amid major currencies.  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo, fell one basis
points to 8.86 percent at 5:59 p.m. local time. The real gained
0.4 percent to 1.8246 per  U.S. dollar .  ‘Monetary Tsunami’  Rousseff, a technocrat who took office in January 2011, has
blamed loose lending conditions in  Europe  and the U.S. for
unleashing what she in Germany last month called a “monetary
tsunami” that is fueling currency gains and a narrowing of
Brazil’s trade surplus. At the same time she’s also pushed for
lower borrowing costs in Brazil, whose inflation-adjusted
interest rates are the second-highest in the Group of 20
nations.  “We want lower rates and spreads in Brazil,” she repeated
again today.  Over the past year, the government has slapped higher
tariffs on imports such as shoes, chemicals and textiles, and
cracked down on customs fraud. Under pressure from automakers,
Rousseff renegotiated a trade deal last month with  Mexico  that
capped car imports for three years.  Today’s production report shows that industry may be
recovering after output fell 1.5 percent in January. Eighteen of
27 sectors monitored by the statistics agency expanded output in
February, led by a 13.1 percent surge in auto production during
the month. Assembly of capital goods, a barometer of investment,
rose 5.7 percent after plunging 16.1 percent in January.  “Whatever the comparison with the international market,
Brazilian goods are expensive,” said Paulo Godoy, head of the
Brazilian Association of Infrastructure and Basic Industries.  Brazilian producer are hurt by the currency, inadequate
infrastructure and red tape, he said.  Still, the central bank sees the economy expanding only 3.5
percent this year and analysts surveyed by the bank see growth
of only 3.2 percent. The government is targeting growth of 4.5
percent, Mantega reiterated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at  jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  or  