-- Brazil Senate Reignites FIFA Spat by Canceling Valcke Meeting
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-04-03T21:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/brazil-senate-reignites-fifa-spat-by-canceling-valcke-meeting.html
Brazil’s Senate canceled a meeting
with FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke , reigniting a spat
with soccer’s ruling body a month after the South American
country tried to remove him as the lead representative for the
planning of the 2014  World Cup .  A Senate committee overseeing preparations for the
tournament said the institution needs to be represented at a
hearing scheduled originally for April 11 by its President, Sepp Blatter, and not by Valcke, according to a statement on the
Senate’s  website  today. A new hearing is still to be scheduled,
the committee said in the statement.  The refusal by the lawmakers to meet the secretary general
comes less than three weeks after Blatter traveled to Brasilia
in a bid to reduce tensions with the host nation following
earlier comments by Valcke saying that  Brazil  needed a “kick up
the ass” to be ready in time for the event. The outburst
prompted President Dilma Rousseff’s government to request Valcke
to be removed as emissary of soccer’s governing body.  FIFA has grown frustrated at Brazil’s failure to pass a
special law, which confirms guarantees made to the institution
when the country was awarded hosting rights in 2007, including
the sale of alcohol inside World Cup stadiums.  “Dilma told me the government will provide all necessary
guarantees and we fully trust her and Brazil’s government that
this will happen,” Blatter told reporters in Brasilia on March
16. “The issue between Brazil and Valcke belongs to FIFA and
we’ll have to solve it.”  FIFA didn’t immediately respond an e-mail seeking comment
on the meeting cancellation sent by Bloomberg News today.  Before being appointed FIFA president in 1998, Blatter
served as general secretary for 17 years, making him responsible
for the last eight World Cups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  