-- British Shop-Price Inflation Accelerates on Food Costs, BRC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/british-shop-price-inflation-accelerates-on-food-costs-brc-says.html
U.K.  shop-price inflation 
accelerated in March as rising  oil prices  helped to push up the
cost of manufacturing and transporting food, the  British Retail
Consortium  said.  Retail prices rose 1.5 percent from a year earlier, the
most since December, compared with a 1.2 percent gain in
February, the trade group and Nielsen Co. said in a report in
 London  today. Food-price inflation quickened to 5.4 percent, the
fastest since June, compared with 4.2 percent in February.  Oil prices have soared 25 percent in the past six months,
pushing up manufacturers’ costs, while  global food prices  have
gained 2.1 percent this year.  Bank of England  officials will
maintain their target for bond purchases at 325 billion pounds
($519 billion) tomorrow, according to a survey of economists, as
some officials raise concerns about the pace of inflation.  “Consumers are having to cope with falling disposable
incomes with fuel and household-energy costs also increasing,”
said  Mike Watkins , senior manager of retail services at Nielsen.
“With inflationary pressure continuing in the food supply
chain, we can expect supermarkets to keep a strong focus on
promotional activity over the next few months.”  Non-food prices fell 0.9 percent in March from a year
earlier, the largest drop in more than two years, compared with
a decrease of 0.7 percent in February, the report showed. The
biggest declines were at clothing and electrical-goods stores as
they tried to drum up demand from consumers whose  confidence  is
being hurt by a sluggish economic recovery, the BRC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  