-- BTG IPO May Raise 4.1 Billion Reais as Market Rebounds
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-04-03T11:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/btg-ipo-may-raise-4-1-billion-reais-as-market-rebounds-2-.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Brazilian
bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves , and its shareholders may
raise as much as 4.1 billion reais ($2.2 billion) in an initial
public offering as  Brazil ’s stock market rebounds.  BTG Pactual and shareholders may sell as many as 121.5
million units that represent voting and non-voting shares, which
includes the overallotment offering, according to a prospectus
published today in Valor Economico newspaper. The units are
expected to be priced at 28.75 reais to 33.75 reais each. Banco
Bradesco SA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
are managing the offering.  “The bank may benefit from the current excess of liquidity
for equities,” Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380 million
reais at Legan Administracao de Recursos in  Sao Paulo . “The
offer will have an interesting demand from foreign and
individual investors.”  Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index rose 15 percent this year
as the central bank cut  interest rates  to 9.75 percent from 11
percent since January, and on signs of growth in the U.S. and
renewed optimism  Europe  will be able to solve its debt crisis.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Latin American largest bank by
assets, rose 3.9 percent in the same period, while Banco
Bradesco SA, the nation’s second biggest lender by market value,
gained 4 percent.  Abril Educacao SA was the last company to hold an IPO in
Brazil when the Sao Paulo-based education and publishing group
raised 371.1 million reais in July. Brasil Travel Turismo &
Participacoes SA canceled its offering in March, citing
“unfavorable” market conditions. Qualicorp SA shareholders may
sell as many as 46 million shares in a secondary offering,
according to a prospectus published in today in  Valor Economico .  BTG’s stocks will be priced on April 24 and will start
trading in Sao Paulo on April 26.  ‘Expanding’  The bank plans to use proceeds from IPO to “continue
expanding its businesses” and to improve its “funding
structure,” according to a preliminary prospectus March 1.  BTG is Brazil’s fastest-growing lender by assets among the
11 biggest banks in the nation. It has reduced the gap behind
its closest competitor, Citigroup Inc.’s local unit, to 2.8
billion reais in the year through September 2011 from 10.2
billion reais in September 2010, according to the central bank.  The firm agreed in February to acquire Chilean brokerage
Celfin Capital SA for $245 million in cash and 2.4 percent of
BTG equity. A year earlier, the lender paid 450 million reais
for 51 percent of the voting shares of Banco Panamericano SA,
the Sao Paulo-based bank bailed out in November 2010 after
suspected accounting fraud.  Repurchase  BTG posted an increase of 70.5 percent in its 2011 net
income to 1.92 billion reais, up from 1.13 billion reais the
previous year, according to the preliminary prospectus.  Esteves sold Banco Pactual SA to UBS AG in 2006 for $2.6
billion. In 2009, he repurchased the bank for $2.5 billion and
merged it with an asset management he founded in 2008, creating
BTG Pactual. BTG sold a stake of about 19 percent in December
2010 for $1.8 billion to a group of investors that included the
families Rothschild and Agnelli, which controls automaker Fiat
SpA. Other investors were J.C. Flowers & Co., Government of
Singapore Investment Corp., China Investment Corp. and the Abu
Dhabi Investment Council.  ‘Recovery in IPOs’  “We already have the conditions for a recovery in IPOs,”
Jose Olympio Pereira, co-head of  investment banking  at Credit
Suisse’s Brazilian unit, said March 12 during an event to unveil
enhancements to the Bloomberg system. “The Brazilian stock
market is showing a strong recovery.”  BM&FBovespa SA, which operates the Sao Paulo stock
exchange, has about 40 companies willing to hold an IPO, which
could reach as much as $28 billion, Chief Financial Officer
Eduardo Refinetti Guardia said in February.  Seabras Servicos de Petroleo SA, the Brazilian unit of oil-
rig operator Seadrill Ltd., Cia. de Locacao das Americas and
Unicasa Industria de Moveis SA registered plans to sell shares,
while tour operator CVC Brasil Operadora & Agencia de Viagens SA
and Grupo Isolux Corsan SA’s Isolux Infrastructure canceled
their offerings this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  