-- Cadiz Climbs Most in 3 1/2 Years on Dividend: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-03T15:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/cadiz-climbs-most-in-3-1-2-years-on-dividend-johannesburg-mover.html
Cadiz Holdings Ltd. (CDZ) , the owner of a
stock broker and money manager, jumped the most in 3 1/2 years
after announcing a special dividend following the sale of 60
percent of its securities business to  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   Shares rose 15 percent, the most since October 2008, to
close at 2.77 rand in Johannesburg trading, the highest since
last September.  The special pay-out of 50 cents a share will lift Cadiz’
dividend yield to 17.9 percent, compared with an estimated 3.43
percent yield for Johannesburg’s  FTSE/JSE All Share Index (JALSH) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cadiz said it undertook
a “prudent review” of its  capital requirements  following the
150 million rand ($19.5 million) transaction, announced on Aug.
4.  “It’s a very attractive dividend and just from a yield
perspective it’s probably a good play at this time,” Deryck
Janse van Rensburg, a Johannesburg-South Africa Miners based
portfolio manager at BOE Stockbrokers, said by phone. “You
might be finding a few div strippers coming in to take advantage
of that yield.”  Cadiz won’t pay a final dividend for the 2012 financial
year after the special pay-out, it said in a statement today.
The BNP Paribas transaction will also boost earnings per share
for the year through March by more than 20 percent. Earnings per
share adjusted for one-time items will be “substantially lower
than last year and the group expects to break even for the
year,” it said.  “Difficult market conditions” led to a drop in
performance fees and lower average assets under management
relative to last year at its asset management business, the
company said in the statement. The securities business was
affected by low trading volumes and increased competition.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Gunnion at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net  