-- Cairn Buys Rothschild-Backed Agora Oil for $450 Million
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-04-03T15:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/cairn-buys-rothschild-backed-agora-oil-for-450-million-1-.html
Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) , the U.K. oil
explorer focused on Greenland, agreed to buy the Rothschild-
backed Agora Oil & Gas AS to expand in the  North Sea .  Cairn will take over Agora, a Norwegian company owned by
RIT Capital Partners Plc and financier  Jacob Rothschild , for an
enterprise value of $375 million and net working capital of $75
million, according to a statement today. It will pay 43 percent
in cash and 57 percent in shares.  The deal gives Cairn, which has spent about $1 billion in
Greenland without making a find, more diverse exploration
acreage after selling off most of its Indian unit. While no
drilling is scheduled for Greenland this year, Agora has planned
as many as nine wells in the U.K. and  Norway .  “This is an important first step in establishing balance
in the Cairn portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Thomson
said in a statement. “This acquisition secures a building block
in areas where we see the opportunity to build  cash flow  from
near-term, lower-risk exploration, development or producing
properties.”  Cairn rose 4 percent, the most in more than five months, to
333.2 pence in London.  The explorer may buy more fields and companies, Thomson
said on a conference call with journalists, without giving
specifics on where he’s looking or how much the company may
spend.  ‘Not Constrained’  “We will be active this year in terms of other
opportunities,” he said. “We’re not constrained financially.”  Agora’s fields include more than 200 million barrels of net
unrisked resource potential, an “attractive part” of the deal
for Cairn, Thomson said.  RIT Capital, with Rothschild as chairman, backed Agora in
November 2009. The company will receive about 114 million pounds
($183 million) in cash from the deal against its initial
investment of 41 million pounds, it said in a separate
statement.  Agora has drilled 10 wells in the past two years, only one
of which came up dry, RIT said. It has about 55 million barrels
of prospective resources, most of which is oil, it said.  “Agora was only established just over 2 years ago,”
Rothschild said in a statement. “The achievement of the
management team since then has been a remarkable one. We’re
proud and delighted to have been their founding partner, and
wish them every possible success in the next phase of their
development with Cairn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  