-- Cameron, Pushing Gay Marriage, Hails Christian Fightback
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-03T12:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/cameron-pushing-gay-marriage-hails-christian-fightback.html
David Cameron  told Britain’s
Christians he doesn’t want to fall out with them over plans to
allow gay marriage, as he hailed a “Christian fightback”
against attempts to ban crucifixes and public prayer.  “I think there’s something of a fightback going on, and we
should welcome that,” the prime minister told guests including
church ministers and Christian politicians at an Easter
reception in his  official Downing Street residence  in London
today. “The values of the Bible, the values of Christianity are
the values that we need.”  Former Archbishop of Canterbury George Carey said Feb. 11
that Christians face “gradual marginalization” in the U.K. He
was referring to a case in which a local council in southwest
 England  was banned by a court from opening its meetings with
prayers. Cameron cited the case in his speech and pointed out
that the government had responded by changing the law.  The prime minister faces a battle with some Christians over
his plans to introduce same-sex marriages. The U.K. currently
has civil partnerships, which offer most of the legal benefits
of marriage. The government is asking for the views of the
public on allowing gay couples to be married in civil
ceremonies, though not in church.  Cameron offered what he described as a “plea” to the
assembled churchmen. “I hope we won’t fall out too much over
gay marriage,” he said. “There’ll be some strong arguments and
some strong words.”  ‘Unjustified Change’  The Archbishop of York, John Sentamu,  told BBC television
last month  that the proposals represented an “unjustified
change” to the law and required the consent of the Church of
England. Sentamu is a leading candidate to become the next
Archbishop of Canterbury, the head of the Anglican church.  Guests at today’s reception told the prime minister after
his speech he was wrong to be looking at the issue, arguing that
the legal definition of marriage should remain a union between a
man and a woman. Cameron had sought to reassure his audience
that his proposals would “change what happens in a register
office, not what happens in a church.”  Cameron opened his speech with a reference to his recent
political difficulties, which have seen his poll ratings slump
after a budget that included a cut in the top rate of income tax
and panic-buying of gasoline as ministers urged motorists to
stock up in preparation for a possible strike.  “In the past week I’ve felt like I needed someone to
pray for me,” he said, looking at the assembled church
representatives. “They might have overdone it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 