-- Canadian Dollar Rises Against Peers on U.S. Growth Bet
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-04-03T21:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/canadian-dollar-falls-as-crude-oil-drops-risk-sentiment.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated against
most of its major peers amid signs the U.S., nation’s biggest
trading partner, is helping to stabilize the global economy.  The currency briefly weakened against the greenback after
minutes of the March 13 Federal Open Market Committee meeting
showed members won’t increase stimulus unless the U.S. economic
expansion falters or prices rise at a rate slower than its 2
percent target. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said
yesterday that the nation’s economy has performed better than
forecast.  “We’re going to benefit from any North American
strength,”  John Curran , senior vice president in Toronto at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, said in a
telephone interview. “Canada is being used as a proxy trade for
U.S. growth and is seen as less risky. With our strong
background and the strong recovery that Canada has seen
relatively speaking, it’s a good story for us.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, was little changed
at 99.11 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after
climbing as high as 98.88 cents. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0090.  “Investors are interested in Canada and most developments
have been positive,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy
in Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit, said in
a telephone interview. “The factors for Canada in the past
couple of weeks have been positive, everything from the budget
to U.S. economic data to governor Carney’s speech yesterday.”  Growth Engine  The U.S. may be emerging as a main engine for global growth
as  Europe  slides into recession and  China ’s economy decelerates.  An improving job market, rising stock prices and easier
credit are combining to lift U.S. consumer confidence and
spending, with optimism measured by the Bloomberg Comfort Index
near a four-year high. Personal-consumption expenditures
increased by the most in seven months in February, rising 0.8
percent, the Commerce Department said last week.  “There seems to be a growing consensus that U.S. is
growing fairly well,”  Thomas Molloy , chief dealer at FX
Solutions LLC, an online currency trading company in Saddle
River,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “The recovery
in the U.S. seems to be a durable one, but it’s certainly not
that robust, and it’s very much in contrast to the economic
situation in  euro zone .”  Oil, Canada’s largest export, fell following the biggest
gain in six weeks as supplies in the U.S., the world’s biggest
crude consumer, were forecast to climb to a seven-month high.
Crude-oil futures declined 1 percent to $104.10 a barrel in  New
York .  Bonds Sales  Canadian corporate-bond issuance fell almost 50 percent in
the first quarter in contrast to record-setting volumes
worldwide, prompting Royal Bank of Canada to cut its full-year
forecast for debt sales.  Deals by companies and banks in Canadian dollars fell to
C$21 billion ($21.2 billion) in the first quarter from C$31
billion in the comparable period in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  RBC Capital Markets , the top underwriter
of Canadian corporate bonds for the past decade, was expecting
more than C$82 billion of issuance in 2012 as banks raise money
to fund expanding operations and roll over maturing debt.  Canada’s unemployment rate was unchanged in March at 7.4
percent as payrolls increased by 10,500 after falling by 2,800
the previous month, according the median estimate of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Statistics Canada  will report
the data on April 5.  Jobs Outlook  “As we look ahead to the future, it’s really employment
out of Canada Thursday and out of the U.S. on Friday,” Sutton
said. “We’ve had a string of disappointing Canadian releases
and with the U.S. economic outlook improving, it really only
makes sense that the Canadian outlook would improve as well.”  U.S. unemployment held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent
in March, and payrolls rose by more than 200,000 workers for a
fourth consecutive month, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Labor Department will
release last month’s figures on April 6.  The loonie is up 3.9 percent during the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The  U.S. dollar  is down 2.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  