-- Canada Says It Won’t Buy F-35 Planes Before Oversight Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-04-03T17:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/canada-says-it-won-t-buy-f-35-planes-before-oversight-rules-1-.html
Canada said it will strengthen
oversight of plans to buy  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter
jets after the country’s top auditor said defense officials
mismanaged the purchase.  The Department of National Defence was “too involved”
with the development of the F-35 program to run a fair
competition for new fighter jets, Auditor General Michael
 Ferguson  said in a  report  released today. Defense officials
didn’t provide complete cost information to members of the
nation’s parliament or fully inform decision makers about the
risks of buying the jets, Ferguson said in his report.  The government agrees with the audit’s recommendation to
change its estimate of the “full life-cycle” cost of the jets,
and to make the figure public, cabinet ministers including
Defence Minister Peter MacKay said in a  news release  in response
to the audit. The government will establish a secretariat within
the public-works department to coordinate the purchase.  The F-35 fighter jet will cost $1.51 trillion to develop,
an increase of 9 percent from the estimate a year ago, Pentagon
officials said March 30. The projected “life-cycle” costs
include development since 1994, production of 2,443 jets and 55
years of support, the Pentagon said.  Canadian defense officials “likely underestimated” the
full costs of the F-35s throughout their life cycle, according
to the audit. The project’s budget was set at C$25 billion ($25
billion) over 20 years in 2008, including C$9 billion to buy the
jets and C$16 billion to operate and maintain them.  ‘Not Managed Well’  The defense department “applied the rules for standard
procurement but prepared key documents and took key steps out of
proper sequence,” Ferguson said in  his statement . “As a
result, the process was inefficient and not managed well,” he
said, adding that “key decisions were made without required
approvals or supporting documentation.”  The defense department didn’t engage officials at public
works, the department that typically oversees procurement, until
late in the decision-making process, the audit found. Public
works officials endorsed the decision to acquire the jets on a
sole-source basis without required documentation and complete
analysis, Ferguson’s office said.  A committee of senior bureaucrats will oversee the F-35
secretariat, the government said. The defense department will be
required to provide annual updates to parliament.  The government said it will not buy new planes until the
reforms are in place, adding that it remains “committed” to
ensuring the country’s air force has the aircraft it needs.  Funding Frozen  “Funding will remain frozen and  Canada  will not purchase
new aircraft until further due diligence, oversight, and
transparency is applied to the process of replacing the Canadian
Forces’ aging CF-18 fleet,” Public-Works Minister Rona Ambrose
said in a statement.  “Lockheed Martin fully supports the Government of Canada’s
response to its Auditor General of Canada 2012 Report,” company
spokesman Michael Rein, said in an e-mail. “We continue to look
forward to supporting the Canadian government.”  Canada is prepared to delay the acquisition of F-35s and
take other steps to keep costs in check, Associate Defence
Minister Julian Fantino said March 16. “Our intention is to
receive the F-35 when it is most cost effective and the
development is complete,” Fantino said, adding that “all
options are on the table.”  Canada is one of several countries, along with the U.S.,
looking at buying F-35s. Canadian defense officials have been
involved with Lockheed’s “joint strike fighter” program since
1997. Canada signed memorandums of understanding to participate
in the program in 1997, 2002 and 2006.  The government announced in July 2010 that it would buy 65
F-35s to replace the country’s aging fleet of CF-18 Hornet jets.  “The government knew the F-35s were going to cost more
than anticipated - but they intentionally hid it from Parliament
and the public,” said Christine Moore, a lawmaker with the main
opposition  New Democratic Party , in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  