-- LCD Soundsystem, Hot Chip Meld Dance DNA in New Build
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/lcd-soundsystem-hot-chip-meld-dance-dna-in-new-build.html
The buzz for New Build has been high
since the announcement last year that the group was forming with
players from two of indie music’s biggest dance-rock outfits,
Hot Chip and the defunct LCD Soundsystem.  At the  Mercury Lounge  on March 13, frontman Al Doyle
offered a superfluous introduction -- “We are New Build from
 London ,  England ” -- before the septet opened with “Mercy,”
from the debut album “Yesterday Was Lived and Lost,” out April
17th.  The crowd warmed up quickly, given that many were
unfamiliar with the music. The tunes had been previously
available only on the group’s website and two limited 12”
releases. Amid airy guitar notes, tepid drumming and scattered
synth, some infectious cowbell stirred things up.  For “Finding Reasons,” Felix Martin, a member of Hot
Chip, and DJ/producer Tom Hopkins -- who along with Doyle make
up the band’s core -- manned the keys. Hornlike effects were
soon matched with Doyle’s grinding guitar solo. The short and
poppy “Medication” had Ben Ubly’s rattling bass and bright
vocals by Joy Leah Joseph.  “Schism of the Mind” was a rubbery, slippery track for
which Doyle, who plays with both Hot Chip and  LCD Soundsystem ,
put down his guitar and joined Martin and Hopkins on synths and
drum machines. Then the next number turned the floor into a
trampoline.  It was the album’s driving first single -- “Do You Not
Feel Loved?” -- that made the dance party come alive. The
pulsating number was so good that Doyle jokingly said at its
conclusion, “I suggest we play that again.”  The energy remained at a high as a blend of cowbell and
calypso-sounding keys brought in the jumpy “Behind The
Shutter.”  Welcome ‘Misery’  Probably the one song that best reflects the two bands’
combined DNA was the set’s closer, “Misery Loves Company.” The
twitching bass and wavy melody had chunks of cowbells, an
etching guitar rift and a joyful chorus that captured the
essence for the night -- smiles all around.  At the moment, New Build has no U.S. tour dates scheduled.
Hot Chip has announced that its fifth album, “In Our Heads,”
will be released on June 12. The supporting worldwide summer
tour stops at  Brooklyn ’s Prospect Park Bandshell on July 18.  A documentary of LCD Soundsystem’s final days called “Shut
Up and Play the Hits” is scheduled for limited release in the
June-September period.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in April. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 