-- Central European Media Gains in Prague on Time Warner Bets
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-04-03T14:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/central-european-media-jumps-most-in-a-month-in-prague-trading.html
Central European Media Enterprises
Ltd. (CETV)  rose the most in seven weeks in Czech trading after Bank of
America Corp. said  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  may increase its minority
stake in the broadcaster this year.  CME, as the company is known, climbed 5.2 percent to 146.5
koruna at its close in  Prague , making it the best performer in
the 14-member  PX (PX)  equity index, which slid 0.3 percent today.  Time Warner is likely to buy CME shares this year and next
to help the company refinance $130 million of debt due in March
2013, and may attempt to take over the company, BofA analysts
led by Singapore-based Mariya Kahn wrote in a report to clients
yesterday. The bank has a buy recommendation on the stock.  “This could either be an outright buyout or an initial
capital injection from Time Warner at a premium to the market
price in 2012 before taking full control in mid-2013,” the
analysts said. “The benefits of taking control of CME would
outweigh the costs for Time Warner.”  In the U.S., its home market, the stock fell 7.5 percent to
$7.85 today by 10:32 a.m. New York time. It  jumped  20 percent
yesterday, the biggest one-day rally in three years, following
the publication of the BofA report.  ‘Overblown’  The Bermuda-registered operator of television channels in
central and eastern  Europe  has been battling a slower-than-
expected pickup in advertising sales as the economies in the
region emerge from recession. The net loss in the last quarter
of last year widened to $72.4 million from $26.1 million a year
earlier after CME took a one-time impairment charge of $68.7
million. Operating income before depreciation and amortization
jumped 25 percent and revenue rose 8 percent in the same period.  CME had its shares cut to hold from buy last month at
Deutsche Bank AG, which said that stagnation in the advertising
market will hurt the company’s cash flow and may force it to
issue new shares at a discount to market price. The German bank
lowered its price estimate for CME shares to $8.30 to $12.80.  Time Warner purchased a 31 percent stake in CME for $241.5
million in May 2009 with the agreement that  Ronald Lauder , CME’s
founder and non-executive chairman, will control Time Warner’s
voting rights in the company for at least four years. Time
Warner increased its stake to 34.4 percent in March 2011.  “We think the market’s concerns about possible dilutive
equity raising for CME are overblown and argue for an anti-
consensus scenario that Time Warner will once again come to the
rescue,” the BofA report said. “CME is in a much healthier
financial situation today than it was three years ago, when it
still managed to avoid a discounted rights issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  