-- LCH.Clearnet Shareholders Back $618 Million LSE Merger
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-04-03T13:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/lch-clearnet-shareholders-back-618-million-lse-merger.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. shareholders
backed the clearinghouse’s proposal to sell a majority stake to
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ,  Europe ’s oldest independent
bourse, for 463 million euros ($618 million).  LCH.Clearnet said 94.4 percent of votes cast by investors
at a meeting in London today were in favor of the merger. LSE
said 99.9 percent of shareholders agreed to the deal at a
separate meeting in the U.K. capital.  LCH.Clearnet appointed Ian Axe as chief executive officer
last April to revamp the London-based company after losing two
CEOs in less than six years. LCH.Clearnet, whose SwapClear
service began clearing interest-rate contracts traded between
banks in 1999, has seen its market share in equities eroded by
new entrants even as regulators mandated more clearing to reduce
financial risk.  The result today shows “great support, support from the
market,” Axe said after the vote today. “We plan to be
instrumental in where the financial markets are moving.”  LCH.Clearnet attracted interest from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  before agreeing to the LSE bid last month. The
firms intend to complete the transaction by the fourth quarter
and the deal needs to be cleared by antitrust authorities.  Central Counterparties  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default. They
have become more attractive as regulators seek more central
clearing of derivatives.  NYSE Euronext, the owner of the New York Stock Exchange,
has a stake of about 9.1 percent in LCH.Clearnet and plans to
stop using the venue to clear European securities and
derivatives in 2013. LCH.Clearnet’s revenue from those
activities was 98 million euros in 2011, not including 35.5
million euros from NYSE’s London-based Liffe derivatives
business.  LCH.Clearnet shareholders, which include banks and brokers
that use its services, will retain at least 40 percent
ownership. The LSE offer values LCH.Clearnet at 813 million
euros, according to a March 9 statement. Shareholders of
LCH.Clearnet will get 19 euros a share in cash plus 1 euro a
share from a special dividend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  