-- Chevron Sued for Another $11 Billion on Brazil Oil Spill
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2012-04-03T21:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/chevron-sued-for-another-11-billion-on-brazil-oil-spill.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Transocean Ltd (RIG)  are
being sued for another 20 billion reais ($11 billion) by a
Brazilian federal prosecutor for a second  oil spill  at the Frade
project off the nation’s coast.  Chevron committed “a series of errors” that led to the
March spill at the project, the federal prosecutor’s office said
in an e-mailed statement today. Prosecutor Eduardo Santos is
also seeking to halt operations at Frade and block Chevron from
exporting  profits  from  Brazil , according to the statement.  Santos filed the first 20 billion-reais lawsuit last year
against San Ramon, California-based Chevron after a 3,000-barrel
spill in November. Santos filed criminal charges against Chevron
and Transocean executives last month, seeking penalties of as
much as 31 years in prison for environmental crimes.  A drilling accident caused the November spill after Chevron
underestimated the amount of pressure at a reservoir where it
was drilling, causing oil to leak from the well to fissures on
the seabed.  In March, Chevron reported new leaks on the seabed at the
project. Chevron has halted production at Frade as a
precautionary measure.  Chevron didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and phone
call seeking comment.  Transocean, which operated the drilling rig at Frade,
“acted responsibly, appropriately and quickly, putting safety
first,”  Guy Cantwell , a spokesman for the Vernier, Switzerland-
based company, said in an e-mail. The crew “always
maintained control of the well and the rig’s equipment worked
perfectly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  