-- China Grows 8.4% in Estimate Cited by NDRC Vice Chairman
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-03T08:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/china-grows-8-4-in-estimate-cited-by-ndrc-vice-chairman.html
China ’s economy may have expanded
about 8.4 percent in the first quarter, the least since the
first half of 2009, according to an estimate given by an
official 10 days before the data are due.  Zhang Xiaoqiang , vice chairman of the  National Development
and Reform Commission (NDRZ) , cited “relevant China research
institutes’ initial figures” for the estimate and predicted a
gain of about 3.5 percent in consumer prices. He spoke today
during a panel discussion at the Boao Forum for  Asia , a
gathering of government and business leaders on China’s tropical
island of  Hainan .  The growth figure compares with the 8.3 percent median
 estimate  of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The fifth
straight slowdown in quarterly growth will underscore concerns
that weakness in the Chinese economy is set to limit a global
expansion already capped by  Europe ’s austerity measures.  “The final number will be very close to 8.4 percent,” Lu Ting, chief Greater China economist at Bank of America Corp. in
 Hong Kong , said in an interview in Boao. “They can get a
relatively accurate forecast or estimate of first-quarter GDP.”  Premier Wen Jiabao pared this year’s expansion target to
7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005 on March
5, part of government plans to tilt growth toward consumption
and away from exports. In the fourth quarter of last year,
growth was 8.9 percent.  Trade Deficit  China had its largest trade deficit since at least 1989 in
February as Europe’s sovereign-debt turmoil damped exports and
imports rebounded after the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday.
Exports fell for the first time in two years in January, while
industrial production and retail sales have slowed this year.  Even so, Morgan Stanley joined  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and
Deutsche Bank AG in raising its forecast for China’s economic
growth this year. The world’s second-biggest economy will expand
9 percent, higher than a previous estimate of 8.4 percent, said
Helen Qiao, a Morgan Stanley economist.  Economists are forecasting that China will ease monetary
policy to boost growth. Analysts in a Bloomberg News survey last
week unanimously said that banks’ reserve requirements will fall
this year, while nine of 20 predicted lower benchmark borrowing
costs.  Monetary easing through a reserve-ratio or interest-rate
reduction “is becoming more likely already in April,” Dariusz
Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at  Credit Agricole (ACA)  CIB,
wrote in a note today.  Message for Fed  Separately today in Boao, China’s central bank Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  urged the U.S. Federal Reserve to consider the
global effects of its actions after emerging-market economies
suffered from capital inflows.  The comments, from a panel discussion, reprise criticism of
the U.S. from emerging nations who complained that so-called
quantitative easing was sending unwanted cash into their
economies, adding to  inflation  risks.  Zhou said he understands the necessity of what the U.S. is
doing to boost its own economy. Still, as the  U.S. dollar  is the
world’s main reserve currency, the Fed “may have more
responsibility not only to consider the  U.S. economy  but also
the global economy,” he said.  The world is still grappling with the financial crisis and
there are unspecified “new elements” that could create a new
global recession, Zhou said today. He said China encourages
capital outflows and will do more to support investment abroad.  For China and some other emerging economies, the policy
goal is to “gradually bring inflation down” to help achieve a
so-called soft landing, and China is using interest  rates 
combined with additional tools to achieve that, Zhou said today.
He declined to comment when asked if the central bank is
planning any adjustments to monetary policy.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  