-- China Accelerates Markets Opening as QFII Quota Doubles
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-04T03:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/china-increases-qfii-by-50-billion-and-rqfii-by-50-billion-yuan.html
China  accelerated the opening of its
 capital markets  by more than doubling the amount foreigners can
invest in stocks, bonds and  bank deposits  as the government
shifts its growth model to domestic consumption from exports.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission increased the
quotas for qualified foreign institutional investors to $80
billion from $30 billion, according to a  statement  on its
website yesterday. Offshore investors will also be allowed to
pump an extra 50 billion yuan ($7.95 billion) of local currency
into the country, up from 20 billion yuan.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, has pledged this
year to free up control of the yuan and liberalize  interest
rates  as the government deepens reforms to revive growth and
offset slowing exports and a cooling housing market. China needs
to rely more on markets and the private sector as its export-
oriented model isn’t sustainable, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in February.  “More action on opening up their markets to outside
investment is definitely a positive,” Jeff Papp, a senior
analyst in Lisle, Illinois at Oberweis Asset Management Inc.,
which oversees about $700 million, said in a phone interview.
“It’s not a huge amount. They’re taking a small-steps approach
to see how markets will react with more participants.”  Chinese Stocks  The regulator had granted a total of $24.6 billion in
quotas to 129 overseas companies since the program first started
in 2003 through the end of March. About 75 percent of assets
were invested in Chinese stocks, with the rest in bonds and
deposits, according to the statement.  The CSRC accelerated the program last month, granting a
record $2.1 billion of quotas to 15 companies. It was more than
the $1.9 billion in 2011 as a whole.  “The QFII program enhances our experience of monitoring
and regulating cross-board investment and capital flows,” the
CSRC said in the statement. “It is a positive experiment to
further open up the market and achieve the yuan convertibility
under the capital account.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is seeking to attract international
investment as economic growth cools, prompting the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index to slump 24 percent in the past year.
The country posted its largest trade deficit since at least 1989
in February as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt turmoil damped exports.  Sustaining Investment  “Wen is signaling that China can’t afford to let
investment slow down too much,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong
Kong-based economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., who
previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and
 European Central Bank .  Separately,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  said that a cut in benchmark
interest rates or banks’ reserve requirements is likely this
month and could come as early as today after Wen said policy may
be fine-tuned soon.  China needs to break a banking “monopoly” of a few big
lenders that makes easy profits, the premier told private
company executives in  Fujian province  yesterday, as cited by
China National Radio.  Foreign investment under the QFII program accounts for 1.1
percent of the total market value of domestic A-shares,
according to the statement.  The Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of
domestic stocks has lost 31 percent since the end of 2009,
compared with a 26 percent rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks as of March 30.  Restrictions Remain  The increase of the QFII quota “certainly helps foreign
investors,” said  David Semple , director of international equity
at the Van Eck Emerging Markets Fund in New York, which oversees
$35 billion of assets, including Chinese stocks. “But there are
still restrictions in terms of the amount, the transparency and
repatriation of money. It’s still a long way from being ideal
for a foreign investor.”  The government has lowered the target for the expansion
this year to 7.5 percent from the 8 percent goal that had been
in place since 2005. Gross domestic product probably grew 8.4
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to
the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, down from
8.9 percent in the fourth quarter.  Chinese President Hu Jintao told U.S. President  Barack Obama  in Seoul on March 27 that China plans to “let the market
play a greater role, improve the flexibility of the yuan
 exchange rate , and maintain a basic stability of the rate at
reasonable and balanced levels.” The yuan’s effective exchange
rate has gained 30 percent since the link to the dollar ended in
2005, he said.  Asian Equities  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 0.3 percent yesterday, paring
its gain this year to 15 percent. Asian stocks fell today, with
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index declining 1.2 percent as of 12:45
p.m. in  Tokyo  after a report signaled that the U.S. Federal
Reserve may refrain from more monetary stimulus. Exchanges in
mainland China are closed for a holiday.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards  rose 0.1 percent to
6.323 per dollar in New York, indicating traders are expecting
the currency to be little changed over the period, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The increase of the foreign investment quota comes ahead of
a once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this year and
amid concern that the new government may not continue pursuing
the opening-up and reform policies that sustained China’s growth
since 1978. Hu and Wen will step down from their roles and let a
younger generation of leaders step in that will probably include
Vice President  Xi Jinping  and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang .  ‘Lasting Impact’  Bo Xilai, who promoted a larger role for state-run
companies to ease the wealth gap between the rich and poor as
the head of the Communist Party in southwestern municipality of
Chongqing, was ousted in March.  “Maybe one of the last points of emphasis for the outgoing
administration is to focus on some sort of reforms that have a
lasting impact -- opening up certain industries to foreign
participants,” said Papp, whose Oberweis China Opportunities
Fund returned 19 percent this year, beating 98 percent of peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “That could be the
bigger sign than what it actually means for the markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  