-- China Needs to End Big Banks’ ’Monopoly,’ Wen Says
-- B y   J i m   J i a
-- 2012-04-04T01:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/china-needs-to-end-big-banks-monopoly-wen-says.html
China  needs to break a banking
“monopoly” of a few big lenders that make easy profits because
it’s hard to borrow money elsewhere, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said.  The country can extend nationwide the successful parts of a
pilot program in Wenzhou in Zhejiang province that allows
private financing, including non-bank lending, Wen said
yesterday, as cited by China National Radio.  Wen is trying to deepen access to credit among small
businesses as part of efforts to rebalance the economy toward
domestic consumption and away from dependence on exports. He
spoke as Chinese regulators yesterday accelerated moves to open
 capital markets  by more than doubling the amount foreigners can
invest in the nation’s stocks, bonds and  bank deposits .  “These are potentially far-reaching proposals but we can’t
just assume there will be major changes on the ground,” said
 Mark Williams , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London 
who formerly advised the U.K. Treasury on China. “Efforts to
undermine the major banks will be fiercely resisted by those in
the banks, who are themselves major political players.”  China’s  State Council  last month approved a plan under
which Wenzhou will develop more types of bonds and allow trading
of unlisted equities, technology and cultural products. The
plan, first mentioned by Wen in March, seeks to broaden funding
channels for private companies, which compete for bank loans
with bigger enterprises, some state-owned.  Encourage Funds  The Cabinet asked Wenzhou to “regulate and develop”
private financing, encourage individual funds to set up village
banks or lending companies, and support state-owned and
commercial banks in setting up micro-lenders for small
businesses.  National Radio didn’t report Wen identifying any banks or
saying which parts of the Wenzhou trial may be extended. He
spoke at a roundtable with private-company executives in  Fujian
province , according to an article on the broadcaster’s website.  In its move to open up capital markets, the China
Securities Regulatory Commission increased quotas for qualified
foreign institutional investors to $80 billion from $30 billion,
according to a  statement  yesterday. Offshore investors will also
be allowed to pump an extra 50 billion yuan ($7.95 billion) of
local currency into the country, up from 20 billion yuan.  Loan Defaults  Earnings at China’s biggest banks are growing even as a
cooling economy triggers loan defaults. The five largest banks,
led by  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and Bank of
Communications Co., reported a 12 percent gain in total profit
in the fourth quarter of 2011, the slowest pace in two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Government tightening of new loans last year squeezed small
companies as domestic growth slowed and overseas demand cooled.  More than 80 indebted businessmen in Wenzhou, a city of 9
million people, committed suicide or declared bankruptcy from
April through September because they couldn’t repay informal
lenders, Xinhua News Agency reported in October.  China’s economy  expanded 9.2 percent last year after
growing 10.4 percent in 2010. The country posted its largest
trade deficit since at least 1989 in February as  Europe ’s debt
crisis hurt exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Jia in New York at 
 jjia1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  