-- U.S. Auto Sales Gain 13% in March, Led by Chrysler
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-03T22:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/chrysler-sales-rose-34-in-march-on-record-month-for-fiat-1-.html
U.S. sales of cars and light trucks
rose 13 percent in March, sending the industry to the best
quarterly  pace  since 2008, as buyers who put off purchases
returned to dealerships to find more fuel-efficient models.  Deliveries accelerated to a 14.4 million seasonally
adjusted annual rate from 13.1 million a year earlier, according
to researcher Autodata Corp.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Honda Motor
Co. missed analysts’ estimates, leading the industry to fall
short of the 14.5 million rate that was the average of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Automakers and analysts are increasing their projections
for full-year industry sales, citing pent-up demand from
consumers who delayed purchases during the recession. Buyers
found greater selection of cars, as well as sport-utility
vehicles and pickups that get better fuel economy. That boosted
demand as gasoline prices rose 20 percent since the end of 2011.  “The recovery in the industry that we’ve been experiencing
has some legs,”  Jesse Toprak , analyst with TrueCar.com in  Santa
Monica , California, said in a phone interview. “We’re going to
have ups and downs throughout the year, but the trajectory of
growth is healthy. The first quarter easily exceeded everybody’s
expectations.”  Quarterly Pace  Better-than-estimated sales for Chrysler Group LLC,  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and Nissan Motor Co. in March helped the average
U.S. sales rate in the first quarter accelerate to 14.6 million,
according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata. That’s
the best pace since the industry averaged a 15.5 million rate in
the first quarter of 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Analysts at Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup
Inc. and TrueCar.com last month increased their projections for
full-year sales. Researchers at the four companies increased
2012 estimates by an average of 550,000 vehicles to 14.5
million.  IHS Automotive said today it estimates 14.2 million light-
vehicle deliveries in the U.S. this year, up from a previous
estimate of 14 million.  “It may not be as strong as we’d like it, but there is
momentum in the  U.S. economy ,”  Nariman Behravesh , chief
economist for IHS, said today at an auto forum in  New York .  Chrysler, controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , said its U.S. sales
climbed 34 percent, beating 10 analysts’ average estimate for a
31 percent increase. Toyota reported a 15 percent gain and
Nissan deliveries rose 13 percent. Toyota matched and Nissan
exceeded the average estimate of seven analysts, which called
for an 11 percent increase.  GM Luxury  GM, the top U.S. automaker by sales, said its premium
brands lost ground in March, limiting its total increase to 12
percent. That missed 10 analysts’ average estimate for a 19
percent gain. Deliveries for Detroit-based GM’s Buick brand fell
16 percent and Cadillac fell 13 percent.  “GM’s got problems in Cadillac, which they have a solution
to with the ATS and XTS coming later this year, and Buick’s a
work in progress,” Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates, a
provider of auto-industry analysis in West Bloomfield,  Michigan ,
said in a phone interview.  Ford, the No. 2 automaker by U.S. sales, said deliveries
rose 5 percent, missing 10 analysts’ average estimate for a 5.5
percent gain. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s car sales
were mixed, with deliveries of the Focus compact rising 65
percent to 28,293 and Fiesta subcompact deliveries falling 34
percent to 6,502. Sales of the company’s F-Series pickups
increased 9 percent to 58,061.  GM fell 4.6 percent to $25.54 at the close of trading in
New York. Ford rose 0.2 percent to $12.64.  Sonic Sales  GM in March delivered 8,251 Chevrolet Sonic subcompacts,
which get as much as 33 miles (53 kilometers) per gallon in
combined city and highway driving. The company said it sold more
than 100,000 vehicles, including the Sonic, that get 30 mpg or
more in highway driving.  Galpin Ford, a dealership in North Hills,  California , saw
strong demand for cars like Focus and sport-utility vehicles
such as Edge and Explorer, owner Bert Boeckmann said.  “People didn’t buy for a number of years, so you still
have some remaining pent-up demand,” Boeckmann said yesterday
in a phone interview. “You have a more positive attitude from
people about buying cars right now, and you have people who are
justifying it on the basis of improving their mileage.”  Nissan Passes Honda  Honda fell behind Nissan to drop to No. 6 in U.S. sales
through the first quarter of the year after deliveries in March
declined 5 percent. Sales missed seven analysts’ average
estimate for a 5.3 percent increase as the Tokyo-based automaker
reported declines for its top-selling cars, Civic and Accord.  Nissan’s Altima was the second-best selling car in March
with deliveries of 41,050, up 27 percent.  Automakers have added 11 small cars to the U.S. market
since 2007, according to LMC Automotive, including the Fiat 500.
That model achieved record monthly sales of 3,712 in March,
according to  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler.  Deliveries of the performance version 500 Abarth begin in
the first half of April, Timothy Kuniskis, head of the Fiat
brand for  North America , said in a phone interview.  “To still not have sold an Abarth yet, I think we’re in a
good position to say things have turned the corner, momentum is
building and we’re having sustainable growth,” Kuniskis said in
a phone interview.  Prius Record  Toyota began U.S. deliveries of its 50 mpg Prius c hybrid
subcompact last month. The Prius “family” of four models,
including the original hatchback, climbed to 28,711 units in
March, a record for the model line, according to the Toyota
City, Japan-based automaker.  Toyota sees full-year sales for the industry of more than
14 million, up from a previous forecast of 13.6 million, said
Jeff Bracken, vice president of U.S. sales.  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ’s combined sales of its namesake and Audi
brands increased by 30 percent to 48,173, according to separate
company statements. The gain missed three analysts’ average
estimate for a 35 percent rise.  Affiliates  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  combined
to sell 20 percent more vehicles than a year earlier, beating
the average of five analysts’ estimates for an 18 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  