-- McIlroy Done Crying in Return to Scene of Masters Golf Collapse
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-04-03T16:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/mcilroy-done-crying-in-return-to-scene-of-masters-golf-collapse.html
Rory McIlroy nearly broke down
crying on the golf course as last year’s  Masters Tournament 
slipped away. The tears finally flowed when he spoke to his
mother on the phone.  “It was the first time that I had cried in a long time
about anything,” McIlroy said in a press conference today at
Augusta National Golf Club, site of the season’s first major
tournament. “I sort of let it all out that morning, and I
definitely felt better after it.”  The 22-year-old Northern Irishman said he is ready to erase
the memories of that day as he returns a year after the most
notable final-round Masters collapse since  Greg Norman  in 1996.
He has even found a way to laugh about it and at himself.  After taking a four-shot lead into the final day, McIlroy’s
margin had shrunk to one by the time he reached the 10th tee,
where he hit a shot into the trees on the left side. The ball
came to rest between a group of private houses, about 60 yards
left of the fairway, in an area of the course so rarely seen
most television viewers likely never knew it existed. He
finished the hole with a triple-bogey 7 and ended the day with
an 80.  Playing the downhill par-4 hole for the first time since
that day during a practice round last week, McIlroy joked that
he was surprised by what he saw.  “I can’t believe how close the cabins are,” he said,
drawing laughter. “It’s great to be able to laugh about it now.
It was such a blur.”  Simple Answer  By suffering the defeat on golf’s biggest stage, McIlroy
said he was forced to look at himself and figure out what went
wrong. On the surface, he said, it was simple.  “As a person and as a golfer, I wasn’t ready to win the
Masters,” he said. “I really needed to think about what I
needed to do to improve mentally and in different aspects of my
game to get better.”  When he finally watched the entire tape of the final round,
he discovered something even deeper. His body language was “out
of character,” he said. His shoulders were tucked in. He was
staring at the ground. There was no spring in his step.  “I was trying to be too focused, too perfect,” he said.
“That day, I was very insular. Sort of like I didn’t want the
outside world to get in, instead of embracing the situation and
saying, you know, ‘I’ve got a four-shot lead at the Masters,
let’s enjoy this.’ That was the real difference.”  McIlroy finished 15th behind champion Charl Schwartzel, 15
years after Norman wasted a six-shot lead entering the final
round and wound up five strokes behind the winner,  Nick Faldo .  Year of Change  Since the loss, McIlroy has changed agents, leaving Andrew
“Chubby” Chandler; shifted his focus from playing on the
European  PGA Tour ; and rejoined the U.S. PGA Tour full time.  He has done his best to help himself and others forget the
collapse. He won the U.S. Open two months later and briefly took
over the top spot in the  Official World Golf Ranking . He’s now
No. 2 behind  England ’s  Luke Donald .  McIlroy’s rise, combined with four-time Masters champion
Tiger Woods securing his first U.S. PGA Tour win since 2009 at
last month’s Arnold Palmer Invitational, has set up a meeting of
golf’s budding star and its biggest draw.  McIlroy said he welcomes the challenge.  “I’m in a great place,” he said. “I feel like my golf
game is in great shape. I’m coming back here a much more
experienced player and feel like a much better player than the
player that came here last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  