-- Clifford Chance, Cadwalader, Loeb, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-04T19:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/clifford-chance-cadwalader-maples-skadden-business-of-law.html
Ying White, previously the head of
 Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP’s (1117L)  investment funds
practice, joined  Clifford Chance  LLP’s Beijing office as a
partner in the corporate practice, the firm announced.  White also served as counsel, finance in the legal vice
presidency of the  World Bank , according to an April 1 statement
from Clifford Chance.  At Clifford Chance, she will focus on both onshore and
offshore funds formation for private equity and hedge funds, RMB
funds and offshore investments by Chinese institutions.  “Since the global financial crisis, we’ve seen global
private investment funds shift their focus to China, and at the
same time Chinese institutions and investors are increasingly
seeking global investment management expertise,” said Mark Shipman, Clifford Chance’s head of funds, Asia Pacific. “The
addition of Ying will not only help the firm maintain its
leadership position in this sector, but will also strengthen our
capability to meet the ever-increasing demand in  China .”  Spencer Griffith, the partner in charge of the Beijing
office of Akin Gump put out a statement wishing White well and
saying the firm “remains committed to our China and Asia
practices.”  Cadwalader Adds Justice Department Lawyer to Fraud Group  Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP announced yesterday that
senior Adam Lurie has left the U.S.  Justice Department  to be a
partner in the firm’s business fraud and complex litigation
department in  Washington .  Lurie joins one week after Ken Wainstein, former U.S.
attorney for the  District of Columbia  and assistant attorney
general for national security, joined the group.  At the Justice Department, Lurie was senior counsel to the
assistant attorney general for the criminal division. Before
that, he was an assistant U.S. attorney in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
specializing in securities and health-care fraud and corruption.
He was an associate in Cadwalader’s business fraud group from
2002 to 2005.  Walkers Investment Team Joins Maples in Caribbean Offices  Maples & Calder  announced the recruitment of seven partners
and three associates from  Walkers  to join the firm’s investment
funds practice in the Caribbean.  Partners Julian Ashworth, Heidi De Vries, Sheryl Dean,
David Marshall, Philip Millward and Gwyneth Rees, and senior
associates Philip Dickinson, Patrick Head and Lucy Nicklas will
join the Cayman Islands office, according to a March 29 
statement . Partner Tim Clipstone will be joining the firm’s
British Virgin Islands office, the firm said.  Maples said its global investment funds practice advises on
the laws of the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and
Ireland. Walkers has offices in the British Virgin Islands, the
Cayman Islands,  Delaware , Dubai, Dublin,  Hong Kong ,  Jersey ,
 London  and  Singapore .  In a March 30 statement, Walkers said that none of the
lawyers leaving are equity partners.  “Walkers has one of the largest investment funds teams
globally, which still consists of 55 investment funds lawyers,”
said Rod Palmer, the firm’s global head of investment funds.
“We will also shortly be announcing the relocation of several
senior investment funds partners back to the Cayman office.”  News  SEC Weighs Sanctions for Lawyers Who Advise on Fraudulent Deals  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigators are
considering extending the reach of enforcement actions in cases
involving complex financial transactions to lawyers who provided
the legal advice on fraudulent deals, Bloomberg’s Joshua Gallu
reported, citing an agency official.  “I’ve seen some factual situations where advice that was
given didn’t look like it was done in good faith,”  Kenneth Lench , head of the structured products unit in the SEC’s
enforcement division, said March 30 in  New York . “Something we
need to seriously consider in appropriate cases are charges
against lawyers.”  The SEC typically sanctions individuals who play an active
role in making false statements or material omissions to
investors, not the lawyers who advise them. Often, in matters
involving a company and its employees, the individuals claim the
lawyers signed off on the conduct in question, Lench said.  That claim presents a challenge for the SEC because
communications between attorneys and their clients are generally
considered confidential and not available to regulators who are
investigating a matter. If the company refuses to waive
confidentiality in the course of the probe, it can be difficult
for the SEC to prove that someone willfully violated the law, he
said.  Lench, whose unit is responsible for uncovering fraud in
structured products such as mortgage-backed securities and
derivatives, also said that the agency is prepared to pursue
negligence claims against individuals who didn’t take reasonable
steps to keep a fraud from occurring. Negligence is a lower
legal standard than intentional or reckless fraud.  First-Quarter Law Firm Mergers Continue to Rebound, Altman Says  U.S. law firm mergers and acquisitions totaled 14 in the
first quarter of 2012, a trend that reflects the continued
return of activity to pre-recession levels, according to  Altman
Weil MergerLine .  “We’ve averaged about 15 mergers and acquisitions in each
of the last six quarters,” said Altman Weil principal Eric
Seeger said in a statement yesterday. “The pace of merger
activity is holding steady at pre-recession levels.”  McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP (1263L) , based in Atlanta, combined
with  California ’s  Luce Forward Hamilton & Scripps (1320L)  last month,
creating a firm of more than 550 lawyers. The rest of the deals
involved acquisitions of firms with 20 or fewer lawyers or
mergers of small firms, according to Altman Weil, a legal
management consulting firm.  Some deals brought firms offices in new cities or regions.
 K&L Gates LLP (1142L)  acquired Marini Salsi Picciau in Milan, giving the
firm its first Italian office. Littler Mendelson PC acquired
labor and employment boutique Kiesewetter Wise Kaplan Prather,
expanding to Memphis.  Womble Carlyle Sandridge & Rice  (1188L) LLP added an office in
Columbia,  South Carolina , by acquiring Hall & Bowers. Carroll
Burdick & McDonough, a San Francisco-based firm with 72 lawyers,
combined with Schweiger & Partners, a five-lawyer, intellectual
property boutique with offices in Germany and Singapore.  There were 11 deals announced at the end of last year that
were completed in the first quarter, including  Bryan Cave LLP’s (1137L) 
acquisition of Holme Roberts & Owen and the merger of  Faegre &
Benson with Baker & Daniels.   For more M&A information from Altman Weil, see
www.altmanweil.com/MergerLine.  Richard Chandler Picks Team for Sino-Forest Restructuring  Richard Chandler Corp., the biggest shareholder of Sino-
Forest Corp., appointed a team for its proposed restructuring of
the forestry company, which filed for bankruptcy protection last
month, Bloomberg News’s Elisabeth Behrmann reports.  Bennett Jones LLP is  Sino-Forest (TRE) ’s Canadian legal adviser.
Osler Hoskin & Harcourt LLP is Canadian legal adviser to its
board. Moelis & Co., Goodmans LLP and  Hogan Lovells LLP (1131L)  are
advising the group of bondholders.  Sino-Forest filed for bankruptcy protection as part of a
plan under which the Chinese timber grower sold to bondholders,
nine months after it was accused of fraud by short seller Carson Block. Richard Chandler owns a 19.49 percent  stake , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Sino-Forest faces a range of complex problems,” David
Walker, an adviser on the forest products industry appointed to
lead the restructuring team, said in the statement. “A
successful restructuring which builds a long-term sustainable
plantation business will take a considerable amount of time and
a strong team to drive the process.”  Investors in Sino-Forest, once the largest Chinese forestry
company by market value, lost about C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion)
since Block’s research firm  Muddy Waters LLC  published a  report 
June 2 accusing it of overstating earnings. The shares plunged
74 percent before being suspended Aug. 26 amid investigations by
Canadian regulators and police.  Allen Chan , the company’s co-
founder, stepped down as chief executive officer in August.  The cases are In the Matter of a Plan of Compromise or
Arrangement of Sino-Forest Corp., CV-12-9667-OOCL, and Sino-
Forest Corp. v. Muddy Waters LLC, CV-12-9666-OOCL, Ontario
Superior Court of Justice (Toronto).  Deals  Express Scripts, Medco Deal Led by Skadden and Dechert Lawyers  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP (1112L)  lawyers led
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s successful $29.1 billion bid for rival
drug benefit manager  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)   U.S. antitrust regulators announced their unconditional
approval of the deal yesterday, clearing the way to create the
biggest manager of prescription benefits for corporate and
government clients.  M&A partners Howard Ellin, Lou Kling and Kenneth Wolff were
lead attorneys for Skadden. Clifford Aronson and  Ian John  were
the antitrust lawyers.  Dechert LLP (1154L)  developed the antitrust strategy for Medco,
with partners Mike Cowie and Paul Denis leading, according to
the firm.  The Federal Trade Commission said in a statement that an
eight-month investigation of the proposed deal “revealed a
competitive market for pharmacy benefit management services
characterized by numerous, vigorous competitors who are
expanding and winning business from traditional market
leaders.”  FTC Commissioner Julie Brill, who dissented, said in a
separate statement that the transaction is an industry “game
changer” that creates a “merger to duopoly.” She called on
the commission to take another look at the pharmacy benefits
management market in three years.  The companies, known as PBMs, negotiate prices with
drugmakers for health-plan sponsors, manage worker claims and
track patients’ use of medicines. Their profits are tied to
cutting their clients’ drug costs.  The proposed acquisition drew opposition from drugstore
chains and pharmacists, who have said Express Scripts and its
competitors have done little to slow drug-price increases.  The Dechert antitrust team included Paul Frangie and
associates C.B. Buente, Eric Cochran, Evan Davis, Jennings
Durand, Michael Frankel, Rani Habash, Sean Pugh and David
Stanoch.  For more, click here.  Law Firm News  Loeb & Loeb Names Majers Chicago Administrative Partner  Commercial finance partner Elizabeth L. Majers has been
named  Loeb & Loeb LLP (1300L) ’s administrative partner of the Chicago
office. She will succeed Daniel Frohling, who served since 2007,
the firm said in a statement.  Majers’ responsibilities will include general oversight of
the Chicago office, supporting practice management and lateral
partner recruiting initiatives. She will continue her practice,
primarily as special counsel representing institutional lenders
in the direct placement and restructuring of corporate
securities, in her new role.  “Our office has grown significantly over the past few
years -- now with 30 attorneys and a variety of new business
opportunities. I look forward to building on the success of my
predecessor and working closely with firm leadership to further
expand our capabilities and profile in this region,” Majers
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  