-- CME to Require Daily Customer Fund Reports Following MF Failure
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-04-03T21:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/cme-to-require-daily-customer-fund-reports-following-mf-failure.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, will require brokers to report daily customer
fund levels as $1.6 billion in client money is still missing
related to the bankruptcy of  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Holdings Ltd.  The daily reports, to begin May 1, must be signed by the
brokers’ chief executive officer, chief financial officer or
their designated representative, CME Group said in a notice to
its members yesterday. The exchange now gets customer
segregation reports on a monthly basis from futures brokers. The
loss of customer money when MF Global filed for  bankruptcy
protection  on Oct. 31 was a first in the futures industry.  “Customer segregation is the cornerstone of the futures
industry, and it is critical to ensure the protections afforded
under segregation are as strong as they can be for our market
participants,” CME Group, based in  Chicago , said in the notice.
It is acting along with the  National Futures Association , an
industry-funded regulator, and the Futures Industry Association,
an industry and lobbying group.  CME Group will also conduct limited reviews on a “surprise
basis” of customer segregation reports, it said. CME Group was
the designated self-regulator of MF Global, which included audit
authority over the brokerage.  Investigations  Congress, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Justice Department 
are investigating events surrounding the collapse of MF Global,
including the disappearance of the customer funds. The company
was run by  Jon Corzine  at the time of its bankruptcy, the
eighth-largest in U.S. history.  Corzine, 65, helped run  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  from 1994
to 1999. A Democrat who served in the Senate and as  New Jersey ’s
governor, he testified three times in December before
congressional panels probing the brokerage’s failure.  CME Group is also working with the futures industry to
institute a rule requiring that any disbursement of customer
funds that isn’t for the customer benefit that exceeds 25
percent of total segregated funds is pre-approved in writing by
the futures brokers’ chief executive officer, chief financial
officer or other designated official, the company notice said.  Futures brokers will also be required to file bi-monthly
statements detailing how customer funds are invested and where
the money is held, CME Group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 