-- Coal India Ordered to Sign Supply Accords With Power Utilities
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-04-03T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/coal-india-ordered-to-sign-supply-accords-with-power-utilities.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s largest
producer of the commodity, was ordered by the government to sign
fuel-supply agreements with power utilities to help increase
electricity generation capacity and cut blackouts.  A presidential directive has been issued to the state-owned
company to sign the accords, coal ministry spokesman N.C. Joshi
said by telephone yesterday.  Coal India  missed a deadline for
some agreements after its board disagreed on a penalty clause
linked to a minimum supply level of 80 percent.  The agreements will benefit power plants that will generate
the equivalent of a quarter of the current installed capacity in
 Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  asked Coal  India  to ensure fuel supplies in
February after meeting industrialists who stalled plans to spend
$36 billion on building  power plants  and urged him to resolve
the shortage.  Coal India hasn’t signed agreements with utilities since
2009, citing inadequate availability of the fuel, and missed a
March 31 deadline for some accords. The company will import the
fuel to overcome local production hurdles and pay a penalty for
failing to deliver at least 80 percent of the contracted
quantity, according to a Feb. 15 statement on the website of the
Prime Minister’s Office.  Coal India gained 0.6 percent to 343.30 rupees at close in
 Mumbai  yesterday, before the directive was issued. The  stock  has
gained 14 percent this year, matching the increase in the
benchmark Sensitive Index.  Zohra Chatterji, Coal India’s chairman, didn’t answer three
calls made to her mobile phone seeking comment on the directive.  Board Disagreed  The company asked for more time to sign the agreements
after the board failed to agree on the trigger level for paying
fines, Chatterji said March 30.  “The directive restricts itself to the 80 percent trigger
level and leaves other commercial matters such as the penalty
clause and imports for the board to decide,” Alok Perti,
secretary at the coal ministry, said by telephone. “It will
take about a week or so to start signing the fuel supply
agreements.”  The Children’s Investment Fund Management, the second-
biggest  shareholder  in Coal India after the government, said
it’s seeking compensation for harm caused to its investment by
the state’s directives to the company, including selling the
fuel at a discount to international prices and delaying
approvals for new mines. The fund may initiate arbitration if a
settlement of its claims isn’t reached in six months, according
to the letter dated March 27.  Output Target  Coal India’s output in the year ended March 31 rose 1
percent to 435.8 million metric tons and missed a target of 447
million tons after rains in August and September disrupted
operations, according to a statement on the government’s
 website . The production goal for the current fiscal year is 470
million tons.  The fuel supply agreements will benefit power plants that
will generate an estimated 50,000 megawatts, according to the
Feb. 15 statement. The nation had 192,792 megawatts of installed
capacity as of March 29, power minister Sushil Kumar Shinde
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  