-- Colder Weather to Replace Record Midwest Warmth in April
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-04-03T13:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/colder-weather-to-replace-record-midwest-warmth-in-april.html
The Midwest is about to get a dose
of something it hasn’t had in a while -- colder weather.  Average temperatures across the north-central U.S. may
reach seasonal levels or 2 to 6 degrees Fahrenheit (1.1 to 3.3
Celsius) below, according to  David Salmon , owner of Weather
Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Salmon said lows may fall to 30 degrees or below, which can
damage flowering fruit trees, in the northern Great Plains and
Midwest, including parts of Illinois, Nebraska, Iowa, Michigan,
North Dakota and  South Dakota  from April 9 to April 13.  “There might not be much of a cherry crop in Michigan this
year,” Salmon said by telephone. “If you like apples and apple
products, you will still be able to get them, though you might
pay more for them.”  Commodities traders watch temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand. The Agriculture Department said March 30
that corn acreage in the U.S. this year will be the largest
since 1937, and more than expected, as profit prospects improve
and warm, dry weather encourages farmers to boost plantings.  Record-breaking warm temperatures in March that set a
record for the month in  Chicago  prompted some fruit trees to
start growing across the Midwest, leaving them susceptible to
cold-related damage.  Last Freeze  Most farmers haven’t started planting corn in the Northern
Plains because it would invalidate their crop insurance to plant
before the last freeze date, Salmon said. While the official
last freeze date varies by location in much of the northern
U.S., it is generally in mid-April.  Warmth may return to the Great Plains by the middle of the
month, while temperatures in the eastern U.S. remain more
seasonal, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  In his 11- to 15-day outlook for April 13 to April 17,
Rogers said temperatures may be 5 to 8 degrees above normal from
the Rocky Mountains to Minnesota.  The normal average temperature for April 11 in  New York  is
about 51, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . It’s 47 in Boston, 46 in Chicago, 56 in  St. Louis , 61
in Atlanta, 64 in Dallas, 68 in Houston, 50 in Seattle and 61 in
Burbank,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  