-- Santos Urges Colombia Jungle Rebels to Stop Taking Hostages
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-04-03T18:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/colombian-military-captives-freed-after-14-years-in-jungle.html
Colombian President  Juan Manuel
Santos  urged the nation’s biggest guerrilla group to keep a
pledge to stop kidnapping after rebels yesterday released
military and police prisoners held for more than a decade.  Santos visited a police hospital in Bogota, where the 10
men arrived last night after being liberated yesterday in
eastern Colombia by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia,
or FARC. The men, some held for 14 years, were the last police
and soldiers held by the group, according to the Red Cross.  Military bombardments under Santos and a crackdown on drug
trafficking in the past decade have weakened the guerrillas, who
lost leader  Alfonso Cano  in an attack in November. The FARC must
do more to show it’s willing to end the conflict in  Colombia 
after vowing to end kidnapping for ransom, Santos said.  “It’s a step we value,” Santos said. “It’s not enough.”
The former hostages are in good health after enduring years of
suffering imprisoned in chains, he said after his visit.  The men will find a “completely different” Colombia than
existed in the late 1990s, when rebels strengthened by revenue
from cocaine sales overran towns in a wave of violence that
dissuaded international investment in the South America nation,
said Juan Pablo Vieira, an analyst at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s
largest brokerage.  ‘Kidnap and Kill’  “It was an everyday occurrence that the FARC would take
over towns and kidnap and kill police and military as a pressure
tactic,” Vieira said by phone from Medellin, Colombia.  The hostages had ceased to be a “negotiating chip” and
may have become a burden for the FARC, he said.  On landing in a rescue helicopter yesterday in the eastern
Colombian city of Villavicencio, the six policemen and four
soldiers were met by medical personnel. Some wore knee-high
black rubber boots often worn by guerrillas and new green
military shirts provided en route by the International Committee
of the  Red Cross , television images showed.  The men are reuniting with family, in some cases
discovering a parent has died during their captivity or infant
children have grown into young adults, broadcaster Caracol
reported.  ‘Prisoners of War’  The FARC,  Latin America ’s oldest guerrilla group, had
released images of the men, who it called “prisoners of war,”
during their captivity. Photos on the  Colombian Army’s  website
show them seated on a small hammock strung between two bamboo
poles with locked chains strung around their necks against the
backdrop of camouflage. The FARC still holds civilian hostages.  The men released include Luis Arturo Arcia and Luis Alfonso
Beltran, both taken hostage in southern Colombia in March 1998,
and Robinson Salcedo and Luis Alfredo Moreno, both captive since
August 1998.  They were the last military and police hostages held by
FARC, according to Maria Cristina Rivera, a spokeswoman for the
 International Committee of the Red Cross .  The FARC, a Marxist group founded in the Colombian
countryside in 1964, promised to stop kidnappings for ransom in
February.  The guerrilla group kidnapped 2,678 people between 2002 and
2011, and more than 400 haven’t been returned, according to
Fundacion Pais Libre, a Bogota-based group that tracks the
conflict. Some victims are presumed dead, the foundation said.  “There are hundreds of families that don’t know, have no
idea about the whereabouts of their loved ones,” Santos said
last night in a televised address. “It’s not enough to stop
kidnapping -- kidnapped civilians have to be freed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Walsh  in Santiago at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 