-- Commerzbank’s Shipping Loan Losses Seen Increasing: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-04-04T08:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/commerzbank-losses-from-shipping-loans-seen-increasing-freight.html
As soaring fuel costs and slumping
freight rates leave shipping companies struggling to pay their
creditors,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  may face shipping-loan losses of as
much as 441 million euros ($588 million) this year.  Commerzbank’s 2008 takeover of  Dresdner Bank  AG increased
its stake in shipping lender Deutsche Schiffsbank to 92 percent,
doubling the size of its maritime-loan portfolio, just before
the industry entered its biggest crisis since World War II. The
loan losses increase the woes of Germany’s second-largest bank,
which is already seeking to pare its balance sheet and raise 5.3
billion euros by the end of June.  Shipping loan losses probably will rise to 2.1 percent of
such lending at Commerzbank this year, Morgan Stanley analysts
Henrik Schmidt and Doug Hayes wrote in a March 20 note. That’s
more than the 1.8 percent projection for the U.K.’s  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , and the 1.5 percent or less at  Norway ’s
 DNB ASA (DNB) , Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  France ’s  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   “Shipping is one of the reasons behind Commerzbank’s
underperformance in the past 12 months,” said  Dirk Becker , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, by phone.
“It is a risky business, as risky as many parts of commercial
real estate. There’ll be a time of reckoning at some point.”  Commerzbank shares have slumped 60 percent in the past 12
months, partly because of its ties to the shipping industry,
Becker said. It’s the 5th worst performance on the 43-member
Bloomberg  Europe   Banks and Financial Services Index .  Buy, Sell, Hold  Of 36 analysts covering Commerzbank, 28 percent advise
clients to sell the shares, 28 percent rate them buy and 44
percent have hold recommendations, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares fell as much as 3.4 percent in  Frankfurt 
trading and were down 1.7 percent at 1.82 euros as of 10:33 a.m.  Commerzbank has the world’s third-largest shipping
portfolio, at $28 billion, according to Athens-based vessel-
finance consultant  Petrofin SA . The bank is already scaling back
its maritime lending amid rising loan losses in the industry. It
may reduce such loans further or even sell assets, said Guido Hoymann, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler.
Commerzbank may also have to take writedowns on its shipping
portfolio should competitors embark on asset sales, he said.  Container lines  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSK) , France’s CMA CGM
SA and Hamburg-based  Hapag-Lloyd AG (HPL)  all posted losses last year
because of soaring fuel costs and falling freight rates, mainly
caused by an oversupply of vessels. Many smaller and middle-
sized shipping companies in  Germany , home to the world’s third-
largest water-transport fleet, can’t service their debt and may
face insolvency, according to the VDR shipping association.  Unpaid Principal  “This is the industry’s worst crisis since World War II,”
said Max Johns, managing director of  VDR , based in Hamburg. “A
lot of the charter owners can’t pay principal to the banks
because of low charter rates. Smaller tonnage is hit especially
hard. Markets are really poor and we still have a certain
backlog of ships.”  The shipping industry’s troubles, coupled with stricter
capital rules for banks, Europe’s debt crisis and concessions
lenders had to make for bailouts during the global financial
rout, have caused banks to scale back shipping operations or
retreat from new lending altogether.  Thirteen of the world’s 19 largest shipping banks stopped
new loans to the industry amid an “extreme” vessel surplus
that cut cash flows and led to vessel seizures, Dagfinn Lunde, a
member of  DVB Bank SE (DVB) ’s managing board, said on March 9.
Rotterdam-based DVB, which finances 1,500 vessels through 450
loan agreements, is one of only six banks funding shipping. As
many as 100 were lending four years ago, Lunde said.  Balance Sheet  Commerzbank agreed to buy Dresdner from  Allianz SE (ALV)  two
weeks before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, in a deal then valued at 9.8 billion euros. The
bank received a bailout of more than 18 billion euros from
Germany during the financial crisis that followed. Commerzbank
is moving to cut its balance sheet to 600 billion euros by the
end of the year and will hold off on acquisitions until the end
of March 2014 to get approval from the European Union for aid.  The Frankfurt-based bank must also raise 5.3 billion euros
by the end of June, following tests by the European Banking
Authority last year. Last year it agreed to buy the remaining 8
percent of Deutsche Schiffsbank, which makes all its loans to
the maritime industry, from UniCredit.  “After the merger with Dresdner Bank, they doubled their
shipping exposure, which is what you could call a cluster
risk,” Hoymann said in a March 27 telephone interview.
“Commerzbank’s shipping portfolio is quite a big cluster.”  Share of Equity  Commerzbank’s shipping operations as a percentage of its
total equity stands at between 75 and 100 percent, according to
Fitch Ratings analysts Krista Davies in  London  and Christian Van
Beek in Frankfurt. That puts it ahead of Nordea AB, the Nordic
region’s largest lender, BNP Paribas, UniCredit,  Bank of China
Ltd. ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Royal Bank of  Scotland  and
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s biggest lender.  Only Germany’s HSH Nordbank AG, Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale and KfW Group, the state development bank, have
bigger exposures among 14 major lenders analyzed by Fitch.  Shipping loan losses of 2.1 percent at Commerzbank, as
estimated by Morgan Stanley, would be 378 million euros based on
its 18 billion euros of  ship finance  at the end of last year and
441 million euros based on the total size of its shipping unit,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Public Record  Company spokesman Maximilian Bicker referred Bloomberg News
to the public record for information on shipping loans.  Commerzbank will seek to reduce its shipping portfolio by 5
billion euros,, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  told
Germany’s Manager Magazin in an article published on March 22.
The company’s 2011 annual report said it is cutting back on
maritime lending.  Morgan Stanley is “cautious” about European banks’
shipping exposure as freight rates for dry bulk, container and
crude tankers “remain below or only just above cash break-even
levels,” London-based Schmidt and Hayes wrote.  Net shipping  loan losses  at Nordea  tripled  to 135 million
euros in 2011 as “weak market conditions in the tanker, dry
cargo and containership markets resulted in a general decline in
vessel values during the year,” the company said Jan. 24.  While freight rates have been raised and probably will
stabilize this year, the increase in bunker fuel prices will be
a “challenge” for the container industry this year, Hapag-
Lloyd Chief Executive Officer Michael Behrendt said on March 20.  Recent shipping company failures include  Korea Line Corp (005880) .,
 South Korea ’s second-largest operator of dry-bulk ships, which
sought U.S. bankruptcy protection in February 2011.  Non-Performing  While DNB’s  shipping portfolio  accounts for 7 percent of
all lending, about 22 percent of the non-performing and net
doubtful commitments are at its shipping unit. HSH Nordbank’s
ship unit accounted for the single biggest portion of the bank’s
total loan loss provisions of 654 million euros last year,
Torsten Temp, a member of the management board, said March 23.  Still, banks and clients usually find ways to overcome such
challenges and banks rarely become shipowners, DNB said in a
March 6 presentation in London.  To avoid foreclosure, shipping companies can give more
guarantees, raise additional capital, cancel or postpone new-
ship construction, scrap vessels, sell assets or cut costs,
while lenders can modify, postpone or waive covenants, stretch
repayments and provide bridge loans, it said.  Any decision by a bank to sell shipping assets may force
rivals to write down the value of their industry portfolios,
Bankhaus Metzler’s Hoymann said.  “This might trigger a wave of revaluations at other
banks,” Hoymann said. “Every guy in this industry is aware
that he could be the driving force for such revaluations at
other banks and that they’re all in the same boat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  