-- Company Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Hold at About One-Week Low
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-03T21:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/company-credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-hold-at-about-one-week-low.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk held at about the lowest level in a week.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
was little changed at a mid-price of 90.5 basis points at 4:54
p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. Earlier the
index fell as much as 1.1 basis points.  Investors pushed the measure lower after factory orders
rose 1.3 percent in February, Commerce Department figures
showed. That trailed the median estimate of 1.5 percent
according to 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Everyone is waiting for earnings to see new data
points,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate
credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York. He
expects “nominal earnings growth” in the first quarter, and
said a consensus estimate of 7 percent earnings growth for the
year “might be too aggressive.”  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched a more
than one-year low of 84.7 basis points on March 19.  Credit-default swaps tied to Dublin, Ohio-based  Wendy’s Co. (WEN) 
surged after a report that the second-largest U.S. hamburger
chain will meet with lenders this week to discuss $1.325 billion
in loans it’s seeking to refinance debt, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction.  Contracts on Wendy’s International Inc. climbed 100 basis
points to 315.3, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  