-- Wheat Declines as Rains in U.S., Russia Improve Crop Prospects
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-04-04T04:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/corn-gains-for-third-day-as-dry-weather-may-cut-u-s-crop-yields.html
Wheat dropped as rains in parts of
the U.S.,  Russia  and Ukraine helped improve crop prospects and
investor appetite waned after minutes of a meeting showed the
U.S. Federal Reserve may hold off more monetary stimulus.  Wheat for May delivery fell as much as 0.6 percent to $6.54
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, before trading at $6.545
at 12:16 p.m. Singapore time.  Showers in the central and southern plains in the U.S. and
the winter-wheat areas in Russia and Ukraine will help maintain
soil moisture, aiding crop development, Telvent DTN Inc. said in
a report yesterday. Minutes of the March 13 Fed policy meeting
showed it was holding off on increasing monetary accommodation
unless the U.S. economic expansion falters or prices rise at a
rate slower than its 2 percent target.  “U.S. weather conditions are favorable for the wheat
crop,” Adam Davis, a commodity trader at Merricks Capital
Services Pty., said in an e-mail today. “Risk-off sentiment is
also affecting all commodities.”  The U.S. is the largest wheat exporter, followed by
Australia and Russia, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture data released March 9.  Corn prices gained a fourth day, the longest winning streak
in more than a month, as supply from the last U.S. harvest
declined and cold weather threatened planting in the world’s
largest grower and exporter.  May-delivery corn rose as much as 0.8 percent to $6.6375 a
bushel, before trading at $6.60. Soybeans for May-delivery were
unchanged at $14.1675 a bushel.  Inventories (UGRSCNTO)  of corn in the U.S. on March 1 dropped from a
year earlier to 6.009 billion bushels, the lowest for the date
since 2004, the USDA said March 30. The southern part of the
Midwest, the largest U.S. growing region, may have cold weather
next week, the Telvent DTN report said.  “Cold weather may slow early planting progress,” Merricks
Capital’s Davis said. “This would be a concern.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net 
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  