-- Coty Low-Ball Offer Seen Emerging as Avon’s Best Option
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/coty-low-ball-offer-seen-emerging-as-avon-s-best-option-retail.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Andrea Jung will have a hard time
fending off a takeover by Coty Inc.  Coty Chairman Bart Becht’s $10 billion bid for Avon
yesterday is the lowest on record relative to earnings and sales
for cosmetics company takeovers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yet it comes as the world’s largest door-to-door
seller tries to turn itself around, weathers investigations into
possibly corrupt practices and seeks to replace Jung as CEO.  As a result, Avon may not attract other bids. The company’s
direct-selling model is an awkward fit for potential strategic
bidders such as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , while its legal troubles
may scare off private-equity bidders, said Rommel Dionisio, an
analyst at Wedbush Securities in  New York .  “This is something that the Avon board should seriously
consider,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  After initially presiding over double-digit profit growth
after taking the reins in 1999, Jung has since stumbled. By the
mid-2000s, sales in the U.S. had slowed as younger customers
defected to such brands as Sephora and Clinique. Overseas, Avon
found itself battling larger competitors such as P&G. Last year
came the bribery investigation, and in December Jung agreed to
stand aside as CEO, while retaining the chairman title.  Though Avon rejected Coty’s offer, it previously considered
buying the company, according to a person with knowledge of the
situation. Avon sees strategic benefits to a tie-up and may be
open to talks once a CEO is selected, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the process is private.  New CEO  Avon spokeswoman Jennifer Dwyer Vargas yesterday declined
to discuss talks between the companies. She said Avon is focused
on finding a new CEO and turning around the company.  Coty’s unsolicited bid was almost 24 percent higher than
Avon’s 20-day stock trading average, compared with a 30 percent
average premium for takeovers of cosmetics and personal care
companies worth at least $1 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Avon  shares  last closed higher than Coty’s proposal on Oct.
24 at $23.85, before the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
disclosed it had started a probe into possible overseas bribery.
The stock then fell 19 percent to $19.36 as of March 30, the
last day of trading prior to Coty’s disclosure.  The offer values Avon at almost $12.1 billion, including
net debt, or about 8.9 times the company’s 2011 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1.36 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That’s the cheapest for a takeover in the industry greater
than $1 billion, the data show. The median for the group is 14.8
times Ebitda. The bid of $23.25 values Avon’s equity at an 11
percent discount to its sales last year, also the industry’s
least expensive revenue multiple, the data show.  Opportunistic Bid  While Avon said Coty’s offer was opportunistic and
undervalued the company, the price may be realistic given Avon’s
slow sales growth and the uncertainty surrounding its CEO search
and investigations.  Yesterday the shares closed at $22.70, below Coty’s offer,
a sign that arbitragers who profit from mergers and acquisitions
are skeptical that a bidding war will break out.  “Just because one company makes a move, it doesn’t
necessarily put the target in play,” said  Connie Maneaty , an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York.  She pointed to  Carl Icahn ’s offer for  Clorox Co. (CLX)  last year,
which elicited no other bids and ended with Icahn withdrawing
his slate of board candidates.  Coty said it wouldn’t pursue a hostile takeover.  Legal Woes  Avon may be even less likely to attract other bids because
of its legal woes. In 2008, the company began investigating its
Chinese operations’ compliance with the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, which outlaws bribing foreign officials. That led
to the firing of executives, Avon expanded the probe to other
 developing countries , and the SEC opened its own investigation.  Coty went public with an offer in part because it wanted to
press Avon’s board to give Coty access to confidential documents
that, besides spotlighting potential cost synergies, might also
shed light on the internal investigation, Becht, 55, said in an
interview yesterday.  “The probe does concern us,” Becht said. “It is one of
the reasons we want to do diligence.”  Buying Avon would bolster Coty’s push into developing
markets and in skin-care and make-up. Coty has acquired three
companies in the past two years, including a majority stake in
Chinese skin-care company TJoy Holdings Ltd. in December 2010.
For Avon, a tie-up with Coty would allow it to add pricier
products to its lineup, which could boost earnings, according to
a note yesterday from Mark S. Astrachan, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in New York.  Iconic Company  A tie-up between Avon and Coty makes sense because “it
creates a strong, iconic beauty company all over the world,”
Becht said. “We are very good at innovation and marketing and
execution. We believe we can drive growth. We believe a few of
our beauty brands could be introduced in the Avon distribution
network and infrastructure and get us into  emerging markets .”  Savings achieved from synergies would be reinvested in
Avon, he said, declining to provide specifics in the absence of
due diligence.  While Becht said he was prepared to become Avon’s CEO, Avon
plans to continue looking for a new chief executive, Vargas
said.  “The board has been clear that with a new CEO, it believes
there will be greater opportunity to improve  shareholder
value ,” she said.  Hiring a new CEO “would not be helpful” in light of
Coty’s offer, Becht said.  In a note yesterday, Lauren Lieberman, an analyst at
Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said the offer, though lower
than other recent beauty deals, “may be relatively reasonable
as it stands” given Avon’s sluggish growth in the past five
years and need upgrade systems among other investments.  “With no clear CEO candidate at this point, being fairly
‘ruddlerless,’ Avon has fewer options than other companies in a
similar situation,” Lieberman wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in 東京 at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  