-- Coty Said to Flip From Seller to Avon Buyer
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-04-03T14:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/coty-said-to-flip-from-seller-to-avon-buyer.html
For months, perfume maker Coty Inc.
tried to sell itself to  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  with little progress,
according to people with knowledge of the situation. By
February, Coty’s board had finally lost patience.  Coty at that point decided instead to pursue a bid for
Avon, a company more than twice its size with $11 billion in
 annual sales , said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks were private. That culminated yesterday in New
York-based Coty going public with its $10 billion offer for the
door-to-door seller of cosmetics and skin-care products.  “We’ve been interacting with them and getting nowhere,”
Coty Chairman Bart Becht said yesterday in an interview. “We’ve
made a public announcement because we are hopeful their
shareholders will talk to the board.”  While Becht has been leading the negotiations, Coty had
expressed interest in a deal with Avon even before he joined the
company last November, said the people. Avon, also based in  New
York , rebuffed Coty’s latest offer of $23.25 a share, saying
that the price is too low and the offer lacks committed
financing. Avon is also focused on finding a new chief executive
officer to replace current CEO  Andrea Jung .  Avon rose 17 percent yesterday to $22.70. The stock slipped
0.8 percent to $22.51 at 10:10 a.m. New York time today.  New York Meeting  Coty made a verbal takeover offer to Avon at the beginning
of March in a meeting in New York that included Becht, Jung and
Avon board member Fred Hassan, the people said. Hassan also is a
managing director at private-equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC and
the chairman of  Bausch & Lomb Inc. (BOL)   The executives discussed the strategic rationale of a deal
and Becht expressed his concern about charges of bribery at Avon
offices overseas, the people said. Avon has been investigating
the matter, which caused its stock price to plunge, for the past
several years.  Coty then detailed its offer in letters on March 7, 19 and
30, according to an April 2 letter to Jung from Becht made
public by the company. Coty told Avon late last week it was
likely to put out a statement if Avon didn’t decide on the offer
over the weekend, one person said.  “We were surprised and disappointed that Avon’s board of
directors has no interest in a discussion to explore our
acquisition proposal,” Becht said in the letter.  Avon’s View  Avon sees some strategic benefits in a combination with
Coty and studied the logic of a merger for several months, said
a person familiar with the matter. It had yet to conclude
whether to pursue a transaction or not when Coty flipped its
position from seller to buyer, said the person.  Coty’s next steps, as soon as this week, will be to begin
meeting with some of Avon’s shareholders and to provide Avon
proof of fully committed financing, said two people.  Jennifer Vargas, a spokeswoman for Avon, declined to
comment. A spokesman for Coty referred to Becht’s comments.  Coty also said in the letter that it is lining up financing
with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker
 Byron Trott . Coty’s majority owner, Joh. A. Benckiser, and
investors in Trott’s BDT Capital Partners investment firm will
provide the equity financing, while JPMorgan will arrange debt
financing. JPMorgan, BDT and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s advisory
practice are all acting as advisers to Coty.  Benckiser Holdings  For Becht, a deal with Coty would follow purchases made as
 Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) ’s CEO until last year. During his
tenure, the Slough, England-based consumer-products maker
expanded by buying Durex condom-maker  SSL International Plc (SSL)  in
2010 and  Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Inc. (ARXT)  in 2008.  The companies have discussed the idea of Becht running a
combined Coty-Avon, and Becht said it “would not be helpful”
for Avon, which said last year it was looking to replace Jung,
to hire a new CEO in light of Coty’s $23.25-a-share bid.  Joh. A. Benckiser is the biggest shareholder in Reckitt
Benckiser and also owns luxury-goods maker Labelux Group GmbH.
The group is backed by the Reimann family, which has an
estimated fortune of 8 billion euros ($10.7 billion), fifth on a
list of richest Germans, according to Manager Magazin in 2010.
Peter Harf, who joined Joh. A Benckiser more than three decades
ago, runs the group.  While pursuing a deal with Avon, Coty also held meetings
with as many as 10 banks last week to discuss an initial public
offering as equity markets start to rebound, one person said.
Coty told the banks yesterday it would defer a decision on a
share sale in light of the Avon offer, the person said.  Coty’s main motivation for doing an IPO would be to gain a
public stock that could be used to fund more acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer Bernd Beetz said in a February interview. Coty
is interested in buying companies to expand in  emerging markets 
such as Asia and  Russia , Beetz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  