-- Croatia Rating Affirmed at BBB- With Negative Outlook
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-04-10T09:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/croatia-s-credit-rating-affirmed-at-bbb-with-a-negative-outlook.html
(Corrects country rating in last paragraph for April 3
report.)  Croatia  had its  credit rating 
affirmed at BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s  with a negative outlook
over concern that an overhaul of its labor market and public
sector will fall short and hamper  economic growth .  The rating, the lowest investment grade, is supported by
Croatia’s “political stability, its relative prosperity
reflected in its per capita gross domestic product of more than
$13,000 and its moderate though rising, net general government
debt burden of just under 50 percent,” S&P analyst Ana Jelenkovic said today in a statement. The rating in on par with
Iceland and  Tunisia .  Croatia, the second former Yugoslav republic set to join
the European Union next year after Slovenia’s entry in 2004, is
struggling to recover from a recession as domestic consumption
slows and  Europe ’s debt crisis damps demand for its exports.  The Adriatic Sea nation’s economy, which shrank 0.4 percent
in the final quarter of 2011 from a year earlier, is forecast to
contract about 1 percent in 2012, S&P said. A lack of
competitiveness and its relatively small non-tourism export base
are preventing the economy from recovering, it said.  The rating assessment is constrained by “weak growth
prospects,” sizable net external debt and high “euroization”
that hampers monetary flexibility and renders Croatia more
vulnerable than its peers to external shocks, S&P said.  Fiscal Consolidation  Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ’s Cabinet, which took power
after the ouster of the previous administration of Jadranka Kosor in December vote, “appears committed to accelerate the
fiscal consolidation and structural reforms,” which will help
improve the country’s growth prospects, according to the
statement.  The government’s growth strategy to increase investment by
state-owned enterprises backed by external funding may boost
domestic demand temporarily, the ratings service said.  “We remain concerned, however, that the government may not
address underlying structural weaknesses sufficiently such that
investment in the tradable sector is increased in the medium
term and the economy’s growth potential is restored and fully
realized,” it said. “We believe failure to front-load
structural reforms could soon lead to reform fatigue as
recession bites into public support for the government.”  The government in January pledged to cut the  budget deficit 
to 3.8 percent of total output from the 5.5 percent level at the
end of last year.  Croatia is rated an equivalent BBB- at Fitch ratings and
Baa3 at Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  