-- Crude Falls on Factory Orders Below Expectations, Fed Minutes
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-04-03T21:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/crude-drops-after-biggest-gain-in-six-weeks-on-supply-outlook.html
Oil declined for the first time in
three days as U.S. factory orders climbed less than expected in
February and the Federal Reserve said it’s holding off on
increasing monetary accommodation.  Prices dropped 1.2 percent after the Commerce Department
reported factory bookings rose 1.3  percent . The median of 60
economists’ projections in a Bloomberg News survey called for a
1.5 percent advance. Oil extended losses after the release of
minutes of a March 13 Fed meeting showed reduced urgency to add
monetary stimulus.  “The factory orders are negative and there is nothing to
get very excited about,” said Tom Bentz, a director with BNP
Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York. “The market is
reacting to the Fed statement.”  Oil for May delivery slipped $1.22 to settle at $104.01 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures have risen
5.2 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the American Petroleum
Institute said oil supplies rose 7.85 million barrels to 359.3
million last week. Futures dropped $1.12, or 1.1 percent, to
$104.11 at 4:36 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent crude for May settlement slid 57 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $124.86 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate was at $20.85, the
biggest spread since October.  The gain in February orders followed a revised 1.1 percent
decline in January, figures from the Commerce Department showed.
Slower growth in Europe and China indicate that sales overseas
remain a risk.  Added Stimulus  “A couple of members indicated that the initiation of
additional stimulus could become necessary if the economy lost
momentum or if inflation seemed likely to remain below” 2
percent, according to the Fed minutes.  The central bank last month affirmed its plan, first
announced in January, to hold interest rates near zero through
late 2014 as the economy may fail to grow fast enough to
continue bringing down the unemployment rate.  “The market didn’t get the insurance it was looking for,
in the form of further quantitative easing,” said Gene McGillian, an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut.  Futures also dropped after a Bloomberg News survey showed
stockpiles probably gained 0.7 percent last week to 355.9
million barrels. That would be the highest level since August.  “An increase in inventories would be bearish,” said
Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester, Massachusetts. “After the big run-up yesterday,
people are selling off a little bit.”  Oil Supplies  The Energy Department will release its inventory report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington. Crude inventories grew by 7.1
million barrels to 353.4 million in the week ended March 23, the
largest increase since July 2010, the Energy Department said
March 28. Supplies have gained in five of the past six reports.  “There’s no immediate shortage of supplies,” said Andrey Kryuchenkov, an analyst at VTB Capital in London, who predicts
U.S. oil will struggle to rally beyond $107 a barrel. “Today
there’s small-scale profit-taking after last night’s rally. The
upside is also limited on demand concerns.”  U.S. fuel demand dropped 0.1 percent to 18.2 million
barrels a day in the four weeks ended March 23, according to the
Energy Department. It was down 5.3 percent from the same period
a year earlier.  Oil pared losses earlier as gasoline futures rallied as
much as 1.4 percent and stocks climbed.  Equity Markets  “The market is very responsive to the equity market,”
said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in Chicago. “With higher prices of gasoline, oil
is going to be a follower.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent after
climbing earlier to little changed. Gasoline rose as prices in
Europe increased to a record, weakening the incentive to export
cargoes of the motor fuel to the U.S.  The Eurobob grade of gasoline traded at $1,202 to $1,210 a
metric ton for immediate loading in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp,
according to a survey of brokers and traders monitoring the
Argus Bulletin Board. It’s the highest price for Eurobob, which
was introduced in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil may fall to the lowest level since December if prices
drop below a “psych barrier” at $100 a barrel, according to
technical analysis from the Schork Group Inc.  After $100, prices may test support at the 200-day moving
average of $95.40 a barrel, according to a report yesterday by
Stephen Schork, president of the Schork Group in Villanova,
Pennsylvania.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 471,791
contracts as of 4:37 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 526,360
contracts yesterday, 19 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  