-- Curbing Female Reproductive Rights Raises Taxpayer Costs
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/curbing-female-reproductive-rights-raises-taxpayer-costs.html
Celeste Warden takes night classes
at a local  community college  as she works toward a bachelor’s
degree, and she’s got a job earning $14,000 a year at a local
non-profit. She helps care for her elderly parents, owns a white
Nissan Versa and has built up $1,000 in savings.  Warden is convinced she would have achieved little of that
had she not had an abortion in 2007, when she was an unwed, 29-
year-old woman with neither a college degree nor a steady job.  “I couldn’t have cared for a child -- I was having a hard
time at that point caring for myself,” she said in an
interview.  As restrictions on abortion and contraception have become
the subject of state legislative action and Republican
presidential candidates’ pitches to voters, arguments have
focused on the issue’s moral and religious dimensions.  Less attention has been paid to the  financial  implications
to states, businesses and women if governments impose policies
that lead to increases in unplanned or unwanted pregnancies. The
economic ramifications of such policies are important as the
nation recovers from the worst recession since the Great
Depression and governments work to reduce  debts  and deficits.  “There’s a simple math in place: more unintended
pregnancies mean more public costs,” said Bill Albert, chief
program officer at the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and
Unplanned Pregnancy. “Especially for the deficit hawks, it is a
penny-wise-pound-foolish strategy.”  Value of Life  Kristi Hamrick, a spokeswoman for Americans United for
Life, a Washington-based legal organization that seeks to
overturn abortion rights, rejected that conclusion, saying the
value of life can’t be reduced to dollars and cents.  “The unknown and absolute value of life is clear in what a
person brings to society,” Hamrick said. “Let’s look, for
example, at a girl who gets pregnant in college, does marry the
father of her child, works to raise this child, and he becomes
president. That’s  Barack Obama ,” she said, in a reference to
the life experiences of the president’s mother.  About 49 percent of pregnancies in the U.S. are unintended,
compared with 33 percent in  France , according to data compiled
by the New York-based Guttmacher Institute, which studies
abortion trends.  Medicaid Costs  In Oklahoma, where Warden, 34, resides, Medicaid paid for
the treatment and delivery costs for more than 70 percent of the
26,100 unintended pregnancies in 2006, the only year for which
state-by-state data is available, according to Perspectives on
Sexual and Reproductive Health, a peer-reviewed journal
published by the Guttmacher Institute.  For the Sooner State, which had the 10th-highest percentage
of such births among states that year, the price tag for
prenatal and post-partum care for the woman and infant was $55.6
million while the federal government’s share of those costs was
$117.6 million. Nationwide, federal and state government costs
for treating and delivering unintended pregnancies in 2006 was
more than $11 billion.  The National Business Group on Health, which helps large
employers structure health benefits packages, reports that most
of its 346 members include contraception because it saves money.
Employers who cover  birth control , at an average cost of about
$39 per female employee per year, end up saving about $9,000 per
female employee in any two-year period compared to those who
don’t, according to a  report  from the nonprofit, which doesn’t
take political positions.  “Contraceptive coverage translates to lower costs,” said
Debbie Harrison, the senior public policy manager for the group.  Family Planning Savings  Publicly-funded family planning services save state and
federal governments $4.3 billion each year, according to the
 National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy .
Contraceptive use saves almost $19 billion in direct medical
costs annually and reduces the occurrence of abortion, according
to the campaign, a Washington-based nonprofit.  The effects of an unintended pregnancy on women are both
personal and financial.  A disproportionate share of women who experience unplanned
pregnancies are teenaged, unmarried or low-income with higher
incidences of mental illness, unstable relationships, physical
abuse and welfare assistance, said Adam Thomas, a visiting
assistant professor at  Georgetown University ’s Public Policy
Institute in  Washington . Expanded access to contraception,
meanwhile, increases educational attainment and labor force
participation, he said.  Improved Lifetime Earnings  A woman with a bachelor’s degree on average earns $1.9
million during her working lifetime, 73 percent more than a
woman with a high school diploma, whose average lifetime
earnings are $1.1 million, according to a 2011  report  by
Georgetown University’s Center on Education and the Workforce.  “It doesn’t matter where you stand on abortion,” said
Albert. “At the very least, efforts to restrict abortions
should at least be coupled with stronger efforts to help women
avoid unplanned pregnancies, but that is rarely the case.”  Proponents of restrictions on some forms of birth control
and abortion rights say their positions also have economic
upsides.  Tony Lauinger, chairman of the Tulsa-based non-profit
Oklahomans for Life, said the shrinking number of workers paying
for the Social Security benefits of retirees could
“absolutely” be solved by banning abortion.  “We would argue that our nation would be a healthier
nation, a stronger nation, we’d have a stronger economy if we
hadn’t aborted 54 million potential taxpayers over the past 39
years,” he said in an interview at the snack bar in the
statehouse.  ‘Personhood’ Legislation  Oklahoma  is one of 38 states this year in which legislators
have introduced bills restricting access to abortion, including
a measure that would declare fertilized eggs as persons -- a
proposal that may have taken away Warden’s choice of an
abortion. Bills to curb access to family planning services have
been introduced in 16 states.  The so-called “personhood” legislation comes after states
passed a record 92 provisions restricting abortion rights in
2011, according to Guttmacher, whose data is used by both sides
of the abortion debate even as the organization favors greater
access to the procedure.  At least eight states reduced state funding for or access
to family planning last year. Clinics providing birth control,
tests for sexually transmitted diseases and screenings for
breast and cervical cancer closed in  Texas  after lawmakers
reduced funding by 66 percent, to $38 million from $111 million,
even though they didn’t perform abortions. That is also the case
in  New Jersey , after Governor  Chris Christie  line-item vetoed
about $7 million last year for the second year in a row.  Oklahoma Abortion Restrictions  When Warden had her abortion in 2007, Oklahoma already
mandated counseling, a 24-hour waiting period and parental
notification and consent for minors.  The decision “enabled me to not have to rely on government
assistance and to pursue an education so I can do something to
better where I live instead of being a burden,” she said,
noting that she probably would have needed government housing,
food and day-care assistance.  Since then, state lawmakers have made illegal abortions
after 20 weeks post-fertilization based on the presumption of
fetal pain. They also barred health plans -- including private
companies -- participating in the Affordable Care Act’s
insurance exchange from covering the procedure unless a woman’s
life is endangered.  Court Challenges  An Oklahoma law imposing new requirements for women taking
the so-called abortion pill has been enjoined by courts, and
another mandating ultrasounds for women seeking abortions was
struck down as unconstitutional on March 28. The number of
abortion providers in the state has fallen to 3 from a high of
18 in 1982.  Those laws helped Oklahoma earn second place, just behind
 Louisiana , in Americans United for Life’s  “Life List ” last
year. The list highlights states “leading the way to a more
pro-life America.” The group called 2011 “a watershed year in
the defense of life” and said “2012 holds equal promise.”  The latest proposal before the Oklahoma legislature, S.B.
1433, would endow fertilized eggs with the rights, privileges
and immunities accorded to those already born and builds on
nationwide efforts to codify into law the separate status of
fetuses, most often in the context of criminal statutes.  Opposition Mobilizing  The  American Civil Liberties Union , state medical groups
and  Planned Parenthood  oppose the bill, warning that the version
passed by the Republican-led state Senate in February would ban
abortion for all women, even those whose lives are at risk or
are rape victims, and outlaw some forms of birth control. It has
since been amended to include exceptions for birth control and
in-vitro fertilization and awaits a vote in the Republican-led
House.  Lauinger said the legislation is a written “commitment to
life” and modeled after a similar Missouri statute from the
1980s that hasn’t criminalized abortion. He instead points to
the bill’s “educational value.” Even if the bill fails, the
issue could appear on a statewide ballot this fall.  Ryan Kiesel, a Democrat who served in the legislature from
2004 to 2010, disagreed, saying nothing in the proposal “would
prevent a court or local hospital from acting against the
interest or the will of a pregnant woman.” Kiesel is executive
director of the ACLU’s state chapter.  Warden, meanwhile, said that while her decision was an
“emotional” one, she doesn’t regret it.  “I’m grateful for the fact that I had the choice because
financially, spiritually, emotionally, there was no way that a
child had any place in my life,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  Oklahoma City , Oklahoma at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  