-- Czech Premier Warns of Early Vote as Party Threatens to Quit
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-04T14:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/czech-public-affairs-party-threatens-to-leave-necas-government.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas
warned snap elections may be held quickly if the smallest member
of the three-party ruling coalition makes good on its threat to
quit amid preparations to cut the budget deficit.  Public Affairs yesterday said Necas needs to overhaul
government personnel in order for it to remain in the coalition.
The premier rejected the ultimatum, telling reporters in  Prague 
he “isn’t afraid” of early elections. Necas today set a
deadline of April 10 for all three parties to agree on their
continued rule with a “safe majority.”  The government must find 42 billion koruna ($2.3 billion)
in savings measures next year to reduce the public finance
 deficit  below the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of
economic output. The nation would need to hold elections “as
early as possible” if the Cabinet falls to give a new
administration time to draft a 2013 budget, Necas said.  “The government must, by September 30, present a credible
budget to Parliament, and this budget must lead to a deficit of
below 3 percent,” Necas told reporters late yesterday.
“Waiting until autumn would be absolutely irresponsible.”  Government plans to narrow the  budget deficit  have helped
curb the country’s funding costs. The yield on the Czech
Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to an all-time low of 3.433
percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
koruna was little changed at 24.615 to euro at 3:53 p.m. in
Prague.  Deficit Risk  “Early elections now would, at the very least, complicate
and delay measures needed to reduce the deficit next year,”
 Ales Michl , an economist at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, said by
phone. “That means there would be a risk that the goal of
cutting the deficit below 3 percent of gross domestic product
next year would not be met.”  The Czech Republic has a history of political infighting.
It’s had two minority governments and two interim Cabinets in
the past 14 years, stalling previous efforts to control the
budget deficit. In 2009, Prime Minister  Mirek Topolanek  lost a
no-confidence motion halfway through the country’s six-month
term as EU president.  Necas will meet with Public Affairs and the third coalition
member, TOP09, separately tomorrow and all three parties will
talk on April 10, the premier said in a statement. He offered to
overhaul the government’s program to identify plans that won’t
be met because of time pressure or spending cuts.  “If an agreement is reached, the government will approve
on April 11 measures required for preparing budgets for 2013 and
2014,” Necas said in the statement. If there is no agreement,
Necas will propose snap elections to be held early, with June 22
and June 23 being the best option.  Personnel Issues  The ruling coalition, which in 2010 won the largest
majority since the  Czech Republic  became an independent state 19
years ago, has repeatedly quarreled over personnel issues and
measures to cut spending. The government averted a collapse in
June 2011 in a dispute over the division of Cabinet posts that
had prompted a similar ultimatum from Public Affairs.  Public Affairs ministers will resign as of May 1 and the
party will leave the coalition unless Necas presents steps to
“regain the lost trust of citizens,” the party said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Necas has until April 26 to meet its
conditions and then present a new Cabinet, which would seek a
confidence vote in parliament, it said.  “I have informed the top representatives of Public Affairs
that the moment its ministers tender their resignations, there
won’t be any more room for further talks with the party about
the continued cooperation of the three coalition parties,”
Necas said in a statement late yesterday.  Internal Rift  Public Affairs showed an internal rift today before a
regular weekly Cabinet meeting. Ministers for the party have
signed their resignations, although they won’t tender them
immediately, Chairman Radek John said in a statement.
Transportation Minister Pavel Dobes, nominated by Public
Affairs, told reporters he won’t resign.  Since taking power, the ruling coalition has pushed through
measures to curb the deficit, including increases in the value-
added tax and the  retirement age  that the  International Monetary
Fund  said may eliminate most of the shortfall in the pay-as-you-
go pension system.  Public Affairs’ support in opinion polls has fallen the
most among the three ruling parties since the elections. It
wouldn’t pass the 5 percent threshold to enter parliament if
elections were held now, according to a poll by the Stem company
from Feb. 22 to March 2 among 1,096 respondents. The margin of
error was plus or minus 1.5 percentage points to 2.5 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  