-- Danamon Surges on Takeover as DBS Slumps: Jakarta Mover
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-04-03T10:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/danamon-surges-on-takeover-as-bidder-dbs-slumps-jakarta-mover.html
PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  climbed
the most in more than 13 years after  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) 
offered to buy the lender for about $7.2 billion in  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest banking deal. DBS fell.  Shares of Jakarta-based Bank Danamon jumped as much as 50
percent to 6,900 rupiah, the biggest intraday gain since Aug.
10, 1998. The shares rose 39 percent to 6,400 rupiah at the
close after trading was halted yesterday when the offer was
announced. DBS, Southeast Asia’s largest bank, dropped as much
as 4.2 percent to S$13.58, the steepest intraday decline in six
months, before closing at S$13.79.  DBS, in which Singapore’s state-owned investment company
 Temasek Holdings Pte (TMSK)  has a controlling 29.5 percent stake, said
it will pay its biggest shareholder 45.2 trillion rupiah ($4.9
billion) in new shares for its 67 percent stake in Danamon and
buy the remaining stock from others for 21.2 trillion rupiah in
cash. The 7,000 rupiah-a-share offer is at a 52 percent premium
to Danamon’s closing price on March 30.  “This is an extraordinary event,” said Abdul Ghofur Pahlevi, an analyst at PT Andalan Artha Advisindo Sekuritas in
Jakarta. “With the premium valuation and DBS’s intention to buy
the full stake in Danamon, the deal offers an opportunity for a
huge short-term gain.”  For DBS, acquiring  Indonesia ’s sixth-largest bank by assets
will help it branch out from Singapore and  Hong Kong  to tap an
economy that grew last year at the fastest pace since before the
Asian financial crisis. Trade and infrastructure finance as well
as corporate and retail banking are among the promising areas in
Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, DBS Chief Executive
Officer  Piyush Gupta  said yesterday.  Biggest Acquisition  The transaction will cost Singapore-based DBS about 66.4
trillion rupiah if all Danamon shareholders accept the offer,
making it the biggest acquisition by a Southeast Asian bank. DBS
said the deal is expected to close in the second half of the
year, subject to regulatory approvals.  “Investors who don’t want to deal with the immediate
complexities of the deal may want to move out,” said Anand Pathmakanthan, an analyst at Nomura  Singapore  Ltd. “There are
approvals to be got, and other regulatory issues.”  Following the takeover, Temasek’s stake in DBS will
increase to 40.4 percent from 29.5 percent, the lender said.  Danamon’s 3,000-branch network serves 6 million customers.
The Indonesian economy grew 6.46 percent last year, a pace
unseen since before the Asian crisis in 1997. It is forecast to
grow 6.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  