-- Deutsche Bank Says Talks With Guggenheim Partners ‘On Track’
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-04-03T16:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/deutsche-bank-says-talks-with-guggenheim-partners-on-track-1-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, said talks to sell asset-management businesses to U.S.
money manager Guggenheim Partners LLC are going as planned.  “Exclusive negotiations with Guggenheim are on track,”
spokesman Klaus Winker said by telephone today in  Frankfurt . He
declined to comment further. Guggenheim spokeswoman Michelle Lee
declined to comment.  Deutsche Bank in February chose Guggenheim Partners as the
potential buyer for its DWS mutual funds in the Americas, the
advisory units for institutional investors and insurance firms,
and its RREEF real-estate and infrastructure division.  Guggenheim Partners would more than quintuple its assets
under management with a purchase of the businesses, which
oversee almost 400 billion euros ($533 billion).  The Frankfurt-based lender announced late last year it was
reviewing the units, which may fetch 1.5 billion euros, people
with knowledge of the talks said in February. The bank plans to
keep its DWS mutual-fund businesses in Europe and  Asia .  Guggenheim, which is based in  New York  and  Chicago  and was
founded with backing from the Guggenheim family, manages more
than $125 billion of assets. The U.S. firm has about 1,700
employees at more than 25 offices in 10 countries, and is led by
Chief Executive Officer Mark R. Walter, according to its
 website .  Reuters reported earlier today that an agreement is
expected between mid-April and May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  