-- Dexia BIL Sale Terms, Belgian Arco Guarantee Probed by EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-03T12:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/dexia-bil-sale-terms-probed-by-eu-antitrust-regulators-correct-.html
European Union regulators will probe
Luxembourg’s purchase of a 10 percent stake in Dexia Banque
Internationale a Luxembourg SA and will investigate a Belgian
state guarantee for the cooperatives of  Dexia SA (DEXB)  shareholder
Groep Arco.  The European Commission opened in-depth investigations to
check that the Luxembourg government’s stake in Dexia BIL was
bought on market terms and that a Belgian deposit guarantee
program for financial cooperatives such as Arco didn’t give
those organizations an unfair advantage over other investors,
according to an e-mailed statement today.  Following the collapse of French-Belgian lender Dexia SA in
2011, the bank agreed to sell its retail and private-banking
businesses in Luxembourg to Precision Capital of Qatar and the
Luxembourg government. Regulators said they did not have enough
information to assess the value of the unit “given that the
proposed sale is the result of exclusive negotiations with one
private investor.”  Dexia, once the world’s largest municipal lender, was
broken up after losing access to short-term funding. The probes
add to another EU investigation into state guarantees for Dexia
SA from  Belgium ,  France  and Luxembourg. EU negotiations on its
restructuring with France and Belgium will be “complex,” the
EU’s antitrust chief,  Joaquin Almunia  has said.  Dexia Bank Belgium said in an e-mail that the EU
announcements were “normal procedure” and declined to comment
further.  Dexia BIL, Groep Arco and the Luxembourg and Belgian
finance ministries didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment.  Regulators must approve large government rescues for banks
and have required lenders to sell off assets to compensate for
harm to competition. Guarantees or government shareholdings that
aren’t made on market terms may involve a state subsidy. The EU
can order companies to repay illegal state aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 