-- DirecTV Asks Who Makes Decisions at Tribune as Blackouts Extend
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/directv-asks-who-makes-decisions-at-tribune-as-blackouts-extend.html
DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-
TV company, still doesn’t know whether it should negotiate with
Tribune Co. management or its creditors to end a blackout of 23
local stations, DirecTV’s head of programming said.  The satellite broadcaster hasn’t restarted talks with
Tribune because it’s not clear who has authority at the company,
Executive Vice President Derek Chang said yesterday in an
interview. Tribune responded in a statement last night that
management has the “full support” of its board to negotiate.  Chang said Tribune’s management agreed to a new contract on
March 29 allowing the satellite service to carry the local
stations and national cable network WGN America. The deal was
nixed a day later by Tribune’s creditors and debt holders,
including Oaktree Partners, Angelo Gordon & Co., JPMorgan Chase
& Co.,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to a
Federal Communications Commission filing yesterday by DirecTV.  “I sent an internal e-mail on Thursday night saying
basically we were done,” said Chang, who said he flew to  Costa
Rica  for a vacation, assuming an agreement had been completed.
“Still today, I don’t even know who I’m supposed to negotiate
with to get a deal.”  Chang said he had negotiated last week with Tribune
Broadcasting President Nils Larsen and agreed to terms on March
29 only to have Larsen call the next day to inform him there was
no deal.  No Recent Talks  There have been no further discussions and DirecTV still
doesn’t know whether Tribune Chief Executive Officer Eddy Hartenstein has the authority to sign off on an agreement, Chang
said. Hartenstein was previously DirecTV’s CEO.  “The only person who has reached out to us is the same guy
who was undercut by the board,” Chang said, referring to
Larsen.  Tribune said in yesterday’s statement that the satellite-TV
provider is misstating the facts.  “We never reached agreement with DirecTV on all the terms
of the contract -- not in principle, not by handshake and not on
paper,” Tribune said in the statement.  DirecTV also accused Tribune of transferring control of its
broadcast license to its creditors without permission, a
violation of the FCC Communications Act, according to the FCC
filing.  Tribune wants DirecTV to pay retransmission fees to carry
the local stations. On March 31, DirecTV released a statement
saying it had accepted Tribune’s financial terms to broadcast
the stations, noting that it would negotiate a separate
agreement for the WGN America network. About an hour later,
Tribune released a statement saying it had not reached an
agreement.  Second Thoughts  Chang said DirecTV had “basically” reached terms on
agreements for both the network and the local stations on March
29. The satellite-TV provider later was told that Tribune still
had concerns with the network portion of the deal, so DirecTV
decided to release a statement on March 31 that acknowledged it
had an agreement only for the local stations.  Tribune’s local broadcast stations and WGN America were
blacked out to DirecTV’s  customers  after midnight April 1. More
than 5 million subscribers have lost at least one channel,
DirecTV said. Tribune owns local Fox and CW affiliate stations
in markets including  Los Angeles , New York and  Chicago .  Tribune, the Chicago-based owner of the Los Angeles Times
and the Chicago Tribune newspapers, filed for bankruptcy in
December 2008, one year after a leveraged buyout led by real-
estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  Since then, the company and  hedge funds  holding Tribune’s
senior debt have fought for approval of a plan to divide
ownership among the lenders that financed the $8.3 billion
buyout.  “If you think about what’s happened to Tribune as a
company, it’s pretty sad what all the hedge funds and banks have
done to it,” Chang said.  DirecTV rose 1.2 percent to $49.94 yesterday at the New
York close. The shares have advanced 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  