-- Dogma Crumbles as Kasich Fights Own Party to Tax Ohio’s Drillers
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/dogma-crumbles-as-kasich-fights-own-party-to-tax-ohio-s-drillers.html
After ousting  Ohio (STOOH1) ’s Democratic
governor in 2010 by promising a “business-friendly” climate,
Republican  John Kasich  on March 14 called for higher taxes on
oil and gas drillers and environmental rules that his
administration says no other state requires.  As a result, Kasich, 59, a former U.S. congressman, Fox
News commentator and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. investment
banker, is fighting his own party over a plan that he says would
ensure that Ohioans, not just out-of-state corporate
shareholders, benefit from an energy boom.  “I’m the party line now, you know?” Kasich said in a
March 29 interview in Columbus, the capital. “I’ve never been
uncomfortable with traveling a lonely road. I think that’s what
leaders do.”  Ideology hasn’t constrained U.S. governors even as it
defines national politics. Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  has spent months rejecting a national health-care
plan similar to one he backed -- and bragged about -- as
Massachusetts governor. Politicians who still head states,
however, often pursue a pragmatic course.  New York (STONY1)  Democrat  Andrew Cuomo  changed public-employee
pensions despite opposition from unions and the state’s
Democratic comptroller.  Michigan (STOMI1)  Republican  Rick Snyder  has said
he won’t push laws curbing labor even as neighboring Republicans
 Scott Walker  in  Wisconsin  and  Mitch Daniels  in  Indiana  plunged
ahead.  Free to Operate  State politics is less polarized and governors can pursue
initiatives outside conventional ideology, said John C. Green, a
political-science professor at the University of Akron.  “Governors are not as doctrinaire in their policy
proposals as their parties are,” Green said in a telephone
interview.  The need for governors to balance budgets or respond to
local constituencies also can cause them to buck national
parties, as when Republican Jan Brewer of  Arizona  backed a
sales-tax increase in 2010 to ease a $3 billion deficit, said
Chris Whatley, deputy executive director of the Council of State
Governments in  Washington .  “National politics is out there as a background factor,
but ultimately what it comes down to is they are making
decisions based on very local constituencies and state
boundaries, not national litmus tests,” Whatley said in a
telephone interview.  Love for Shale  In Ohio, companies including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ,  Devon
Energy Corp. (DVN)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  have begun drilling in the
Utica Shale geological formation. The gas play will support
65,680 jobs and add $4.9 billion to the state’s economic output
by 2014, according to a study released Feb. 28 by the Ohio Shale
Coalition.  Under Kasich’s proposal, drillers would pay a tax as high
as 4 percent on the market value of what they extract. That
would fund an income-tax cut. Drillers also would face
regulations such as having to disclose chemicals used in
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The current tax is 20 cents
per barrel of oil and 3 cents per 1,000 cubic feet of natural
gas, according to the Taxation Department.  Kasich is promoting his proposal at public events by
holding up two dimes to demonstrate the tax, and he said one
energy company told him it expects to take a trillion dollars
worth of natural resources out of  Ohio . An income-tax cut would
help individuals and small businesses, Kasich said.  “Either Ohioans get the advantage, or they ship the
profits out of the state and reward their investors,” the
governor told reporters March 19, referring to oil and gas
companies. “It’s just that simple.”  Pushing Populism  Two days after Kasich unveiled his plan, the Republican-
controlled House of Representatives tabled it. The move was
backed by groups including the Ohio Liberty Council, a coalition
of Tea Party organizations.  They echo complaints by the Ohio Oil and Gas Association, a
group with more than 2,200 members, that Kasich’s plan would
stifle nascent development.  Kasich could cut the income tax without forcing drillers to
pay for it, and his “populist” regulations aren’t needed, said
Jerry James, the association’s leader and president of Marietta-
based Artex Oil Co.  “It’s all about good politics,” James said.  Kasich, who faces re-election in 2014, is trying to improve
his image after 62 percent of Ohioans voted last November to
repeal a law he championed to limit collective bargaining by
public employees, said Dale Butland, a Columbus Democratic
strategist.  The New Kasich  The governor’s approval rating was 42 percent in a
Quinnipiac University  poll  released March 28, his highest mark
in the Hamden, Connecticut-based university’s surveys. His low
point was 30 percent, both shortly after taking office and in
March 2011, a week before he signed the bill curbing union
bargaining.  “He’s attempting to give himself a makeover and say, ‘Oh,
I’m a nonpartisan kind of guy,’” Butland said in a telephone
interview.  Kasich, who said that he fought his party as chairman of
the U.S.  House of Representatives  Budget Committee in the 1990s,
said he’s doing what any good company’s chief executive would do
because “anything that stands still dies.”  Kasich rejects the argument that his plan will limit
development. Nor will he call it an increase, instead saying
he’s “modernizing” the severance tax.  Grover Norquist , who as
head of Americans for  Tax Reform  has persuaded politicians to
sign no-new-taxes pledges, blessed the plan as “revenue
neutral,” Kasich said.  Who’s This Guy?  Kasich also moved to protect the state’s environment with
tougher regulations on drilling and its wastewater. Fracking
involves injecting chemical-laced water underground to free gas
reserves, a practice opponents say may foul drinking water.  New rules are needed because “if Ohioans lose confidence
in our ability to protect public health and safety, this
potential boom will fizzle,” James Zehringer, director of the
Natural Resources Department, testified in a March 28 state
Senate committee hearing.  The Ohio Environmental Council is “pleasantly surprised”
by Kasich’s approach and is “going to keep working with this
guy,” Jack Shaner, the Columbus-based group’s deputy director,
said in a telephone interview.  Business groups that endorsed Kasich in 2010 haven’t taken
a position on his tax plan.  Roger Geiger, executive director of the National Federation
of Independent Business/Ohio in Columbus, said that while he’s
“a little surprised” that Kasich is taking on the oil and gas
industry, the governor is “not afraid of his shadow.”  “In the last two administrations, we had governors that
were afraid to be bold and afraid to be creative and
innovative,” Geiger said in a telephone interview. “No matter
what you think of this governor, I don’t think you can say he’s
not being bold and creative and innovative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  