-- Dollar Rises to Week-High Versus Euro as Fed Damps Easing
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-04-04T07:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/dollar-near-week-high-versus-euro-as-easing-bets-damped.html
The dollar rose to the highest in
more than a week versus the euro as signs of improving U.S.
employment supported the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to hold off
from increasing monetary accommodation.  The U.S. currency rose against all but one of its 16 major
peers before a private report forecast to show job gains held
near the most in two months. The euro fell toward the week low
reached yesterday against the yen as European Central Bank
officials prepare to meet on policy amid evidence of slowing
growth in the region.  Australia ’s dollar sank to an 11-week low
as data showed the nation had an unexpected trade deficit.  “The U.S. is much further along in the recovery process
than the euro area, and the Fed has confirmed this,” said
 Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce in  London . “The euro should continue to weaken
against the dollar. The questions over the periphery continue to
be very large,” he said, referring to  Europe ’s high debt and
deficit nations.  The dollar climbed 0.3 percent to $1.3189 per euro at 8:14
a.m. London time after earlier reaching $1.3182, the strongest
since March 22. It lost 0.1 percent to 82.69 yen. Europe’s
shared currency dropped 0.5 percent to 109.09 yen after reaching
108.70 yesterday, the lowest since March 23.  “A couple of members indicated that the initiation of
additional stimulus could become necessary if the economy lost
momentum,” the Fed’s March meeting minutes released yesterday
in  Washington  showed. That contrasts with the assessment at the
January meeting, in which some officials saw current conditions
warranting additional action “before long.”  Jobs Data  ADP Employer Services data today will show U.S. employment
increased by 206,000 last month, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That compares
with a gain of 216,000 in February, the biggest in two months.  Data from the Labor Department due tomorrow will indicate
applications for  jobless insurance  fell to 355,000 in the week
ended March 31, the least since April 2008, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. A separate report on April 6
will probably show employment rose by more than 200,000 workers
for a fourth-consecutive month.  “We are far below maximum employment and are likely to
remain there for some time,” San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said yesterday in  San Diego . “Under these
circumstances, it’s essential that we keep strong monetary
stimulus in place. The recovery has been sluggish.”  Growth Forecasts  Williams forecast U.S. economic growth of 2.5 percent this
year and 2.75 percent in 2013. That compares with estimated
gains in gross domestic product of 2.2 percent this year and 2.4
percent next year, according to median projections in a
Bloomberg survey.  The euro fell versus the dollar and yen before ECB policy
makers gather for an interest-rate decision today. Officials are
expected to keep the central bank’s key rate  unchanged  at 1
percent, according to all 57 forecasters surveyed before the
meeting.  Retail sales  in the euro-area probably dropped 0.2 percent
in February after a 0.3 percent gain the previous month,
according to the median estimate in a separate survey.  Nothing New  “I don’t expect anything new out of the ECB meeting,”
 Thomas Averill , Sydney-based managing director of Rochford
Capital, said. “The European economy is struggling in
comparison to the U.S. I think there’s very little economic
reason for the euro to appreciate against the  U.S. dollar .”  UBS AG said the euro may rise to a five-week high against
the greenback, citing trading patterns.  Should the 17-nation currency break through its March 27
high of $1.3386, it may extend gains to $1.3486, matching the
Feb. 29 peak,  Geoffrey Yu , a currency analyst at UBS, wrote in a
report today.  The euro has lost 0.8 percent in the past week, the second-
worst performance after the Australian dollar among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  The so-called Aussie slid 0.5 percent to $1.0277 and
touched $1.0264, the weakest since Jan. 16.  New Zealand ’s
currency fell 0.4 percent to 81.58 U.S. cents. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares lost 1.5 percent.  Australia posted a  trade deficit  for a second month in
February, completing the first consecutive shortfalls in two
years. Imports outpaced exports by A$480 million, from a revised
A$971 million deficit in January, the Bureau of Statistics said
in Sydney today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was
for a surplus of A$1.1 billion.  “There are some concerns that exports are really slowing,
and that’s pretty negative for the Aussie,” said Lee Wai Tuck,
a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 