-- Draghi Tested as German Pay Deals Add to Euro Divergence
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-04T09:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/draghi-tested-as-german-pay-deals-add-to-euro-divergence-threat.html
Wage moderation in Germany may be
coming to an end at precisely the wrong time for European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  As nations from  Greece  to Spain battle recessions and
record unemployment, workers in Germany are winning some of the
biggest pay increases in two decades, with public service staff
set to gain 6.3 percent more by the end of next year. That’s
widening the gaps between Europe’s largest economy and its euro-
area peers, making the ECB’s one-size-fits-all monetary policy
less effective.  “While the German wage deals are good news for workers,
Draghi is unlikely to be popping the champagne corks,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “ECB
policy is inappropriate for each individual country in the euro
area; it’s too loose for Germany and too restrictive for the
periphery. It could end up making the divergences even bigger.”  Draghi is facing the possibility of price pressures
building in Germany just as they wane in nations that have been
pushed into austerity drives by the sovereign debt crisis. Only
months after the ECB cut its  benchmark interest rate  to a record
low and pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of
cheap cash into  Europe ’s banking system to stem the crisis,
Draghi warned of “upside risks” to inflation and started
talking about how to withdraw the emergency measures.  German Reforms  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt today will keep their
key rate at 1 percent, according to all 57 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . The decision is due at 1:45 p.m. and
Draghi holds a press conference 45 minutes later.  Federal Reserve policy makers see the improving economy
reduce the need for new stimulus even as they stick to a plan to
hold the benchmark  interest rate  near zero at least through late
2014, minutes of their March 13 meeting released yesterday show.
The  Bank of England  holds its policy meeting tomorrow.  Labor-market reforms last decade increased Germany’s
competitiveness, transforming the economy from the so-called
“sick man of Europe” into the region’s locomotive. German
nominal gross wages rose an average 2 percent a year between
2000 and 2009, according to Eurostat, less than half the 4.7
percent annual average gain in Spain.  Now, with  unemployment  at a two-decade low and exports to
countries outside the euro area partially shielding the economy
from the debt crisis, German workers are asking for a bigger
slice of the pie.  ‘Turning Point’  IG Metall , Europe’s biggest labor union with about 3.6
million workers, is demanding 6.5 percent more pay.  Germany’s 2 million public service workers are set for a
6.3 percent raise over two years under an agreement reached with
the government, the Ver.di union said on March 31. That would be
the biggest increase negotiated by the union since 1992.  “The agreement will likely mark a turning point in wage
developments in Germany after years of wage restraint,” said
 Klaus Baader , an economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .
“Given the robustness of Germany’s economy and the continued
decline in unemployment, the fact that wage growth is rising is
not surprising. If anything, it is surprising it has taken so
long.”  Germany’s economy  expanded  3.7 percent in 2010 and 3
percent in 2011 before the debt crisis applied a brake. The
European Commission projects growth of 0.6 percent this year.
That compares with its forecast for a 0.3 percent contraction in
the euro-area economy as output declines in  Italy ,  Spain ,
 Belgium , Greece, Cyprus, the Netherlands, Portugal and Slovenia.  Rebalancing Process?  Some economists say rising German wages are part of a
rebalancing that has to take place within the 17-nation euro
zone. Germany, which has long relied on exports for growth,
needs to spur household spending, while peripheral nations have
to cut wages to improve competitiveness and export performance.  Greece has slashed its minimum wage by 22 percent as part
of efforts to make the economy competitive again.  Still, “the ECB is in a dilemma,” said  Holger Sandte ,
chief economist at WestLB Mellon Asset Management in Dusseldorf.
“It’s not an optimal currency area. The economy is terrible in
some parts and okay in others, and prices are diverging.”  House prices  in Spain plunged 11.2 percent last year; in
 Germany  they rose 5.5 percent, the most since the country’s
post-reunification property boom in the early 1990s.  Significant Risks  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann is among the ECB policy
makers to have begun talking of an eventual exit from the
central bank’s emergency lending measures, saying they entail
significant risks.  Draghi, in an interview with Germany’s mass tabloid Bild
newspaper, said he shares Weidmann’s concerns and “all members
of the Governing Council have taken to heart Germany’s stability
culture.”  “Exit talks are in large part targeted at Germans and
other inflation hawks concerned about rising inflation and the
emergence of asset-price bubbles,” said  Marco Valli , chief
euro-area economist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan.
“They want to show they have the tools available to tackle
inflation, but they’re nowhere close to a starting the exit.”  While Draghi will probably affirm his view that the euro-
area economy has stabilized, contracting manufacturing output
suggests the recovery remains fragile.  Inflation vs. Deflation  At the same time, euro-area  inflation , driven by higher  oil
prices  and tax increases, will breach the ECB’s 2 percent  limit 
for a second straight year in 2012.  The ECB predicts it will slow to 1.6 percent next year.
Still, the days of counting on Germany to exert downward
pressure on the rate may be coming to an end, said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup in  London .  Weak domestic demand and austerity measures will probably
result in deflation in periphery countries, giving the ECB room
to increase stimulus, he said, yet in Germany price pressures
are likely to remain elevated.  “As a consequence, we expect that in contrast to the
period since introducing the euro, German inflation rates will
be above the euro-area average over the medium term,” Michels
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  