-- Dutch Boy Seeks Economy Prize With Greek Euro-Exit Plan
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-04-03T14:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/dutch-boy-seeks-economy-prize-with-greek-euro-exit-plan.html
Greece  should quit the euro, revive
the drachma and slap penalties on those who try to avoid holding
the new currency.  The analysis of a Wall Street economist or a secret plan
hatched by European policy makers? No, it’s the proposal of an
11-year-old Dutch boy seeking the second-largest cash award in
economics after the  Nobel Prize .  Jurre Hermans of Breedenbroek, about 157 kilometers (98
miles) southeast of Amsterdam, was today awarded a 100-euro
($133) gift voucher for his effort to win the Wolfson Economics
Prize aimed at finding ideas for how  Europe  can best enjoy
economic progress even if a country leaves the single currency.  “I thought the Greek problems were too big and should be
solved,” Hermans said in a telephone interview today with his
father, Julius, translating. The crisis will continue because
“Greece still has too many debts,” he said.  His proposal, complete with a drawing that includes a sad
Greek person, suggested Greece leave the euro and force its
citizens to use an “exchange machine” to transfer their euros
into drachmas. The euros would then be used by the government to
pay back its euro-denominated debts, with Hermans using pizza in
an analogy to illustrate his idea.  Slice of Pizza  “Everyone who has a debt gets a slice of the pizza,” the
boy, who was 10 when he entered the competition, wrote in his
submission. “You see that all these euros in the pizzas go the
companies and banks who have given loans in Greece.”  Realizing consumers and companies may balk at holding the
new drachma because it “will lose its value dramatically,”
Hermans said those trying to retain euros will “get a penalty
just as high or double as the whole amount in euros he tried to
hide!!!”  “In this way I ensure that all Greeks bring their euros to
a Greek bank and so the Greek government can pay back all the
debts,” he wrote. “Of course, if a country has paid back all
his debts, he can return to the  euro zone .”  In suggesting Greece quit the single currency after more
than two years of crisis-fighting, Hermans aligned himself with
economists including Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  and  Nouriel Roubini  of Roubini Global Economics LLC. He wrote in his page-
long submission that he loved animals and playing with his five
friends. He hopes to be a zoo director when he grows up.  Shortlist  His proposal, one of 425 entries, wasn’t enough to secure a
position on the five-strong shortlist for the prize, the winner
of which will get almost 200,000 pounds ($320,280).  Roger Bootle 
of Capital Economics Ltd. and Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Jens Nordvig were among those named as finalists. The shortlist also
includes Neil Record of Record Currency Management, Jonathan Tepper of Variant Perception and Cathy Dobbs, a private trader.
A winner will be declared on July 5.  “Sadly, the risk of a country leaving the euro zone has
not gone away,” Simon Wolfson, chief executive officer of
retailer  Next Plc (NXT) , whose family trust is sponsoring the award,
said in a statement. “The ideas contained in these entries are
an invaluable contribution to tackling this important issue.”  Bootle, the founder of London-based Capital, and colleagues
proposed countries accept devaluation as part of the crisis
solution and embrace it sooner rather than later. Dobbs focused
on preventing capital flight by ensuring equal treatment of bond
contracts.  Nordvig, a managing director of currency research at Nomura
in  New York , and Nick Firoozye, head of interest-rate strategy
at Nomura, argued that the key will be addressing 10 trillion
euros of foreign debt. Record advocated a German-led taskforce
prepare a plan in secret to abandon the euro once any member
leaves it. Tepper said currency zones break up all the time and
what matters is the reason a nation wants to leave.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  