-- Measles Surge in Europe Raises Risks for Sports Fans
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-04-04T15:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/measles-surge-in-europe-raises-risks-for-sports-fans.html
Sports fans at the London Olympics
and  European Championships  for soccer later this year may face a
greater risk of contracting measles as vaccination rates drop
across the continent, health authorities said.  More than 6,000 cases of measles have been reported this
year in  Ukraine , a host country for the quadrennial  soccer
tournament , and the epidemic is expected to accelerate leading
up to the start of the matches in June, according to the
Stockholm-based  European Centre for Disease Prevention and
Control . Measles may also be a risk during the Olympics given a
resurgence in the virus in Europe, a mass gatherings and
infectious disease expert said.  Measles is one of the most infectious viruses for humans,
spread through coughing, sneezing and other direct contact with
infected nasal and throat secretions. A measles outbreak after
the Vancouver Olympics in February 2010 resulted in 82 confirmed
cases, according to the  British Columbia Center for Disease
Control . “Sub-optimal” vaccination coverage in the province
contributed to transmission, the local health authority said at
the time.  “Measles is highly contagious and there is a bit of a
resurgence happening in parts of  Europe , in France and in parts
of eastern Europe,” said Kamran Khan, a global migration and
infectious diseases scientist at  St. Michael’s Hospital  in
Toronto. “Certainly with any mass gathering, it’s a disease you
want to pay attention to.”  Tracking System  Khan is assisting U.K. authorities in disease surveillance
leading up to and during the Olympics. The Health Protection
Agency’s preparations include development of an improved Web-
based tracking system that allows clinicians to report serious
infectious illnesses directly to the agency from hospital
emergency rooms. It is also working with the  International Air
Transport Association , which will map the origins of visitors
coming into London during the Games.  The HPA has taken cues from the Hajj Muslim pilgrimage in
Mecca,  Saudi Arabia , the largest annually recurring mass
gathering in the world, with attendance exceeding 2 million
people each year.  The Games are expected to gather 11 million spectators,
according to Transport for London. The European Championships,
also known as Euro 2012 this year, is one of the sport’s biggest
tournaments after soccer’s  World Cup . It attracted about 1
million spectators in 2008 when it was held in Austria and
 Switzerland .  Infectious Opportunities  In addition to players and spectators, the soccer
tournament will bring hospitality workers and vendors from
around the region, creating more opportunities for infectious
disease outbreaks, Pasi Penttinen, a senior expert at the ECDC’s
surveillance and response unit, said in an interview in
 Stockholm .  The measles outbreak in Ukraine is attributed to several
causes including an ongoing shortage of vaccines since 2010
stemming from a weak economy and health financing problems,
Penttinen said. There has also been a lack of public confidence
in vaccines since 2008 when local media reported
hospitalizations and the  death of a 17-year-old  after the
teenager was inoculated against measles, even though no causal
link was established, he said.  As a result, the national coverage rate for two doses of
the  measles-mumps-rubella combined vaccine , the only effective
preventive measure, fell to 41 percent in 2010 from more than 95
percent in 2006, according to the World Health Organization and
ECDC. A national coverage rate of at least 95 percent with two
doses is considered necessary to achieve region-wide
elimination.  French Cases  France  reported about 15,000 cases of measles last year,
half the total for Europe excluding Ukraine, according to the
ECDC. An anti-vaccine movement is partly to blame for the low
inoculation rates, Khan said.  The outbreak in Ukraine is mainly affecting the western
regions of the country, particularly in Lviv, one of the stadium
sites of the soccer tournament. While Poland is co-hosting the
event, no such outbreak is occurring there.  “The Ministry of Health of Ukraine strongly recommends
vaccination against measles and rubella in sufficient time
before travel to Euro 2012, if football fans have not done so
already,” the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  Immunization against measles prior to arrival in  London  as
well as regular washing of hands is highly recommended, as food-
related gastrointestinal infections are also likely, said Brian
McCloskey, who heads the HPA’s health and emergency preparedness
efforts for the Olympics.  Disease Complications  Complications  from measles are particularly common among
young children and can include blindness, severe diarrhea, ear
infections, or pneumonia. As many as 10 percent of measles cases
result in death among populations with high levels of
malnutrition and inadequate health care, according to the WHO.  In the U.K. and the U.S., confidence in the MMR vaccine was
shaken after a study published in The Lancet medical journal in
1998 linked the vaccine to an increased risk of autism. The
Lancet retracted the study in 2010, saying some of the claims
“have been proven to be false,” and the British Medical
Journal called it a fraud in a report last year.  Immunization rates fell in the U.K. to about 80 percent by
2004, from 92 percent nine years earlier, as parents concerned
that the treatment was risky refused the vaccine, according to
the Health Protection Agency. For the quarter ended December,
the coverage rate was 86 percent for  England  and 80 percent in
London, the HPA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  