-- EDF Sticks to U.K. Nuclear Projects as RWE, EON Quit Vent
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-04-03T16:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/edf-sticks-to-u-k-nuclear-projects-as-rwe-eon-quit-venture-1-.html
Electricite de France SA , the
world’s biggest operator of atomic plants, remains committed to
developing nuclear reactors in the U.K. even after  Germany ’s two
biggest utilities abandoned projects in the country.  EDF has no intention of following EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , which
announced last week they’ll scrap a plan to build reactors in
Britain through their Horizon venture, Chief Executive Officer
 Henri Proglio  told reporters today in Paris. “The British
government is eager to develop new sources of energy and we will
accompany them,” he said.  All of Britain’s operating reactors are scheduled to shut
by 2035 as they age, leaving the U.K. with an energy gap of
almost 10,000 megawatts. EDF, with partner  Centrica Plc (CNA) , plans
two new generators at its site in Sizewell in eastern  England .
The company also intends to make an  investment decision  on two
new reactors at Hinkley Point in southwest England, costing an
estimated 10 billion pounds ($16 billion), by the end of 2012.  RWE and EON, which operate plants fired by coal, gas and
renewables in Britain, said March 29 they’re seeking buyers for
Horizon, a venture with sites in  Wales  and western England. RWE
said high costs of capital and leaner budgets as a result of
Germany’s forced reactor closures helped drive the decision.  Proglio declined to comment on whether state-controlled  EDF (EDF) 
would be interested in acquiring Horizon.  Government Issue  “The question of buying the German venture is more for the
government,” the CEO said.  EDF rose 3.4 percent, the most in four months, to 17.685
euros in Paris trading today, for the biggest performance in
France’s CAC40 index. Kepler Capital Markets raised its
recommendation on the stock to buy from reduce yesterday, 
urging investors to acquire the shares ahead of the French 
presidential elections later this month.  The future of nuclear generation in France has split 
candidates in the run-up to the elections. Socialist contender
Francois Hollande is seeking to reduce the share of atomic power
in the country's energy supply to 50 percent in 2025 from about 
75 percent now, a measure President  Nicolas Sarkozy  says will 
raise electricity prices and cost jobs.  France  gets more of its power from nuclear generation than
any other country. The nation shouldn’t abandon atomic energy
because EDF’s nuclear plants give it a “competitive advantage”
over its neighbors, Proglio said today.  Reactor Closure  Hollande has committed to closing reactors after 40 years
of service. A third of France’s 58-reactor fleet have operated
for more than 30 years, meaning they would shut within the next
decade if their lifespan is capped, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance data.  “There is no doubt any French government will benefit from
nuclear, so I’m not too concerned about it,” Proglio said. EDF
operates 95 percent of France’s electricity generation, and
closing aging reactors would reduce that share to 59 percent by
2025, BNEF said.  Hollande has committed to shut the Fessenheim atomic plant,
EDF’s oldest, within five years if he’s elected. The first round
of the presidential vote will be held on April 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris via 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Paris at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 