-- Mediaset Sells Endemol Debt to Exit Holding in TV Producer
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-04-03T16:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/mediaset-sells-endemol-debt-to-exit-investment-in-tv-producer.html
Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster
controlled by former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ,
agreed to sell its debt in  Endemol NV (EML)  and exit the investment.  Mediaset sold about 6 percent of the senior debt on the
market, its entire remaining holding in the Dutch TV producer,
according to an e-mailed statement today. Mediaset sold the
stake for about 72 million euros ($96 million), according to a
person familiar with the deal who asked not to be named as the
terms of the agreement were private.  Mediaset, its Spanish unit Mediaset Espana Comunicacion SA
and partners Cyrte Fund II BV and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  took
over Endemol in 2007. Endemol, which produces the “Big
Brother” TV shows, said in January a majority representing more
than two-thirds of its lenders had agreed “in principle” on
restructuring about 2 billion euros in debt.  Mediaset’s exit from Endemol is “positive” as the
transaction is expected to generate a capital gain after the
company had written down its stake in Endemol to zero in 2010,
Daniele Ridolfi, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, said in a
note today. The brokerage also said the cost-cutting plan
implemented by several broadcasters may “put pressure” on
Endemol’s revenue in the future.  Mediaset fell  0.4 percent to 2.032 euros in Milan, giving
the company a market value of 2.4 billion euros. The stock has
dropped 55 percent in the past year.  Collaboration Opportunities  “We’ve enjoyed a long commercial relationship with
Mediaset,” said Charlie Armitstead, a spokesman for Endemol.
“We’re confident that there continue to be lots of strong
opportunities going forward and we can work together on a strong
future collaboration.”  Apollo Global Management and Cyrte Fund II agreed to take
on the majority of Endemol debt held by other creditors and
become the TV producer’s biggest shareholders as they’ll convert
the loans into shares, according to comments by Cyrte founder
Frank Botman in an interview with Dutch newspaper NRC
Handelsblad published on March 23. The comments were confirmed
by Eric Bosman, a spokesman for Cyrte shareholder  Delta Lloyd
NV. (DL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  