-- Emerging Stocks Rise on China, U.S. Data; Danamon Surges
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-04-03T21:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/emerging-stocks-rise-on-china-u-s-data-danamon-surges.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to the
highest level in a week after reports showing growth in  China ’s
services industries last month and a climb in U.S. factory
orders in February boosted global optimism.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.8 percent to
1055.63 at the close in New York, led by consumer discretionary
and industrial companies.  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  led gains,
surging 39 percent after  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  offered to buy
the lender for about $7.2 billion.  Brazil ’s  Anhanguera
Educacional Participacoes SA (AEDU3)  reached the highest level in five
months. Russia’s  Micex index (INDEXCF)  rose the most in three weeks, led
by  OAO Mechel (MTLR) .  China’s  non-manufacturing  industries expanded in March at a
faster pace than in February, according to data from the
National Bureau of Statistics and the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing. Factory orders in the U.S. rose 1.3
percent in February, after falling a revised 1.1 percent in
January, a Commerce Department report showed. The February data
trailed the median forecast by 0.2 percentage points.  “You continue to have moderately improving macroeconomic
data, both in the U.S. and  emerging markets ,”  Tim Hall , who
manages $700 million at Deltec Asset Management in New York,
said by phone. U.S. economic growth indicators are “enough to
appease the market at the moment.”  Fed Minutes  The  IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
fell 0.6 percent to $43.29, after earlier gaining as much as 0.5
percent.  The loss deepened as U.S. Federal Reserve minutes showed
central bankers saw no need for more monetary stimulus unless
economic growth slows.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 1.1 percent to 25.51.  Emerging-market stocks have advanced 15 percent this year,
compared with 11 percent gains for developed-nation shares. The
MSCI developing-nation gauge trades at 10.7 times estimated
earnings, compared with the 12.8 multiple for  developed-country
stocks .  Brazil’s Bovespa slipped 1.4 percent as oil producers
followed crude lower.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  lost
5.6 percent. Anhanguera, the country’s largest education
company, rose 5.8 percent.  Russian gross domestic product  expanded 4.8 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier after an upwardly revised 5
percent in the previous three months, the Federal Statistics
Service said in an e-mailed statement today. The Economy
Ministry had estimated growth at 4.9 percent.  The  Micex index  gained 1.8 percent as  Mechel (MTLR)  rose 3.9
percent.  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , the nation’s biggest bank, gained 2.9
percent.  Danamon Offer  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  jumped 1.2 percent as Danamon,
owned by  Singapore ’s state-investment company Temasek Holdings
Pte, jumped the most since April 1999 after DBS offered to buy
the lender in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest banking deal.  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 1 percent in  Seoul .  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s biggest carmaker, rose 6.3 percent to a
record as the company sold 382,659 vehicles in March, an 18
percent increase from a year earlier, according to a regulatory
filing.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell twelve basis point, or 0.12
percentage point, to 331, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  