-- Emin Joins Blumenthal as British Airways Shows off Menu
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-04-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/emin-joins-blumenthal-s-party-as-british-airways-shows-off-menu.html
Heston Blumenthal , the Fat Duck
owner whose dishes include a seafood concoction to be consumed
while listening to the sound of crashing waves, last night
presented his latest culinary creation: Airline food.  The Olympic Games menus for  British Airways (BAY) , developed with
fellow chef Simon Hulstone, will be served for two weeks at a
pop-up restaurant designed as an airliner in east London. The
meals are strong in savory umami flavors that still pack a punch
in the air, so expect fish pie, mackerel, parmesan, mustard and
pickled cucumber, though not combined in a single dish.  “People were expecting Heston dishes like snail porridge,
but we were never going to do that,” Hulstone, 37, said in an
interview. “What we wanted was comfort food that will divert
people’s attention from flying and that is recognizable to all
our customers. We went back to the airline menus from the time
of the last  London  Olympics, in 1948, for inspiration.”  Hulstone created four menus, which will be available on
long-haul flights from  London Heathrow  from July in First, Club,
World Traveller Plus and World Traveller cabins.  Blumenthal attended a party last night at the temporary
venue, BA2012, on Shoreditch High Street. He was accompanied by
the artist Tracey Emin and the actor Richard E. Grant, who are
both mentors in a British Airways-sponsored program.  The bad news for those of us who are not celebrities is
that the restaurant is fully booked for its entire nightly run
through April 17. Non-diners may still get a drink at the
gallery and visit the cinema. We may also try for cancellations.  Pie in Sky  The Club class menu features starters such as golden
beetroot, with goat’s cheese and elderflower dressing; or gin &
tonic cured smoked salmon. The main is fish pie with hake, with
parmesan pomme puree and a warm tartare sauce; the dessert is
lemon curd cheesecake with raspberry and basil compote.  Passengers flying First may dine on rillette of mackerel
dressed on a pickled cucumber carpaccio with sourdough croutons;
main of potted braised beef, with a potato and horseradish
topping served with hispi cabbage, baby carrots and roasted
shallots with a rich jus; dessert is chilled chocolate fondant
with a salted caramel liquid center, caramel sauce and spun
sugar topped with hazelnuts.  Hulstone, who owns the Elephant, in Torquay, spent the past
year being mentored by Blumenthal as part of the BA Great
Britons program, which supports British talent in the run-up to
the  London 2012 Games , from July 27 to Aug. 12.  “The dishes celebrate our rich history and British talent
at its best,” Blumenthal said in a statement. “As a mentor,
chef and friend, I’m very proud of what he has achieved.”  Mission Impossible  Blumenthal previously tried to improve airline food in an
episode of the Channel 4 series, “Heston’s  Mission
Impossible .”  By contrast to the current dishes, here’s the luncheon menu
from British Overseas Airways Corp. flight on Aug. 17, 1948:
consomme royale; Cape salmon mayonnaise; cold roast chicken, ox
tongue, corned silverside; potato salad, green salad, pineapple
salad; peaches & cream; cheese, dessert, biscuits; tea, coffee.  Emin supported  Pascal Anson  on a design entitled the Dove
for celebratory aircraft for the Games. Grant worked with
scriptwriter Prasanna Puwanarajah on a short film, “Boy,”
starring Timothy Spall, which follows the story of a track
cyclist and his father.  BA2012, 3-10 Shoreditch High Street, London, E1 6PG.
Information: +44-20-7307-3132 (weekdays 3 p.m. to 9 p.m.)  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 