-- Encana-Talisman in Play as Petronas Seeks Canadian Gas: Real M&A
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-04-03T14:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/encana-talisman-in-play-as-petronas-seeks-canadian-gas-real-m-a.html
Malaysia’s bid to secure natural gas
supplies in  Canada  is turning  Encana Corp. (ECA)  and Talisman Energy
Inc. into two of the industry’s cheapest targets.  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the state-owned  oil company  known
as  Petronas (PET) , is studying a Canadian acquisition of more than $5
billion, Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas said in an
interview last week with Bloomberg News. Encana is searching for
partners to fund drilling and is worth just $1.50 per thousand
cubic feet of gas reserves, the least among producers in Canada,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Encana and Talisman,
which is spending less on extracting natural gas after prices
fell to a 10-year low, are also the two cheapest versus output.  Petronas joins Asian companies such as PetroChina Co.,
Mitsubishi Corp. and Cnooc Ltd. in seeking production in  North
America , where a boom in shale-gas exploration lowered natural-
gas prices to less than 15 percent of benchmark prices in Asia.
Encana, Canada’s biggest natural-gas producer, and  Talisman (TLM) ,
which has assets in British Columbia and  Pennsylvania , as well
as gas fields off the coasts of Malaysia and  Indonesia , may make
sense for Petronas, First Asset Investment Management Inc. said.  For Asian buyers such as Petronas, “it’s really about
access to resources,” John Stephenson, who helps manage $2.7
billion at First Asset Investment in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “They’re locking in long-term reserves to
feed a growing economy, so it’s both a political and strategic
imperative. Even adding in the cost of shipping, you’d be making
a ton of money” importing from North America, he said.  ‘Willing to Talk’  Carol Howes, a spokeswoman for Encana, and Talisman’s David Mann, declined to comment on whether their companies have been
approached by Petronas about an acquisition. Both energy
producers are based in Calgary.  First Asset’s Stephenson said in addition to Encana and
Talisman,  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  could also be a likely
target if Petronas decided to pursue a smaller deal. In August,
Petronas bought a 50 percent stake in three natural-gas fields
in British Columbia from Calgary-based Progress Energy. Its
 stock  jumped 7.9 percent yesterday.  “Our talks with Petronas have been strictly related to our
joint-venture activities,” Progress Energy CEO Michael R. Culbert said in a telephone interview.  When asked whether the company would consider talks with
Petronas about a takeover, he said “if it maximizes shareholder
value then we’re always willing to talk to anybody.”  Azman Ibrahim, a spokesman at Petronas, declined to comment
on whether it had approached Encana, Talisman or Progress Energy
about an acquisition.  Going Big  A purchase of more than $5 billion would be twice as large
as any deal that Petronas has ever completed. In 2008, Petronas
agreed to pay $2 billion for a 40 percent stake in Santos Ltd.’s
Gladstone LNG project in  Australia .  “This is going to be big,” 59-year-old Shamsul, said in a
March 30 interview on the 81st floor of the company’s  twin
towers  headquarters in  Kuala Lumpur . “There are quite a few
candidates out there, who are willing to talk.”  He said a deal may be announced within three months.  Petronas (PET)  has embarked on a worldwide review of its energy
assets since Shamsul took over as CEO in February 2010 and plans
to spend a record 300 billion ringgit ($98 billion) over five
years to help replenish  Malaysia ’s diminishing reserves and
secure supplies that can be guaranteed over time.  The company’s total oil and gas production globally has
declined for two consecutive years, decreasing to 2.14 million
barrels of oil equivalent per day in its fiscal year ended March
2011, according to its  annual report .  Natural Gas Appeal  Petronas is now eyeing energy producers in Canada as the
development of so-called hydraulic fracturing to extract gas
trapped in shale rock has caused the price of natural gas in
North America to plummet, even as Asian import prices surge.  Gas fell to $2.13 per million British thermal units last
week on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest since
February 2002. The price of liquefied natural-gas  imports  from
the U.S. to  Japan  was $16.76 per million British thermal units
as of Jan. 31, more than doubling in the past five years,
according to the most recent data.  Encana’s assets could appeal to Petronas because the
company is cheap relative to reserves and also has a significant
amount of land, according to  Robert Lutts , who oversees about
$500 million as president of Cabot Money Management Inc. in
Salem,  Massachusetts .  The company, which has a market value of $14.5 billion, is
worth about $1.50 for every thousand cubic feet of natural gas
in its reserves, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  That’s about half as much as the average for independent
oil and gas producer in North America and the cheapest of any
one in Canada with at least $1 billion in market value.  Encana also had almost 12 million net acres of land across
North America, more than twice the size of  New Jersey , Executive
Vice President Eric Marsh said at a Feb. 7 conference.  “The number-one reason it would be attractive is because
they have significant natural-gas assets,” Lutts said in a
telephone interview. “And of course, natural-gas pricing where
Petronas is from has substantially higher costs, so it could be
a potential fit to their needs. Given the values that it’s
trading at, it is a candidate to be acquired.”  Encana said yesterday that it is looking to sell minority
stakes to help fund drilling on 1.58 million acres of oil and
gas-liquids fields in the U.S. and Canada.  The company, which fell 41 percent in the past year, is
selling assets, scaling back natural-gas production and entering
into partnerships to help cover costs as a drop in gas prices
helped cause earnings to  fall short  of estimates in five of the
past seven quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘800-Pound Gorilla’  “They’re the 800-pound gorilla in Canada,” Sam La Bell,
energy and special situations analyst at Veritas Investment
Research Corp. in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“There are all sorts of other gas players who are in trouble,
but they don’t have the scale to be a target.”  Talisman’s assets could be attractive in a joint venture
for Petronas because of its shale properties in British Columbia,
where producers plan to build facilities to ship liquefied
natural gas to  Asia , said Philip Skolnick, an analyst with
Canaccord Genuity Inc.  The company holds 144,000 net acres in the  Montney Shale 
natural-gas field in northeastern British Columbia, as well as
217,000 net acres in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale formation,
according to its website.  Most international companies “would want to get involved
with or buy a company where there was a good prospect for moving
gas to the coast,” said Michael Tims, chairman of Peters & Co.,
a Calgary-based investment bank.  Opportunity Cost  “Regionally, that means they would look for players in
northeast British Columbia” he said, without identifying any
potential candidates.  Talisman, which also has fields in Malaysia that accounted
for  30 percent  of its production in southeast Asia and
Indonesian offshore interests, is valued at about $6 for every
cubic foot of natural gas it produced per day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s cheaper than any Canadian oil and
gas company, apart from Encana, the data show.  Any buyer would now have to convince potential targets such
as Encana to sell before a projected rebound in natural-gas
prices from a 10-year low. Gas futures may average $3.59 in 2013,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s almost 70
percent higher than yesterday’s price.  PetroChina (857) , Asia’s largest energy producer, last year
walked away from an agreement to pay C$5.4 billion ($5.4 billion)
for a 50 percent stake in Encana’s Cutbank Ridge joint venture
and fund development of about 635,000 net acres in British
Columbia and Alberta after failing to agree on price.  National Interest  The deal would have been the Beijing-based company’s
biggest overseas acquisition. Encana later agreed to sell a 40
percent stake in Cutbank Ridge to Mitsubishi for C$1.45 billion
upfront and a commitment on funding development over five years.  Any acquisition also may need the approval of Canadian
regulators. The government in November 2010 rejected Melbourne-
based BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile takeover of
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan after
the province said the sale would cut jobs and  tax revenue .  For Asian governments in need of energy assets to fuel
their economic growth, state-owned companies such as Petronas
will play an increasingly influential role in dealmaking,
according to Christian O’Neill, an oil and gas analyst for
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman, New Jersey.  Petronas accounted for about a third of the Malaysian
government’s estimated 183 billion-ringgit revenue in 2011,
according to the  finance ministry .  “The thirst for natural gas over the long term is going to
be significant” for Asian economies, O’Neill said. “Everyone
in Asia is concerned that gas is going to be tight. There’s the
belief that we’ve got a long-term supply of natural gas relative
to our demand. What Petronas will be buying is exposure to the
North American natural gas market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 