-- End-of-Month Hunger Hurts Students on Food Stamps
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-04-03T23:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/end-of-month-hunger-hurts-students-on-food-stamps.html
It’s the beginning of a new month,
and that’s a good thing in America’s schools, because life seems
to get worse there as a month goes by. Students get in more
trouble toward the end of the month than at the beginning.  New research suggests that’s especially true for students
from families on  food stamps , perhaps because life at home gets
more stressful as benefits run out. Modifying the food-stamp
program so that benefits are paid out twice, rather than once, a
month could help eliminate these cycles.  As Sir Thomas More noted in the 16th century, money has a
tendency to burn a hole in one’s pocket. Social Security
beneficiaries illustrate this truth; they  splurge  a little when
they receive their monthly checks. And among households in
general, spending tends to decline between paydays.  The behavior may extend to benefits under the food-stamp
program, now formally known as the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program, or  SNAP . In 2011, almost one in seven
Americans received  support  from SNAP. About half of the roughly
45 million beneficiaries are children.  The average monthly benefit for a family of four is about
 $500 , and the funds can be used only for buying food. Gone are
the old paper food stamps, which often stigmatized shoppers at
the checkout register. SNAP benefits now come in the form of an
 electronic card  that looks and operates like a debit card.  Bulk Buying  Families that use food stamps naturally tend to buy more
food at the beginning of the month, after receiving their
benefit. In fact, more than a quarter of beneficiary households
redeem their entire monthly allotment within the first week of
receiving it, the Agriculture Department’s Food and Nutrition
Service, which oversees the SNAP program, has  found . More than
half the families take just two weeks to use up their full
benefit. And 86 percent of families redeem more than half within
the first half of the month.  Presumably, bulk purchasing toward the beginning of the
month need not mean that families run out of food before the
month is out -- especially since most families are supposed to
supplement food-stamp benefits by buying some food with their
own income. In reality, however, it often does.  Research   by
economist Jesse Shapiro of the  University of Chicago  has found
that caloric intake among food-stamp beneficiaries is 10 percent
to 15 percent lower, on average, at the end of the month than at
the beginning.  About 40 percent of food-stamp households make only one
major grocery-shopping trip per month,  research  by Parke Wilde
of the Agriculture Department and Christine Ranney of  Cornell
University  has shown. And among those households, caloric intake
drops substantially over the month.  For the other households, who shop more frequently, caloric
intake remains steady through the month.  (Note that these studies were conducted before the 2009
stimulus legislation, which temporarily increased SNAP benefits.
It is possible that the results would be different or less
pronounced today, but I suspect the same broad pattern still
exists.)  A recent analysis by Lisa Gennetian of ideas42, a new
nonprofit research organization dedicated to real-world
applications of behavioral economics, suggests that the decline
in food at home and the associated increase in family stress may
be causing problems at school. (Full disclosure: I serve on the
board of directors of ideas42.)  Gennetian and her co-authors linked SNAP beneficiary data
with disciplinary records for all fifth-to-eighth graders in
 Chicago ’s public schools. Among students from SNAP families,
disciplinary problems such as fighting, vandalism or weapons
possession increased by almost 50 percent in the final week of
the month compared with the first week, the researchers found.
(For non-SNAP families, disciplinary events also rose, but
significantly less.)  Snack Programs Help  Strikingly, the researchers did not find an increase in
disciplinary events among SNAP families in schools with after-
school snack programs. They conclude: “The most plausible
explanations for students’ inability to adhere to proper school
behavior include hunger caused by reduced consumption of
calories and/or increase in household stress due to exhausting
all forms of liquid assets.”  So one approach that could address the school disciplinary
problem is to expand after-school snack programs. But a more
comprehensive strategy worth exploring would be to split the
SNAP benefit into two semi-monthly installments. Then food
purchases and caloric intake might be smoother over time. With
the electronic cards, this would be pretty easy to do.  It could be inconvenient for families that have a difficult
commute to a supermarket and therefore want to make only one
trip a month. This is a complex problem, and would benefit from
research. On the one hand, more shopping trips are time-
consuming and the travel involved can use up resources better
spent on food itself. On the other hand, the single-trip
families seem to be the ones running low on food, and it’s
plausible that their children are among those getting in more
trouble at school.  Right now, federal law prohibits splitting SNAP benefits
into two installments, but the rule is waivable for
demonstration purposes. So perhaps a city (Chicago comes to
mind) would like to test the possibility that two monthly
components would help reduce disciplinary events at school. To
do the study right, we would need to compare the current system
to two alternatives: a higher level of benefit, still paid out
once a month, and the same level of benefit, but split into two
monthly payments. If the problems associated with once-a-month
benefits persist even with higher payments, but diminish with
more frequent ones, there’d be good reason to try adjusting the
system.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  systemically important
financial entities  and sanctions as  tools of diplomacy ; William
Pesek on  Japan ’s  embrace of Herbert Hoover ; Clive Crook on  “Why
Nations Fail” ; and Clare Malone on  Yale’s campus in illiberal
Singapore .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  