-- Apache Quits Ultra-Deep Gas Search off Louisiana Coast
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-05T18:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/energy-partners-delays-ultra-deep-gas-exploration-to-find-crude.html
(Corrects reference to field’s production in ninth
paragraph of story published April 3.)  Apache Corp. (APA) , the second-largest
U.S. independent oil producer by market value, is abandoning a
project with  Energy Partners Ltd. (EPL)  to explore for natural gas in
the  Gulf of Mexico  amid a slump in the price of the fuel.  Apache isn’t interested in pursuing gas in rock formations
underneath Energy Partners’ East Bay field, Bill Mintz, a
spokesman for the Houston-based company, said in a telephone
interview today. Apache became a partner in the venture last
year when it acquired closely held Phoenix Exploration.  Mintz’s comments came after Energy Partners said today that
it’s postponing the search for gas more than two miles (3.2
kilometers) underneath the seabed off the coast of  Louisiana . A
glut of the fuel from onshore North American wells has caused
prices to fall to a 10-year low, prompting some of the largest
producers in the U.S., such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , to focus
on higher profit oil and gas-liquids deposits.  “With gas prices today, I don’t think there’s any rush to
work that play very hard,” Energy Partners Chief Executive
Officer Gary Hanna said during a telephone interview.  Neither Hanna nor T.J. Thom, Energy Partners’ chief
financial officer, returned messages left at the company’s  New
Orleans  headquarters seeking comment on Apache’s decision.  “After the acquisition, we decided not to proceed with the
partnership,” Mintz said. He didn’t provide details on why the
project was dropped.  Oil-Rich Deposits  In lieu of drilling to test for the presence of gas beneath
the East Bay field, Energy Partners will spend $8 million this
year to buy seismic data for thousands of square miles around
East Bay to search for oil-rich prospects, Hanna said.  Gas futures rose 1.6 percent to settle at $2.187 per
million British thermal units today in  New York . They’ve dropped
27 percent this year, the worst performer on the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities.  The agreement Apache inherited during the Phoenix
acquisition called for the the partners to explore for gas more
than 14,000 feet (4,000 meters) underground, beneath current
production at East Bay. The field, which accounts for 39 percent
of Energy Partners’ reserves, has produced the equivalent of 900
million barrels of oil, according to a March  presentation  on the
company’s website.  ‘Analogue Blocks’  Energy Partners is boosting  capital spending  by 66 percent
this year to $168 million, 97 percent of which will be used to
find and develop oil fields, Hanna said. The company is focusing
on drilling untapped geologic formations close to its wells,
rather than so-called wildcat prospects that are far from
existing production zones, he said.  “We look for analogue blocks” that have pressure,
temperature and other characteristics similar to nearby  oil
fields , Hanna said. “Those are much lower risk and the
turnaround times to get a project done are much better” than
wildcat prospects.  Energy Partners’ proved reserves were 74 percent crude at
the end of 2011, according to the company.  Energy Partners plans to continue adding offshore reserves
through  acquisitions  this year, Hanna said. The company’s
strategy is to buy assets that show the potential for doubling
reserves through additional seismic evaluation and drilling, he
said.  Energy Partners fell 3.8 percent to $16.62 at the close in
New York, the biggest decline since Dec. 12. Before today, the
shares had gained 18 percent this year.  The company is worth about $18.90 per barrel of reserves,
based on its enterprise value, a calculation of takeover value.
That exceeds the per-barrel valuations of onshore oil producers
such as  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  and  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Energy Partners expects to generate $75 million to $100
million in free  cash flow  this year, compared with $75 million
in 2011, Hanna said. Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund
manager Wexford Capital LP is the company’s biggest  shareholder ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  