-- England Challenges China by Reviving Strategic Mine: Commodities
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-04-04T16:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/england-challenges-china-by-reviving-strategic-mine-commodities.html
An English mine last used to make
armaments to defeat Hitler’s forces will be revived to challenge
 China ’s grip on tungsten, among strategic metals at the heart of
a deepening trade dispute with Europe and the U.S.  Wolf Minerals Ltd. (WLF)  is developing a tungsten mine in Devon,
southwest  England , 70 years after it was last extracted there.
The Hemerdon site is the world’s fourth-largest deposit and can
produce about 3.5 percent of global demand for the metal, used
to harden steel in ballistic missiles and in drill bits. China
provides about 85 percent of worldwide supplies.  Tungsten was one of the metals cited when U.S. President
 Barack Obama  filed a complaint to the  World Trade Organization 
on March 13 against Chinese supply curbs. Tungsten is a
“critical” raw material, according to the European Union, and
the British Geological Survey places it at the top of its
supply-risk  list of materials  needed to maintain the U.K.’s
economy and lifestyle.  “A big element of what we are doing is providing a
strategic supply to companies outside of China,” Wolf Managing
Director Humphrey Hale said in an interview in London. “We’re
answering a requirement from the market, which is strategic
supply, and prices are at a position where we can make money
from that.”  Wolf is backed by Resource Capital Funds, which holds a 17
percent stake, and Traxys SA, with 9.6 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Resource Capital is the largest shareholder in
 Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , owner of the biggest U.S. rare-earth deposit.
Traxys, the Luxembourg-based metals trader, also owns a stake in
Molycorp.  Tungsten Prices  China has imposed export restraints on raw materials
including rare earths, tungsten and molybdenum, causing
worldwide supplies to plummet, sending prices higher and
threatening strategic stockpiles. China is the largest supplier
of 28 of the 52 elements on the Geological Survey’s risk list.  Rare earths became a political and legislative flashpoint
in July 2010 when China moved to limit domestic output and slash
export quotas by 40 percent, souring ties with the U.S. and
 Japan , where buyers cut usage after prices soared in the first
half of 2011. China said on Dec. 28 it was leaving overseas
sales caps for 2012 virtually unchanged.  Tungsten prices will probably stay at more than $40,000 a
metric ton this year because of China’s curbs,  Malaga Inc. (MLG) , a
producer of the metal in  Peru , said in January. The price of
ammonium paratungstate, the traded form of the metal, increased
32 percent in 2011 to end the year at more than $440 a metric
ton unit, according to European price data from  Metal Bulletin (MBWOEUFM) .
The material traded at less than $65 in 2003.  Key Commodity  “Investors should really look at Tungsten,”  John Meyer ,
an analyst at Fairfax IS Plc, said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” on March 28.
“Demand is so far ahead of supply, I think it’s the key
commodity, a strategic commodity.”  Wolf gained 7.2 percent in London today to 22.25 pence, the
biggest advance in a month, with more than triple the three-
month average daily volume of shares traded. The benchmark FTSE
350  Mining Index (F3MNG)  slumped 3.2 percent. Its Sydney-traded stock
also rose the most since March 5, climbing 4.9 percent to 32
Australian cents.  Wolf’s mine will produce 3,500 tons of tungsten and 450
tons of tin a year, starting in 2015. It will cost about 120
million pounds ($190 million) to build. Wolf has raised some 55
million pounds and is in talks for an additional 15 million to
20 million pounds in a sales agreement. The balance will be
sought through selling shares, Hale said.  North American Tungsten  The Devon mine, which provided material used in both World
Wars, was closed in 1944 as access to overseas supplies resumed.
Wolf isn’t the first company to attempt to revive it.  Amax Inc. started efforts to develop the mine in the 1970s
and was granted approval for the project from Devon’s local
government in 1986. Amax withdrew from the project in 1993 after
falling commodity prices made progressing uneconomic.  North American Tungsten Corp. (NTC)  bought Hemerdon in 1997,
before disposing of the asset in 2003, discouraged by
persistently low prices.  Cornwall and West Devon have been mined for more than 3,500
years, supplying the  Roman Empire  and materials for the U.K.’s
industrial revolution, according to  Unesco . By the early 19th
century, the region provided two-thirds of the world’s copper
and was home to about 2,000 tin mines.  Francis Drake  Competition from Chile and  Australia  in the 1860s closed
many of the copper mines, while the tin sites struggled to
survive as increased production in Malaysia and Australia drove
down prices. The region’s last tin mine, South Crofty, closed in
1998.  Wolf’s mine is about 10 miles from the maritime city of
 Plymouth . Sir Francis Drake masterminded the defeat of the
Spanish Armada in 1588 from the city and in 1620 the Pilgrims
set sail for the New World from Plymouth aboard the Mayflower.  Against the backdrop of 2012 market constraints and higher
prices, the mine is now an example of how Britain can provide
its own security of supply, Hale said.  “The U.K. does have stuff that’s been overlooked for
years,” he said. “The perception round the world is that the
planning permissions will be hard, the opportunities will be
small and you’ll be up against an army of green protesters. The
reality is the other way round.  ‘‘It’s a big resource, it’s not bijou, hobby, clotted cream
and jam,” he said. “This is world class.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  