-- Herbert Hoover Returns With Awful Economic Ideas
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-04-03T19:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/herbert-hoover-returns-with-awful-economic-ideas.html
In economic circles, no slight
stings more than being compared to  Herbert Hoover . The 31st U.S.
president, who helped make the Depression of the 1930s great,
ranks among history’s worst growth killers.  Ryutaro Hashimoto, Japan’s prime minister from 1996 to
1998, went to his deathbed in 2006 seething over being tagged as
 Asia ’s Hoover. Among those doing the labeling was former Sony
Corp. Chairman Norio Ohga. Hashimoto’s crime? The same as
Hoover’s -- an ill-timed and ill-advised tax increase that ended
Japan’s post-bubble recovery.  Hashimoto may soon have company in the annals of
Hooveresque economics -- Yoshihiko Noda, Japan’s current leader.
Last week, Noda made significant progress in raising the
 consumption tax  by 10 percent over the next three years. Never
mind that deflation is deepening, the population is shrinking
and the ranks of the working poor are swelling. Noda says higher
taxes are needed to pay down the nation’s  debt , the largest in
the world relative to the economy.  Some politicians are praising Noda for bold leadership, but
that’s complete bunk. Raising taxes on 126 million people
traumatized by two decades of economic drift and last year’s
record earthquake and tsunami is taking the easy road. It’s a
quick fix that’s likely to backfire and erase the little
dynamism that’s left in an economy that has been overtaken by
 China .  Major Reforms  True leadership would be to undertake major reforms.
 Japan (JGDPAGDP) ’s problem isn’t really the size of its debt. It’s that
there has been no real growth since the 1980s-era asset bubble
burst. At the start of 2012, Japan’s inflation-adjusted  gross
domestic product  was smaller than it was in 1992.  If Noda were to lead, he would tell farmers -- and other
narrow special-interest groups stopping Japan from signing job-
creating free-trade agreements -- to go away. He would spend
less time coddling Japan’s nuclear industry and more championing
energy alternatives to the dangerous reactors in the nation’s
midst. A green revolution would fuel an employment boom.  If he really wants to lead  Japan ’s economic revival, he
would demand that companies become more shareholder-friendly and
accountable. He would offer incentives for executives to hire
more women as full-time staff, ending the neglect of half the
country’s most valuable resource.  Opening Borders  Leadership would have Noda’s team devising ways for women
to manage both a career and a family, including more affordable
child care and lower taxes for couples having babies. He would
act to push for increased immigration. Never mind claims that
homogenous Japan isn’t ready to open its borders; economic
reality makes it a necessity, not a choice.  Real leadership would be to set a new national goal to
promote English proficiency. Like it or not, English is the
lingua franca of the Internet Age, not to mention the global
economy. Twenty years ago, foreign executives had to do things
Japan’s way -- translators, ambiguous signals, the reluctance to
offer a definitive “yes” or “no” to questions. Today, those
executives have choices from  South Korea  to China to  Indonesia (IDGDPY) .  Change means urging companies to rethink hiring practices.
Students begin seeking  lifetime employment  in their junior year
of college, or even their sophomore year. Fear of missing out on
this recruitment process dissuades many from studying abroad or
taking time off to travel before joining the ranks of the
salarymen. It has created an odd generational quirk: Today’s
young Japanese are often less international than their fathers.  Yen Bellyaching  Boldness means calling on companies to stop bellyaching
about the strong yen and learn to live with it. Yes, those
changes are afoot to some extent. More and more companies are
seeking cheap production overseas. Yet the latest Tankan survey
of business confidence found that large manufacturers were again
chronically pessimistic, thanks largely to the yen. Japan’s
currency has been strong for 10 years now -- figure it out.  Noda should work with the  Bank of Japan  to devise ways to
get banks to lend. Wave after wave of central-bank liquidity
isn’t resulting in the credit creation Japan needs to jump-start
growth. Rather than tax consumers, why not tax banks that hoard
cash? Why not force bankers to do their jobs? That might offset
the effects of higher taxes.  Japan also lacks a vibrant venture-capital industry. How
about announcing a government-driven incubation campaign with
lower corporate taxes for new companies? OK, that would be
anathema to economists from  Adam Smith  to  Milton Friedman . But
there’s a reason Japan is losing ground as scrappy startups and
social-media offerings level alter the economic landscape. Japan
Inc. still sees nothing wrong with most of its innovations and
patents coming from huge companies, as opposed to Mark Zuckerberg types. That arrangement needs to change and if it
comes from the government, so be it.  The Facebook Inc. founder met Noda in  Tokyo  last week, the
same week in which the prime minister got closer to his dream of
higher taxes. Zuckerberg is on the cusp of his own bit of
history: the Internet’s biggest initial public offering. The big
difference, of course, is that as Zuckerberg is creating wealth,
Noda is set to destroy it, Herbert Hoover-style.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  