-- Ericsson China Outlook Spurs EZchip Premium: Israel Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-04T07:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/ericsson-china-outlook-spurs-ezchip-premium-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  climbed in
U.S. trading, widening the premium to  Tel Aviv  by the most among
New York-traded Israeli companies, after Ericsson AB said phone
equipment sales in  China  will rise.  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based manufacturer of network
processors gained 0.6 percent yesterday to $43.70, pushing the
premium over the  Tel Aviv shares  to 29 cents, the largest among
companies on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index. (ISRA25BN)  The gauge
fell 0.8 percent to 89.58, led by Partner Communications Co.
EZchip shares were unchanged at 162.20 shekels, or the
equivalent of $43.39, at 10:04 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  EZchip, whose shares provided the best risk-adjusted
returns this year among Israeli companies that trade in  New
York , is benefiting from faster  Internet traffic  and new
wireless gear that drives up demand for the company’s
processors, said Gary Mobley, an analyst at Benchmark Co. Phone
equipment expenditure has “room for growth” in China, Leif Johansson, chairman of  Ericsson (ERICB) , the world’s biggest maker of
wireless network equipment, said yesterday.  Spending by Chinese companies on mobile phone
infrastructure “plays right into the hands of processor
companies” like EZchip, Mobley said by phone from St. Louis.
“Internet traffic is being driven by an increase in internet
usage from a multitude of new devices.”  EZchip has  gained  54 percent in the U.S. this year with a
volatility of 36, giving the company a risk-adjusted return of
1.5 percent, the best among the 25 Israeli companies traded in
New York.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , the networking equipment
maker that’s also benefitting from rising internet traffic, was
the second-best performer, with a 1.1 percent gain. Allot slid
0.7 percent to 87.90 shekels, or the equivalent of $23.51, in
Tel Aviv today.  ‘Growth Potential’  EZchip’s  revenue  will jump to $100 million in 2013 from a
$71 million forecast this year, according to the median estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  EZchip “is the sort of stock that has a clear earnings
growth potential,”  Daniel Berenbaum , an executive director at
MKM Partners LLC. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said by phone
yesterday. “What you’ve got happening is you need more and
faster routing capability.”  Internet traffic is surging as consumers access the web
from mobile devices including Apple Inc.’s iPad and iPhone to
stream movies and chat with friends, Berenbaum said.  Sales (AAPL)  of
both gadgets hit a record last quarter, and the company said it
shipped 3 million of the iPad’s newest model during the debut
weekend, also a record.  Data usage by mobile devices will increase 18-fold by 2016
to 10.8 exabytes per month, or the equivalent of streaming 33
billion DVDs annually, as the number of smartphones, tablets and
other portable devices exceeds the world’s population and
Internet connection speeds increase, according to a  forecast 
from Cisco.  ‘Underlying Demand’  “Growth of smartphones in China can develop much more than
it already has,” Ericsson’s Johansson said in a Bloomberg
Television interview from southern China yesterday. “My sense
from meeting with customers here, there is an underlying demand
for traffic network, especially in this country.”  China Mobile Ltd., the country’s biggest carrier, had 661.4
million mobile-phone subscribers at the end of February,
according to figures released last month. That’s about twice the
number of people in the U.S.  Ericsson accounted for more than 10 percent of EZchip’s
fourth quarter revenue, EZchip Chief Executive Officer Eli Fruchter said on a conference call with analysts on Feb. 8,
according to a transcript.  Monetary Easing  The  Nasdaq (CCMP)  Composite Index slid 0.2 percent yesterday as
minutes from a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting showed the central
bank is holding off on new monetary easing, and U.S. factory
orders increased less than forecast in February. The gauge
gained 19 percent in the first three months of this year, its
best quarterly performance since the period ended June 30, 2009.  The benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  Index declined 0.4 percent to 1,141.97
today in Tel Aviv.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
China. The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  EZchip’s gain has pushed valuations through yesterday to 68
times reported earnings, more than four times the average
multiple for companies on the  Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. (SOX)   Overvalued  Cavium Inc. (CAVM) , a San Jose, California-based maker of chips
for communications networks, said on April 2 after markets
closed that revenue in the first quarter of 2012 will be 6
percent to 7 percent lower than in the prior period after
service provider sales fell, according to a statement
distributed by PRNewswire. Shares fell 0.6 percent to $30.38.  EZchip is  overvalued  and may fall amid lower companies’
spending,  Jay Srivatsa , the managing director of equity research
at Chardan Capital Markets LLC said yesterday.  “Cavium specifically said that the service provider market
is weak and that’s the market that EZchip really caters to,”
Srivatsa, who has a neutral  rating  and a $30 price target on
EZchip, said by telephone from New York. “The stock has run
away a little bit, and is very pricey in my view.”  ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. (CKSW) , a Petach Tikva, Israel-
based maker of order-tracking software, gained 4.2 percent to
$12.96 yesterday, the biggest jump in two weeks.  “The company’s business momentum is improving,” Nathan Schneiderman, an analyst at Roth Capital Partners LLC. in
 Newport Beach , California, wrote in an e-mailed report
yesterday, raising his 12-month price estimate on the stock to
$15 from $12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ; 