-- Ericsson Says China Smartphone Users Will Drive Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-03T07:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/ericsson-says-china-smartphone-users-will-drive-growth.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB)  said the increasing
number of smartphone users in China will help support demand for
phone equipment in the world’s biggest telecommunications
market, countering a weaker pace of economic expansion.  “There is good room for growth” in China, Leif Johansson,
chairman at Ericsson, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
from the Boao Forum for Asia in southern China’s Hainan province
today. “Here in Asia, we have slowing growth, but still very
attractive growth rates. We are talking about seven to eight
percent here in China, and that is not anything to be negative
about.”  Ericsson, the world’s biggest maker of wireless  network
equipment , is seeking orders to supply customers including  China
Mobile Ltd. (941)  to help bolster sales, after setting a lower growth
target last month. Smartphone shipments in  China  will increase
52 percent to 137 million units this year, according to research
company IDC, increasing consumers’ access to services such as
video downloads, which require faster mobile-phone networks.  “Growth of smartphones in China can develop much more than
it already has,” Johansson said. “My sense from meeting with
customers here, there is an underlying demand for traffic
network, especially in this country.”  Ericsson, based in Stockholm, last month set a target of 2
percent to 8 percent annual sales growth through 2014 compared
with 2011. Last year’s target was 4 percent to 10 percent growth
through 2013.  “We hope the worst is behind us in the U.S. and western
Europe,” Johansson said. Ericsson is expecting a “steady
improvement” in the U.S. economy, and a “more stable
situation” in Europe, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  