-- Merkel Says Czech Republic May Still Sign Up for EU Fiscal Pact
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-03T12:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/merkel-says-czech-republic-may-still-sign-up-for-eu-fiscal-pact.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
she’s leaving the door open for the  Czech Republic  to join the
European Union’s fiscal pact as she seeks to rally the EU behind
her agenda to stem the debt crisis.  “Even though the Czech Republic hasn’t signed the fiscal
pact, we know that the Czech government has not ruled it out,”
Merkel said today at a joint news conference in Prague with
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas. Merkel said the pact’s goals
are “fully shared” by the Czech Republic.  The Czech Republic and the U.K., both not members of the
euro area, declined to sign the pact when the 25 other EU
leaders including Merkel endorsed it in January. The fiscal
discipline accord has too small an effect for the Czech Republic
to warrant losing part of its sovereignty in exchange for
approving it, Necas said on Feb. 7.  Signing up for the pact would mean the Czech Republic would
lose its right to decide on many budgetary issues, Necas wrote
in an opinion column in the newspaper Pravo. The German-backed
accord accelerates sanctions on high-deficit states and requires
euro countries to anchor balanced-budget rules in national law.  Merkel praised the Czech Republic for making progress on
meeting the 3 percent of gross domestic product  budget-deficit 
limit, adding that it will probably meet the target in 2013.  “This can make the Czech Republic an example” for other
EU countries, she said.  Meanwhile in  Madrid , an envoy from Merkel’s party said
 Spain ’s government is determined to tackle its debt and there’s
no need to discuss bailing out the euro area’s fourth-largest
economy.  Spain Aid  “From what I see, there is no necessity at the moment for
there to be any talk of Spain having to apply for aid from a
rescue fund,” Volker Kauder, parliamentary leader of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic bloc, said late yesterday after meeting
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and other Spanish officials.  Spain is doing “everything it can” to reach Rajoy’s goal
of reducing the budget deficit to 5.3 percent of GDP in 2012,
Kauder told reporters, speaking through a translator. “It is
possible to achieve it.”  Rajoy defied EU allies by raising Spain’s deficit target on
March 2, hours after he and 24 other EU leaders signed the
German-inspired fiscal pact to stem excessive debt. Merkel cited
“fragility” in Spain and  Portugal  when she announced last week
that  Germany  backed an increase in  Europe ’s financial backstop
against the crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Prague at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  