-- Messi Sends Barca Into Champions League Semis as Bayern Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-04T01:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/messi-lifts-barcelona-into-champions-league-semis-as-bayern-wins.html
Barcelona beat AC Milan 3-1 and
Bayern Munich defeated Marseille 2-0 to claim the first two
spots in the  Champions League  soccer semifinals.  Lionel Messi  scored with two penalty kicks last night at
the Camp Nou to set a Champions League single-season goal record
and send Barcelona into the final four for a fifth straight
season following last week’s 0-0 draw in Milan.  “The most difficult thing in the world is to continue
because you can win anything once but to do it again is very,
very tough,” Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola, whose team is
seeking its fourth title in seven seasons, told reporters. “We
know that we will have to reach the highest level if we want to
go all the way to the final in Munich.”  Ivica Olic scored both goals as Bayern advanced 4-0 over
two games against Marseille and stayed on course for a home
final in  Europe ’s elite club competition. The championship match
will be played May 19 at the  Allianz Arena .  Barcelona will play Chelsea or Benfica in the semifinals,
while Bayern meets record nine-time champion Real  Madrid  or
APOEL Nicosia. Chelsea takes a 1-0 lead into today’s second game
at Stamford Bridge, while Madrid hosts APOEL leading 3-0 from
the first match.  Barcelona claimed its fifth straight semifinal berth last
night to equal the mark set by Madrid from 1956 to 1960.  Messi scored twice in the first half to give him 14 goals
in this season’s Champions League, breaking the record of 12 he
shared with Ruud van Nistelrooy. He also matches the mark of 14
goals set by Milan’s Jose Altafini in 1962-63 when the
competition was known as the European Cup.  Half-Century  The 24-year-old Argentine, named soccer’s best player the
past three years, now has 50 goals in the Champions League,
becoming the youngest player to reach the milestone.  Messi had two chances in the opening six minutes, shooting
at goalkeeper Christian Abbiati after a run from midfield and
firing wide from about six yards (5.5 meters) out. He scored in
the 11th minute after being taken down by Luca Antonini.  Seven-time champion Milan then went ahead in the series on
away goals with its first attempt in the 32nd minute as Antonio
Nocerino took Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s pass and fired a low shot
past  Victor Valdes .  Barcelona was awarded a second penalty five minutes before
halftime when Alessandro Nesta received a yellow card for
grabbing  Sergio Busquets ’s shirt on a corner kick. Messi sent
Abbiati the wrong way and drilled a shot in the lower right
corner for a 2-1 lead.  Third Goal  Barcelona clinched its victory in the 53rd minute as
Messi’s shot was blocked by Philippe Mexes and fell to  Andres Iniesta , who beat Abbiati from close range.  “After their third goal it wasn’t easy to react,” Milan
coach Massimiliano Allegri said. “We were all disappointed
during the interval after conceding late in the first half and
when we came back we soon conceded another.”  Bayern dominated in Munich to reach the semifinals for the
second time in three seasons. The four-time European champion
had a 17-9 shot advantage and limited Marseille to three shots
on target while being denied several times by visiting
goalkeeper Steve Mandanda.  “Playing for Bayern is never easy,” Munich midfielder
 Franck Ribery  said on UEFA’s website. “You always have to go
full throttle and always win. We have to continue like this in
the games to come. ”  Bayern went ahead in the 13th minute when Ribery took the
ball into the right side of the area and sent a low pass toward
the middle that Olic knocked past Mandanda, who then made saves
from Toni Kroos, Anatoliy Tymoshchuk, Olic and Thomas Muller.  Olic then hit the post before doubling the lead in the 37th
minute. Ribery carried the ball from his own half into the
Marseille area and laid off a pass to David Alaba, whose cross
was tapped in by Olic.  “We lost to a great team but we did not give up,” said
Marseille striker Loic Remy. “Hats off to Bayern, I hope they
go all the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 