-- Metcash Falls Most Since 2008 on Store and Job Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-04-03T08:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/metcash-falls-most-since-2008-on-store-and-job-cuts.html
Metcash Ltd. (MTS)  fell the most since
2008 in Sydney trading after  Australia ’s largest grocery
wholesaler said it will take charges worth as much as A$133
million ($139 million) and fire 8.5 percent of its workforce.  Shares in the Sydney-based company  fell  4.7 percent to
A$4.10 at the close of trading, their biggest decline since
October 2008. Metcash will shut 15 of its Campbells Cash & Carry
stores and sell its food service unit as a decline in shelf
prices curbs profit margins, it said in a statement today.  The moves will result in 478 job losses, including 163
positions at the head office, said Metcash, which also operates
Australia’s third-largest supermarket chain.  Increased competition between Australia’s largest chains
 Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and the Coles unit of  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , which
together account for about  80 percent  of supermarket revenue,
has dragged down shelf prices for food and liquor. Excluding the
writedowns, earnings-per-share will match a previous forecast
for “low to mid single-digit growth,” Metcash said.  “We are skeptical of management’s maintenance of
guidance,” Andrew McLennan, an analyst at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , wrote in a note to clients after the announcement.
Metcash faces “significant structural headwinds,” wrote
McLennan, whose hold recommendation for the stock is “under
review.”  The charges will be taken in the financial year ending this
month and may result in the smallest annual net income in  six
years .  The stock had been halted since March 29 when Metcash first
announced it was expecting a writedown. It has now  risen  by 1.5
percent this year, compared with a 6.9 percent gain in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Falling Prices  Australian food  prices  have fallen for the past two
quarters as higher rates of household  saving  and falling
consumer confidence drive shoppers to seek out bargains.  “Prices are down and the shopper is a value-conscious
shopper,” Andrew Reitzer, chief executive officer, told a
conference call after the announcement. “The whole deflationary
environment is clearly here to stay.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia signaled today it may resume
cutting rates if weaker-than-expected growth slows inflation.
Retail sales in February rose by 0.2 percent from a month
earlier.  Prices Fall  The retreat from sharp rises in some food categories due to
natural disasters 12 months ago has also increased grocery price
deflation. Sydney-based Woolworths last month said prices fell
3.7 percent from a year earlier during the six months through
December, and fresh produce in recent weeks had been running 17
percent to 20 percent below the previous year, Reitzer said.  “What’s driving the prices down is oversupply” as
productive crops hit fresh food markets in major cities, he
said.  The company will restructure two joint ventures in
Queensland state because of floods, storms and a decline in the
tourism business and will take an impairment charge of between
A$75 million and A$90 million, according to the statement.  Closing the Campbell’s stores and cutting jobs at its
corporate office will cause a charge of between A$34 million and
A$43 million, the company said.  Metcash had 5,638  workers  at the end of April 30, according
to its 2011 annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  