-- Letterman’s New CBS Contract Sets Late-Night Hosting Record
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-04-03T20:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/letterman-s-new-cbs-contract-sets-late-night-hosting-record-1-.html
David Letterman , the late-night star
of  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s television network, agreed to host his program
through 2014, setting the stage to break Johnny Carson’s record
of 30 years.  As part of the accord, CBS also re-signed Craig Ferguson,
who hosts the talk show that follows Letterman’s weeknight
program, the network said today in an e-mailed statement.  Letterman, who turns 65 on April 12, will become the
longest-serving host on late-night TV, beating Carson’s 1962-
1992 run on NBC’s “The Tonight Show,” CBS said. “The Late
Show With David Letterman” began airing in August 1993. He
previously hosted “Late Night with David Letterman” on NBC
starting in February 1982.  “David Letterman is a late night legend with an iconic
show and Craig Ferguson continues to evolve the genre in
exciting and innovative ways,” Nina Tassler, president of CBS
Entertainment, said in a statement.  Letterman’s company, Worldwide Pants Inc., produces “The
Late Show,” as well as the “The Late Late Show With Craig
Ferguson.” Under the new agreement, Ferguson’s show will move
to a larger stage at CBS studios in  Los Angeles  and the network
will become co-producer, according to the statement.  Audience Ratings  Today’s announcement completes negotiations with both late-
night hosts. Letterman was close to an agreement with the
network in January, a person with knowledge of the situation
said at the time.  Letterman’s “The Late Show” has averaged 3.3 million
total nightly viewers each week this season, according to
Nielsen data made available by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal.
That compares with 3.8 million for  Jay Leno ’s “The Tonight
Show,” broadcast by NBCUniversal.  CBS, the most-watched television network, announced last
month it renewed 18 programs for next season, more than three-
fourths of its prime-time schedule, including “The Big Bang
Theory.” Four comedies, nine dramas, three reality series and
two news-magazine shows will return for the 2012-2013 television
season, which starts in September.  The network, which will pitch the schedule to big
advertisers next month, expects to obtain “double-digit”
increases in ad rates to lead its competitors, CBS Chief
Executive Officer Leslie Moonves said on March 10 at a
conference at the University of  California , Los Angeles.  CBS is averaging 12 million prime-time viewers in the
season that began in September, a 1.4 percent gain from last
season and more than any of its competitors, according to data
from Nielsen. The broadcaster ranks second to  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
in viewers ages 18 to 49, a group targeted by advertisers,
according to audience data from Nielsen.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 0.4
percent to $33.88 at the close in  New York . The stock has gained
25 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  