-- EU Ministers to Discuss CO2 Market Future After Price Slump
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-04-03T13:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/eu-ministers-to-discuss-co2-market-future-after-price-slump-1-.html
European Union ministers will
discuss the need to improve the bloc’s emissions trading system
on April 19, two weeks after carbon prices fell to a record low,
a planning document obtained by Bloomberg shows.  The meeting of environment ministers will be hosted by
 Denmark , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, and no
formal decisions will be taken. Falling prices cast “some
doubt” on the ability of the emissions cap-and-trade plan,
known as the EU ETS, to promote investment in low-carbon
technologies, according to a note written by the Danish
presidency and distributed to member states.  “There will be discussions about the price and there will
be discussions about different views on how to address the
situation,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the
European Commission, told a briefing in Brussels today.  EU carbon allowances for December fell as much as 4.6
percent to a record 6.05 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange in  London  today after preliminary data released
yesterday showed emissions from factories and utilities in the
region dropped 2.4 percent last year. That implies a third
consecutive annual surplus of emissions permits.  The commission, the EU regulatory arm, stands by its idea
of temporarily curbing the supply of carbon permits in the next
trading period starting in 2013, a process known as a set-aside,
Valero-Ladron said.  ‘Substantially Lower’  The current price of greenhouse-gas pollution is
“substantially lower” than expected when the ETS was reviewed
in 2008 to meet the bloc’s climate-protection targets and
encourage investment in low-carbon technologies, according to
the presidency note.  “The ETS has two main objectives: 1) to reduce emissions
and 2) to provide a price signal to inform operational and
investment decisions,” the Danish presidency wrote. “While the
first objective is on target to being met, the delivery of the
second objective is currently in some doubt.”  The emission caps that the EU program imposes on more than
12,000 facilities were set before recessions and debt crises
curbed industrial output.  Member states  are divided on whether
the bloc should tighten its carbon-reduction targets or
temporarily issue fewer permits to boost prices.  ‘Robust Price Signal’  While some “advocate leaving the market to respond,”
others “argue that the second main objective of the ETS, to
provide a robust price signal and ensure low carbon
investments” is falling short, the presidency wrote.  The EU is on schedule to meet its goal of cutting
greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent in 2020. The European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, said in a policy paper
last year that Europe should cut emissions by 40 percent in 2030
and 60 percent in 2040 compared with 1990 levels.  Poland blocked an EU statement supporting the commission’s
paper at a meeting of environment ministers last month, saying
it may result in talks about revising the existing target.  The country also opposes the creation of a set-aside of
carbon permits by delaying some auctions of allowances. It would
undermine investor confidence in the stability of European
legislation,  Poland ’s Environment Minister Marcin Korolec said
in a letter to his counterparts on March 6.  The European Parliament’s industry committee voted in
February to include an option of a set-aside in a planned law on
energy efficiency. To become a part of the legislation, the
provision would need backing from member states, which may
decide to leave out the amendment on withholding permits in
their version of the directive, according to a draft proposed by
the Danish presidency.  Inter-Institutional Agreement  Even if the set-aside option is removed from the planned
law, the commission has the right to come up at any time with a
proposal to withhold permits. A tentative EU timetable shows
that governments could sign off on the energy legislation in
June and the full parliament could vote on it in July.  “We stand by this idea of setting aside a number of
permits, but in terms of concrete steps that will follow the
preliminary idea we need to wait a bit until the debate on the
 Energy Efficiency  Directive is concluded and an inter-
institutional agreement is reached,” Valero-Ladron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  