-- Dollar Rallies as Fed Minutes Dim Prospects for Stimulus
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-03T21:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/euro-erases-gains-versus-dollar-as-spanish-yields-rise-c.html
The dollar gained to its strongest
level in a week against the euro after the  Federal Reserve ’s
policy meeting minutes showed the central bank is holding off
from increasing monetary stimulus.  The U.S. currency rallied against the yen as Treasury
yields rose, making dollar-denominated securities more
attractive. The dollar advanced after the Fed said it won’t
undertake asset purchases, known as quantitative easing, unless
economic expansion falters or prices rise slower than 2 percent,
signaling less additional liquidity to buoy higher-yielding
assets. Brazil’s real rose as President  Dilma Rousseff  ordered a
series of tax cuts to protect the nation from slower global
growth.  “The dollar is gaining because the market is correct to
price out some of the expectation of additional QE that they
have been busy pricing in,” said Ray Attrill, head of currency
strategy for BNP Paribas SA in  New York . “Those that were
looking for any kind of strong signal that additional QE is more
likely than not are being significantly disappointed.”  The dollar gained 0.7 percent to $1.3233 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time, the strongest since March 26. It touched $1.3368
earlier, almost the weakest since Feb. 29. The U.S. currency
added 0.9 percent to 82.81 yen. The euro gained 0.2 percent to
109.59 yen.  The yield difference between Treasury two-year notes and
similar maturity Japanese securities rose to 23 basis points, or
0.23 percentage point, from 20 basis points yesterday. The U.S.
two-year benchmark yield rose five basis points to 0.37 percent.  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. major
trading partners, rose as much as 0.9 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since March 9, to trade at 79.497.  The Australian dollar weakened versus most of its 16 major
counterparts after the  Reserve Bank  signaled it may resume
lowering borrowing costs as soon as next month if weaker-than-
expected growth slows inflation.  Traders expect the RBA will cut its benchmark rate by 79
basis points over the coming 12 months, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG  index  based on overnight indexed swap rates.  The Aussie declined 0.8 percent to $1.0331.  Brazil’s real rose 0.4 percent to 1.8246 versus the dollar
after it was announced the government will eliminate a  payroll
tax  for employers in 15 industries hardest-hit by a surge in
imports.  Europe’s shared currency added to declines before the
 European Central Bank  meets for an interest rate decision
tomorrow. The 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect no
change to the 1 percent interest rate.  Spain’s Debt  The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year bonds climbed eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.43 percent today after
the  unemployment rate  rose for an eighth month. Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  is implementing the deepest austerity measures
since the nation returned to a democracy in 1978, pushing
Spain’s IBEX 35 Index to the only loss during the first quarter
among national measures in Western  Europe .  “Accelerated fiscal tightening in Spain, at a time when
its export markets are slowing and house prices are still
falling, suggests that euro-dollar continues to be overly
priced,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York. “Euro is falling
versus its European peers. Euro-dollar should eventually break
below $1.30 in the coming weeks.”  The dollar is down 2.4 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro is little changed and the
yen has declined 10.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  