-- Euro-Region Producer-Price Inflation Slows for Fifth Month
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-04-03T10:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/euro-region-producer-price-inflation-slows-for-fifth-month-2-.html
Euro-area  producer-price inflation 
slowed for a fifth month in February as annual cost gains
weakened from Germany to  Spain  and Italy.  Factory-gate prices  in the 17-nation euro region rose 3.6
percent from a year ago after increasing a revised 3.8 percent
in January, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. Economists had forecast a gain of 3.5 percent, the
median of 19 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed.
Eurostat initially reported a 3.7 percent rise in January.  The euro-region economy may struggle to regain strength
after shrinking in the fourth quarter as austerity measures from
Spain to Italy prompt companies to cut spending and output.
Euro-region manufacturing contracted in March. Still, the
European Central Bank tomorrow may keep  borrowing costs  on hold
after cutting them twice in the fourth quarter as rising energy
costs threaten to feed into euro-region inflation.  “The ECB is unlikely to cut  interest rates  further even
though there are worrying signs that euro-zone economic activity
is faltering anew,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . The latest signs of
economic weakening are “still causing companies to be
circumspect in their pricing policy to try and gain -- or even
retain -- business.”  Crude Prices  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
trading at $1.3367 at 11:36 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.4 percent.  The ECB may keep its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent,
matching a record low, when policy makers meet tomorrow, a
Bloomberg News survey shows. The central bank last month
forecast the euro-region economy to shrink 0.1 percent this
year, with inflation averaging 2.4 percent.  While crude  oil prices  have declined 3.6 percent over the
past year, tensions in the  Middle East  have led to a 6.9 percent
gain over the past two months. Euro-area inflation slowed less
than economists forecast in March, with annual gains of 2.6
percent, partly because of rising oil prices.  Energy costs increased 9.3 percent from a year earlier, up
from a 9.2 percent gain in January, today’s report showed.
Annual price growth of intermediate goods and non-durable
 consumer goods  weakened, while capital goods such as machines
were 1.4 percent more expensive from a year earlier.  Core Inflation  “If you look analytically where the inflation in the euro
zone is coming from at the moment, there isn’t really core
inflation,” ECB council member Klaas Knot said on March 29.
“There’s inflation as a result of the prices of goods,
especially the oil price is fairly dominant.”  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, producer prices rose
3.2 percent in February from a year ago, down from a 3.4 percent
gain in January, today’s report showed. France and Italy
reported annual gains of 4.3 percent and 3.2 percent,
respectively. In Ireland, prices rose 3.8 percent, while  Greece 
had a gain of 6.9 percent.  Producer prices rose 0.6 percent from January, when they
advanced 0.8 percent, the report showed. In the 27-nation EU,
prices increased 0.8 in the month and 4.3 percent in the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  