-- European Stocks Fall; Banks Lead Losses, Cairn Advances
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-04-03T16:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-roche-may-move.html
European (SXXP)  stocks dropped, paring the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s biggest two-day rally since
February, as Spanish bond yields rose and U.S. factory orders
rebounded less than economists had estimated.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI)  led a gauge of  European (SXXP) 
banking shares lower.  Ferrovial SA (FER)  tumbled 6.4 percent as
Spain’s government published its budget for 2012. Cairn Energy
Plc gained 4 percent after agreeing to buy Agora Oil & Gas AS,
which is owned by RIT Capital Partners Plc and  Jacob Rothschild .
 Lonza Group AG (LONN)  advanced 1.6 percent after it named Richard Ridinger as chief executive officer.  The  Stoxx 600  (SXXP) fell 1.1 percent to 264.29 at the close in
 London , extending losses in the final hour of trading. The
benchmark measure jumped 1.5 percent yesterday, completing its
biggest two-day advance in two months, as reports showed
manufacturing expanded more than forecast in the U.S. and  China .
The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed
companies today was 3.4 percent lower than the average over the
past 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We could see some sideways trading, or even a bit of
position squaring, before markets head into Easter holidays,”
said Alessandro Fezzi, a senior market analyst at LGT Capital
Management AG in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “Though investors
have become slightly more cautious, sentiment remains quite
robust. Let’s not forget that the scenario for the world
economy, especially  Europe , is still far from being brilliant or
sustainable.”  National benchmark indexes fell in every western-European
market apart from Denmark and Iceland. France’s CAC 40 Index
lost 1.6 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slipped 0.6
percent. Germany’s DAX Index slid 1.1 percent. Spain’s IBEX
posted the largest decline, falling 2.7 percent.  Stocks’ 2012 Rally  The Stoxx 600 has still  increased 8.1 percent  so far this
year as the  European Central Bank  disbursed more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) to the region’s lenders and amid better-
than-expected U.S. economic data.  In the U.S., a report showed that  factory orders  rose 1.3
percent in February. That missed the median prediction for an
increase of 1.5 percent from  60 economist estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg News.  After the close of European trading today, the Federal Open
Market Committee will release minutes of its March 13 meeting
when policy makers raised their assessment of the economy and
repeated that the world’s largest economy may need
“exceptionally low”  interest rates  through late 2014.  Spanish Unemployment Climbs  In Europe, a report said that  registered unemployment in
Spain , where more than half of young people are out of work,
rose for the eighth month in March as the government deepened
spending cuts and the economy tipped back into a recession. The
number of people registering for jobless benefits increased by
38,769 to 4.75 million, the Labor Ministry in Madrid said today.  The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year bonds climbed 10 basis points
to 5.45 percent. The nation’s debt will reach 79.8 percent of
gross domestic product this year, up from 68.5 percent last
year, the government said in its budget today.  The U.K. economy will probably avoid a  recession  this year,
even though the government needs to do more to increase lending
to help a “weak” recovery, the British Chambers of Commerce
said.  Gross domestic product  probably rose 0.3 percent in the
first quarter after a 0.3 percent drop in the last three months
of 2011, the group said today. The BCC forecast full-year growth
of 0.6 percent, less than the 0.8 percent predicted by the
government’s fiscal watchdog.  Bank Shares Retreat  Popolare di Milano tumbled 6.6 percent to 38.2 euro cents.
A gauge of lenders contributed the most to the  Stoxx 600’s
retreat (SXXP)  today.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s largest lender,
retreated 4 percent to 5.55 euros.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  dropped
4.7 percent to 1.27 euros and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy’s biggest
bank , decreased 5 percent to 3.52 euros.  Ferrovial, the builder and airport operator, slumped 6.4
percent to 8.24 euros, its lowest price since May 2010, after
Spain’s government capped corporate-tax deductions on financial
costs to 30 percent of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization.  Sodexo (SW) , the French caterer whose clients include the U.S.
Marine Corps, fell 2.3 percent to 60.67 euros after Morgan
Stanley lowered its  recommendation  for the company’s shares to
underweight, the equivalent of sell, from equal weight.  Cairn, the U.K. oil explorer which has spent $1 billion in
Greenland without making a find, climbed 4 percent to 333.2
pence. The company agreed to buy Agora, a private Norwegian
company with interests in the  North Sea , for an enterprise value
of $375 million.  Cairn (CNE)  will pay 43 percent in cash and 57
percent in shares.  Lonza, UCB  Lonza gained 1.6 percent to 47.85 Swiss francs after it
named Ridinger, who has worked at BASE SE and Henkel AG, as
chief executive officer with effect from May 1.  “We view it as positive that Lonza was able to appoint a
new CEO so quickly,” Carla Baenziger, an analyst at Vontobel
Holding AG, wrote in a note to clients. “With the hiring of Mr.
Ridinger, Lonza again underpins its strategy to move more back
into the chemicals sector.”  UCB SA (UCB)  gained 1.5 percent to 34.33 euros. The Belgian
drugmaker said that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approved its Neupro medicine for the treatment of advanced stage
idiopathic  Parkinson’s disease .  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ,  Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company ,
increased 2.7 percent to 34.46 francs as Credit Suisse Group AG
raised the stock to outperform, the equivalent of buy, from
neutral.  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s biggest insulin manufacturer,
rose 2.4 percent to 835 kroner as analysts estimated that sales
of its diabetes drug Victoza soared in the first quarter.  Novo, which reports first-quarter results on April 27, will
probably say its Victoza sales doubled from a year earlier to
2.3 billion kroner ($412 million), Frank Hoerning Andersen, an
analyst at Jyske Bank A/S, wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  