-- Teva Jumps as New Drugs Bolster Outlook: Israel Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-03T13:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/teva-jumps-as-new-drugs-bolster-sales-outlook-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
extended its best start to a year since 2010 as exclusive rights
to sell two medications boosted prospects U.S. sales for the
world’s largest maker of generic drugs will recover in 2012.  Shares of Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva rose 1.2 percent
to $45.58 in New York yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 3.
Teva climbed 0.4 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv ,
gaining for a ninth day, the longest winning streak since 2001.
The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most-traded Israeli
stocks in New York climbed 0.5 percent to 90.28, the highest
level since Oct. 28.  Teva introduced generic versions of two  blood pressure 
medications yesterday, according to a company statement. The
drugmaker has 180 days to sell the drugs exclusively, which may
add as much as 8 cents a share to company profit this year,
according to Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. Revenue from sales of
generic drugs in the U.S. fell 32 percent last year as Teva
debuted fewer “significant” generics, according to a Feb. 15
statement.  “2011 was very odd, because it was supposed to be a good
year in the U.S. business, and it ended up being a lousy year,”
Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment
House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan ,  Israel , said by phone yesterday.
“Certainly the company is executing better in the U.S.” this
year.  Teva expects most of its new generic drugs to face “robust
competition” this year, William Marth, president of the
company’s Americas unit, said on a Feb. 15 conference call with
analysts, according to a transcript.  ‘More Profitable’  Yesterday’s exclusivity announcement is a positive sign
after Marth’s comments, Jonathan Kreizman, an analyst at Clal
Finance, said yesterday.  “An exclusive launch is by far more profitable than a
general generic launch, which is launched by several other
players simultaneously,” Kreizman said. “That usually results
in a very sharp decrease in the drug’s price and a much less
strong impact on profitability.”  Teva  jumped  12 percent in the three months through March
30, outperforming an 11 percent advance in the Bloomberg Israel-
US Equity Index for a third straight quarter.  The company reported adjusted earnings per share of $4.97
for last year on $18.3 billion of revenue, and  said  this year’s
per-share profit will be $5.48 to $5.68 a share for sales of
about $22 billion. U.S. generic drug revenue declined 32 percent
to $4 billion in 2011, due to “fewer significant launches” and
lower revenue from existing products, according to a Feb. 15
 statement  from Teva.  Sanofi Drugs  The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  in Tel Aviv gained 1 percent today and the
 Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  advanced 0.9 percent yesterday, snapping
a four-day decline.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  The exclusive release of generic versions of Paris-based
Sanofi’s medications for high blood pressure, Avapro and
Avalide, may add 5 cents to 8 cents to earnings per-share,
Kreizman said. Avapro had annual U.S. sales of $464 million and
Avalide had sales of $124 million, Teva said in yesterday’s
statement.  In a March 30 statement, Teva said it introduced a generic
version of the narcolepsy drug Provigil, made by its Cephalon
Inc. unit. Four days earlier, the company said it was
introducing a generic version of AstraZeneca Plc’s Seroquel,
used for treating schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The same
day, Teva said it received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to sell a nasal spray that treats allergy
symptoms.  Lost Copaxone Sales  The new drug pipeline comes as Teva hunts for new revenue
to replace sales expected to be lost when patents expire on
Copaxone, the multiple sclerosis treatment that accounted for
$3.6 billion of company revenue last year.  Syneron Medical Ltd. (ELOS) , an Israeli developer of aesthetic
medical devices, rose 2.1 percent to $10.95 in New York
yesterday. The company was the third-biggest  gainer  on the
Bloomberg Israel-US gauge yesterday after MagicJack VocalTec
Ltd. and Retalix Ltd.  Anthony Vendetti and Bryan Brokmeier, analysts at Maxim
Group LLC, said Syneron is their  top pick  in the sector, as new
products for “body sculpting” and “body contouring” will
help drive growth this year, according to a research note dated
March 30.  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE) , a Ra’anana, Israel-based maker of
digital surveillance and monitoring systems, advanced 1.9
percent in Tel Aviv today to 148 shekels, or the equivalent
$39.76, after  climbing  1.2 percent to $39.78 in the U.S.
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ; 