-- Express Scripts Judge Sets Hearing on Injunction Request
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-03T18:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/express-scripts-judge-sets-hearing-on-injunction-request-1-.html
The judge overseeing a private
antitrust lawsuit seeking to block  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s
acquisition of  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  set a hearing for
April 10 on a request for an injunction to undo the deal.  U.S. District Judge Cathy Bissoon in Pittsburgh today
scheduled the hearing after a telephone conference with lawyers
for the company and the trade groups suing to prevent the deal,
which was approved yesterday by the Federal Trade Commission.
She ordered  Express Scripts  to respond by April 6.  The National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the National
Community Pharmacists Association and independent pharmacies
yesterday filed the emergency request to “hold separate Medco’s
assets and operations,” hours after the $29.1 billion
acquisition closed.  The trade groups sued Express Scripts and Medco on March
29, claiming the deal would violate antitrust laws by reducing
competition and raising consumer prices. They filed a request
for a temporary restraining order the following day.  “We believe the suit is without merit,” said Express
Scripts spokesman  Brian Henry  in an e-mail.  Express Scripts, based in  St. Louis , agreed in July to buy
Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-based Medco, saying that consumers
would get more power to negotiate prices from the combined
companies. The deal creates the largest pharmacy benefits
manager in the U.S. The companies act as middlemen among
drugmakers, pharmacies and health-plan sponsors to manage
patients’ benefits.  The Federal Trade Commission approved the purchase by a 3-1
vote yesterday. Clearance was unconditional, with the
commissioners saying their eight-month review of the deal found
“a competitive market for pharmacy benefit management
services.”  The case is National Association of Chain Drug Stores v.
Express Scripts, 2:12-cv-00395, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  