-- Facebook Responds to Yahoo Patent Lawsuit With Counterclaims
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/facebook-files-counterclaims-against-yahoo-in-patent-suit-1-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the
world’s biggest social-networking site, accused  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  of
infringing 10 patents through its home page and Flickr photo-
sharing service and in ads displayed throughout its site.  Facebook, which was sued by Yahoo for patent infringement
last month, made the counterclaims yesterday in a federal court
filing in San Francisco. Facebook denied stealing Yahoo’s
technology, saying its rival’s patents are either invalid or its
claims legally barred and the lawsuit should be dismissed.  “While we are asserting patent claims of our own, we do so
in response to Yahoo’s shortsighted decision to attack one of
its partners and prioritize litigation over innovation,” Ted Ullyot, Facebook’s general counsel, said in an e-mail.  Yahoo, owner of the most popular U.S. Internet portal, has
been struggling to keep pace with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook,
which have lured away users and ad dollars. Facebook filed for
an initial public offering in February that may value the
business at $75 billion to $100 billion, people familiar with
matter have said.  David McCombs, an intellectual property lawyer at Haynes &
Boone LLP in  Dallas , said the countersuit by Facebook means
“the gloves are off, and they will fight it out.”  ‘Picks a Fight’  “If someone picks a fight with you, then you certainly
would respond in kind, typically,” he said yesterday in a phone
interview. “You would expect Facebook to have intellectual
property assets that would be applicable to anyone that’s
operating in that space.”  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , alleged in its
lawsuit that Facebook infringes patents covering functions
critical to websites, including  Internet advertising ,
information sharing and privacy. It’s seeking an order barring
Facebook from infringing 10 patents and for triple damages.  The lawsuit followed Yahoo’s statements in February that
 Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , like other Web companies,
must license its technology.  “We have only just received Facebook’s answer and
counterclaims, but on their face we believe they are without
merit and nothing more than a cynical attempt to distract from
the weakness of its defense,” Yahoo said in an e-mailed
statement. “We have proposed that Facebook join us in
discussions to resolve the matter, but our overtures have been
rejected. As a result, we are prepared to continue to seek
redress through the courts.”  Facebook’s Counterclaims  In its counterclaims, Facebook says its patents are
infringed directly by Yahoo’s home page and Flickr and through
advertisements displayed throughout Yahoo’s site on finance,
sports, games and shopping services.  Facebook patents at issue in the counterclaims include
those related to technologies for generating a feed of stories
personalized for social network users, posting headlines and
distributing user profiles over a network. The company is
seeking court orders declaring that it doesn’t infringe Yahoo
patents, blocking Yahoo from using its patents and awarding it
unspecified damages from Yahoo.  Yahoo lost its No. 1 spot to Facebook last year in the U.S.
market for display advertising, which includes video and
graphically based marketing messages, according to EMarketer
Inc. In January, Yahoo reported fourth-quarter revenue of $1.17
billion, excluding sales passed on to partner sites.  Facebook, which has more than 845 million users, is seeking
$5 billion in what could be the largest Internet IPO on record.
Facebook’s implied valued rose 8.9 percent to $102.8 billion
March 30 in what was expected to be the last auction of its
stock on SharesPost Inc.’s exchange before the IPO.  The case is  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  