-- Fed’s Lockhart Says Sustained Job Gains Reduce Need for Easing
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-04-03T20:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/fed-s-lockhart-says-he-doesn-t-now-see-need-for-more-easing.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the biggest U.S. employment gains
in six years will probably be sustained, reducing the need for
additional central bank easing.  “I would have to see some pretty severe circumstances
before I endorse for another round of quantitative easing,”
Lockhart said today on Bloomberg Radio’s “Hays Advantage” with
 Kathleen Hays . “The outlook is positive enough that I am not
sure I see the need for it.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is holding off on
increasing monetary accommodation unless the expansion falters
or prices rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent target.  Minutes of the March 13 meeting by policy makers show
decreased urgency to add stimulus. At a January meeting, a few
members said that economic conditions “could warrant the
initiation of additional securities purchases before long.” In
March, no sentiment was voiced for more easing without worsening
economic conditions.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that while a recent
decline in the jobless rate is encouraging, continued
accommodative policy will be needed to make further progress.
The FOMC this year has said subdued inflation and economic slack
will probably warrant exceptionally low rates through at least
late 2014. Policy makers upgraded their economic outlook at the
March meeting after improvements in the job market.  Previous Recession  While “one school of thought” is that employment gains
simply reflect a temporary reversal of too-severe cuts in the
past recession, “I am still inclined to believe we are going to
see continuing improvement on the employment front, and that the
pace of job growth we have seen for the past several months is
not transitory,” Lockhart said following the broadcast part of
the interview. “That is part of the reason why I am comfortable
with policy as it stands today.”  A third round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing,
might be appropriate if the  U.S. economy  falters or concern
mounts that prices will fall, Lockhart said. Those conditions
don’t exist now, he said.  Lockhart said if longer-term Treasury yields rose enough to
effectively be a “tightening” in policy he may be more open to
modest steps toward easier policy. Such measures may include a
“sterilized” quantitative easing, asset purchases designed to
minimize inflation risk, or additional Operation Twist, purchase
of long-term bonds with proceeds from sales of short-term
securities.  “I make a distinction between policies that are balance
sheet neutral and those that would expand the balance sheet”
such as asset purchases alone, Lockhart said. “I am not ready
to say the conditions exist now that would call for those. I
think they are options that are available to us if we see a
total tightening picture” with yields rising further.  Improving Labor Market  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note has risen to
2.29 percent from 1.80 percent on Jan. 31 in response to reports
of an accelerating economy and improving labor market. About 1.2
million jobs were created in the past six months, the most since
the same period ended May 2006, Labor Department figures show.
The  unemployment rate  held in February at a three-year-low of
8.3 percent.  Lockhart said he evaluates additional easing by looking at
possible benefits versus its costs. Today, more asset purchases
may not help the economy because they may not result in
additional economic activity. Such a result could raise public
concern about inflation and make the Fed’s eventual exit plan
more challenging, he said.  The rise in yields so far is “not a huge concern in my
mind,” Lockhart said. “Mostly what you have seen as longer
rates have risen a bit is a better outlook for the economy.”  Some Improvement  U.S. growth will probably be 2.5 percent to 3 percent this
year, and “2013 should be some improvement over 2012,”
Lockhart said.  “Inflation is in an acceptable range and is going to hew
to the 2 percent target sufficiently closely to not make it a
major policy concern at the moment,” he said.  Orders to U.S. factories climbed 1.3 percent in February,
the third increase in the past four months, boosted by demand
for business equipment, Commerce Department figures showed
today. Gains in manufacturing, rising  consumer confidence  and an
improving job market have helped to boost the economic outlook
this year.  “I am more confident that the economy is gaining
traction,” Lockhart said in the radio interview. “I think this
economy has more strength and better legs, but at the same time
one has to be a little bit cautious.”  Lockhart said the Fed’s pledge to keep rates low through
late 2014 “is very much dependent on the outlook” though
currently “aligns with the outlook I see.”  ‘Double Dip’  “I am not concerned about a  double dip  recession at least
organically,” Lockhart said. “We have an economy growing at a
moderate pace.” Still, the European debt crisis and  oil prices 
are risks to the pace of recovery, he said.  Fed officials have expressed a full range of views on the
need for more easing. Additional stimulus may not be warranted
with the economy strengthening, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said March 23. Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker 
voiced the same view on March 30.  While economic reports have improved, it is “far too soon
to conclude that we are out of the woods” and “nothing has
been decided” on more bond purchases, New York Fed President
William C. Dudley said March 19. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said March 22 that “clearly, more accommodation would be
appropriate” with unemployment too high.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than a year, as
households spent more freely, the government reported. Growth
will probably slow to 2 percent this quarter, according to the
median of 72 economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey
from March 9 to March 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  