-- Fed’s Williams Says ‘Strong’ Stimulus Needed for Recovery
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-03T23:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/fed-s-williams-sees-need-for-strong-stimulus-to-boost-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco  President  John Williams  said the central bank must
continue to act “vigorously” to boost the economy and sustain
labor market gains.  “We are far below maximum employment and are likely to
remain there for some time,” Williams said today in  San Diego .
“Under these circumstances, it’s essential that we keep strong
monetary stimulus in place. The recovery has been sluggish.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  on March
13 maintained its pledge to keep  interest rates  low through at
least late 2014, noting improvements in employment while also
saying “significant downside risks” remain. Still, policy
makers saw no need to roll out new easing measures unless growth
faltered, minutes of last month’s meeting showed today.  Recent data signal a strengthening U.S. recovery, with an
improving labor market encouraging consumers to spend more in
the world’s largest economy. The  unemployment rate  has fallen to
8.3 percent, its lowest in three years.  “Unfortunately, the kind of moderate economic growth I
expect won’t sustain such rapid progress” in the job market,
Williams told students at the University of San Diego.  Williams forecast economic growth of 2.5 percent this year
and 2.75 percent in 2013. The unemployment rate will remain
around 8 percent at the end of 2012, and is likely to be about 7
percent at the end of 2014, he predicted, according to the
prepared remarks.  Inflation will be about 2 percent this year and slow to 1.5
percent in 2013, he said.  ‘Stronger Recovery’  “I’m encouraged by recent signs of a stronger, self-
sustaining recovery,” Williams said. “I’m especially glad to
see that the economy is  adding jobs  at a pretty decent clip.
Still, we have a long way to go.”  The district bank chief added that the time for the Fed to
begin tightening is “still well off in the future.” Even so
that will be “well before” the economy reaches full employment
because the central bank needs to get monetary policy back on
“its normal path,” Williams told reporters after the speech.  U.S. stocks extended losses today and Treasuries fell as
minutes from the FOMC’s last meeting showed central bankers are
holding off on increasing monetary accommodation unless the
nation’s economic expansion falters. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of stocks lost 0.4 percent to 1,413.38 today, retreating
from an almost four-year high.  Fed Minutes  “A couple of members indicated that the initiation of
additional stimulus could become necessary if the economy lost
momentum or if inflation seemed likely to remain below” 2
percent, according to minutes of that meeting released today in
 Washington . “Most participants did not interpret the recent
economic and financial information as pointing to a material
revision to the outlook for 2013 and 2014.”  Williams echoed that view today, keeping the potential for
a third round of bond purchases, or so-called quantitative
easing.  “In a situation where the economy stalled, was no longer
making good progress toward our employment mandate or if
inflation fell significantly below 2 percent -- not just
temporarily but in a sustained way -- those would be the kind of
things that would make me be leaning more toward being open to a
QE3 type of thing,” he said in response to a question from the
audience.  Consumer spending  in February grew 0.8 percent, marking the
biggest gain in seven months, Commerce Department figures showed
March 30. Manufacturing growth accelerated in March, according
to the  Institute for Supply Management ’s index released April 2.  Williams, 49, is a voting member of the FOMC this year. He
became the San Francisco Fed’s president in March 2011 after two
years as its director of research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  