-- Federal Reserve Bank of N.Y. Seeks Starr Lawsuit Dismissal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-03T20:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/federal-reserve-bank-of-n-y-seeks-starr-lawsuit-dismissal-1-.html
Starr International Co.’s lawsuit
against the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  over the government
bailout of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  should be
dismissed, the bank argued in court papers.  Starr, an AIG shareholder that is headed by AIG’s founder,
 Hank Greenberg , filed related complaints in November against the
bank in  Manhattan  federal court and the U.S. government in the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims in  Washington . Starr claims the
government used its 2008 bailout of New York-based AIG to
channel money improperly to the insurer’s trading partners.  The Federal Reserve Bank said in a filing yesterday that
the case should be thrown out because Starr failed to make a
demand on AIG’s board before filing the suit and because its
decisions about terms of the bailout loans aren’t reviewable
under state law.  “AIG sought and freely accepted FRBNY’s rescue, and AIG’s
current corporate existence as a going concern confirms the
wisdom underlying the AIG board’s decision to do so,” the
reserve bank said in its court filing. “No cognizable cause of
action arises from FRBNY’s decisions regarding specific proposed
terms for its rescue or from the AIG board’s decision to accept
those terms.”  Dawn Schneider, a spokeswoman for Starr’s lawyer,  David Boies , didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment on the court filing.  The federal claims case is Starr International Co. v. U.S.,
11-779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington). The Federal
Reserve case is Starr International Co. v. Federal Reserve Bank
of New York, 11-8422, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at
   phurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 