-- Fink Finds Assets Not Enough in BlackRock Bid for Clout
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-04-03T20:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/fink-finds-fund-assets-aren-t-enough-in-blackrock-bid-for-clout.html
Laurence D. Fink, who built
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  into the world’s biggest asset manager, now is
seeking to increase the firm’s clout beyond Wall Street to the
wider public.  Fink is pushing for reputational heft with investors,
regulators and peers, as the adulation received by rival Pacific
Investment Management Co. has eluded the firm he co-founded in
1988. He’s started a campaign to make BlackRock’s brand better
known, and is asserting its views on pivotal issues including
money-fund rules and the dangers of complex exchange-traded
funds that are at odds with firms such as Fidelity Investments
and  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)  He’s seeking to become a champion of
corporate governance, urging 600 companies where BlackRock has
its biggest stakes in to adopt shareholder-friendly practices.  “People always asked me what do I care about the most for
our company, and that’s an easy answer; it’s respect,” Fink,
59, said in an interview in his office at BlackRock’s  New York 
headquarters. “Being the largest asset-management company in
the world isn’t a stat that I actually care about. If we’re the
most respected asset-management company in the world, that’s a
pretty lofty position.”  Gravitas is crucial for BlackRock as it tries to bolster
its reputation as an active money manager, woo individual
investors and increase its share of the U.S. mutual-fund
business, where it holds 2.2 percent of assets. While Fink built
BlackRock into the world’s largest provider of exchange-traded
funds, only about 6 percent of its assets are in actively
managed U.S. retail funds. Fink has said building that business
is a “big priority” for BlackRock.  BlackRock’s Diversity  BlackRock’s $3.51 trillion in assets include stocks and
bonds, institutional accounts,  hedge funds , passive strategies
and portfolios that use mathematical models, giving it the
broadest array of products among money managers. BlackRock has
also been picked by government agencies in  Europe  including
Greece, Germany, Switzerland and Sweden since 2008 to evaluate
hard-to-value debt portfolios. The firm’s BlackRock Solutions
unit was selected by the U.S. in 2008 to oversee tainted
portfolios at the peak of the financial crisis.  “The core motive driving our brand campaign, our
regulatory advocacy and our corporate governance engagement is
our responsibility to our clients,” said Linda Robinson, a
senior managing director and global head of marketing and
communications for BlackRock. “That is the motivation and what
is driving those actions.”  Pimco’s Followers  Although Newport Beach, California-based Pimco has less
than half of BlackRock’s assets, its founder and co-chief
investment officer,  Bill Gross , is one of the most widely
followed bond investment managers and analysts of Federal
Reserve policy. Gross, who was named the fixed-income manager of
the decade by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in 2010, posts monthly investment
outlooks online and his postings are followed by more than
62,000 users of the microblogging site Twitter.com.  Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco’s chief executive officer, wrote a
book “When Markets Collide” in 2008 that was a New York Times
bestseller, and regularly writes commentaries for newspapers and
websites on topics ranging from the global economy to education.  Pimco, whose $252 billion Total Return Fund is the world’s
largest mutual fund, controls 5.5 percent of the mutual-fund
market, according to Strategic Insight, a research firm. Across
the company, Pimco attracted $60 billion of client deposits in
2011 while BlackRock had net withdrawals of $13.7 billion.  ‘Higher Profile’  Pimco’s parent,  Allianz SE (ALV) , ranks No. 2 globally, with $2.2
trillion, including $1.36 trillion at the unit run by El-Erian
and Gross.  BlackRock acquired Barclays Global Investors in December
2009 to add iShares exchange-traded funds to the actively run
stock and bond funds it oversees, more than doubling its assets.
More than half of the firm’s assets were in iShares and other
passive funds as of the end of last year.  Fink is “trying to create a higher profile for himself as
an evenhanded spokesman on corporate governance in general and
on the financial industry in particular, and he does that on the
sheer size of BlackRock,” said Burton Greenwald, a mutual-fund
consultant in Philadelphia.  Gross’s Misstep  Gross’s visibility does have its downside. He missed a
rally in U.S. Treasuries last year, which resulted in his Total
Return Fund lagging behind 69 percent of peers and prompting the
fund’s first year of client withdrawals even as clients put
money into other Pimco products. Gross wrote a letter to clients
entitled “Mea Culpa,” in which he called 2011 a “stinker.”  Performance at U.S. mutual funds managed by BlackRock may
stand in the way of the firm’s ambitions. In the three years
ended Feb. 29, BlackRock’s actively managed funds on an asset-
weighted basis trailed 60 percent of their peers, according to
data compiled by Morningstar. During the same period, Pimco beat
59 percent of its peers, Morningstar data show.  Over the past five years, BlackRock did better compared
with many peers, beating 63 percent. Pimco’s over that period
outperformed 91 percent of peers, data from Morningstar show.  BlackRock said the comparison doesn’t reflect the more
diverse and global nature of its business, and doesn’t factor in
its institutional and non-U.S. mutual funds. Across all of its
actively managed strategies globally, 74 percent of assets
outperformed benchmarks or peers over five years, according to
the company.  Performance Not ‘Terrific’  BlackRock has had “a lot of changes at the top, but what
you haven’t seen is this being synthesized into terrific
performance,” said  Eric Jacobson , a senior analyst at Chicago-
based Morningstar, referring to BlackRock.  The firm’s first priority is delivering top performance for
active funds, Fink said. At an event hosted by the UCLA Anderson
School of Management and Bloomberg Television in November, Fink
said he admires Pimco’s consistent long-term track record and
influence. Gross’s Pimco Total Return returned an annual average
of 8.3 percent in the five years through March 30, beating 98
percent of similarly managed funds, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. During the past 10 years, the fund gained 7
percent.  “I could give you pockets where we did really well
consistently and areas not so well. However, the number one
thing we have to be great at is performance in our alpha
products,” Fink, who has been chairman and CEO of the firm
since co-founding it, said in the interview last month. Alpha
products seek to beat the returns of market benchmarks.  BlackRock’s Reputation  BlackRock has work to do to improve its reputation among
some institutional investors as well. It was rated No. 4 by
pensions and No. 9 by nonprofits, compared with Pimco’s No. 1
ranking for both, in terms of favorable impressions among
prospective clients, according to a study released last month by
Cogent Research that surveyed 650 pension and nonprofit
investors with at least $20 million in assets.  The company, started in a one-room office in Manhattan with
$1 billion in assets, achieved its ascent from a bond shop to a
diversified firm managing stocks, bonds, hedge funds, index
funds and ETFs by acquiring competitors. In 2004, it purchased
State Street Research & Management for $375 million from  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  and two years later it acquired Merrill Lynch’s investment
unit for $9 billion, bringing its assets above the $1 trillion
mark. BlackRock bought the hedge fund-of-funds business of
Quellos Group LLC in 2008.  BlackRock’s first move into the spotlight came when it went
public in 1999, raising $126 million in an initial offering.  ‘Being Visible’  “I don’t like being that visible in the industry -- I much
preferred the first 12 years when no one knew who BlackRock
was,” Fink said. “But I don’t think I could stand there and
say our voice could be silent anymore. Our scale, our
visibility, our business model has given us a platform in which
we need to have a voice on behalf of our clients.”  BlackRock’s shares have gained 40 percent since it
announced that it would acquire Merrill Lynch’s investment unit
in February 2006, compared with the 18 percent decline in the
20-member index that tracks asset managers and custody banks.  To make its views heard, BlackRock in February began its
“new world” campaign, telling clients how to invest in an
uncertain market, three years after Pimco coined the term “new
normal” following the 2008 financial crisis. Fink last year
said he didn’t share Pimco’s view on the post-crisis economy and
theory of “new normal,” which describes a world of subdued
stock and bond returns as growth slows in developed economies
and  emerging markets  grow more dominant.  Ad Campaign  Four-page inserts appeared in publications including the
 Wall Street  Journal and the Financial Times as part of
BlackRock’s campaign. In a speech to the Council on Foreign
Relations in February, Fink said the traditional mix of putting
60 percent of assets in stocks and 40 percent in bonds is
inadequate in a market characterized by an aging population, a
reduction in borrowing and risk-taking by individuals and
governments, and a greater role of emerging economies.  BlackRock executives including  Robert Kapito  and  Robert Doll  have also been speaking publicly about how investors can be
harmed by sitting in cash and focusing on short-term investing.  Kapito, a co-founder and president of the firm, told CNN
Money last month that he has about 70 percent of his investment
portfolio in dividend-paying global stocks. Both he and Doll,
BlackRock’s chief equity strategist, have appeared on CNBC
promoting equities this year. About 44 percent of BlackRock’s
assets are in equities, which generated almost half of the
firm’s revenue in 2011, or $4.4 billion, according to company
filings.  Household Name  Becoming a household name is important because then it’s
easier for brokers to sell BlackRock’s products to retail
investors, said Luke Montgomery, a research analyst who covers
asset managers at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  It’s prudent for asset managers to try to get retail
dollars because more money is shifting to individuals with the
move to defined contribution plans, where savers handle their
own money, from defined benefit plans, said  Jeffrey Hopson , a
research analyst at Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. in St. Louis. There
was $4.5 trillion in defined contribution plans as of Dec. 31,
according to the  Investment Company Institute .  “We’ve never had a campaign this retail-oriented and are
now investing more in that brand,” said Fink.  BlackRock has also become more vocal about regulatory
policies and taken positions that contrast with the views of
peers in the industry in its quest to establish itself as a
leader. The firm released a report last month outlining how
regulators could make a floating net-asset value, or NAV,
acceptable to money-market investors and managers.  ‘Leadership Position’  BlackRock, which had previously opposed floating the NAV,
said doing so wouldn’t cripple the product, putting it at odds
with firms including Pittsburgh-based  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) 
and Boston-based Fidelity.  “Some of this is getting in front of issues that have been
long-term issues that no one has spent the time addressing,”
Kapito said in an interview on March 13. “So why don’t we take
a leadership position, go out and identify some of these issues,
try to come up with solutions to these issues and get the
industry to move in that direction?”  BlackRock oversaw $145 billion in U.S. money-market mutual
funds as of Feb. 29, making it the seventh-largest manager,
according to data compiled by research firm Crane Data LLC of
Westborough, Massachusetts. Last year, money-market funds
accounted for about 4 percent of revenue, filings show.  Synthetic ETFs  “I think of this as very welcome and appropriate from a
firm like BlackRock,” Paul Schott Stevens, president of the
Investment Company Institute, the Washington-based trade group
that has opposed any additional changes to money-market funds,
said in an interview. “I view it as a leadership exercise.”  BlackRock, the world’s largest ETF provider, in October
called for better transparency and disclosure of ETFs that use
derivatives. Almost all of BlackRock’s ETFs are backed by
stocks, bonds or commodities they seek to track.  So-called synthetic ETFs, offered in Europe by firms
including Societe Generale’s Lyxor Asset Management, introduce a
layer of complexity and counterparty risk that investors may not
be aware of, Fink said at a conference in November.  All Lyxor ETFs are fully regulated with levels of
transparency and risk management that typically exceed
regulatory requirements, Simon Klein, head of European ETFs at
Lyxor, said in an e-mailed statement. Lyxor has said that
BlackRock’s warnings distract from the risk associated with
securities lending by physical ETFs, which is that a borrower
will collapse and fail to return them.  ‘Married With Performance’  BlackRock is also advocating for better corporate
governance at companies it invests in. In January, the firm sent
letters to 600 companies in which it holds at least 5 percent of
the shares to adopt more shareholder-friendly practices. And
BlackRock recently filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission to open a fund that excludes companies that have ties
to countries where there are human rights violations.  The firm’s efforts won’t translate into results overnight,
said  Geoff Bobroff , a mutual-fund consultant in  East Greenwich ,
 Rhode Island .  “Building awareness and creating a brand is years in the
making, not weeks or days or months,” Bobroff said. “It
ultimately has to be married with performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  