-- Fed Signals No Need for More Easing Unless Growth Falters
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-04-04T02:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/fomc-saw-no-need-of-new-easing-unless-growth-slips-minutes-show.html
The  Federal Reserve  is holding off
on increasing monetary accommodation unless the U.S. economic
expansion falters or prices rise at a rate slower than its 2
percent target.  “A couple of members indicated that the initiation of
additional stimulus could become necessary if the economy lost
momentum or if inflation seemed likely to remain below” 2
percent, according to minutes of their March 13 meeting released
today in Washington. That contrasts with the assessment at the
FOMC’s January meeting in which some Fed officials saw current
conditions warranting additional action “before long.”  Stocks slumped while the dollar and Treasury yields rose.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to 1,413.31 as
of 4:12 p.m. in  New York , retreating from yesterday’s highest
close since May 2008. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes increased
11 basis points to 2.3 percent. The  Dollar Index , a gauge of the
currency against six major peers, rallied 0.7 percent.  The March minutes show decreased urgency to add stimulus
with no sentiment expressed for additional easing without a
deterioration in economic conditions. The central bank also
affirmed its plan, first announced in January, to hold interest
rates near zero through late 2014 as the economy’s improvement
may not be sufficient to lower the outlook for coming years.  Asian stocks fell for the first time in four days, with the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index sliding 0.9 percent as of 10:51 a.m. in
 Tokyo .  ‘Positive Enough’  “I would have to see some pretty severe circumstances
before I endorse for another round of quantitative easing,”
Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said today on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “The outlook is
positive enough that I am not sure I see the need for it.”  Lockhart, a voting member on monetary policy this year, has
never dissented from a decision of the FOMC since becoming
president of the Atlanta Fed in March 2007.  Markets reacted sharply because investors expected a signal
for new rounds of quantitative easing, said Michael Gapen, a
former Fed economist who is a senior U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York.  “There were others who were convinced the Fed was going to
have to do it and some QE was still priced in,” Gapen said.
Today’s minutes don’t “rule out QE3 - the Fed still thinks
there are downside risks to remain concerned about -- but the
trends right now don’t suggest they need to do more,” he said.  Affirmed Plan  The central bank first said in January that it may hold
 interest rates  near zero through at least late 2014 as the
economy may fail to grow fast enough to continue bringing down
the  unemployment rate . Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has defended
the pledge as appropriate since the meeting, saying that despite
some improvement in the economy it’s “far too early to declare
victory.”  The FOMC said in March that unemployment is still
“elevated” even after recent improvements in the job market.
Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented because he
doesn’t anticipate that economic conditions will warrant
exceptionally low rates for so long.  Fed policy makers also discussed the conditions under which
they’d alter their 2014 interest rate plan. That commitment is
conditional on the performance of the economy “and members
concurred that the date given in the statement would be subject
to revision in response to significant changes in the economic
outlook,” the minutes said.  Employment  “A number” of policy makers did not see that threshold
being met and said that “while recent employment data had been
encouraging” there was a “nonnegligible risk that improvements
in employment could diminish as the year progressed,” the
minutes said.  Bernanke highlighted those risks in a March 27 television
interview with ABC News.  “We need to be cautious and make sure this is
sustainable,” he said in the interview. “We haven’t quite yet
got to the point where we can be completely confident that we’re
on a track to full recovery.”  Asked if another round of quantitative easing, or large-
scale bond purchases, remains “on the table,” the 58-year-old
Fed chief said, “we don’t take any options off the table.”  “We have to be prepared to respond to however the economy
evolves,” he said.  Those remarks expanded on a speech by Bernanke on March 26
in Arlington,  Virginia , in which he said the fall in the jobless
rate may reflect “a reversal of the unusually large layoffs
that occurred during late 2008 and over 2009.” Significant
improvement in reducing unemployment will probably require
faster growth, he said.  Raise Forecasts  In their March discussion policy makers did not see the
economy growing so strongly that they would have to raise their
forecasts in coming years.  “Most participants did not interpret the recent economic
and financial information as pointing to a material revision to
the outlook for 2013 and 2014,” the minutes said.  FOMC participants also discussed additional steps they
could take to better explain to the public how changes in the
economic outlook affect monetary policy decisions, such as what
qualitative or quantitative data would prompt which actions,
according to the minutes.  “Several participants suggested that it could be helpful
to discuss at a future meeting some alternative economic
scenarios and the monetary policy responses that might be seen
as appropriate under each one,” according to the minutes, which
noted no decision was made on future steps on the Fed’s
communication strategy.  Higher Gas Price  The best six months of job growth since 2006, unemployment
at a three-year low, and stock-market gains are giving Americans
the means to withstand a higher gasoline price. A March 30
report from the Commerce Department said Americans increased
their spending by the most in seven months, with purchases
climbing 0.8 percent in February.  “Consumers are becoming a little bit more resilient to
fuel prices,”  Don Johnson , U.S. sales chief for General Motors
Co., said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “In The Loop With
Betty Liu.” More consumers will be spurred to replace old cars,
he said, “as the economy continues to strengthen, which it has
been recently, more and more of that pent-up demand will be
released into the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  