-- Ford to Use Concierges to Teach Luxury to Lincoln Dealers
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/ford-to-use-concierges-to-teach-luxury-to-lincoln-dealers.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , which eliminated 35
percent of its big-city Lincoln dealers last year, is asking the
survivors to put their sales staff through a training academy
that emulates a concierge service at a luxury hotel.  Ford hired Les Clefs d’Or, an international association of
hotel concierges, to consult on creating the Lincoln Academy,
the automaker said yesterday in a statement. It’s the first such
alliance between an automaker and the concierge group, according
to Ford, which didn’t reveal terms of the deal.  “We realize that great new vehicles are only one part of
Lincoln’s transformation,”  Jim Farley , Ford global marketing
chief, said in the statement. New models “have to be matched
with personal and innovative customer service.”  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  is seeking younger,
wealthier buyers and a bigger slice of more-profitable premium-
car sales for Lincoln. The lagging luxury line, whose buyers
average 65 years old, has seen sales slide 63 percent since
peaking in 1990. It’s introducing seven new models by 2015.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, has asked Lincoln
dealers to spend as much as $2 million each to renovate
showrooms and upgrade service as it seeks to provide customers
with a buying experience similar to competitors such as
 Bayerische Motoren Werke (BMW)  AG’s BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus luxury line.  Last year, Ford cut its Lincoln dealers in U.S.
metropolitan markets to 325 from more than 500 so they compete
less with each other and more with other luxury-auto brands.  ‘Difficult Work’  “It’s been really difficult work,” Farley said of the
dealer consolidation at the Detroit auto show on Jan. 10. “But
we’re getting to the right number of dealers.”  Ford wants to create “culture change in dealerships” with
its Lincoln Academy training program, the automaker said in
yesterday’s statement. The training, which begins midyear, will
have hotel concierges training Lincoln sales staff in the proper
way to treat customers, Ford said.  The treatment will include 24-hour online concierge service
for Lincoln shoppers and owners. Staff members will be available
around-the-clock to answer questions live through interactive
video, the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker said.  The online interaction will include guided walkthroughs of
new Lincoln models and services as well as comparisons with
rival luxury models. Lincoln will create personalized portfolios
for buyers that they can access on their laptop, iPad or smart
phone, Ford said.  Lincoln had U.S. sales of 85,643 vehicles in 2011, down
from its 1990 peak of 231,660. The top-selling U.S. luxury auto
brand last year was BMW with 247,907.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in New York at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  