-- Coppola Sues California Restaurant Over ‘A Tavola’ Trademark
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-04T20:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/francis-ford-coppola-sues-eatery-over-a-tavola-trademark-1-.html
Francis Ford Coppola sued the owner
of Tavola Italian Kitchen restaurant in Novato,  California ,
claiming the name infringes the Oscar-winning filmmaker’s “a
tavola”  trademark  used to market his eateries.  “A tavola,” or “to the table,” is a registered
trademark and Coppola’s favorite way to enjoy a meal, according
to a complaint the filmmaker and his family trust filed
yesterday in federal court in San Francisco. The expression
means diners aren’t provided with menus and instead are served
family-style dishes, according to the complaint.  Since 2008, the Francis Ford Coppola Winery and restaurants
in San Francisco and  Napa Valley  have used the “a tavola”
trademark, which the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  issued
last year, according to the complaint. Coppola’s company asked
the Tavola Italian Kitchen to stop using the trademark without
success, according to the complaint.  “We’re struggling to stay alive, and now we have this, one
of the biggest names in American history step on us?” said
Anthony Pirraglia, the father of the family that owns Tavola
Italian Kitchen. “They don’t have anything else to do? It’s
incredible.”  Coppola’s company claims Tavola Italian Kitchen’s
infringement is “likely to cause confusion” with Coppola’s
trademark, especially because it is located 50 miles (80
kilometers) from Coppola’s winery. The winery’s website refers
to “a tavola” to promote a “casual dining experience” every
Tuesday.  ‘Tavola’ Used Widely  Pirraglia said in a phone interview yesterday that his
family used the word “tavola” because they liked it. The word
is generic and used so widely in the restaurant business, it’s
surprising Coppola was able to trademark it, he said. The family
picked the name nine months ago in an attempt to revitalize the
restaurant, which was losing money under a different name and
menu, he said.  “We’re a small 70-seat restaurant in a shopping center,”
Pirraglia said. It’s “absurd” to claim that someone might
drive by and in confusion think that it’s  Francis Ford Coppola ’s
estate, he said.  Pirraglia said he’s unsure how he’ll respond to the lawsuit
given how much his family has invested in the sign, menus and
local advertising for the Novato restaurant.  2010 Trademark Suit  In 2010, Coppola brought a trademark-infringement suit
against Spanish winery Casas Naveran in federal court in Austin,
 Texas , and in a settlement won a court order barring the
Barcelona winemaker from using a label on its white and rose
wines that Coppola said was a copy of the “Sofia” label he
uses on wines he began making in 1999 in honor of his daughter,
actress and director  Sofia Coppola .  Naveran twice sent Coppola redesigned labels in response to
a cease-and-desist letter Coppola sent in 2009, which the
filmmaker argued in court documents remained “confusingly and
substantially similar” to his Sophia labels.  Coppola sought money damages, an award of profits the
defendant derived from the alleged infringement, attorney fees
and litigation costs, and asked that the damages be tripled to
punish the Spanish winery for its alleged infringement. Court
documents don’t explain what Naveran paid.  Two Coppola films in the 1970s won Oscars for best picture:
“The Godfather” and “The Godfather: Part II.” Three others
made in that decade were nominated for best picture: “The
Conversation,” “American Graffiti” and “Apocalypse Now.”  The case is Trustees of the Coppola Family Trust v. Torg
Holding Corp., 12-cv-1646, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  