-- French Revolution Candidate Channeling Discontent Soars in Polls
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-04-03T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/french-revolution-candidate-channeling-discontent-soars-in-polls.html
The doubling of poll ratings for
Jean-Luc Melenchon, the Communist Party-backed candidate in the
French election campaign, is giving his end of the political
spectrum its strongest voice in more than three decades.  Melenchon, a 60-year-old who quit the Socialist Party in
2008, is gaining support with calls for “Civic Revolution,”
 “Insurrection”  and a “French Spring,” and an appeal to
“Resist” and  “Take Power.”  Melenchon drew more than 100,000
people at a March 18 rally at Paris’s Bastille square, where the
uprising that brought down the monarchy began in 1789.  “Melenchon appeals to the ‘anti-system’ feelings that
French people from the hard left to social democrats stay away
from,” said Gael Sliman, head of pollster BVA, said in an
interview. “He’s calling for a revolution at the ballot box.”  While the former minister is unlikely to advance past the
first round in 18 days into the May 6 runoff, his surge risks
pushing Socialist Francois Hollande further from the center,
giving President  Nicolas Sarkozy  an opportunity to paint his
main challenger as an extremist, Sliman said. Melenchon has
fashioned himself as the champion of French people discontented
and frustrated by the highest jobless rate in 12 years.  “Hollande will have to shift to a higher gear, pledge more
on the economy, on social welfare to win over the left of the
left, as we call it in France,” said  Jean Chiche , a senior
researcher at Paris’s Political Sciences Institute.  Che Guevara  With fiery speeches laced with the language of revolution,
Melenchon draws crowds that wave red flags, chant praise of  Che
Guevara  and punch the air with fists while singing the Socialist
anthem, “The Internationale.”  He has been the biggest gainer in the polls in recent
weeks, with as much as 15 percent in the 10-candidate first
round, the most for a Communist Party-backed candidate in 31
years. Melenchon would get 14 percent in the first round, just
behind Sarkozy and Hollande, a  survey  by Paris-based BVA showed.  His support matches that of Marine Le Pen, leader of the
anti-immigrant National Front, and is ahead of self-styled
centrist  Francois Bayrou .  Sarkozy and Hollande are neck-and-neck in most recent polls
for the first round. Hollande leads in the second round.  The candidates promise to boost taxes on the rich and on
big companies and have pledged limits on  Europe ’s “laissez-
faire” attitude.  “For those who think the Socialist candidate is not left-
wing enough, Melenchon is the solution,” Sliman said. “For those
who want a clear political break, he is the man.”  Melenchon’s Proposals  A European parliamentarian, Melenchon proposes eliminating
value-added tax on books, barring doctors from charging more
than the state-fixed rate, a new constitution to found the Sixth
Republic with more parliamentary powers,  a 100 percent tax on
income above 360,000 euros ($481,000) , the  retirement age  pulled
back to 60 from 62, a 22 percent increase in the minimum wage
and the creation of 850,000 government jobs.  While his proposals have little traction, his personality
has been his draw. He called his party the Left Front to thumb
his nose at the National Front and win over some of the far-
right party’s working-class supporters, BVA’s Sliman said.  Mocking Hollande’s comment to  London ’s financial industry
that “I am not dangerous,” Melenchon likes to say in radio
interviews and in meetings in a wolfish, gruff tone: “We ARE
dangerous.” At a March 27 meeting in the northern city of
Lille, that comment won him the loudest applause from the more
than 20,000 supporters present.  ‘Disappointed’ Classes  “French people don’t support him just for his calls for
revolution and his eloquent speeches,” said Chiche. “He talks
to those disappointed by the mainstream parties’ response to the
crisis, to the vast network of former Communists. His poll
rating may win him huge influence in the Socialist Party for the
June legislative elections.”  France  picks lawmakers in a two-round vote on June 10 and
17 for the  lower chamber of Parliament . The Socialist Party has
a majority in the upper chamber, called the Senate.  Melenchon, who began as a Leon Trotsky supporter, started
his career with the  Socialist Party  in the early 1970s competing
with Hollande for the party’s leadership in 1997.  A Socialist minister for vocational education and a
senator, Melenchon was a proponent of the “non” vote on the
European Constitution in the 2005 referendum, breaking ranks
with his party. In 2009, he created his own  Left Party  and soon
pulled together the Communists and rejectionist groups for his
presidential bid.  Common Platform  France’s far left usually makes as much as 13 percent of
the votes in presidential elections, spread between half a dozen
candidates. Melenchon’s Left Front has gathered much of these
votes, leaving the  New Anti-Capitalist  Party and the  Workers
Struggle  party with less than a one percent.  While Melenchon’s score in the April 22 may allow him to
demand a greater presence at Parliament and in a possible
Socialist government, his position is different from the last
time a far-left group carried such weight.  The Communist Party had more than 15 percent of the vote in
the first round of the 1981 election when  Francois Mitterrand 
got 25.8 percent. After his victory, Mitterrand nationalized
dozens of banks and companies, cut legal working hours and
boosted social welfare spending. The program stemmed from a
“Common Platform” he signed with the Communist Party in 1972.  Hollande, who hasn’t signed an accord with the Left Front,
is still counting on Melenchon voters to help him win.  Mitterrand Heir  “Melenchon’s voters wouldn’t want the left to lose the
elections,” Hollande said during a visit in the  southern town
of Montpellier  March 29. “I know they want me to win, but I
must still convince them to choose me from the start.”  The BVA survey showed that 82 percent of Melenchon
supporters would vote for Hollande in the final round.  “Hollande is less eloquent, less assertive than
Melenchon,” Chiche said.  At a speech in Tours, western France yesterday, Hollande
said, “I am seriously left wing.” To reassure centrist voters,
he quickly added, “But I’m from the serious left.”  A victory for Hollande would bring the presidency back to
the Socialist Party for the first time since 1995. Mitterrand’s
victories in 1981 and in 1988 had given the Socialist Party
power back for the first time since 1958.  “For the past 30 years Hollande and Melenchon have fought
to succeed Francois Mitterrand,”  Liberation daily newspaper 
said in its March 29 edition. “They are at it again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  