-- French Police Arrest 10 Suspected Islamic Radicals in Dawn Raids
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-04T13:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/french-islamic-militants-were-planning-attacks-prosecutor-says.html
French police arrested 10 suspected
Islamic militants in early-morning raids today in several towns
across France, a police official said.  The arrests aren’t linked to Mohamed Merah, the self-
declared jihadist who murdered seven people, including three
children at a Jewish school, last month, although their profiles
are similar, said the official who cannot be named according to
 interior ministry  policy.  The raids come a day after 13 Islamic militants calling
themselves “Forsane Alizza,” or Knights of Pride, were indicted
in Paris on weapons charges and associating with a terrorist
group. With 18 days before the first round of the French
election, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has sought in recent days to
show he’s tough on security issues.  “If there are suspicions, if there are risks, then they
must be acted upon,” Socialist candidate François Hollande,
said in an interview on RTL radio today. “But why do it after
an act of terrorism which has, it is true, deeply affected our
spirits? We can ask why precautions weren’t taken before.”  The  Interior Ministry  this week issued deportation orders
against five Muslims it accused of promoting violent views, and
expelled two of them.  Sarkozy and Hollande are neck-and-neck in most recent polls
for the first round. Hollande leads in the second round. French
citizens vote on April 22, with the top two vote-getters facing
off in the decisive round on May 6.  ‘Islamic Caliphate’  The suspects arrested today may have traveled to  Pakistan 
or  Afghanistan  or may have planned such a trip for military or
ideological training, although they didn’t appear to be members
of any group, the police official said.  The raids were conducted across the country from the
northern city of Roubaix and Bordeaux in the southwest to the
southern port of Marseille. Evidence was also seized during
search of their homes, the official said.  The suspects had been under surveillance related to eight
separate investigations by the counter-terrorism unit, he said.  Yesterday, Paris prosecutor  Francois Molins  said the
Forsane Alizza was planning “imminent attacks” and revealed a
plot to kidnap a judge during interrogations.  The group indicted yesterday had “called for the creation
of an Islamic caliphate in  France , the application of sharia,
and incited Muslims in France to unite to prepare for a civil
war,” Molins said. There were weekly meetings and physical
training sessions in parks in the Paris region.  In three attacks between March 11 and 19, Merah, a 23-year-
old Frenchman of Algerian origin, shot dead three soldiers and
three children and a teacher. He was killed at his apartment in
Toulouse by the police after a 32-hour standoff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 