-- Gasoline Futures Rise as Record Prices in Europe Deter Exports
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-04-03T19:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/gasoline-futures-rise-as-record-prices-in-europe-deter-exports.html
Gasoline rose as prices in  Europe 
increased to a record, weakening the incentive to export cargoes
of the motor fuel to the U.S.  Futures advanced as Eurobob gasoline traded at $1,220 a
metric ton for immediate loading in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp area, according to a survey of brokers and traders
monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board. It’s the highest price for
the grade, which was introduced in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Europeans haven’t been in a hurry to send gasoline
over here,” because prices have been strong, said  Phil Flynn ,
vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Supply is
going to go where the prices are.”  Gasoline for May delivery advanced 1.32 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $3.3954 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices have risen 26 percent this year, the
best-performing contract in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of
24 commodities.  Futures pared gains after minutes from a Federal Reserve
meeting showed the bank is holding off on increasing monetary
accommodation unless the  U.S. economy  falters or prices rise
more slowly than the central bank’s target.  Total gasoline imports to the U.S. East Coast dropped 16
percent from a week earlier to 496,000 barrels a day in the
seven days ended March 23, Energy Department data show. It’s the
lowest level for this  time of year  in at least a decade.  Prices in Europe are rising as supplies have tightened in
ARA, the trading hub for Northwest Europe. Inventories were
650,000 metric tons as of March 29, 25 percent below a year
earlier, PJK International BV data show. At least seven
refineries have been put up for sale in Europe, including four
of Petroplus Holding AG’s five plants.  Stockpiles Drop  Total U.S. gasoline inventories probably dropped last week,
losing 1.4 million barrels to a 13-week low, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg News.
Distillate supplies fell 500,000 barrels, according to the
survey.  Futures also rose as Brent oil, the benchmark for European
and West African cargoes used by refiners in Europe and the U.S.
East Coast, gained versus West Texas Intermediate. The  premium 
of May Brent on the ICE Futures Europe exchange over WTI traded
on Nymex widened for a fifth straight day to $20.85 a barrel,
the most since Oct. 21.  May-delivery heating oil fell 2.21 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $3.2275 a gallon on the Nymex. Prices have risen 10 percent
this year.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, slipped
0.2 cent yesterday to $3.923, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest motoring club. It was the first drop in more than three
weeks. Prices have gained 20 percent this year, and are 7.6
percent above a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 