-- Germany Asked to Forgo $1.3 Billion Deutsche Telekom Payout
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-04-04T15:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/germany-asked-to-forgo-1-3-billion-deutsche-telekom-dividend.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  worker
representatives are asking  Germany ’s government to forgo at
least part of its almost 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in
annual dividends in exchange for a bigger stake in the former
phone monopoly to help finance the cost of faster networks.  “Leave the money in the company and take a higher share,”
Lothar Schroeder,  Deutsche Telekom (DTE) ’s vice chairman and a board
member of the Ver.di union, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“If you do that for five years, Deutsche Telekom would make
some progress in broadband and the government would have
something to show for.”  The proposal is part of a strategy devised by labor
delegates on Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom’s supervisory board,
where they hold ten out of 20  seats . Schroeder says the push is
needed as broadband deployment is too slow and patchy and he
intends to discuss the plan with politicians. In any case, the
government’s stake should remain below 50 percent, he said.  Deutsche Telekom needs to invest billions of euros in
upgrading networks in its home market, across  Europe  and in the
U.S. even as phone revenue continues to slide. The company is
maintaining pledges for shareholder remuneration while  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  have cut dividend targets.  Germany, which owns a 32 percent  stake  in the operator of
the T-Mobile brand, is set to receive about 960 million euros
this year based on the company’s projection for 3 billion euros
in dividends for 2011. The government last month said it aims to
meet its constitutional balanced-budget target two years ahead
of time in 2014.  Stalled Talks  Andreas Fuchs, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, said the
operator already invests more in its home market than most
European competitors. Bertrand Benoit at the  finance ministry 
declined to immediately comment.  Deutsche Telekom and Ver.di have been at loggerheads for
months over wage increases, with the union asking for a 6.5
percent pay rise for 85,000  employees  in Germany. Ver.di called
for warning strikes last week as three rounds of talks had not
produced a compromise. A wage increase of that size may cost
Deutsche Telekom about 280 million euros to 300 million euros,
based on average pay estimates provided by Schroeder.  T-Mobile Writedown  Shares of Germany’s largest phone operator have dropped 0.2
percent this year, while  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  declined 3.8
percent, Telefonica dropped 11 percent and Royal  KPN NV (KPN)  slid 15
percent. Deutsche Telekom today dropped 2.2 percent to 8.85
euros in Frankfurt. The company has a market value of 38.2
billion euros.  The operator on Feb. 23 confirmed its dividend plan for at
least 70 cents a share through 2012. It  forecast  earnings will
fall further this year after posting a 1.34 billion euro fourth-
quarter net loss because of writedowns on  T-Mobile USA  and its
Greek business. It hasn’t given dividend projections for periods
starting in 2013.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government plans to reach 75
percent of Germany’s households with broadband connections of at
least 50 megabits per second by 2014. To attain that goal, it is
relying on Deutsche Telekom, its phone  rivals  and cable
operators to finance the rollout. Deutsche Telekom has budgeted
10 billion euros in the three years through 2012 for its German
network.  Germany’s broadband coverage still lags behind neighbors
such as the Netherlands,  Sweden ,  Denmark  and the U.K., the
Bitkom technology and telecommunications industry group said in
January.  “Across two world wars, the country has managed to put a
copper wire into every household, and I can’t understand that it
can’t manage to do the same for fiber,” Schroeder said. “It’s
absurd.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  