-- Glaxo, Pfizer Suit Claims Hikma Infringes Argatroban Patent
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-04-03T18:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/glaxo-pfizer-suit-claims-hikma-infringes-argatroban-patent-1-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Pfizer Inc.
sued  Hikma (HIK)  Pharmaceuticals Plc for planning to sell an
injectable blood-clot treatment that the drugmakers say
infringes a patent licensed by Glaxo for argatroban.  Hikma, a London-based seller of generic and branded drugs,
won U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval on Jan. 5 to
introduce its own version of argatroban, according to the
complaint filed March 30 in federal court in Trenton, New
Jersey.  Hikma plans to introduce its product “imminently,”
infringing a patent that expires in 2014, according to the
complaint. Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, licenses the
patent in the U.S. and sublicenses it to New York-based Pfizer,
the world’s largest drugmaker, according to the complaint.  Unless a judge stops Hikma, Glaxo and  Pfizer (PFE)  “will suffer
substantial and irreparable injury,” according to the
complaint.  A representative of Hikma, Hana Ramadan, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit. Hikma, which
was founded in Amman, Jordan, in 1978, has said it relies on the
Middle East and North Africa for 61 percent of its  revenue .  ‘Expand and Strengthen’  “Argatroban will expand and strengthen our injectables
product line and will help to differentiate our product
portfolio in the U.S.,” Hikma Chief Executive Officer Mazen Darwazah said in a Jan. 9  statement  announcing the FDA approval.  Sales of argatroban injection totaled $130 million for the
12-month period ended in November, according to the Hikma
statement, which cites IMS Health.  Hikma’s argatroban injection is approved for treatment of
thrombosis in adult patients with heparin-induced
thrombocytopenia (HIT) and as an anticoagulant in patients at
risk of HIT.  The case is GlaxoSmithKline v. Hikma Pharmaceutical Co.,
12-cv-1965, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey 
(Trenton). The patent can be found on the docket.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  