-- Gold Slumps Most in Four Weeks After Fed Sees No Need for Easing
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-04-03T19:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/gold-may-extend-gain-as-u-s-growth-offsets-weaker-india-demand.html
Gold slumped the most in more than
four weeks after minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s latest
policy meeting showed bankers may refrain from announcing
further monetary stimulus unless economic growth slows.  The central bank is holding off on increasing monetary
accommodation unless the U.S. economic expansion falters or
prices rise at a slower rate than its 2 percent target,
according to minutes of the March 13 meeting released today.
Gold has surged almost 90 percent since the end of 2008 as the
Fed held borrowing costs at a record low and bought $2.3
trillion in housing and government debt.  “The Fed clearly expressed reduced interest on asset
purchases,” said William O’ Neill, an  Upper Saddle River , New
Jersey-based partner at Logic Advisors, a commodity consultant.
“We saw a knee-jerk reaction in the market after the potential
for any kind of monetary-easing lessened.”  Gold for immediate delivery slumped 2 percent to $1,643.93
an ounce at 3:24 p.m. in  New York . A close at that level would
be the biggest loss since Feb. 29.  “We did not hear any concerns about rising inflation, and
that was negative for gold, too,” O’Neill said.  Prices also retreated on concern that physical purchases
are declining in  India , the world’s biggest buyer.  The All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation said that
members extended a strike for an 18th day to protest a levy on
non-branded gold products. About 90 percent of jewelry stores
across India were shut today, said Bachhraj Bamalwa, the
federation’s chairman.  “Physical demand isn’t extremely robust, as a lot of
people are waiting to see if they can buy at lower prices,”
 Matthew Zeman , a strategist at Kingsview Financial in  Chicago ,
said in a telephone interview.  On the Comex in New York, gold futures for June delivery
fell as much as 2.4 percent in electronic trading, after
settling down 0.5 percent to $1,672 at the close of floor
trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  