-- Goldman Sachs Fund to Sell $30 Million Media Investment at Loss
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-03T20:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/goldman-sachs-fund-to-sell-30-million-media-investment-at-loss.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said one of
its private equity funds agreed to exit a 12-year-old stake in
Village Voice Media at a loss because the bank is uncomfortable
with the company’s direction.  GS Capital Partners III , a $2.78 billion fund raised in
1998, invested $30 million in the alternative weekly newspaper
publisher in 2000, according to Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman
for New York-based Goldman Sachs. New Times Media Plc bought
Village Voice Media in 2006 and Goldman Sachs kept a 16 percent
stake, Raphael said.  The fund will lose “most” of its original $30 million
investment after signing an agreement on March 30 to sell the
stake back to the company’s management, Raphael said. Goldman
Sachs relinquished its seat on Village Voice Media’s board in
2010 “as a result of being uncomfortable with the direction of
the company,” and the fund had sought to exit the investment
“for a long time,” she said.  Goldman Sachs provided 18.5 percent of the capital in GS
Capital Partners III, Raphael said. She declined to comment on
the overall performance of the fund, which is in the process of
“harvesting” its investments.  Backpage.com, a website owned by Village Voice Media,
accounts for about 70 percent of prostitution advertising among
five websites that carry such ads in the U.S., Nicholas D. Kristof, a New York Times columnist, reported on March 18,
citing data from media research and consulting company  AIM
Group . It’s also a website used for human trafficking, he wrote,
citing the  National Association of Attorneys General .  ‘Adult Classifieds’  Kristof, in a separate April 1 column, reported that
Goldman Sachs sold its stake after he began inquiring about it.  Scott Tobias, president and chief operating officer of
Village Voice Media, didn’t reply to a voicemail seeking
comment.  Village Voice Media, in a March 21 blog post responding to
the earlier Kristof column, said that Backpage “dedicates
hundreds of staff to screen adult classifieds in order to keep
juveniles off the site and to work proactively with law
enforcement in their efforts to locate victims.” The firm said
it shares records with  law enforcement  and that some research
has shown Internet data is the best tool to combat trafficking.  U.S. Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat, is
part of a bipartisan group of senators calling for Backpage.com
to  shut down  its adult-services section.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 