-- Google to Build Taiwan Center as Demand for Gmail, YouTube Rises
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-03T05:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/google-to-build-taiwan-center-as-demand-for-gmail-youtube-rises.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most-popular search engine, will spend more than $300 million
building its largest Asian data center in  Taiwan  to meet the
region’s demand for its Gmail and YouTube services.  A 15-hectare (37-acre) site in Changhua, central Taiwan,
will be five times larger than locations already being developed
in  Singapore  and  Hong Kong , and bring total spending on
facilities in the region to more than $700 million, the Mountain
View, California-based company said in a statement today.  The investment will help tap into growing demand for mobile
advertising in the Asia-Pacific region, which accounts for more
than half of global revenue for the category, according to
Bloomberg Industries. Google is expanding its infrastructure
investments in  Asia  as revenue growth outside the U.S. outpaces
that in its home territory.  “What makes Asia unique is the fact that it’s a region of
mobile-first,” Daniel Alegre, Google’s president for Asia-
Pacific, said in a phone interview today. “YouTube, for
instance, is becoming a very large component of mobile usage.”  The Taiwan center will be operational by the second half of
next year and have about 25 full-time workers, Alegre said.  Smaller centers in Hong Kong and Singapore were announced
in September, marking the company’s first moves to locate its
servers closer to the world’s largest region for Internet usage.  The Asia-Pacific market for mobile Internet advertising
climbed 18 percent to $2.1 billion last year, accounting for 61
percent of global spending, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Google got 46 percent of its revenue in the U.S. last year,
down from 57 percent in 2006, and the country is home to 81
percent of its long-term assets, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 