-- Google Ads in Australia Searches Misleading, Court Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-04-03T06:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/google-ads-in-australia-searches-misleading-court-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most-popular search engine, misled Australian consumers in 2007
by including paid advertisements from competitors in search
results for businesses, an appeal court ruled.  The Federal Court of Appeal in Sydney today overturned a
lower court decision and ordered the  Mountain View , California-
based company to set up a protocol to avoid repeating the
practice.  The decision makes Google responsible for ads that are
displayed and says the company isn’t merely a conduit for the
advertiser. Google was ordered to pay a share of costs for the
trial and appeal although it won’t have to pay a penalty because
the Trade Practices Act, under which it was originally sued,
didn’t provide for fines for misleading conduct.  The case “raises very important issues as to the role of
search engine providers as publishers of paid content in the
online age,” Rod Sims, chairman of the  Australian Competition &
Consumer Commission , said in a statement today.  Google was disappointed with the appeal court ruling and is
reviewing its options, it said in an e-mailed statement. The
company is committed to providing an advertising platform that
benefits both advertisers and users, it said. Google has changed
the way results are displayed since 2007.  ‘Misleading Conduct’  “The user asks a question of Google and obtains Google’s
response,” the three-judge appeal panel wrote in a 49-page
ruling today. “Several features of the overall process indicate
that Google engages in misleading conduct.”  The ACCC  sued  Google, in the first claim of its kind in the
world that makes the search-engine company responsible for the
content of ads, according to the regulator.  Justice Antony Nicholas dismissed the ACCC complaint in
September, ruling that Google didn’t know publication of the ads
amounted to a contravention of the Trade Practices Act.  The ACCC appealed, citing four advertisements, including
those that showed up in a search for the Australian company
 Harvey World Travel , that it said Google should have known would
contravene the law.  A search for a business name would include results from
competitors who paid to have their ads placed in a column beside
the search results.  “The most obvious example of the falsity of the response,
and of the fact that it is Google’s conduct, is the Harvey World
Travel sponsored link,” the appeal panel wrote.  A user who sought information about Harvey World Travel was
instead given the web address of one of its competitors, the
panel said.  “Google tells the user that the URL provided below is the
contact information about Harvey World Travel,” the panel
wrote. “The enquiry is made of Google and it is Google’s
response which is misleading.”  The case is Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
v. Google Inc. NSD1759/2011. Federal Court of  Australia 
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  