-- Gotham’s Chic Company Celebrates 10 Years With Goddesses
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/gotham-s-chic-company-celebrates-10-years-with-goddesses.html
When  New Yorkers  want to see singing
puppets, polygamists and tango dancers, they know where to go:  To the chic and edgy  Gotham Chamber Opera , celebrating its
10th anniversary by bringing back the first opera it presented,
Mozart’s “Il Sogno di Scipione” (Scipio’s Dream).  Opening April 11 in a production by the always inventive
Christopher Alden, “Scipione” concerns a Roman general who
must choose between two high-singing goddesses, Fortune and
Constancy.  Neal Goren, the company’s founder, conductor and artistic
force, seems to enjoy the protection of both deities. Gotham is
New York’s favorite small opera company.  Now is the time to grow, what with the  New York City Opera 
gasping for life and the Metropolitan hogging the spotlight.  I talked with Goren, 53, over breakfast at the  Galaxy  diner
in Hell’s Kitchen before he headed off to a rehearsal.  Tarmy: So tell me more about “Scipio.”  Goren: It used to be a straightforward toga opera, but we
modernized it. In our production, Scipio wakes up and finds
himself in bed between two women who just happen to be
goddesses. We have gorgeous singers, so it works well.  Vocal Challenge  Tarmy: Why isn’t the opera staged more frequently?  Goren: The vocal demands are unbelievably difficult. I
remember speaking to a well-known soprano about singing in it.
She said “Oh no, I couldn’t even think about doing that piece.
I have much too much to lose.”  So I knew that I would have to get young people who wanted
to prove themselves. And I did.  Tarmy: Has the music scene in  New York  changed since you
started the company?  Goren: People are always hungry for great art and
interesting theater, and I think there’s even more of that now
than there was a decade ago. I consistently see some amazing
things at the  Metropolitan Opera .  They’re trying to expand their vision, not just produce
interior decorator-style sets. Like their new production of “La
Traviata,” a lot of people hated it but I thought it was very
interesting. It was minimal, and required the singers be actors.  Tarmy: What about your own vision for Gotham?  Goren: Success has forced us to be nimble and to look in
new directions. But as we increase the “cool” factor in our
operas, we’ve also been increasing the production values.  Haydn, Hayden  Tarmy: Which means more fundraising.  Goren: I have to consider market forces, costs and what
else is on the cultural landscape. Oftentimes, operas need a
hook to get people in -- doing Haydn in the Hayden planetarium,
for instance. But the hook has to serve the piece instead of
just being some idea.  Tarmy: Staging Haydn’s opera about life on the moon in a
planetarium called the Hayden. That was brilliant.  Have productions like that made it easier for you to
fundraise?  Goren: It’s as difficult as it was at the beginning because
when we started the company it was before the stock market went
south.  In those days, we’d have fundraisers and a token donation
among a certain class of people would be a $1,000. When the
stock market crashed in 2008, a token donation became $100, even
$50.  I don’t think things have gotten back to their pre-
recession levels, and many people are more conservative with
their philanthropy. They want to be sure that the production
will be a success, and I can’t blame them. The question is just,
“what does success look like?” It’s hard to say.  His Dream  Tarmy: What is your operating budget?  Goren: This year it’s around $1.4 million. We did our first
production for something like $60,000. We don’t have an
endowment yet, so we have to raise money each year for every
show.  Tarmy: Right now, you play different venues. Can’t you get
your own theater?  Goren: Wouldn’t that be great? We’d love to build a space,
but that takes major money because there isn’t a theater in the
700-seat range that’s perfect for opera in New York.  I’d like us to be bigger, but not that much bigger. Maybe
four productions a season, tops.  Tarmy: Where do you see Gotham in 10 years?  Goren: I’d like it to be an absolute fixture in New York,
and maybe even have a Gotham West company out in  California .  We have these wonderful productions and wonderful casts,
why not let as many people see them as possible?  “Il Sogno di Scipione” runs April 11-21 at the  Gerald W.
Lynch Theater , John Jay College, New York. Information: +1- 212-
868-4460;  http://www.gothamchamberopera.org .  (James Tarmy is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York at  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 