-- Groupon Sued by Investor Claiming Securities Law Violation
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-03T23:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/groupon-sued-by-investor-claiming-securities-law-violation-1-.html
A  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  shareholder sued the
deal-of-the-day coupon company, claiming that its officers,
directors and underwriters misled investors about its business
performance prior to its initial public offering.  The company reported a “material weakness” in its
financial controls on March 30 and said its first reported
quarterly sales as a publicly-traded company were lower than
previously stated because of higher refunds to merchants,
reducing revenue in the quarter $14.3 million, to $492.2
million.  “Groupon’s internal controls were so poor and inadequate
that Groupon’s reported results were not reliable,” investor
Fan Zhang alleged in a complaint filed today in federal court in
 Chicago .  Zhang seeks class-action -- or group -- status on behalf of
anyone who bought Groupon stock from Nov. 4 to March 30, and an
award of unspecified money damages. Zhang owned as many as 3,000
shares from Feb. 9 to March 6, bought for as much as $21.75.  Groupon made its IPO on Nov. 3. Shares peaked at $26.19 on
Nov. 18 and closed today at $15.02, its  lowest price  since the
IPO. The company is based in Chicago.  Also named as defendants in the complaint are Chairman and
co-founder Eric Lefkofsky, vice chairman Theodore Leonsis, co-
founder and Chief Executive Officer Andrew Mason, six members of
its board of directors and IPO underwriters including Goldman
Sachs & Co. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  & Co.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The case is Zhang v. Groupon Inc., 12cv2450, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 