-- Libya Patience With Militias Wears Thin as Violence Spreads
-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-04-03T17:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/libya-patience-with-militias-wears-thin-as-violence-spreads-1-.html
Clashes between rival militias in
western  Libya  left 18 dead a day after the government said it
would no longer tolerate such infighting that has stunted
transition efforts.  At least 18 people died in fighting around the western town
of Zawara, Al Arabiya television said. “The government will not
stand and watch the people who threaten national security,
whatever tribes they are from,” Prime Minister Abdurrahim el- Keib told private television station Channel One and LRT state
television late yesterday.  Since proclaiming victory over  Muammar Qaddafi  last year,
the National Transitional Council that took over has struggled
to wrest local power from various militias. The armed groups
were key to victory in the eight-month civil war that ended
Qaddafi’s 42-year rule of the country that holds  Africa ’s
largest proven crude reserves.  Even the international airport in the capital, Tripoli,
remains under the control of one of the country’s most powerful
militias, which has reneged on repeated promises to hand over
the facility.  The main Ras Jedir border crossing into  Tunisia  from
western Libya was closed on April 1 after 22 militiamen from the
coastal city of Zuwara were kidnapped by militias from
neighboring Al-Jumail. The men were released yesterday and the
border reopened, though Zuwara was still being struck by mortar
fire, Atia Abdul-Salam, a resident of Al-Jumail, said in a
telephone interview today.  Military Zone  Those clashes came days after more than a week of fighting
between the ethnic African Tibu militia and the local rival Arab
militia in the southern city of Sebha, Libya’s fourth-largest.
Almost 150 people were killed and 385 wounded before a cease-
fire was brokered by the government, which declared the area a
“military zone” on April 1 and appointing an army governor,  The fighting raised the specter of spreading instability in
the country, with a Tibu official threatening to declare
autonomy.  “If necessary, we will demand international intervention
and work toward the creation of a state,” Tibu leader Issa
Abdel Majid Mansur was quoted as saying in the Tripoli Post
today.  It’s the second region to consider such a push. Some tribal
leaders of the country’s oil-rich east declared the formation
the semi-autonomous region of Barqa last month.  Libya’s militias have insisted on securing more government
benefits for their respective regions before agreeing to disband
or being subsumed into the national army, demands that increase
the pressure on the interim government.  Fitful Recovery  Militias from some regions have been used as peacekeepers
in others. While the NTC sent national forces in Sebha to halt
the fighting, government spokesman Nasser al Mattaa said that
militia units from Zintan and Misrata, the two most powerful
armed forces in the country, were also deployed.  Sebha is only the one of several challenges for the
government.  Tribal clashes between Tibu and Arab militias in late
February left 22 dead in Kufra before government forces were
called in to end the fighting. The town sits about 200 miles
south of the Sarir and Messla oil fields that the Arabian Gulf
Oil Co. say account for about 80 percent of Libya’s output.  The persistent violence has left Libyans complaining about
fitful recovery from last year’s conflict, even as oil
production approaches pre-war levels of about 1.6 million
barrels per day. It’s currently 1.47 million barrels, Nuri Berruien, head of the National Oil Corp., said in a March 31
interview.  “This kind of chaos is very bad for security, for business,
for everything in Libya,” Hana el-Gallal, an official with the
Libyan National Council for General Freedoms and Rights in the
eastern city of Benghazi, said in a phone interview earlier this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Stephen  in Tripoli via 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 