-- Icahn Takeover of CVR Gets Support From 55% of Holders
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-05-17T14:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/icahn-takeover-of-cvr-gets-support-from-55-of-holders.html
(Corrects description of contingent right in penultimate
paragraph of story published April 3.)  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said
more than half of  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) ’s shares were tendered in
response to his unsolicited $2.6 billion offer, setting up a
proxy fight at the refining company’s next annual meeting.  Holders of about 55 percent of CVR stock agreed to the $30-
a-share offer, which would give Icahn a 69 percent stake in the
company, he said in a statement today. Icahn won’t be able to
immediately buy the shares because of a shareholder rights plan
put in place by the company’s board in January.  Icahn, the  largest  CVR shareholder, previously said that if
he gains control he would put the company, which he says is
undervalued, up for sale. With majority control, he would seek
to replace the CVR board through a shareholder vote at the
annual meeting next month.  “Now that there is a clear mandate in favor of my offer,
it is your duty to carry out the wishes of shareholders as
quickly as possible,” Icahn told board members in a statement
today. He said the CVR board should move its annual meeting
forward to this month and allow him to buy the remainder of the
company.  CVR said Icahn can’t buy the shares now, because of a
restriction that limits individuals from acquiring the company
without board approval. The shares tendered can be withdrawn at
any time, CVR said in a statement today.  Icahn’s Support  The test of Icahn’s support will come at the shareholder
meeting. Shareholders will chose “whether to elect Mr. Icahn’s
hand-picked nominees in place of our qualified and experienced
board of directors with their track record of delivering
value,” the company said.  CVR, based in  Sugar Land ,  Texas , owns refineries in
Coffeyville,  Kansas , and Wynnewood,  Oklahoma , capable of
processing a combined 185,000 barrels a day. It also owns a
majority interest in CVR Partners LP, which produces fertilizer.  The company has benefited from an oversupply of crude in
the U.S. Midwest that has depressed prices for the oil it uses
to feed its two refineries.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Marathon Petroleum
Corp. or other refiners might be interested in buying CVR, Icahn
said in February. He acknowledged in March that “a sale will
not be easy” after contacting prospective buyers.  Icahn, who owns 14.5 percent of CVR, announced his
intention in February to buy the Sugar Land, Texas-based
company’s remaining shares. The Icahn bid includes an additional
shareholder payment if the company is sold, an amount he
previously estimated at $7 a share. Based on the $30-a-share
bid, the proposal values the company at $2.6 billion.  CVR  gained  5.9 percent to $28.80 at the close in  New York .
Before today, the shares had climbed 22 percent since Jan. 13,
when Icahn’s stake in the company was disclosed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  