-- Carl Icahn Says Amylin Pharma Should Pursue Sale Process
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-04-04T20:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/icahn-says-amylin-pharmaceuticals-should-pursue-sale-process.html
Carl Icahn , the billionaire investor
who has targeted at least seven drug companies in the past five
years, threatened a proxy fight at  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) 
and urged the drugmaker to pursue a sale.  Amylin rejected a $22-a-share takeover offer from  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  in February, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified because
the approach was private. In March, San Diego-based Amylin made
a public offering of 13 million common shares and issued  stock
options  to company executives at about $16 a share, actions
Icahn criticized in an open letter today.  Amylin’s board is “dysfunctional and is not operating in a
manner that enhances  shareholder value ,” he said. Icahn,
Amylin’s third-largest  stockholder , said he “would not shy
away” from a proxy fight to replace the directors and demanded
an extended deadline for nominations to the board.  “The revelation of the Bristol-Myers bid, as well as your
failure to disclose it and your subsequent stock issuances at
prices well below the reported $22 offer price, which occurred
after that deadline, constitutes a dramatic change in
circumstances requiring the board to permit shareholders another
opportunity to nominate directors,” Icahn said in the letter.  Amylin challenged Icahn’s comments in a statement today.  ‘Allegations Without Merit’  “We disagree with Mr. Icahn’s characterizations and
strongly believe his allegations are without merit,” the
company said. “Amylin’s board is fully aware of its fiduciary
duties, and is committed to always acting in the best interests
of all stockholders. The board continually considers all options
available and is relentlessly focused on creating the greatest
value for our stockholders.”  Icahn asked for a new 10-day nominating period and demanded
an answer from Amylin by 5 p.m.  New York  time tomorrow.  In an interview yesterday, Icahn said he had sent the
company a so-called 220 demand letter requesting information
about its decision to make the share offering and issue stock
options after receiving the bid from Bristol-Myers. He noted the
request in today’s letter.  Amylin declined 1 percent to $23.88 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The shares jumped 54 percent on March 28 after reports of
the rejected offer. Bristol-Myers hasn’t approached the company
since the rejection, the people familiar said.  In a March 6 filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Amylin said the board granted options to managers
including Chief Executive Officer Daniel Bradbury as part of its
2009 Equity Incentive Plan.  More Than $22  Icahn, who held  14.4 million Amylin shares  as of Dec. 31,
gained board representation in 2009 after running a proxy
contest, criticizing the company’s ability to return value to
shareholders with the diabetes drug Byetta.  “This company could fetch more than $22,” Icahn said in
the interview yesterday. “The company should go through a
process and try to get the price they can for shareholders, and
let the shareholders decide.”  The investor also criticized Amylin’s board because it
“has still not acknowledged or denied the media reports
regarding its rejection of” the Bristol-Myers offer.  Amylin declined to comment on March 28 when the bid was
reported.  Icahn has waged battles at biotechnology companies from
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  to  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ) , shuffling management teams,
driving restructurings and pushing for company sales. His
pressure at Genzyme helped lead the company to a takeover by
Paris-based Sanofi last April for $20.1 billion. He was less
successful in a proxy fight at  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  in
August, failing to win representation on the company’s board.  Shareholder List  Amylin has been focused on finding a partner to help market
the diabetes drug Bydureon outside the U.S. since November, when
it ended a collaboration with  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  The medicine,
approved in January, is a once-weekly form of the earlier drug
Byetta, and the two therapies may draw more than $1 billion in
annual revenue over time, estimated  Phil Nadeau , an analyst with
Cowen & Co. in New York.  A 220 letter, which Icahn said he sent to Amylin yesterday,
is normally used to request shareholder lists for communication
purposes during proxy contests, said Morton Pierce, chairman of
the mergers and acquisitions group at  Dewey & Leboeuf LLP (1151L) .  “The shareholder list is routinely asked for in a hostile
tender offer because you want the list to communicate in a proxy
contest,” Pierce said in a telephone interview yesterday. “I
guess some activists are using it now to go beyond the scope to
look for more information.”  If Amylin declines to provide the information Icahn is
seeking, “ultimately a court will decide,” Pierce said. “The
court proceeding on a 220 is usually very quick.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  