-- Michigan Appeals Detroit Finance Review Team Meeting Bar
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-03T19:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/michigan-to-appeal-detroit-finance-review-team-meeting-bar-1-.html
Michigan  officials appealed a state
court order barring a Detroit financial review team from meeting
to discuss a possible plan to address the city’s fiscal crisis,
asking for immediate consideration.  Judge  Joyce Draganchuk  of Ingham County Circuit Court
yesterday issued a temporary restraining order stopping the team
from meeting after union official  Robert Davis  claimed the
review board’s term of office expired last month. The team
canceled a scheduled meeting this morning.  Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette asked the state’s
Court of Appeals to put Draganchuk’s order on hold by tomorrow
or reverse it. The review team’s authorization hasn’t expired
and blocking meetings will harm resolution of the crisis,
Schuette said.  The order barring further review team meetings
“effectively” gives Michigan Governor Rick Snyder only two
options -- “appoint an emergency manager or do nothing,”
Schuette said in the 10-page appeal. Draganchuk “fundamentally
misunderstands” the effect of her order, he said.  The Ingham County suit is one of three pending court
challenges to the  Detroit  financial review team brought by union
officials. A federal judge in Detroit today is hearing a request
from a coalition of municipal workers for a restraining order
blocking Snyder and the city from entering into an agreement
over Detroit’s fiscal crisis.  Open-Meetings Law  Davis, in a separate suit, previously claimed the review
team was breaking Michigan’s open-meetings law by conducting
business in private. Ingham County Circuit Court Judge William Collette last month ruled the team had to hold public meetings.
His separate order barring the review team from entering into an
agreement was reversed by the Michigan Court of Appeals.  Davis asked the Michigan Supreme Court to review that
reversal. His request is pending.  The governor appointed the team in December after a
preliminary study found the city was in “probable financial
stress.” The group is considering whether Detroit, Michigan’s
largest city, needs an emergency manager.  Detroit, the home of  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, may have a $270 million deficit by the end of
June, according to a city council report in February.  State Treasurer Andy Dillon said Detroit’s cash will run
out in May. Detroit and Snyder have until April 5 to agree to a
recovery proposal, or the governor can name an emergency manager
with sweeping powers over municipal finances and operations.  ‘Financial Crisis’  “The City of Detroit is facing the most significant
financial crisis in its history,” Schuette said in today’s
appeal. The city has “only $1 in assets for every $33 in
liabilities,” he said.  Draganchuk has scheduled an April 11 hearing to consider
the Davis challenge to the review team’s authority.  The Ingham County lawsuit is Davis v. Detroit Financial
Review Team, 12-315-CZ, Circuit Court, Ingham County, Michigan.
The federal case is Valenti v. Snyder, 12-cv-11461, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 