-- Microsoft, ECOJ, Tebow, BitTorrent: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-03T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/microsoft-ecoj-tebow-bittorrent-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said  Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  demanded $4 billion a year in patent
royalties for use of technology critical to functioning of the
Xbox video-gaming system.  “Motorola’s demand was so over-reaching that no rational
company could ever have accepted it or even viewed it as a
legitimate offer,” Microsoft said in a March 30 filing.  Both companies want a federal judge in  Seattle  to rule
whether Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility broke its
promise to license patents essential to comply with industry
standards on wireless networking and video coding on fair and
non-discriminatory terms.  The case is part of a broader dispute in which Motorola
Mobility is seeking to block sales of the Xbox, and Microsoft
wants a ban on U.S. imports of Motorola Mobility phones that run
on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Microsoft said Motorola Mobility is seeking $4 billion a
year for licensing 50 patents on video compression. The
entertainment division of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
generated $8.9 billion in sales last year. Microsoft’s total
revenue was $69.9 billion in the fiscal year that ended June 30,
2011.  The software maker said it pays $6.5 million a year to a
group of 29 companies with 2,339 patents that cover the same
industry standard.  Motorola Mobility contends that the licensing offer made in
October 2010 -- a 2.25 percent royalty on the total value of a
product -- was the same one it has presented to every company
over the past decade as a starting point for negotiations.
Instead, Microsoft filed the breach of contract suit.  Microsoft had never licensed the technology, and Motorola
never pushed it, because the two worked together to develop
phones that used Microsoft’s operating systems. The relationship
strained when the Microsoft platform failed to gain market share
and Motorola Mobility turned to Android, Motorola Mobility said.  Microsoft and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which has its own patent battles
with Motorola Mobility, have both filed complaints with the
European Union accusing the handset maker of misusing its
patents on standard-essential technology  The U.S. case is Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Inc.,
10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the District of  Washington 
(Seattle).  ECOJ Says Polish Generics Drugs Legislation Violates EU Law  The European Court of Justice said Polish legislation
permitting the importation of unauthorized generic forms of
drugs already permitted in the market is contrary to European
Union law.  In a March 29  statement , the court said Poland’s use of
permitted “special needs” drug importation base only on lower
price isn’t justified. The “special needs exception” must be
interpreted strictly, “applicable in exceptional cases where it
is appropriate to meet special medical needs,” not for
financial considerations in themselves, the court said.  The court said that the present harmonized marketing
authorization within the EU “enables cost-efficient and non-
discriminatory market access,” while ensuring that the
requirements of safeguarding public health are met.  Oracle, Google Settlement Talks Over Java Patent Failed  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and Google Inc. have reached an
“irreconcilable impasse” in settlement talks to resolve an
intellectual property dispute over the Java programming language
and their lawsuit should proceed to trial on April 16, a judge
said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal in San Jose,  California ,
wrote in a filing yesterday that no further settlement
conferences will be scheduled. According to the court document,
the unfruitful negotiations went on for six hours.  Oracle accused Google in a 2010 lawsuit of infringing
patents related to its Java software in the company’s Android
mobile software. With a settlement, the companies avoid the risk
of a jury deciding whether Google owes royalties.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ( San
Francisco ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  IPad Trademark Fight to Continue After China Court Ruling  A Chinese court rejected a creditor’s application to
liquidate Proview Technology (Shenzhen) Co., allowing the failed
display maker to pursue its legal fight against Apple Inc. over
the iPad trademark in  China .  The Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court ruled against
Fubon Insurance’s bid to liquidate Proview, Roger Xie, a lawyer
for Proview, said by phone yesterday. The decision was released
to litigants on March 31, he said.  The same Chinese court ruled in November that Proview owned
the iPad trademark in China, saying Apple’s 2009 contract to
acquire rights to the name was invalid. The Cupertino,
California-based company has appealed, and a decision is
expected within two months. Proview has filed separate
complaints alleging that Apple’s sale of iPad tablets in the
country infringed intellectual-property laws.  Fubon Insurance, a unit of Taipei-based  Fubon Financial
Holding Co. (2881) , is assessing whether to take further action in the
case, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
application for liquidating Proview was taken on behalf of
reinsurance partners, Fubon said March 6.  Proview will continue its litigation with Apple, Xie said
yesterday. The action against Apple, the world’s most-valuable
company, might have been affected if Fubon’s application had
been granted, he said. The rejection was first reported by
China’s state-run Xinhua News Agency.  Proview Technology, a unit of Hong Kong-listed  Proview
International Holdings Ltd. (334) , has filed complaints to more than
40 branches of the Administration for Industry and Commerce in
China, Ma Dongxiao, another company lawyer, said in February.
Court actions have been lodged in Shanghai, Shenzhen and
Huizhou, Ma said.  Apple has said it bought the rights to the iPad trademark
in China from Proview.  Tim Tebow ’s Fans Seek to Register ‘Timsanity’ as U.S. Trademark  First came “Linsanity,” the coined word associated with
Jeremy Lin of the  New York  Knicks National Basketball
Association team.  Now it’s “Timsanity,” associated with quarterback Tim
Tebow, who was traded to the New York Jets National Football
League team.  Lawyers representing Lin sent cease-and-desist letters to
several applicants not connected to the basketball player who
tried to register “Linsanity” as a trademark. Lin’s lawyer,
 Pamela Deese  of Washington’s  Arent Fox LLP (1377L) , told the  Huffington
Post  that applicants’ enthusiasm for the player “got ahead of
their understanding of the law.”  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, three applications have been filed to register
“Timsanity” as a trademark. The applications were filed March
21 and 22, shortly after Heisman Trophy winner Tebow signed with
the Jets March 20.  Christian Perez of Astoria, New York, filed an application
March 22 to register the term for use on clothing. LifeNatural
Corp. of Cheyenne,  Wyoming , filed an application one day
earlier, also for use with clothing. Frank deGrimm of New York
City also filed a March 21 application to use the mark on
clothing.  Palmer Says ‘Casino’ Mark Registered Only to Stop Others’ Use  Although he registered “Coolum Casino” as a trademark,
the billionaire owner of the  Australia ’s Coolum Resort & Spa
denied he plans to establish a casino, the Australian newspaper
 reported .  Clive Palmer said in a statement that he hadn’t discussed
establishing a casino “with any authorities or the Queensland
government,” according to the Australian.  Palmer, who is known as the richest man in the Queensland
region, paid an undisclosed amount to Hyatt Hotels Corp. to
remove the hotel company as Coolum Resort & Spa’s manager, the
Australian reported.  Although he registered the www.coolumcasino.com.au domain
name, to stop others from grabbing it, Palmer said a casino
could have a “detrimental social effect” on the region,
according to the Australian.  Mike Ashley of Newcastle United Wins ‘Sports Direct’ Dispute  The owner of the Premier Football League’s  Newcastle United 
team prevailed in a trademark dispute over the name of his
sportswear company “ Sports Direct ,” the U.K.’s Shields Gazette
 reported .  Mike Ashley’s  Sports Direct International (SPD)  became the target
of a trademark infringement action by a husband-and-wife team
that claimed it had used the name for their company -- Sport
Direct Ltd. -- since 2005, according to the newspaper.  The hearing officer at the U.K.’s Intellectual Property
Office made a determination that Ashley’s company had used
“Sports Direct” long before the complaining company was named,
and rejected all claims, the newspaper reported.  Ashley based the “Sports Direct” name on “Viking
Direct,” a stationery firm he founded, according to the Shields
Gazette.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Chicago Judge Rejects Conspiracy Claim in BitTorrent Case  In six consolidated copyright cases brought by adult
filmmakers against unnamed defendants, a federal judge in
 Chicago  has rejected their argument that the sharing of content
through the BitTorrent file-sharing protocol fits within federal
law’s definition of conspiracy.  In his March 30 order, U.S. District Judge James E.
Holderman said the plaintiffs claims of a civil conspiracy are
“unfounded.” He said the filmmakers had failed to argue that
an agreement existed among the alleged conspirators and that it
was implausible that they successfully could plead that a
conspiracy existed.  He called the conspiracy allegations “unjustified
attempts” to bolster their efforts to get more irrelevant
information about those who aren’t even parties to the cases.  The data would help the filmmakers either sue or try to
negotiate a settlement with these new potential defendants, he
said. He noted that federal case law holds that “when the
purpose of a discovery request is to gather information for use
in proceedings other than the pending suit,” discovery is
denied.  The case is Pacific Century International Ltd. V. Does 1-
37, 1:12-cv-01057, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago).  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Baker & McKenzie Adds Former Torys’ Partner to Toronto IP Group  Baker & McKenzie LLP (1111L)  hired Kamleh Nicola for its IP
practice, the international  law firm  said in a  statement .  Nicola , a litigator, has represented clients in Canadian
courts in IP disputes involving pharmaceutical products,
biotech, food, medical devices and multimedia. She previously
was a partner at Toronto’s  Torys LLP (1011L) . She will practice at Baker
& McKenzie’s Toronto office.  She has an undergraduate degree from Dalhousie University
and a law degree from the University of Windsor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 