-- Imaging Added to Mammograms Catches More Breast Cancer in Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-04-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/imaging-added-to-mammograms-catches-more-breast-cancer-in-study.html
Magnetic resonance imaging tests
added to annual mammograms and ultrasound caught 56 percent more
breast cancers in a study that suggests the extra scan may
improve detection for women at increased risk for the disease.  Adding just an  ultrasound  to a mammogram caught 29 percent
more cancers than mammogram alone among women with a higher
cancer risk or dense breast tissue, a risk factor, according to
the study published in the  Journal of the  American Medical
Association . The added tests, though, also boosted false
positive results, which can lead to unnecessary biopsies.  The findings add to a 2008 study by study author Wendie
Berg that found that ultrasound plus  mammograms  helped detect
more breast cancers than mammograms alone and confirm that women
with dense breast tissue along with another risk factor, such as
family history of the disease, can benefit from the added test.
 MRIs , though, should be reserved for those at the highest risk
because of cost and high false positive rates, Berg said.  “For women who have dense breasts, adding ultrasound to
mammography will increase the chance of finding invasive breast
cancer before it spreads to the lymph nodes,” said Berg, a
professor of radiology at the  University of Pittsburgh  School of
Medicine, in a statement. “MRI detected additional invasive
cancers not seen on mammography or ultrasound. However, we found
that MRI was significantly less tolerable than mammography or
ultrasound for many study participants.”  Of participants offered an MRI, only 58 percent accepted,
Berg said.  Cancer Society Recommendations  The  American Cancer Society   recommends  that women age 40
and over get a mammogram every year. The group recommends high-
risk women have a mammogram in combination with magnetic
resonance imaging to boost their chances of early detection. The
 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force  though said in 2009 that
most women ages 40 to 49 don’t need mammograms, restricting the
test to those with a disease history or who had a greater risk
for another factor.  Ultrasound imaging uses high-frequency sound waves to
produce pictures of the internal structure of the breast in real
time. The mammogram, in contrast, x-rays the breast, while MRI
scans create a three dimensional image of the breast using
magnetic fields, showing where tissue density varies and where
growth of blood vessels may feed tiny tumors too small to feel
with the hand or see on a mammogram.  Study Findings  The researchers in the study included 2,662 women at
increased risk of  breast cancer  who had three annual mammograms
plus ultrasound and 612 who agreed to undergo an MRI after all
three mammograms and ultrasounds were completed. They found 111
breast cancers. Of those, 33 were found by mammography and
another 32 by the addition of ultrasound, for an added annual
cancer detection rate of 3.7 cancers per 1,000 screens. MRI
detected an additional 9 cancers, at a rate of 14.7 cancers per
1,000 screens.  Berg said these findings show that adding ultrasound
improves the effectiveness of the screening for those women who
are at higher risk for the disease and for those at the highest
risk who are unable to have a MRI.  “While supplemental ultrasound and MRI screening detect
more cancers, it is important to emphasize that an annual
mammogram is still recommended and neither ultrasound nor MRI is
meant to replace mammography,” said study author  Ellen
Mendelson , a professor of radiology at Northwestern University’s
Feinberg School of Medicine, in  Chicago , in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  