-- India Bars New Soybean Contracts to Curb Price Volatility
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-04-03T12:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/india-bars-new-soybean-contracts-to-curb-price-volatility-1-.html
India,  Asia ’s biggest supplier of
soybean meal, barred commodity exchanges from offering new
contracts in soybeans to curb speculation after futures posted
the biggest monthly gain in more than three years in March.  “In order to curb the excessive volatility in the prices
of soybean, the commission has decided not to allow soybean
futures contracts scheduled to be launched in the month of
April,” the  Forward Markets Commission  said in a circular to
the exchanges published on its website today.  Futures jumped 24 percent on the National Commodity &
Derivatives Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai this year, more than the 17
percent gain on the Chicago Board of Trade, prompting demands
from processors and edible oil importers for steps to curb
speculation. The exchanges raised margins on futures trading in
mustard seeds, gram and potatoes last week to cool speculation.  “ India ’s imports of edible oil are rising as crushing has
been low because the price on commodity exchanges is much higher
than the spot prices,”  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive officer
of Adani Wilmar Ltd., said by phone from Ahmedabad. “It makes
more sense today to buy the physical seed and deliver it on the
exchange than crush it.”  The most-active May-delivery contract on the National
Commodity & Derivatives Exchange fell 0.5 percent to close at
3,126 rupees ($62) per 100 kilograms in Mumbai today. Futures
gained 17.5 percent in March, the most since January, 2009.  ‘Lose Confidence’  “Many corporates who are actively trading in the market
will lose confidence,” Gnanasekar Thiagarajan, a director at
Commtrendz Risk Management Services Pvt. “A decline in trading
volume is natural but once the sentiment turns negative, you
don’t expect them to come back.”  India meets more than half its edible oil demand through
imports. The nation buys  palm oil  from Indonesia and  Malaysia ,
and  soybean oil  from the U.S.,  Brazil  and  Argentina .  Oilseeds production in India may drop to 30.5 million tons
in the year ending June 30 from 32.48 million tons a year
earlier, according to the farm ministry. Soybean meal exports
may climb as much as 12.5 percent to 4.5 million tons in the
year ending Oct. 31, according to Rajesh Agrawal, spokesman for
the Soybean Processors Association of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  