-- Invesco Liquidates PPIP Fund Earning U.S. Treasury 18% Return
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-04-03T17:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/invesco-liquidates-ppip-fund-earning-u-s-treasury-18-return.html
Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , one of nine companies
chosen to manage a government-subsidized program opened in 2009
to revive the mortgage-backed  securities market , said it had
returned money to investors, giving the  U.S. Treasury  an 18
percent annualized return over 29 months.  Invesco’s fund that participated in the Public Private
Investment Program returned $719 million in equity capital to
the Treasury and $1.2 billion in loans, plus interest, the
Atlanta-based company said today in a statement. The company
didn’t disclose profits for private clients, who invested $581
million, and were also receiving their money back, Bill Hensel,
a spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  “The PPIP program has resuscitated the private label
mortgage-backed securities market and, at least in our case,
resulted in a handsome profit to Treasury,”  Wilbur Ross ,
chairman of WL Ross & Co., an Invesco unit, said in the
statement. Ross oversaw Invesco’s PPIP investments.  Invesco is cashing its investors out after a rally in
mortgage bonds. PPIP fund returns were reduced last year as
Europe’s debt crisis roiled global markets. PPIP managers aren’t
required to return money until at least eight years from the
funds’ initial closings in 2009.  Investors’ ability to borrow from private sources has
improved since PPIP opened, particularly through  repurchase
agreements , or repos. A total of $37.5 billion of mortgage
securities without government backing were being used as
collateral for such loans as of March 9, according to Federal
Reserve  data . Investors can now borrow more than 10 times their
capital to buy the debt, compared with the 2-to-1 leverage
provided by the Treasury under the PPIP.  Other PPIP managers included AllianceBernstein Holding LP
and BlackRock Inc., both based in  New York . TCW Group Inc.
liquidated its PPIP fund beginning in January 2010 after its
former investment chief, Jeffrey Gundlach, left the Los Angeles-
based firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  