-- Iran Sanctions Biting; Cut North Korea Food Aid, Richardson Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   E n g l e   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-03T01:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/iran-sanctions-biting-cut-north-korea-food-aid-richardson-says.html
Bill Richardson, former U.S. Energy
Secretary, comments on the rising price of oil,  China ’s role in
sanctions against Iran and North Korea’s plan to launch a
rocket. He spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview today at
the Boao Forum for  Asia  in China.  On sanctions against Iran:  “It’s important to send a message to Iran that they can’t
have nuclear weapons and that the way to go is to let the
sanctions work. There are strong sanctions -- banking, economic,
some energy sanctions -- and they are biting. Iran is
responding. The actions are taking in the threat in the Strait
of Hormuz and blocking that. Let’s let the sanctions work, let’s
stop talking about military intervention, which I think is not a
good positive step.”  On China and Iran sanctions:  “China is on the right course in continuing the sanctions
on Iran. They’re part of the  Security Council  and the
international community. It does affect them more than others
because of the tremendous demand for fossil fuels here, but I
think it’s important that the international community continue
what we’re doing. The alternative is military intervention,
which I think is just going to make things worse.”  On how China can reduce oil imports from Iran:  “I would look at other sources --  Saudi Arabia , Norway,
 Mexico ,  Canada , within OPEC. I think that there’d be a lot of
countries ready to proceed if there is slowdown from Iran. Saudi
Arabia has already said they would make up for the lost Iranian
oil.”  On  oil prices :  “The price is estimated to stay around $100 per barrel
with what happened in Fukushima, the volatility in the  Middle
East , the Arab Spring, Iran’s actions, increased demand from
India and China, summer season coming into the U.S -- the price
is going to stay high.”  On  North Korea ’s plans for a rocket launch:  “It looks like they’re going to do it. So it’s basically
business as usual. We had all hoped that with the new leader of
North Korea, there would be some moderation, some engagement
with the West. I still think there is. You never know. I’ve
dealt with the North Koreans a long time. They don’t negotiate
like the rest of us. They do this, they do that. It’s an
uncertain situation.”  On restarting six-nation talks to reverse North Korea’s nuclear
program:  “I think we have to stay the course and be tough on them,
not resume the food aid. But in the end, maybe at the end of the
year after the elections everywhere -- they have some in  South
Korea  too -- we can look at resuming the six-party talks,
getting North and South Korea to talk to each other. But here is
where China is a big player. They have a big influence on North
Korea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  