-- James Murdoch Quits as BSkyB Chairman Amid Hacking Probe
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-03T16:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/james-murdoch-steps-down-as-bskyb-chairman-amid-hacking-scandal.html
James Murdoch,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s deputy
chief operating officer, stepped down as chairman of pay-TV
company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  following demands he
resign over his role in a U.K. phone-hacking scandal.  Senior independent director  Nicholas Ferguson  will replace
Murdoch, BSkyB said in a statement today. Murdoch, 39 years old
and the youngest son of News Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Murdoch, will remain a non-executive director of the
U.K.’s biggest pay-TV company.  The resignation as chairman of BSkyB, the company the
younger Murdoch once ran and built into one of News Corp.’s most
profitable businesses, is the biggest sacrifice he has made
since the phone-hacking revelations last year. The scandal,
which involves News Corp. journalists illegally listening to
voice mail messages of politicians and celebrities, prompted
News Corp. to drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion) bid for
full control of BSkyB following opposition from lawmakers.  “It’s a downscale,” Claire Enders, CEO of research firm
Enders Analysis, who advises clients including the U.K.
government, said in an interview. “The company believes that
this is a step that will alleviate the pressure on James from a
number of political and regulatory sides.”  Succession  Murdoch’s resignation as BSkyB chairman comes after he had
moved a step closer to succeeding his 81-year-old father with
his promotion to News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer in
 New York  in March 2011. The role at BSkyB had been crucial for
Murdoch after he departed from other boards in the wake of the
hacking scandal to focus on overseeing News Corp.’s
international TV business.  “I am aware that my role as chairman could become a
lightning rod for BSkyB,”  James Murdoch  said in a letter to
BSkyB’s board members. “I believe that my resignation will help
to ensure that there is no false conflation with events at a
separate organization.”  U.K. lawmakers are preparing a report on the phone-hacking
scandal following testimony Murdoch gave that has been
contradicted by former subordinates. The committee began its
inquiry in July after Murdoch said lawmakers had been misled
about the extent of phone hacking during a previous probe in
2009. It has questioned him twice for the new report.  U.K. media regulator Ofcom said it will take parliament’s
report into consideration when evaluating whether James is “fit
and proper” to hold a broadcast license on behalf of BSkyB.  Ofcom said today it will continue to investigate the role
of both Murdoch and News Corp.  ‘Right Thing’  “It probably is the right thing for him to do, but this
goes beyond one person,” opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  told reporters today. “This is now about how the
organization can restore public confidence. They can do that by
having a clear-out of those people who did wrong.”  BSkyB shares dropped 0.8 percent to 675.50 pence in London
trading today. News Corp. rose 0.3 percent to $19.98 as of 12:36
p.m. in New York.  In 2003, at the age of 30, Murdoch moved to London, to
become CEO of BSkyB, in which News Corp. holds a 39 percent
stake. In 2007, he was put in charge of the company’s operations
throughout Europe and  Asia , a portfolio that includes digital
television distribution and newspapers. In that role, he also
oversaw the company’s U.K. publishing business which later
became the focus of the hacking allegations.  The scandal, which also triggered the company to close the
News of the World in July, has led to the arrest of more than 30
people in three related probes. Police identified more than 800
likely victims of the practice.  Protest Vote  News Corp. shareholders in October lodged a protest vote
against  Rupert Murdoch  and his sons, following an annual meeting
at which investors called for governance changes and an end to
voting practices that cement the family’s control. James
received the highest percentage of votes against his election to
the board, at 35 percent.  In November, one third of BSkyB’s independent shareholders
voted against Murdoch’s re-election as chairman.  “Independent board leadership will serve to improve
investor confidence in the stewardship of the company,”
 Standard Life Investments , which owns 0.6 percent of BSkyB and
0.5 percent of News Corp., said in a statement today, adding
that it welcomes Murdoch’s resignation.  Murdoch resigned from the board of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in
January, stepped down as executive chairman of News Corp.’s U.K.
unit News International in February and left the board of
auction house  Sotheby’s (BID)  in March.  Pay-TV Expert  James Murdoch joined News Corp. in 1996 after dropping out
of  Harvard University  and starting a hip-hop recording label. In
2000, he was sent by his father to Asia, where he became CEO of
News Corp.’s money-losing Star television businesses in Asia. He
was based in  Hong Kong , and spent much of his time in  India ,
developing the nascent pay-TV market there.  On March 14, Murdoch told the lawmakers he should have dug
deeper to uncover the phone hacking at the company’s U.K. unit.  “I could have asked more questions, requested more
documents and taken a more challenging and skeptical view of
what I was told,” Murdoch said.  Murdoch told lawmakers in November that News of the World
Editor Colin Myler failed to tell him in 2008 that phone hacking
at the now-defunct tabloid was common. Myler and the newspaper’s
lawyer Tom Crone have repeatedly insisted that they discussed
evidence with Murdoch and that they told Murdoch in 2008 about
an e-mail that showed phone-hacking was more widespread than
initially assumed.  Murdoch has said he didn’t read the e-mail, sent on a
Saturday, because he was likely preoccupied with his two small
children at home.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  