-- James Murdoch Steps Down as Chairman of BSkyB Board (Text)
-- B y   K e n n e t h   W o n g
-- 2012-04-03T13:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/james-murdoch-steps-down-as-chairman-of-bskyb-board-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
letter  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  Chairman  James Murdoch 
submitted to the board as he resigned from the position today.  Colleagues,  As you know, my actions as a Director of BSkyB have been
governed at all times by what is in the best interests of the
Company, its customers and its shareholders. I have been
privileged to serve first as Chief Executive and then as
Chairman of this outstanding company and I am proud of what we
have achieved over this period. We have invested to create
choice for many millions of customers, grown our contribution to
life in the U.K. and significantly increased returns for
shareholders.  I have now decided that this is the right time for me to
step aside as Chairman and, with the support of the Board and
shareholders, continue to serve the Company as a Non-Executive
Director. As attention continues to be paid to past events at
News International, I am determined that the interests of BSkyB
should not be undermined by matters outside the scope of this
Company.  I have been transparent in my evidence and have behaved
ethically at all times. However, there continues to be extensive
and voluminous commentary around these matters. I am aware that
my role as Chairman could become a lightning rod for BSkyB and I
believe that my resignation will help to ensure that there is no
false conflation with events at a separate organisation.  BSkyB is a great success story and its positive
contribution to British broadcasting, and to the country more
broadly, should not be questioned. With a strong Board and
outstanding management team, I am confident that the Company
will achieve even more in the future. I look forward to making a
continued contribution in my role as a Non-Executive Director.  JRM  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  