-- Japan’s Monetary Base Slides for First Time Since 2008: Economy
-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-04-03T06:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/japan-monetary-base-slides-for-the-first-time-since-august-2008.html
Japan ’s liquidity supply dropped in
March for the first time in more than three years, fueling
politicians’ complaints that the central bank should be doing
more to end deflation.  The  monetary base  fell 0.2 percent from a year earlier
after climbing 11.3 percent in the previous month, a  Bank of
Japan (8301)  report showed today. The average  amount outstanding  was
112.46 trillion yen ($1.37 trillion).  Opposition to the nomination of BNP Paribas SA economist
 Ryutaro Kono  to the central bank’s board has highlighted some
lawmakers’ concern that the BOJ isn’t doing enough to spur
growth in the world’s third-biggest economy. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his officials have pledged “powerful easing”
until 1 percent inflation is in sight.  “This raises the question of how serious the BOJ is about
monetary easing,” said Yasuhide Yajima, chief economist at NLI
Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo. “This may give a reason for
politicians to put more pressure on the BOJ.”  The yen traded at 81.93 per dollar as of 3:13 p.m. after
earlier touching 81.56, the highest since March 9.  The monetary base is the currency supplied by the BOJ and
its total current-account balance as well as banknotes and coins
in circulation. It surged 16.9 percent in March 2011 and peaked
the following month after the BOJ poured a record amount of cash
into the financial system to stabilize the economy after a
record earthquake and tsunami.  Monetary Tightening  “A shrinking monetary base is equivalent to monetary
tightening,” Yuji Shimanaka, chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said before the report
was released. “They may fail to win trust for accommodative
monetary policy operations and that could bring back a situation
where we have deflation with strong yen in the worst case
scenario.”  Annualized, the monetary base fell 6.7 percent last month
compared with three months ago after it dropped 16.4 percent in
February, indicating that it’s shrinking even if last year’s
money injections are taken into account, Shimanaka said, citing
his own calculations.  Elsewhere,  Australia ’s central bank kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at 4.25 percent today, and signaled it may resume
cutting borrowing costs as soon as next month if weaker-than-
expected growth slows inflation. A Chinese index for non-
manufacturing industries rose in March, according to a report
from the statistics bureau and the logistics federation. Thai
inflation accelerated for the first time in five months in March
on rising oil prices, while the  Philippines  reported its first
 budget surplus  in six months.  U.S. Orders  Orders to U.S. factories increased 1.5 percent in February
after a 1 percent decline in January, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
report today. In the euro region, producer prices probably rose
0.5 percent in February from a month earlier, analysts’
forecasts showed.  In Japan, Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said yesterday
the central bank isn’t targeting monetary base levels when a
lawmaker asked why the amount shrank by more than 6 trillion yen
from January to February. Even with the recent declines, the
supply of currency remains near the levels that existed when the
BOJ conducted quantitative easing from March 2001 to March 2006.  “This is very important,” Yoichi Kaneko, a lawmaker in
the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan, told Yamaguchi in a
parliamentary hearing. This means that while promising a strong
easing stance, “the BOJ has sapped money from the market,” he
said.  Lawmaker Scrutiny  BOJ policy makers have come under lawmaker scrutiny in
recent weeks. Japan’s largest opposition party has said it’s
likely to oppose Kono, ranked the nation’s top economist by
Nikkei Veritas, the weekly edition of Japan’s largest business
newspaper. Kono cautioned about risks associated with
“aggressive monetary policy” in a Bloomberg News survey last
month.  Kiyohiko Nishimura, the bank’s other deputy, was asked by
lawmakers about the idea of adopting a Federal Reserve-style
“operation twist,” swapping short-term bonds for longer-dated
securities.  Sentiment among Japan’s largest manufacturers failed to
improve in March as executives predicted the yen will rebound
against the dollar, hurting exporters’ sales and profits, the
BOJ’s quarterly Tankan index showed yesterday.  “Business conditions aren’t good enough to convince
companies to be optimistic,” Yajima said. “There’s room for
the BOJ to do more to ensure a recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  