-- Japan’s Strongest Storm Since 1959 Slams Into Tokyo Region
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2012-04-03T10:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/japan-s-strongest-storm-since-1959-forecast-to-slam-into-tokyo.html
Japanese airlines canceled hundreds
of flights, some train services were halted and thousands of
workers went home early as some of the strongest winds in more
than 50 years hit  Tokyo  today.  The weather agency issued a tornado warning for the Tokyo
area after the storm dumped as much as 6 centimeters (2.4
inches) of rain an hour in central  Japan  as it crossed from the
southwest, with winds gusting up to 140 kilometers (87 miles) an
hour. An 82-year-old woman died after being knocked over by the
wind and hitting her head, national broadcaster NHK reported.  “Our company closed early but I stayed longer to finish
work,” said Akio Fukuzaki, an engineer waiting in line at a
Tokyo train station for operations to resume. “I should have
left earlier.”  As many as 11,500 households have lost power because of the
storm in Toyama and Ishikawa prefectures,  Hokuriku Electric
Power Co. (9505)  said in a statement. At least 60 people have been
injured in 17 prefectures, NHK reported, showing a golf driving
range destroyed in Hiroshima in western Japan.  Sustained winds in Tokyo may reach 90 kph during its
evening peak, Takeo Tanaka, head of the weather advisory office
at the  Japan Meteorological Agency , said in a telephone
interview. That would make it the strongest storm to hit the
capital since 1959, when Tokyo was buffeted by winds of 97 kph,
 data  from the weather agency show.  “People should try to avoid going out,” Tanaka said.
“It’s very unusual for Tokyo to have such strong winds when
there’s not a typhoon,” he said, referring to the tropical
storms that regularly strike Japan between May and October.  Grounded Planes  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  and  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) , the nation’s
two largest airlines, canceled 566 flights, stranding more than
68,000 passengers. All Nippon scrapped 336 flights, affecting
about 38,000 people, the airline said in a faxed statement,
while  Japan Air (9201)  canceled 230 domestic flights that had 39,500
passengers. Both airlines warned that international services may
also be disrupted.  East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , the largest railway operator in the
Tokyo region, canceled some trains due to strong winds,
according to its  website . Express services on the Chuo line,
linking western suburbs with the city center, were scrapped,
while regular services were running at 70 percent frequency, the
operator said. Some expressways were also closed in the capital.  Leaving Early  Bullet train services linking Tokyo and  Osaka  were also
disrupted,  Central Japan Railway Co. (9022)  said on its  website .  The weather agency issued warnings for waves as high as 10
meters (33 feet) on the northwest coast of Honshu and up to 8
meters along the Pacific coast hit by the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami last year. After passing Tokyo, the storm is
forecast to dump heavy rain on the disaster-hit Tohoku region.  The  Tokyo Metropolitan Government (MOTZ)  issued an advisory for
companies to send employees home where possible to avoid
transport disruption, the first time such a warning has been
issued for a storm that isn’t a typhoon, a spokesman said.  Sony Corp. (6758)  advised 16,000 employees in Tokyo to leave work
early to avoid the storm, spokesman  George Boyd  said in an e-
mail.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  ordered employees at its headquarters in
Yokohama, south of Tokyo, and other facilities in  Kanagawa
prefecture (KANZ)  to leave work at 2 p.m. today, spokesman Toshitake Inoshita said by phone.  JVC Kenwood Corp. (6632) , also based in Kanagawa, sent workers
home, the company said in a statement on its website.  Fujitsu
Ltd. (6702)  said it gave 25,000 employees the option to leave work
early, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  No Baseball  Professional baseball games were canceled in Yokohama,
Tokyo and Saitama, north of the capital,  Kyodo News  reported.
Some schools in Tokyo closed at lunchtime.  Today’s storm, caused by a low pressure front that formed
over the  Sea of Japan , differs from the typhoons or tropical
storms which form over warm water in the Pacific and develop
into a cyclone with surface wind circulation, according to the
 U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center . Typhoon Talas killed 67
people in September, the nation’s deadliest storm in seven
years.  “Usually the low pressure systems develops east of Japan
but this is unusual because the low pressure system has
developed in the Sea of Japan,” Masashi Kunitsugu, at the
weather agency’s typhoon center, said in an interview. “It
usually develops after passing the islands of Japan.”  Oil Refineries  The storm dumped heavy rain overnight on Japan’s southwest
island of Kyushu before moving northeast toward Osaka and Tokyo.  Cosmo Oil Co. (5007)  halted oil barge berthing at its refineries
at Chiba and Yokkaichi, west of Tokyo, Katsuhisa Maeda, a
company spokesman, said by phone earlier today. The refiner may
also stop loading and unloading barges at processing plants at
Sakai, south of Osaka, and Sakaide on the island of Shikoku.  JX Nippon Oil and Energy Corp ., Japan’s largest refiner,
stopped barge berthing at its Marifu refinery in western Japan,
as well as its Negishi refinery in Yokohama, according to a
company official who declined to be identified citing the
company’s internal policy.  Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019)  stopped berthings at its Chiba, Aichi
and Tokuyama refineries, spokesman Kei Uchikawa said.  West Japan Railway Co. (9021)  canceled bullet train services on
the Sanyo Shinkansen line between Osaka and Hakata station in
Kyushu, the company said on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  