-- JPMorgan Dealmaker Hannam in Eye of Storm Again on FSA Fine
-- B y   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-04-04T17:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/jpmorgan-dealmaker-hannam-in-eye-of-storm-again-with-fsa-fine.html
Ian Hannam’s dealmaking has landed
him in the center of a storm before. This time the soldier-
turned- JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive known for his Rolodex will
be defending himself from outside the most profitable  U.S. bank .  Hannam, 56, JPMorgan’s global chairman of equity capital
markets and a top adviser to mining companies such as  Xstrata
Plc (XTA) , resigned yesterday after the U.K.’s market regulator fined
him 450,000 pounds ($720,000) for disclosing inside information.
He said in a statement he will appeal and plans to continue his
financial career after the dispute is over.  His exit will deal at least a temporary blow to JPMorgan’s
mining advisory business, which ranks second behind Morgan
Stanley, bolstered by its close relationship with Zug,
Switzerland-based Xstrata. Hannam, who became a focal point of
an aborted deal to sell  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  in 2007, will be
fighting to keep his reputation intact as the Financial Services
Authority clamps down on market abuse after it was criticized
for failing to prevent the U.K.’s worst financial crisis since
World War II.  “It will be a big blow to JPMorgan, which is the dominant
adviser in mining deals,” said Philip Keevil, partner at New
York-based advisory firm Compass Advisers. “Hannam is a big
catch and people will take notice.”  The FSA fined Hannam for improperly disclosing information
about a JPMorgan client,  Heritage Oil Plc (HOLI) , almost four years
ago, at a time when the company was a potential takeover target
and had made a new oil find -- two developments that hadn’t been
publicly disclosed.  Xstrata Bid  Hannam is among bankers advising Xstrata, the subject of a
22 billion-pound bid from commodity trader  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  in the world’s largest deal this year. At
JPMorgan, which also serves as a broker to Xstrata, Hannam
helped the mining company first sell shares in 2002, and was
involved in many of its subsequent takeovers, including the
$18.1 billion purchase of the Canadian nickel producer
Falconbridge Ltd. in 2006.  The bank has worked on at least six M&A deals for Xstrata
since 2005 valued at about $69.2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Like other advisory firms, it’s profited
from the frenzy of dealmaking in the  mining industry , which
continues to be the most active sector with 266 transactions
this year, according to the data.  ‘Honesty and Integrity’  In a show of support, Hannam’s clients stepped forward
after the FSA action to attest to his character and competence.  “He has always acted with honesty and integrity,” Xstrata
Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  said in a statement
yesterday. “He continues to have my full support.”  Peter Hambro, chairman of  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , a Russian
iron-ore company that went public in  London  in 2002, said in an
interview that he also had faith in Hannam. “The only person I
talk to more than him is Pavel Maslovsky, my Russian partner.”  Hannam will complete his current commitments before leaving
the bank, Emilio Saracho, the head of  investment banking  for
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa , said in a memorandum to
employees. Calls to Hannam’s mobile phone were referred to
JPMorgan’s press office.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for the
firm in London, declined to comment beyond the company’s memo.  Soldier to Banker  Hannam was raised in Sidcup,  England , a lower-income area
of south London, where his father was a council worker
overseeing street repair, according to his  website  and a
spokeswoman. He entered the Territorial Special Air Service when
he was 17 as a trooper, and rose to the rank of captain,
commanding a squadron. In 1984, he joined  Salomon Brothers , and
over the next 28 years he worked on almost 300 deals, according
to the website.  Five years ago Hannam’s efforts to help orchestrate a deal
for Dow Chemical, the largest U.S. chemical maker, collapsed
when word of a proposed transaction leaked out. According to
court documents, Hannam was the lead banker in talks in 2007
between senior Dow executives and a group of Middle East
investors seeking to acquire and break up the company. Those
talks, which Dow later said were unauthorized and undisclosed to
the company’s CEO and board, led to the executives’ dismissal.
JPMorgan quickly distanced itself from the deal, with CEO Jamie Dimon calling the contact “unstructured and informal,”
according to a lawsuit by one of the fired executives.  Merger Adviser  JPMorgan is the third-ranked merger adviser in Europe this
year after  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm was the top-
ranked arranger of equity offerings in Europe, the Middle East
and Africa in the five years through 2011, the data show.  “As long as JPMorgan cuts its ties, it is no longer
involved,” said  Roy Smith , a former Goldman Sachs partner who’s
now a finance professor at New York University’s Stern School of
Business. “Its public reputation may be affected for a while
but its reputation with clients for competence, professionalism
and integrity is likely to survive unchanged.”  According to the FSA, Hannam sent an e-mail to an
unidentified contact on Sept. 9, 2008, in which he said  Heritage
Oil (HOIL) , a British oil and gas exploration firm, would receive an
offer valued at between 350 pence and 400 pence a share. The
stock closed at 204 pence in London that day.  The recipient of the e-mail was a representative of an
organization with interests in the Kurdistan region of  Iraq , an
area where Heritage had exploration projects, the FSA said. Nine
days after the e-mail was sent, Heritage disclosed it was in
preliminary talks to sell some assets.  ‘Looking Good’  Hannam told the contact he was “not trying to force your
hand, just wanted to make you aware of what is happening.”  In a second e-mail a month later, Hannam told his contact
Heritage “has just found oil and it is looking good.” Jersey,
U.K.-based Heritage announced a find later that month in Uganda.  No trades were made on the inside information, the FSA
said. The recipient of Hannam’s e-mail later hired him to set up
a fund for making investments in Kurdistan, the FSA said. The
initial deal never materialized.  Hannam told the FSA that the e-mails were taken out of
context because the person they were sent to was representing an
organization with which Tony Buckingham, Heritage’s CEO, was
trying to do a deal. The FSA didn’t name the organization.  Hannam told the FSA’s internal Regulatory Decisions
Committee that the e-mail in October was sent “at a time of
extreme turbulence in the financial markets, when he was under
extreme pressure at work,” the regulator said. He said if he
had committed market abuse, then it was because of an “honest
error or errors of judgment.”  Appeal Process  The FSA accepted that he didn’t benefit.  “Hannam’s honesty and integrity is not in question,”
Andrew Long, the acting chairman of the FSA committee, said in
its final notice. “In committing market abuse he acted neither
deliberately or recklessly. However, his behavior constituted a
serious error of judgment.”  The case is the first time the FSA has published a public
notice of a fine before the defendant was given the chance to
challenge it at the Upper Tribunal, a specialty court in London
that hears appeals of decisions from regulators, including the
FSA. The agency was given the power to publish notices earlier
under new rules as part of the U.K. Treasury’s overhaul of
financial regulation.  For Hannam and JPMorgan, it created “an untenable position
for him in working and advising clients where he’s on the front
page of various financial newspapers, with an allegation of
market abuse,” said  Louise Hodges , a regulatory lawyer at
Kingsley Napley in London.  “If you fight, now the decision notice gets published,
even though there are issues to be litigated,” Hodges said.
“The reputational damage of being under investigation is such
that you are just not able to work in the regulated sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  