-- JPMorgan’s Hannam Steps Down, Pledging to Appeal FSA Fine
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-04-03T12:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/jpmorgan-cazenove-s-hannam-challenging-fsa-fine-on-inside-data.html
Ian Hannam, one of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s top advisers to mining companies, stepped down to appeal a
450,000-pound ($720,000) fine from the U.K. markets regulator
for disclosing inside information.  Hannam, JPMorgan’s global chairman of equity capital
markets, e-mailed a potential customer in 2008 with details of a
bid for his client  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL) , as well as news of an oil
find, the Financial Services Authority said in a statement
today. The 56-year-old is the most senior banker to be fined by
the FSA in its four-year-old crackdown on  insider trading .  “I strongly believe, and have been advised by my legal
counsel, that the FSA’s conclusions are wrong and I look forward
to challenging them,” London-based Hannam said in a separate
statement. “The FSA has not challenged my fit and proper status
and has accepted that I acted with honesty and integrity.”  He is among bankers advising Xstrata Plc, the subject of a
bid from  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) . At JPMorgan, which also
serves as a broker to Xstrata, Hannam helped the mining company
first sell shares in 2002, and was involved in many of its
subsequent takeovers, including the $18.1 billion purchase of
the Canadian nickel producer Falconbridge Ltd. in 2006.  “He has always acted with honesty and integrity,” Xstrata
Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  said in a statement today.
“He continues to have my full support in his appeal.”  ‘Extremely Valuable’  JPMorgan is the third-ranked mergers adviser in  Europe  this
year after Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In mining mergers, the
bank is placed second after Morgan Stanley, the data show.  The firm was the top-ranked arranger of equity offerings in
Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  in the five years through the
end of 2011, the data show. JPMorgan was also the top-ranked
manager of IPOs in the region in the period.  “Inside information is extremely valuable and must be
handled with care to ensure that it is properly controlled and
that appropriate safeguards are observed,” Tracey McDermott,
acting head of financial crime at the FSA, said in a statement.  The regulator fined Andrew Osborne, a broker at Bank of
America Corp., 350,000 pounds in February for disclosing inside
information to Greenlight Capital Inc. Chairman  David Einhorn .
Osborne told Einhorn the company was about to sell new stock,
prompting Einhorn to order traders to sell the firm’s shares
”within minutes,” according to the regulator. Osborne quit and
Einhorn and Greenlight were fined 7.2 million pounds by the FSA.  Heritage Offer  Hannam will complete his current commitments before leaving
the bank, Emilio Saracho, the head of  investment banking  for
Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said in a memorandum to
employees today. Calls to Hannam’s mobile phone were referred to
JPMorgan’s press office.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for the
firm in London, declined to comment beyond the memo.  Hannam sent an e-mail to an unidentified contact on Sept.
9, 2008, in which he said Heritage, a British oil and gas
exploration firm, would receive an offer valued at between 350
pence and 400 pence a share, according to the FSA. The stock
closed at 204 pence in  London  that day.  The recipient of the e-mail was a representative of an
organization that had interests in the Kurdistan region of  Iraq ,
an area where Heritage had exploration projects, the FSA said.
Nine days after the e-mail was sent, Heritage disclosed it was
in preliminary talks to sell some assets.  ‘Looking Good’  In a second e-mail a month later, Hannam told his contact
that Heritage “has just found oil and it is looking good.”
Jersey, U.K.-based Heritage announced a find later that month.  No trades were made on the inside information, the FSA
said. The recipient of Hannam’s e-mail later hired him to set up
a fund for making investments in Kurdistan, the FSA said.  Hannam, a former soldier, graduated from  Imperial College
London  and London Business School, and trained at  Salomon
Brothers . In 1992, he joined Robert Fleming & Co., which was
bought by Chase Manhattan in 2000. Four years later, he helped
to set up JPMorgan’s joint venture with London-based Cazenove
Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  