-- JPMorgan Sells Record Notes Tied to Proprietary Volatility Index
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-04-03T13:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/jpmorgan-sells-record-notes-tied-to-proprietary-volatility-index.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sold $59.1
million in structured notes tied to a proprietary volatility
index in March, the most for any month since the gauge was
created more than a year and a half ago.  The J.P. Morgan Strategic Volatility Index, which uses a
strategy based on a set of rules,  has increased  17 percent this
year. The gauge seeks gains when the market for longer-term
futures on the VIX trade higher than those with closer
expirations, which is referred to as “contango,” and also when
the reverse is true, called “backwardation.”  Investors have piled into investments that track the VIX,
as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is known,
as volatility drops to multiyear lows. The number of shares
outstanding for 17 exchange-traded products that increase when
the VIX rises has jumped more than fivefold this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  The VIX has plummeted 64 percent in the last two quarters,
the most ever, Bloomberg data show. The gauge, which touched its
lowest level since June 2007 on March 26, gained 0.9 percent to
15.64 yesterday.  JPMorgan sold $23.6 million in 15-month notes tied to its
proprietary gauge on March 13, the bank’s largest such sale,
according to Bloomberg data. The notes yield the gains and
losses in the index, according to a  prospectus  filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The New York-based bank
distributed the securities for a 1 percent commission.  Mitigating Contango  The volatility index, created July 30, 2010, is long on VIX
futures with a maturity of about two months, and short on those
of about one month, whenever the fear gauge is less than the
weighted average of one- and two-month contracts. Selling some
futures short, with an expectation of a price drop, is intended
to mitigate the problem of contango.  ETNs are unsecured bank debt backed by their issuer’s
credit, unlike exchange-traded funds, which hold assets. Banks
create and redeem shares of ETNs based on the level of demand
for the securities. That demand typically doesn’t affect the
price since the ETNs track the performance of an index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 