-- Judy Garland Vomits on Her Rainbow in New Show: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-03T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/judy-garland-vomits-on-her-rainbow-in-new-show-review.html
Dead and buried 43 years in June,
 Judy Garland  still provides carrion for vultures.  “End of the Rainbow,” a  London  hit now transferred to
Broadway, is the latest shameless attempt to capitalize on a
life whose unhappy conclusion is as storied as the stardom that
preceded it.  Tracie Bennett stars (if such a word can be applied to an
impersonation bettered any night in any downtown drag bar) as
Judy in late 1968.  Pills, booze and paranoia have made her all but unbookable.
A new fiance has taken over her management, determined to clean
her up and get her in shape for a grueling run of performances
in London. They have bills to pay.  The setting is a posh hotel suite (nicely rendered by
 William Dudley ) that the nearly impoverished star deems unfit
for midgets. That’s the level of humor in abundance here.  Mickey Deans, the midnight cowboy who will eventually give
in to Judy’s demands for pharmaceutical assistance when she
predictably falls apart on stage, is played by Tom Pelphrey. The
gifted Michael Cumpsty plays Anthony, the gay music
director/accompanist who loves her.  See Judy pop pills. Watch Judy vomit. Avert your eyes as
Judy services her young buck. Listen as Judy, jazzed on Ritalin,
loudly unravels before an adoring audience.  No Soul  In each of these scenelets, Bennett -- small, angular, hard
-- is undoubtedly accurate, except for the soul part.  We are treated to awful snippets from such signature
numbers as “The Man That Got Away” and “The Trolley Song,”
though none of the ballads that might have given the show a tiny
bit of humanity. Six months after these performances, in June
1969, she was dead.  A saving grace for this unsalvageable travesty is the
superb five-piece ensemble that augments the piano during the
concert sections. They swing. You could listen to them all
night.  At the Belasco Theatre, 111 W. 44th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: (no stars)  ‘Now. Here. This.’  The clever team behind “[title of show]” is back at
downtown’s  Vineyard Theatre  with “Now. Here. This.”  It’s an eccentric mishmash of songs about the life force,
love and the like, starting with ambitious amino acids.  The tour takes us through exhibits at a place suspiciously
like the  American Museum of Natural History  and involving the
lives of the show’s four performers, three of whom (Hunter Bell,
Susan Blackwell and Jeff Bowen) created the musical. The fourth
is the always entertaining Heidi Blickenstaff.  At times “Now. Here. This.” quotes Baba Ram Dass; at
other times it seems like a commission from a science foundation
who, possibly in an oversight, chose a gang of hippies to write
a science-themed show.  The result, staged by Michael Berresse, is intermittently
charming. A little goes a long way.  Through April 22 at 108 E. 15th St. Information: +1-212-
279-4200;  http://www.vineyardtheatre.org 
Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 