-- Kentucky Wins Its Eighth NCAA Basketball Title by Beating Kansas
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-03T05:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/kentucky-beats-kansas-to-win-eighth-ncaa-basketball-championship.html
The  University of Kentucky  won its
eighth men’s college basketball championship and first for coach
 John Calipari  as it held on for a 67-59 victory against the
University of Kansas.  Doron Lamb scored 22 points to lead top-ranked Kentucky
(38-2), which raced to an 18-point first-half lead and then
withstood a late rally by Kansas last night in  New Orleans  to
win the final game of the three-week National Collegiate
Athletic Association basketball tournament.  National player of the year  Anthony Davis , who had 16
rebounds and six of Kentucky’s championship game-record 11
blocked shots, was named the Most Outstanding Player of the
Final Four even though he hit only one of 10 shots last night.
The 6-foot-10 freshman, who finished with six points, led a
defensive effort that held  Kansas  to 36 percent shooting.  “I was struggling offensively,” Davis said at the trophy
presentation. “What helped us win was defense and rebounding.”  Kentucky’s 38 victories are the most by a national champion,
eclipsing the 37 wins by Kansas in 2008.  Kentucky, which also won NCAA tournament titles in 1948,
1949, 1951, 1958, 1978, 1996 and 1998, ranks second to the 11
championships by the University of  California ,  Los Angeles .
Kansas (32-7) was denied a fourth title.  “When you care so much about something and it doesn’t go
your way, it’s going to hurt for a while,” said Kansas senior
guard Tyshawn Taylor, who led the Jayhawks with 19 points. “We
fought our hearts out.”  Calipari’s First Title  The championship is the first for Calipari, 53, one of two
coaches to lead three different schools to the Final Four. In
2008, Calipari was denied a title while at the  University of
Memphis  when Kansas won the NCAA championship game in overtime
after rallying from a nine-point deficit in the final two
minutes, 12 seconds of regulation play.  Calipari, who has 547 career wins and is now 102-14 in
three years at Kentucky, receives a $350,000 bonus for winning
the title. His championship bonus was the biggest among the
coaches in the Final Four.  “This is not about me,” Calipari said. “This is about
these 13 players. This is about the Big Blue nation. I don’t
know of any team that has sacrificed for each other like this
team and they deserve this moment.”  A starting five that featured three freshmen and two
sophomores delivered Calipari’s first title.  Led By Underclassmen  Davis, who is projected as the No. 1 pick in this year’s
 National Basketball Association  draft, according to NBAdraft.net,
joins  Utah ’s Arnie Ferrin (1944), Louisville’s Pervis Ellison
(1986) and Syracuse’s  Carmelo Anthony  (2006) as the only
freshmen to win Final Four MOP honors.  Fellow freshman Michael Kidd-Gilchrist, who had 11 points,
is projected to be taken second in the NBA draft, while the
Wildcats’ other starters -- Lamb, Terrence Jones and Marquis
Teague -- may also be first-round picks. Teague finished with 14
points and Jones added nine.  “What I wanted them to show was that we weren’t just a
talented team,” Calipari said at a news conference. “We were a
defensive team and we were a team that shared the ball. I wanted
everybody to see it. It doesn’t matter how young you are, it’s
how you play together.”  Kentucky  is now 8-3 in the NCAA title game, while Kansas
fell to 3-6. The title game was a matchup of schools that rank
first and second for the most wins in college basketball history.
Kentucky now has 2,092 wins and Kansas has 2,070.  Kansas coach Bill Self was denied a second title a day
after winning the Naismith Coach of the Year national award.
Self, 49, was seeking to become the fifth active coach to win
multiple championships. Thomas Robinson added 18 points and 17
rebounds for the Jayhawks.  Kentucky’s First Half  Kentucky led by as many as 18 points in the first half
before Kansas hit a pair of baskets in the final minutes to pull
within 41-27 at halftime.  Davis, who this season joined  Kevin Durant  as the only
freshmen to win national player of the year honors, missed all
four of his shots in the first half, yet had nine rebounds and
three blocks.  Kansas overcame deficits of more than 10 points three times
in its first five NCAA tournament games -- against North
Carolina State, Purdue and Ohio State in the Final Four -- and
again rallied against Kentucky, which entered the game as the
six-point favorite of oddsmakers.  Trailing 59-44 with five minutes, 14 seconds left, Kansas
went on a 13-3 scoring run to pull within five points with 1:37
left. Kentucky’s defense again stepped up, collecting its 11th
blocked shot with 1:03 left, then forcing a turnover and sealing
the victory at the free throw line.  “Coach Cal told us they were going to fight back,” Davis
said. “They’ve been in these situations plenty of times and
they know how to come back. That’s what they did tonight. My
teammates just have a great will to win. ‘  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  