-- Kenya May Reject Calls to Cut Lending Rate as Oil Prices Climb
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-04-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/kenya-may-reject-calls-to-cut-lending-rate-as-oil-prices-climb.html
Kenya ’s central bank will probably
keep borrowing costs at a record high today as surging fuel
prices make it difficult to meet its inflation target.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, will leave the  benchmark rate  at 18 percent for a
fourth consecutive meeting, according to five of the eight
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rest expect a cut of
between half and 1 percentage point. The MPC is due to publish
its decision in an e-mailed statement from Nairobi, the capital.  Inflation (KNPRIYY) , which has eased after last year’s drought, is
still at almost double the government’s 9 percent target for
June, making it difficult for the central bank to lower
borrowing costs. Commercial bank rates soared after the MPC
boosted its key rate by 12.25 percentage points last year,
prompting complaints from politicians and consumers.  “The central bank is still far from its inflation
target,” Duncan Kinuthia, a fixed-income dealer at Nairobi-
based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview
yesterday. “There will be political pressure to bring down the
costs on loans, but over and above that, the bank doesn’t want
to cut aggressively and have an impact on the  exchange rate .”  Higher  interest rates  helped to boost the shilling by 28
percent against the dollar from a record low of 106.75 on Oct.
11, easing pressure on inflation, which slowed to 15.6 percent
in March from a peak of 19.7 percent in November. The shilling
was at 83.11 per dollar as of 5 p.m. in Nairobi yesterday.  Oil Prices  Kenya, which imports almost all the fuel-products it
consumes, raised the maximum price of gasoline by 3 percent in
March, its first increase in four months. Brent crude oil has
surged 11 percent in  London  this year.  The  International Monetary Fund  last month advised Kenya’s
central bank to keep monetary policy “tight” until inflation
expectations have declined. Rising  oil prices  are a risk to the
inflation outlook, Ndung’u said on March 6.  The central bank is under pressure to lower interest rates
to mute the effects of the debt crisis in  Europe , which sources
about a third of its demand for fresh-cut flowers from Kenya.
The East African nation, the world’s largest exporter of black
tea, will probably expand 5.3 percent this year from an
estimated 4.5 percent in 2011, according to the government.  A rate cut “would help stimulate demand in the economy,”
Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, an Africa analyst with Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said in a phone interview. The policy rate
is “very restrictive on commercial bank lending rates and
pushing up the cost of funds in the  interbank market .”  Still, Kenya’s rate isn’t the highest in the region. In
neighboring  Uganda , the central bank left benchmark rate
unchanged at 21 percent on April 2, after lowering by 2
percentage points this year, to bolster the currency as oil
prices gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  