-- Kenya Shilling Falls Third Day on Bets Central Bank to Hold Rate
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-04-03T11:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/kenya-shilling-falls-third-day-on-bets-central-bank-to-hold-rate.html
Kenya ’s shilling depreciated for a
third day, the longest losing streak in almost two weeks, on
speculation the central bank will retain the benchmark rate at a
meeting tomorrow.  The currency of East  Africa ’s biggest economy retreated 0.2
percent to 83.30 to the dollar and was trading 0.1 percent
weaker at 83.18 at 1:01 p.m.  The central bank monetary policy committee is expected to
meet tomorrow, with five out of eight economists polled by
Bloomberg expecting it to retain the benchmark rate at 18
percent. The committee left the key lending rate at a record
high for a third meeting last month, after increasing it six
times last year to keep the inflation rate under check and
support the shilling.  “The country’s balance of payments outlook remain a
concern, with rising global  oil prices  being a threat to the
stability of the  exchange rate ,”  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB)  said in a market
brief today.  The  inflation rate  declined for a fourth month to 15.61
percent in March from 16.69 percent in the previous month, the
Nairobi-based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said in an e-
mailed statement on March 30. On a monthly basis, prices rose
1.3 percent after falling 0.04 percent in February, it said.  Tanzania, Uganda  Tanzania’s shilling snapped a two-day losing streak,
gaining 0.2 percent to 1,590 against the dollar, while the
Ugandan shilling appreciated the most in more than three weeks,
rising 0.8 percent to 2,500 per dollar at 13:01 p.m. A close at
this level will be the largest advance since March 9., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank of  Uganda  left its benchmark rate
unchanged at 21 percent yesterday.  “Bank of Uganda is sounding a much more cautious note on
the inflation outlook and concerns over the likely foreign
exchange implications of more easing, and the threat of high oil
prices,”  Razia Khan , regional head of research for Africa at
Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in a note yesterday. “This time,
notwithstanding the improvement in inflation in March, we have a
clear statement that the risks to inflation have risen and that
non-food inflation remains a concern.”  -- Editors: Peter Branton, Stephen Kirkland  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  