-- Kill Your Wife While Sleepwalking or Get Goldman Touch
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-04-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/kill-your-wife-while-sleepwalking-get-the-goldman-touch-books.html
Pull the lever and watch the slot
machine spin apples, gold bars and lucky 7s. When the wheels
stop, you see 7 to the left, 7 to the right, and half a 7 in the
middle.  Did you lose -- or did you almost win? If you’re addicted
to gambling, it’s a “near miss,” for sure. So you pop in
another coin and tug.  Like a Wall Street trader, a slot player craves the mental
rush of winning. Yet all the while his brain is stuck in a rut,
as Charles Duhigg shows in “ The Power of Habit ,” a refreshing
exploration of how we form habits and how we can change them.  Habits, good and bad, shape our lives every day, from the
first cup of coffee in the morning to the last sip of wine
before bed. Some are conscious, others not:  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  cultivates habits to curtail risk, while sleepwalkers
wracked with anxiety have killed their loved ones.  Yet research shows that habits are, at base, simple
neurological loops, says Duhigg, a New York Times reporter.  The loops have three steps. First there’s a cue that
triggers a craving: A smoker spots a pack of Marlboros, for
instance. Then comes a routine (lighting up), which brings a
reward (a hit of nicotine). Cue, routine, reward. Repeat.  These loops get burned into the more primitive core of our
brains, where a golf-ball sized knob called the basal ganglia
stores our routines. The good news is that even pernicious
habits can be altered, if we understand how they work.  Not Destiny  “Habits aren’t destiny,” Duhigg writes. “Once you break
a habit into its components, you can fiddle with the gears.”  Neurological case studies have been feeding us intellectual
catnip ever since Oliver Sacks published “The Man Who Mistook
His Wife for a Hat.” Duhigg serves up a tangy sampling from
scientific studies on habit formation.  We meet a chronic nail biter, a gambling addict who
squandered hundreds of thousands of dollars, and a somnambulist
who murdered his wife in his sleep.  The process that creates habits is illustrated by a retired
aerospace technician named Eugene Pauly who suffered
catastrophic  brain damage  and couldn’t remember any new
information for more than a minute or so.  Pauly couldn’t recognize his own house, draw a map of the
block where he lived or identify the door that led to the
kitchen. Yet he was able to find his way around at home, fix
meals and go out for walks.  Riots and Baristas  Habits explain more than individual behavior, it turns out.
Duhigg got interested in the subject while covering the war in
 Iraq , where he learned that a U.S. Army major had stopped city
riots by modifying a single routine.  The officer, a self-described “hick” from  Georgia ,
persuaded the mayor to keep food vendors off plazas where
volatile crowds gathered. Some weeks later, as angry chanting
echoed near a mosque and dusk came on, people became hungry and
left instead of hurling bottles and rocks.  Duhigg goes on to show how harnessing habits can change the
fortunes of football teams, corporations and more.  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  tapped the habitual urges of consumers to turn
Febreze odor remover into a $1 billion business, he explains.  Goldman Sachs bakes risk assessment into every decision it
makes, Duhigg says.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  taught baristas routines for
staying cool when customers’ tempers flare.  Changing Society  Habits can even change society, Duhigg argues, showing how
the social patterns of friendship and community helped turn a
bus boycott in Montgomery,  Alabama , into the epicenter of the
U.S. civil-rights movement.  Duhigg offers no magic formula for surmounting bad habits.
He does show how you can unknot your mental loops and retie
them.  Have you put on weight by munching candy bars at work? Then
change your routine. Instead of wandering to the cafeteria, take
a walk around the block. Or buy an apple instead.  Above all, wake up and realize that you have a choice.  “If you believe you can change,” Duhigg writes, “the
change becomes real.”  “The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and
Business” is published by  Random House  in the U.S. and
Heinemann in the U.K. (371 pages, $28, 12.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 