-- Korea Electric to Spend $1.8 Billion on Overseas Projects
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-04-03T02:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/korea-electric-plans-1-8-billion-spending-on-overseas-projects.html
Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) , the
nation’s monopoly distributor, plans to boost spending on
overseas plants and mine purchases 10-fold to 2 trillion won
($1.8 billion) as its nuclear projects face protests at home.  The utility known as Kepco allocated 1.2 trillion won for
overseas capital expenditure this year, compared with 200
billion won last year, Chief Executive Officer Kim Joong Kyum
told reporters yesterday in Seoul. The company has set aside 800
billion won to develop resources and may buy four uranium or
coal assets in the U.S.,  South Africa  or Kazakhstan, he said.  Kepco, which beat General Electric Co. and  Areva SA (CEI)  in 2009
to a contract to build nuclear reactors in the  United Arab
Emirates , is venturing overseas after government controls on
power prices widened its  losses  to $5.8 billion in the past four
years. The utility wants to get 50 percent of sales from abroad
by 2025, compared with 3.9 percent in 2011, Kim said.  “The drive to boost overseas revenue is a step in the
right direction,” said Choi Won Yeol, an analyst at KB
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, who recommends buying
Kepco shares. “The overseas portion of its sales is quite
meaningless at the moment and it will take time before it
contributes to earnings.”  Kepco shares have gained 1.1 percent in Seoul trading since
Sept. 17, when Kim became president, compared with an 11 percent
increase in the benchmark Kospi index. Kepco fell 0.5 percent to
22,350 won as of 10:05 a.m. on the Korea Exchange.  Power Projects  The utility is building power projects in 23 countries such
as the  Philippines , Kazakhstan, Jordan and  China . Any resource
assets it buys will help fuel the projects.  Before the Fukushima nuclear disaster in neighboring  Japan ,
South Korea had aimed to secure $400 billion of nuclear power
contracts by 2030 and control 20 percent of global market share,
the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in January 2010.  The $18.6 billion U.A.E. contract was the nation’s first
overseas atomic plant project. A Kepco-led group will design,
build and help operate four 1,400-megawatt nuclear power units
in the U.A.E. that will be completed from 2017 to 2020. Kepco is
betting it will win a second reactor export order as early as
next year, Kim said.  “We want to open talks with the U.A.E. on an exclusive
basis, possibly next year,” to win an order for another four
reactors, Kim said. “The kind of reactors may be the same
ones” that it’s building under the 2009 order, the first
awarded by a Gulf Arab nation.  Ahead of Plan  Kepco broke ground for the U.A.E. project in March last
year and is four months ahead of plan, Kim said. Construction of
the first reactor should start in the third quarter after
approval from the U.A.E. by June, Kim said.  The utility is competing for more orders from countries
including Vietnam, India and  Kazakhstan , and is in talks with
 Turkey  to build two nuclear reactors near the  Black Sea .  Kim plans to meet nuclear policy makers in Istanbul on
April 17 and 18 to discuss its bid, he said.  The South Korean company is in talks with  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s
second-largest utility, to set up a resources trading unit aimed
at securing fuel supplies, Kim said. Kepco wants to set up the
venture in South Korea within the year, while RWE prefers
 Singapore , he said.  “It’s important to have stable supply sources of fuel”
when seeking orders to build  power plants  abroad, Kim said.
“We’re targeting countries that could help diversify supply
sources.”  Fuel Mix  About 45 percent of Kepco’s domestic output is drawn from
coal, 36 percent from nuclear plants and 17 percent from
liquefied natural gas facilities, according to its  website .
 South Korea ’s government is facing protests from citizens for
extending the lifespan of old reactors as concerns over nuclear
safety rise following maintenance glitches this year.  “The pressure to raise power tariff would increase sharply
if we shift to other fuel sources” from reactors, Kim said. The
issue should take into account various factors including
citizens’ concerns,  carbon emissions  and pressure on the
nation’s inflation, he said.  The company plans to increase the proportion of its $3.38
billion foreign currency debt that’s hedged with forward
contracts from 67 percent currently as it expands overseas, Kim
said, without giving more information.  Return to Profit  Kim told Kepco employees on March 15 he’s targeting a
return to profit this year. His predecessor, Kim Ssang Su, an
advocate of autonomy for the utility, failed to end government
curbs on electricity prices.  Kepco posted a 2 trillion won loss in the fourth quarter,
which was 14 times greater than estimates. The full-year loss
widened to 3.37 trillion won from 119.9 billion won in 2010 as
fuel costs rose 17 percent.  Losses have accumulated as the government delayed a plan to
link electricity prices to fuel costs and allow more frequent
adjustments. The utility was allowed to raise rates twice last
year, including 4.5 percent in December.  Kepco plans to ask for an additional increase in power
tariffs within the year, Kim said, without giving details.  “Current prices can only cover 87 percent of Kepco’s
generation costs,” Kim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in  Seoul  at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  