-- N.Z. Budget Deficit Wider Than Forecast as Tax Revenue Slows
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-04-03T23:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/n-z-budget-deficit-wider-than-forecast-as-tax-revenue-slows-1-.html
New Zealand ’s budget deficit was
NZ$395 million ($323 million) wider than forecast in the eight
months through February as tax revenue slowed and earthquake
costs increased, according to a  Treasury Department  report.  The government’s operating deficit before gains and losses
on investments was NZ$5.53 billion in the eight months ended Feb.
29, compared with a NZ$5.14 billion gap forecast in the pre-
election fiscal update published in October, the Treasury said
in the report released today in Wellington.  New Zealand’s government is cutting non-essential spending
and selling assets to speed up a return to surplus from a record
deficit in the year through June 30, 2011. Finance Minister Bill English yesterday said he will present a budget with zero or
very little new spending over the next four years.  “We will have to remain disciplined to meet the
challenging goal of getting back to surplus by 2015,” English
said in a statement today. “I’m encouraged that we’ve kept core
expenses below forecast. As we move toward the budget, this
discipline around spending will remain our strong focus.”  Tax revenue  was NZ$825 million less than forecast, the
report showed. Company tax revenue was lower because business
profitability was weaker than expected, while income tax
payments were lower because of slower employment and wages
growth, the department said.  Expenses were NZ$1.4 billion less than forecast, including
the NZ$287 million reversal of some child-support penalties and
NZ$375 million less spent on the emissions trading program as
carbon prices fell.  The government’s earthquake-related insurance costs were
NZ$500 million higher than forecast for the eight months,
according to the report. That was a result of continued quakes
and aftershocks in the Canterbury region, with damage caused by
a Dec. 23 temblor estimated at NZ$450 million.  “These extra cost estimates from the earthquakes are
outside our control,” English said. “It reinforces the need to
remain focused on the things we can influence such as  government
spending .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  