-- Nike Unveils New NFL Uniforms to Boost U.S. Sales
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-03T20:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/nike-unveils-new-nfl-uniforms-to-boost-u-s-sales.html
Nike Inc. (NKE)  unveiled its new National
Football League uniforms today, skipping the duck-wing and
lizard-skin prints that it put on some college teams.  The world’s largest sporting-goods provider stuck mainly to
the 92-year-old NFL’s traditional look as it begins a five-year
licensing deal that may add $500 million in annual revenue,
according to Chris Svezia, an analyst for Susquehanna Financial
Group in New York.  Nike took over the NFL clothing license on April 1 after
 Adidas AG (ADS) ’s Reebok unit had it for more than a decade. The
switch to Nike has generated more interest in NFL apparel from
fans, and has retailers raising sales expectations as the maker
of Air Jordan basketball shoes puts more marketing behind the
license than  Reebok , Svezia said yesterday in an interview.  “The bottom line is it’s a freshening of the uniforms
that’s going to drive interest,” he said. While the NFL license
won’t have a major effect for a company of Nike’s size, it gives
the brand more exposure to a large and passionate group of
consumers, he said. Nike generated $23.4 billion in sales in the
12 months through February.  The Super Bowl-champion New York Giants’ mostly red, white
and blue uniforms were unchanged as Nike showed its apparel for
the NFL’s 32 teams at a studio in  Brooklyn  made to look like a
football field. The New York Jets’ green and white uniforms also
will stay the same.  Seahawks’ Changes  The  Seattle Seahawks , owned by Microsoft Corp. co-founder
 Paul Allen , were the only team that asked for a redesign,
according to Erin Patterson, a Nike spokeswoman. The team will
wear deep blue, and have silver numbers and wide silver shoulder
stripes, both with lime-green piping. The pants also will have a
stripe of stylized wings down the side of the leg.  The  Denver Broncos  will switch to an orange jersey from
navy. Nike expects more teams to revamp their uniforms in the
coming years, said Charlie Denson, president of the Nike brand.  The addition of the NFL license will add to sales in  North
America , where Nike increased revenue 17 percent in its largest
market to $2.15 billion in the quarter ended Feb. 29. The
company doesn’t break out sales of football products. Orders for
NFL apparel have exceeded the company’s expectations, Denson
said.  The uniforms are lighter and have more stretch that will
improve a player’s mobility, according to the company.  Michael Vick  “The difference is in the feel, and it’s lighter,” said
Philadelphia Eagles quarterback  Michael Vick , one of 32 players
on hand to represent each team and wearing his new uniform for
the first time. “I don’t know if it will make me faster, but I
hope so.”  Nike was more unconventional with its college uniforms,
putting a feather print on the shoulders of University of
Oregon’s Ducks and a lizard-skin print on the pants of  Texas
Christian University ’s Horned Frogs.  Nike’s popularity in the college game should immediately
translate into NFL sales, according to Brian Swallow, senior
vice president of strategy and business development for Fanatics
LLC. Fanatics, a Jacksonville, Florida-based company that is the
largest retailer of licensed team sports merchandise in the
U.S., runs the official online store of the NFL.  “A lot of fans, at least in the college side of our
business, have passion for Nike,” Swallow said. “They say
they’ll only buy Nike, so the brand itself already commands a
large following.”  Higher Price  Reebok had to adjust its buying strategy last year to
reflect the final year of its NFL deal, company spokesman Dan
Sarro said last week in an e-mailed statement. Swallow said that
Reebok’s conservative approach to 2011, the new tailored fit of
the Nike jerseys, and their higher prices -- Reebok’s base
replica cost $85; the Nike equivalent will be $100 -- may result
in jersey sales doubling this season as opposed to 2011.  “A lot of fans have been holding off on buying a brand
that was going to be on the outs, so we’re going to see a very
frenetic pace in Nike sales as soon as we roll them out,” he
said. “When you blend all the Nike products together, I think
we would be disappointed with anything less than a 30 to 40
percent increase in overall sales.”  Nike rose less than 1 percent to $109.87 at the close of
 New York  trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  