-- No Increased Cancer Risk Seen in Metal-on-Metal Hips
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-04-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/no-increased-cancer-risk-seen-in-metal-on-metal-hips.html
Patients who received metal-on-metal
hip replacements are at no greater risk of developing cancer
after a seven-year period than those with alternatives or the
general population, according to a study.  A longer-term review is needed of the effect of metal
particles leaking from the implants, because some tumors take
many years to develop, according to the research published in
the  British Medical Journal  today. Investigators looked at the
incidence of malignant melanoma as well as hematological,
prostate and renal tract cancers, which are associated with
metal ions in the body.  The study comes after the BMJ and the British Broadcasting
Corp. said Feb. 28 that a joint investigation showed patients
with the metal-on-metal implants may have been exposed to toxic
metals that can cause long-term disability. The devices were
more likely to fail than others and should be banned, U.K.
researchers wrote in the medical journal  The Lancet  on March 12.  “There isn’t an increase in cancer, and that’s
reassuring,” Ashley Blom, head of the orthopedics department at
the  University of Bristol  in the U.K. and co-author of today’s
BMJ study, said in a telephone interview. Blom also contributed
to The Lancet article. “I think a lot of the things that have
come out in the BMJ and the news recently have been
frightening.”  Computer Models  The study looked at 40,576 patients with metal-on-metal hip
implants and 248,995 patients with alternative bearings and
their incidence of cancer based on hospital admissions. Patient
data came from the  National Joint Registry of England and Wales ,
which collects information about hip, knee and ankle joint
replacement procedures, and the U.K.’s  National Health Service .
The registry funded the BMJ study.  Using computer models, the study found that patients with
metal implants had a lower rate of cancer than their non-metal
counterparts and the general population, though the difference
was so small it wouldn’t influence decisions about which implant
to use, Blom said.  Manufacturers of the devices include  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
 Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and Smith & Nephew Plc.  There are some weaknesses in the study, aside from the
short time period, Blom said. Patients who receive hip implants
tend to be healthier than the general population because people
who are ill or have a short  life expectancy  don’t receive them,
Blom said. Metal-on-metal implants were given to younger
patients, who tend to have lower rates of cancer, because metal
lasts longer, Blom said. Poorer people, who statistically have
higher cancer rates, are less likely to be offered joint
replacements, the authors said.  The long-term biological effects of implants made from
metals such as cobalt and chromium are unknown, Blom said. Metal
ions, which can cause irreversible damage to DNA in cells, have
been found in many organs following hip replacements, including
marrow, blood, liver, kidneys and bladder, the study said.  “It’s a question that people have asked for a number of
years,” Blom said. For a comprehensive study “you need really
big numbers and ideally you would want a 20- to 30-year follow-
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 