-- Obama Authorizes $26 Million in Aid for Refugees From Sudan
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-03T21:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/obama-authorizes-26-million-in-aid-for-refugees-from-sudan.html
President  Barack Obama  authorized as
much as $26 million to help provide humanitarian assistance to
140,000 refugees who have fled parts of  Sudan ’s southern states
of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile.  The U.S. money will come from the Emergency Refugee and
Migration Assistance Fund and will support the work of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, according to an
e-mailed statement from National Security Council Spokesman
Tommy Vietor.  The aid is in response “to the unexpected and urgent needs
resulting from the conflict in South Kordofan and Blue Nile
states of Sudan,” Vietor said.  Fighting between Sudanese government forces and the rebels
has intensified in the two border states since South Sudan
seceded in July, assuming control of three-quarters of the
former unified nation’s oil production of 490,000 barrels a day.  The U.S. is “gravely concerned” about the situation in
the two states and continues to call upon Sudan and  South Sudan 
to reach a “negotiated settlement to the outstanding issues
between them,” Vietor said.  “In particular, the  United States  urges Sudanese President
Omar al-Bashir and South Sudanese President  Salva Kiir  Mayardit
to proceed with plans to meet in a summit to sign agreements on
nationality and border issues, and to reach an agreement on
oil,” he said.  Last week’s border clashes prompted expressions of concern
from the United Nations Security Council, the U.S., the European
Union and the  African Union .  Presidents Confer  Yesterday Obama spoke with Salva Kiir, who urged him to
pressure Sudan to cease border attacks and return to peace
talks, Deputy Information Minister Atem Yaak Atem said.  Most refugees who fled Southern Kordofan and  Blue Nile  have
migrated to neighboring South Sudan, as well as to Ethiopia,
Catherine Wiesner, deputy assistant secretary of state for
population, refugees and migration, said on a conference call
with reporters.  “With these numbers, obviously relief agencies are in a
race against time,” said Wiesner, who visited South Sudan last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  