-- Obama Speeds Oil Output on U.S. Lands as Industry Complains
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-04-03T18:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/obama-speeds-oil-output-on-u-s-lands-as-industry-complains-1-.html
The Obama administration will speed
permitting for oil- and natural-gas drilling on federal lands to
lure more fracking and rebut Republican and industry complaints
the government is blocking energy production.  “We can do better by creating additional incentives for
companies to develop existing leases more timely,”  Bob Abbey ,
director of the Interior Department’s Bureau of Land Management,
said today during a conference call with reporters.  The agency may cut application reviews to about 60 days
from 298 days by using an automated system, Abbey said.
Companies and the public will be able to check the status and
submit additional information when needed, the agency said in a
statement.  Companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are
buying leases in states including Pennsylvania and  North Dakota 
to extract oil and gas using hydraulic fracturing. The  American
Petroleum Institute , the largest industry trade group, has said
most of the new U.S. production is on private property because
permits for federal land take longer to acquire.  “Today’s announcement sounds promising but additional
reforms are needed,” Erik Milito, a director at the Washington-
based institute, said today in a statement. “The administration
needs to significantly reduce the unnecessary multiyear time
frame for environmental reviews and open areas that remain off
limits for responsible energy development.”  The changes may help the agency track leases, ensuring that
safety requirements are being met, Bobby McEnaney, public-lands
expert at the New York-based Natural Resources Defense Council,
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  