-- Obama to Confront Skeptical Audience on Transparency Record
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-04-03T13:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/obama-to-confront-skeptical-audience-on-his-transparency-record.html
When President  Barack Obama 
addresses a national gathering of newspaper editors and
publishers today, he will confront his promise of government
transparency before an audience skeptical of his record.  The president and his administration have “completely
fallen short of their own mandate, of their own goals of being
the most transparent administration in history,” said Kevin
Goldberg, legal counsel to the American Society of Newspaper
Editors. “They have made some very broad pronouncements on
transparency that they just haven’t backed up.”  Running for president four years ago, Obama used the annual
Associated Press luncheon, which coincides this year with
conventions by the ASNE and the  Newspaper Association of
America , to pledge to “open things up” in the federal
government. “I want transparency,” he said. “I want
accountability.”  Today, Obama plans to use his speech to sharpen his
differences with Republicans and criticize the budget that
passed the House last week without any Democratic votes. He will
call it a “Trojan horse” that is a “prescription for
decline” for its cuts in education, research and other federal
programs, according to excerpts released by the White House.  He doesn’t plan to focus his remarks on his
administration’s record on open government, instead talking
about how to address the 8.3 percent  unemployment rate  and other
domestic issues, according to administration officials speaking
on condition of anonymity in advance of the speech, scheduled
for 12:30 p.m. today in Washington.  White House Logs  Newspaper groups and free-speech advocates point to
instances where the administration has supported open government
and where it hasn’t. Obama has made available Secret Service
visitors logs to the White House and issued an international
open government directive. Officials also challenge many Freedom
of Information Act requests for documents, and the  Justice
Department  continues to prosecute whistle-blowers.  “Those that submit FOIA requests have sometimes concluded
that Obama was worse than Bush,” said John Wonderlich, the
policy director at the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based
group that pushes to open government records.  ‘Open and Transparent’  On the first day of Obama’s presidency, the White House
website vowed the administration would be “the most open and
transparent in history.” Last week, the website congratulated
itself for releasing its 2.2 millionth record from the visitors
log.  Last year, Obama received an award commending him for
transparency from a collection of open government groups,
including OMB Watch and the Project on Government Oversight. The
presentation of that award was closed to the press.  “Over the past three years, federal agencies have gone to
great efforts to make government more transparent and more
accessible than ever,” said  Eric Schultz , a White House
spokesman. “Our continued efforts seek to promote
accountability, provide people with useful information and
harness the dispersed knowledge of the American people.”  The government responded to more than 576,000 FOIA requests
in 2011, which marked a 5 percent increase from the year before,
according to an analysis by the AP. The government released
records in roughly 65 percent of the requests it considered,
rejecting more than one-third, according to the analysis.  Secret Donors  While open-government advocates praise some aspects of
Obama’s record, they find fault with others, including Obama’s
decision in February to embrace the use of outside political
action committees to back his re-election.  Obama had repeatedly expressed opposition to such super-
PACs. He called them in an Aug. 21 radio address “shadowy
groups with harmless-sounding names.”  The committees, made possible by the  Supreme Court ’s
Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission decision in 2010,
can raise unlimited donations from individuals, companies and
unions. Committees organized as 501(c)4 groups under the
Internal Revenue Service Code aren’t required to disclose their
donors.  “As soon as it becomes necessary for him, or he decided it
was necessary, to take these donations for Priorities USA and
Priorities Action, he went silent on the question,” said
Wonderlich.  Attending Fundraisers  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  has said that
administration officials are free to attend fundraisers on their
own time and that the White House hasn’t developed a policy on
how to publicly release their activities. He didn’t confirm a
trip by senior adviser  David Plouffe  to  New York  and  Boston  last
month, where Plouffe warned Democratic donors about the threat
from Republican groups.  “Cabinet secretaries are incredibly powerful under the law
and, if they are soliciting donations for super-PACs, you have
to wonder,” said Wonderlich. “At a minimum, we should find out
if Cabinet members are attending fundraisers, especially if it’s
for seven-digit checks.”  While the ASNE’s Goldberg finds fault with some of Obama’s
transparency initiatives, he appreciates that he has the
opportunity to work with them and that they engage in a
dialogue.  “The administration doesn’t get an ‘F’ for its open
government activities,” he said. “It hasn’t lived up to
everyone’s satisfaction, but it’s an ongoing work in progress.”  “On the downside, they continue to point to access to
Secret Service visitors logs as a victory, when it’s been
anything but,” he said. The logs are incomplete and riddled
with errors, he said. “It’s more of a promotional piece than
anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  