-- Occupy London Hinders Burrito Sales More Than Banker Bonuses
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-04T12:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/occupy-movement-hinders-burrito-sales-more-than-banker-bonuses.html
Occupy  London ’s last protest camp
may hinder bankers’ lunchtime burritos more than their bonuses.  The brightly colored tents and banners of the protesters in
Finsbury Square are yards from a site the  Borough of Islington 
is considering for weekday lunch stalls, according to a notice
at the park. As the closure of a restaurant in the square open
since the 1980s shows, protests against global economic
inequality and food service don’t always mix.  “The very nature of protests is to do something somewhere
that someone else doesn’t want you to,” said Patrick O’Brien,
an analyst at  Verdict Research , a unit of Datamonitor Plc.
“Retailers essentially want streets to be clear of any
obstruction, whether it be roadworks or protesters blocking
entrances, or anything that detracts from the visibility.”  London demonstrators inspired by the Occupy Wall Street
protests in New York have been living in tents, hand-built
shacks and other makeshift structures on Finsbury Square since
Oct. 22. Protests in the U.K. capital began at  St. Paul’s
Cathedral  earlier that month and a group moved to the square
after the cathedral’s dean, Graeme Knowles, appealed to them to
move, citing safety concerns.  The protesters were evicted from St. Paul’s on Feb. 28 and
at least one restaurant found its bookings jump back to pre-
occupied levels. Sales were down 40 percent to 50 percent while
the camp was at St. Paul’s, resulting in two or three staff
members losing their jobs, said Pollie Hall, events manager at
the Paternoster Chop House.  Wedding Moved  “This isn’t the corporate fat cats they were affecting, it
was average working Joes,” said Hall, who said her customers
were verbally abused by protesters and she was called a “devil-
worshipping mason.” A wedding scheduled at the restaurant on
the first day of the protest had to be moved.  “That was two young people getting married who had nothing
to do with the finance industry, who had their big day almost
ruined,” she said.  The Occupy London protesters outside St. Paul’s cost City
of London police more than 911,000 pounds ($1.5 million) to
monitor, according to the response to a Freedom of Information
request. That doesn’t include the legal costs of the eviction,
borne by the City of London Corp., or policing groups outside
the financial district.  Zuccotti Park  Wealth disparities helped fuel protests around the globe
last year. The Occupy Movement began in September when
demonstrators took up residence in  New York ’s Zuccotti Park to
highlight the plight of average Americans who continued to
suffer while banks recovered from the 2008 financial crisis. The
New York protests, also criticized for hurting local businesses,
spread to cities around the world. The Finsbury Square
encampment is one of the last remaining.  Adam Beamish, an agent who submitted the application for a
Finsbury Square food market on behalf of Freebird Burritos, said
he didn’t know there was a camp at the park, which is adjacent
to London’s financial district. The protesters were a matter for
the council, he said in a phone interview.  “We support the right to peaceful protest, but this has to
be balanced with the needs of our community,” said Charles
Dean, a spokesman for Islington. “The campers are trespassing
in Finsbury Square and have been asked to leave.”  Freebird  There was no phone number for Freebird on its website or in
its planning application. Bloomberg LP’s European headquarters
are located on Finsbury Square.  The local authority, which has warned protesters they are
trespassing, has spent about 10,000 pounds ($16,000) monitoring
the Occupy camp. The money mainly paid for officers checking on
the square, Islington said in a response to a freedom of
information request.  Benny Gasparini, the owner of the now closed La Paquerette
in the middle of Finsbury Square, said he didn’t know what would
happen to the restaurant, which had its biggest crowds on warm
summer evenings.  “It’s difficult for the time being,” Gasparini said in an
interview. “I have to see how things go. As soon as I hear that
they are leaving... I’m thinking of other ways to work it out.”  On a sunny afternoon last week, one Occupy London activist
with blonde dreadlocks, who asked not to be identified, said
that people’s fear of the protesters led La Paquerette to close.
She said she would eat at any food stalls if they served
organic, vegetarian meals.  ‘No Desire’  The protesters have “no desire ever in these situations to
stop businesses from doing what they’re doing,” Richard Maggs,
a spokesman for the camp, said by telephone. “There’s always
ways to work with people to come to mutual understandings.”  The protest movement will return to the streets for a
demonstration on May 12, according to the group’s  website . On
March 30, some protesters moved to Leyton Marsh in east London
to halt the construction of an Olympic basketball training
facility, the group said in a statement.  O’Brien said that even peaceful protests involve some sort
of confrontation, and shoppers tend to steer clear of the area.  “This was the case with the Occupy London protests in St.
Paul’s, where retailers were, literally, caught in the middle
between the protesters and banks,” O’Brien said.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , Marks & Spencer Group Plc and Blacks
Leisure Group Plc, an insolvent outdoor-goods chain, all have
branches adjacent to the St. Paul’s camp.  Finsbury Square is already crowded with dining options,
with at least a dozen fast-food chains, restaurants and a
bustling food market within a few blocks and some proprietors
say the area doesn’t need another taco stand.  Green Burrito Truck  “We’ll get less people in winter because they won’t want
to walk over here if there’s a market closer to the City,” said
Sarah Maxwell, who serves burritos from a green truck on
Whitecross Street with her picture painted on the side, a five
to 10-minute walk from Finsbury Square. “We want this market to
thrive.”  Not everyone thinks the protesters are bad for business.
One St. Paul’s shop owner said that while overall sales are
haven’t changed since the eviction, some beverages favored by
the protesters are staying on the shelves.  “They only bought beer, nothing else,” said Mukesh Patel,
who owns St. Paul’s Tobacco, a convenience store.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 