-- Oil Falls a Second Day on U.S. Supplies, U.S. Easing Spec
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-04T06:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-on-rising-stockpiles-factory-orders.html
Oil fell for a second day in New
York on signs that U.S. crude stockpiles rose and speculation
the  Federal Reserve  may refrain from more monetary stimulus to
boost the  U.S. economy .  Futures dropped as much as 0.5 percent, extending
yesterday’s decline. Crude supplies  climbed  the most since
December, data from the  American Petroleum Institute  showed. A
government report today may show inventories increased to a
seven-month high, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Federal
Reserve minutes released yesterday from a March policy meeting
showed it planned to hold off from increasing monetary
accommodation unless economic expansion faltered.  “While we see builds, we’ll see the crude market under
pressure,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity markets newsletter in Sydney. “Let’s see
what the DOE data says, it’s all suggesting the economy is
slowing at a time when the Fed is putting the brakes on any form
of easing. It could create volatility in the market.”  Oil for May delivery declined as much as 49 cents to
$103.52 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. It was at $103.57 at 2:26 p.m. Singapore
time. The contract yesterday lost $1.22, or 1.2 percent, to
$104.01. Prices are 4.8 percent higher this year.  Brent crude  for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was down as much as 44 cents, or 0.4
percent, at $124.42 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a  premium  of $21.07 to New York futures. The gap was
$20.85 yesterday, the widest since October.  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories probably increased 2.5 million
barrels in the week ended March 30 to 355.9 million, the highest
since August, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before today’s Department of Energy
data. The industry-funded API said supplies gained 7.8 million
barrels, the most since Dec. 23.  Gasoline stockpiles are expected to have  decreased  1.4
million barrels and distillate-fuel supplies probably slid
500,000 barrels, according to the survey. Yesterday’s API report
showed gasoline inventories fell 4.5 million barrels and
distillates dropped 1.4 million.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  The U.S. is the world’s largest oil consumer. Motorists in
the country bought 8.87 million barrels a days of gasoline last
week, according to  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s SpendingPulse report
yesterday. That’s down 3.5 percent from a year earlier.  Moving Average  Oil in New York is falling after the moving average
convergence/divergence indicator dropped below zero yesterday
for the first time in seven weeks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts when this indicator
signals a loss of technical momentum.  The Fed also affirmed its plan, first announced in January,
to hold  interest rates  near zero through late 2014, as the
economy’s improvement may not be sufficient to lower the outlook
for coming years, according to the minutes released yesterday in
 Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  