-- Oil Drops After Biggest Gain in Six Weeks on Supplies
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-03T12:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/oil-drops-after-biggest-gain-in-six-weeks-on-supplies.html
Oil fell after the biggest gain in
six weeks as a forecast for rising supplies in the U.S. signaled
demand may be easing in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures slid as much as 1 percent in  New York . U.S. crude
stockpiles probably rose for a second week, to the highest level
since August, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. Prices advanced yesterday
after U.S. manufacturing in March expanded at a faster pace than
estimated. Oil has climbed this year on concern that tension
with Iran will disrupt global supplies.  “There’s no immediate shortage of supplies,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London, who predicts
U.S. oil will struggle to rally beyond $107 a barrel. “Today
there’s small-scale profit-taking after last night’s rally. The
upside is also limited on demand concerns.”  Oil for May delivery dropped as much as $1.05 to $104.18 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $104.52 at 1:21 p.m. London time. It climbed 2.2
percent yesterday, the most since Feb. 21, to $105.23. Prices
are 5.8 percent higher this year.  Brent crude  for May settlement fell 58 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $124.85 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate was at $20.38, compared
with $20.20 yesterday, the widest since October.  Crude Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories may have gained  2.2 million barrels 
last week, according to the median of eight analyst estimates in
the Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies probably fell
750,000 barrels, the survey shows.  Crude stockpiles grew by 7.1 million barrels to 353.4
million in the week ended March 23, the largest increase since
July 2010, the Energy Department reported on March 28. Supplies
have gained in five of the past six weeks.  “Demand has been so subdued for many months now and we
can’t really see that picking up,” said  David Lennox , an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney.  Oil prices  are at this level
because of Iran and “traders aren’t willing to let go of that
 risk premium ,” he said.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Iran won’t surrender to international pressure as
tightening sanctions restrict the country’s trade in the run-up
to the talks over its nuclear program, Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said in an interview with the official Islamic
Republic News Agency published yesterday.  Salehi spoke after U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
said March 31 that negotiations between Iran and the five
permanent members of the United Nations Security Council plus
Germany are scheduled for April 13 to April 14 in Istanbul.  The cost of importing oil may rise to a record $2 trillion
in 2012 for consuming nations if Brent prices remain at about
$120 a barrel, the  International Energy Agency  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  