-- Oilseed Processing May Slow on South America, Oil World Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-04-03T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/oilseed-processing-may-slow-on-south-america-oil-world-says.html
World processing of 10 oilseeds may
slow from April to September on tightening supplies as adverse
weather in  South America  may damage crops, Hamburg-based
researcher Oil World said.  Global oilseed processing may rise by 2.4 percent from a
year earlier in the April-to-September period, the researcher
said in a report today. That compares with a year-over-year gain
of 5.1 percent from January to March and an increase of 3.8
percent from October to December. Oil World said it may cut its
soybean crushing estimate of 114.1 million metric tons for the
April-to-September period.  “There is a risk that our estimates of soybean crushings,
and also of soya oil and meal output, are still at the high
end,” Oil World said. The “latest reports from Brazil,
 Argentina  and  Paraguay  point to a relatively high probability
that actual production must be reduced further.”  Soybean output in  Brazil , Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay
may reach a three-year low of 118.4 million tons, Oil World
estimated on March 23. “There is now an increasing risk” that
production may be as much as 3 million tons smaller, it said
today. Colder-than-normal temperatures have slowed plant
development after drought this year, the researcher said.  Soybean futures jumped to a six-month high of $14.16 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade on March 30, after the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said farmers may plant 73.9 million
acres this year, down 1.4 percent from a year earlier and less
than analysts expected.  Soybeans to Outperform Corn  “USDA’s forecast does not fully reflect the final
intentions of U.S. farmers,” because the government survey of
growers took place in the first two weeks of March before
soybean prices extended gains, Oil World said. “We expect
soybean prices to continue outperforming corn,” the researcher
said.  Weather conditions and prices through May “will be key
determinants of actual plantings,” Oil World said. “Generally
benign weather and soil moisture conditions in major U.S.
growing areas speak for an early start of corn sowing, possibly
at the expense of soybeans, which are planted later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  