-- Molson Coors Agrees to Buy Brewer StarBev for $3.5 Bln
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-04-03T13:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/molson-coors-to-buy-europe-s-starbev-for-3-54-billion.html
Molson Coors Brewing Co., (TAP)  the U.S.
maker of Carling lager, agreed to buy StarBev LP for 2.65
billion euros ($3.54 billion) to add beer brands such as
Staropramen and provide a route into central and eastern Europe.  The acquisition from private-equity firm CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. and StarBev management will help Denver-based
Molson Coors expand outside its main regions of  North America 
and the U.K., where high unemployment and aggressive competition
are weighing on growth. StarBev operates nine breweries in
Central and Eastern European countries including the  Czech
Republic ,  Hungary , Romania and Bulgaria.  “Molson Coors’s portfolio has had an extremely mature-
market focus,” said  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in
London. “Relative to their peers, they’re very underrepresented
in  emerging markets .”  Molson Coors   fell  1.2 percent to $45.10 at 9:54 a.m. in  New
York . The shares had gained 4.9 percent this year before today.  StarBev generated earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 241 million euros in 2011,
Molson Coors said in a statement. The acquisition represents a
multiple of about 11 times Ebitda, the company said.  The deal would be the largest brewery acquisition since
SABMiller Plc bought  Australia ’s Foster’s Group Ltd. in December
for about $12.9 billion, including debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Deal Financing  “The headline multiple for the deal looks quite
reasonable, and net-net, what they’re buying looks to be more
profitable than I’d expected,” Earlam said.  Committed financing is in place to complete the acquisition
from CVC and StarBev management, Molson Coors said. Production
and purchasing efficiencies resulting from the deal will lead to
pretax savings of about $50 million by 2015, the brewer said.  Permanent funding  for the transaction will take the form of
$3 billion in cash and debt and the issue of 500 million euros
of convertible debt to the seller, Molson Coors said.  Brewers including Kirin Holdings Co., Asahi Group Holdings
Ltd. and Suntory Holdings Ltd. of  Japan  had expressed interest
in buying StarBev, people with knowledge of the plans said in
February. CVC, which manages a 10.8 billion-euro European buyout
fund, purchased the operations from  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  in
2009 for 1.5 billion euros.  AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, had a right of the
first option to buy StarBev, according to people with knowledge
of the matter. It sold the assets to pay down debt from InBev
NV’s $52 billion acquisition of Anheuser-Busch Cos. in 2008.  StarBev Brands  StarBev has more than 20 brands including local labels such
as Borsodi, Kamenitza, Bergenbier, Ozusko, Jelen and Niksicko,
and also distributes brands such as Stella Artois, Beck’s,
Hoegaarden, Lowenbrau and Leffe under license.  “StarBev, as a market leader in the CEE region, provides
Molson Coors with a great platform for growth and an excellent
foundation from which to extend our key brands, such as Carling,
into Central and Eastern  Europe ,” Molson Coors President and
Chief Executive Officer Peter Swinburn said today in the
statement. The beer market in the region is “attractive, with
strong historical trends and upside potential,” he said.  The acquisition will “also enhance our portfolio in some
of our current and planned markets,” Swinburn said, as the
company seeks to “deepen our reach into growth markets.”  Antitrust Approval  CVC is looking to return cash to investors and invest the
remainder of its pool before raising a new one next year. The
firm is considering selling shares in car-racing company Formula
1 through a listing in  Singapore , people familiar with the
matter said last month. Earlier this year, it agreed to buy
Ahlsell AB, a Swedish construction products supplier, from
Cinven Ltd. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The StarBev acquisition is subject to approval from
European competition authorities, according to the statement,
and is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012. StarBev
competes with brewers including SABMiller, Heineken NV and
Carlsberg A/S in the central and eastern European region.  Morgan Stanley served as the lead financial adviser to
Molson, while Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG acted as co-
advisers and Kirkland & Ellis LLP provided legal counsel. Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank are providing committed debt financing
for the deal.  Nomura Holdings Inc. Provided financial advice to Starbev
and CVC, while Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP served as
legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  