-- Molson Coors Attacks Craft Armada With $3.5 Billion Deal: Retail
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-04-04T07:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/molson-coors-attacks-craft-armada-with-3-5-billion-deal-retail.html
Faced with an armada of smaller
competitors, the world’s biggest brewers are getting bigger.  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP)  yesterday joined international
rivals such as SABMiller Plc and  Heineken NV (HEIA)  in expanding beyond
their main territories as craft beers and imported brands seek
to invade their traditional strongholds. The 2.65 billion-euro
($3.5 billion) purchase of StarBev LP will take Denver-based
Molson into the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria.  “I can understand why they’d want to expand outside the
U.S. and why they’d want to get into growth markets,” said
 Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .
The maker of Carling lager has “low penetration of craft and
imports, which are the fastest-growing parts of the market.”  American lagers, which dominate the U.S. beer industry,
have been on a steady decline as rising  unemployment  depresses
spending and drinkers turn to everything from craft beer to wine
and spirits. U.S. beer volumes have fallen for three straight
years, including a 1.5 percent decline in 2011, according to
researcher Beverage Information Group. That has led the world’s
biggest brewers to look to other parts of the world for growth.  SABMiller, (SAB)  which has the biggest emerging-market exposure
of the major brewers, last year gained a stake in Turkey’s
Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS and splashed out $11
billion buying Foster’s Group Ltd. in  Australia .  Japan ’s Kirin
Holdings Co. bought Brazil’s Schincariol Participacoes e
Representacoes for $3.6 billion, while Amsterdam-based Heineken
acquired Mexico’s Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB’s brewing unit
in a 2010 transaction that Femsa valued at $7.35 billion.  Shifting Shares  Brewers including Kirin, Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. and
Suntory Holdings Ltd. of Japan had expressed interest in buying
StarBev from CVC Capital Partners Ltd., people with knowledge of
the plans said in February. CVC, which manages a 10.8 billion-
euro European buyout fund, purchased the Amsterdam and Prague-
based brewer from  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  for 1.5 billion euros
in 2009.  Molson Coors plans to accelerate its expansion in  emerging
markets  “to maintain the long-term health of our business,”
Chief Executive Officer Peter Swinburn said on an analyst call.  The brewer’s Miller Lite brand saw its U.S. market share
decline to 7.7 percent in 2010 from 8.6 percent in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries, while Coors
Light and Natural Light increased share. Meanwhile, craft beers
and imported brews have boosted their share of the U.S. market,
the world’s most profitable, to 18 percent and are growing fast,
according to Bernstein’s Stirling.  Flagging Light Beer  “For the past six months, Miller Lite has declined even
further and faster,” Stirling said. The brand lost market share
to Anheuser-Busch InBev after January’s introduction by the
industry leader of Bud Light Platinum, he said.  Buying StarBev will help ease the burden of declining
markets in both  North America  and the U.K. The maker of
Staropramen gives  Molson Coors  access to nine breweries in
central and eastern  Europe  and local brands such as Borsodi,
Kamenitza and Niksicko, as well as distribution of lines such as
Stella Artois, Beck’s and Leffe. Heineken said in February that
beer volume in that region increased 6.5 percent in 2011, the
fastest improvement of all the Dutch brewer’s units. That
compared with a 0.2 percent increase in western Europe.  Molson Coors expects the percentage of revenue from markets
outside the U.S., Canada and Britain to increase to “mid-
teens,” it said on the call with analysts yesterday.  Local Brands  Still, the acquisition may not prove a panacea for Molson
Coors. Central and eastern Europe “has gone from being a high-
growth region to a low-growth region,” according to Bernstein’s
Stirling, with a “significant increase in competitive
intensity” from brewers including Heineken,  Carlsberg AS, (CARLB)  and
SABMiller. It’s “the least attractive of the comparable
emerging-market areas,” such as Africa,  Asia  and Latin America.  The region already has a high level of beer consumption per
person, with little potential to increase volume, according to
 Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG. The  Czech Republic  has the
highest per-capita consumption in the world, according to data
from market research company Mintel International.  Amid the wave of brewing consolidation, the biggest deal of
all may still be to come. The fact that AB InBev didn’t exercise
a right to reacquire StarBev suggests that the industry leader
is waiting for better opportunities, analysts at Societe
Generale SA said in a note today, speculating that one of those
may be a bid for SABMiller, the company’s nearest competitor
with a market value of about 41 billion pounds ($65 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  