-- Olympus Gets Alliance Offers From Sony, Fujifilm, Terumo
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-04-03T08:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/olympus-gets-capital-alliance-offers-from-sony-fujifilm-terumo.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera
maker that admitted to a 13-year cover-up of investment losses,
said it received capital alliance offers from  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
 Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901)  and  Terumo Corp. (4543)   Olympus got offers from “more than three” potential
partners and may decide as early as next month whether to form a
tie-up, President-designate Hiroyuki Sasa said in an interview
in Tokyo today. He didn’t name the others. The company plans to
release its business plan as early as May, he said at Olympus
headquarters.  Sasa, who’s been nominated to replace Shuichi Takayama, is
trying to restore confidence from investors after a $1.7 billion
accounting fraud was revealed. Olympus, the world’s biggest
maker of endoscopes, said in February it may seek an alliance to
bolster capital eroded by restating securities reports.  “There’s nothing wrong with the company’s main business,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “Still, it needs
to restore investor confidence before it can raise funds from
the market. The fastest and easiest way to boost capital is
forming an alliance.”  Olympus’s net assets fell to 43.8 billion yen ($536
million) as of Dec. 31 from 151 billion yen as of June 30,
according to its financial statements.  The company’s ratio of capital to total assets dropped to
4.4 percent, the company said in February. The ratio was 13.5
percent as of June 30, Olympus said Aug. 5. The average of 15
global peers in the precision engineering sector is 46 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Loss Forecast  “We can’t leave the ratio as is,” Sasa, 56, said. “My
stance on forming partnerships is still neutral as we will first
work on our business plans and then decide if we need
partners.”  Olympus shares have plunged about 47 percent since the
company fired  Michael Woodford  as president on Oct. 14 after he
raised questions about its accounting. The stock rose 1 yen to
1,304 yen in Tokyo trading today.  The company controls 75 percent of the global market for
endoscopes, instruments that doctors use to look inside the
body’s cavities to help detect disease.  Olympus forecast its first  annual loss  in three years for
the fiscal year ended March 31 after flooding in  Thailand 
damaged its equipment. The net loss may total 32 billion yen, it
said in February.  The company expects to make its digital-camera business
profitable this fiscal year after expecting a loss for the
second straight year, Sasa said. It has no plan to withdraw from
digital cameras, he said.  New Board  Olympus has proposed an 11-member  board  to replace Takayama
and other executives at an extraordinary shareholders meeting on
April 20. Sasa, head of marketing at the medical systems unit
that is now the company’s biggest earner, has been nominated as
president.  Shareholders will vote on the nominees, who include
Yasuyuki Kimoto, a former executive at main creditor  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , as chairman.  Overseas investors including Southeastern Asset Management
Inc. and Harris Associates LP have criticized the role of
current executives in proposing a new board, saying a clean
sweep of management is needed to restore confidence. An outside
panel in December reported a culture of “yes men” at Olympus
that failed to stop senior executives funneling money through
offshore vehicles to hide losses.  Olympus this month named Akihiro Nambu, who was head of
 investor relations , to run the financial division after
Southeastern Asset and other shareholders called for him to
resign over the accounting fraud.  Sasa declined to comment on Nambu’s appointment.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and a predecessor to
the modern-day endoscope in 1950, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  