-- Home Prices Seen Dropping 10% in U.S. on Foreclosures: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2012-04-03T21:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/home-prices-seen-dropping-10-in-u-s-on-foreclosures-mortgages.html
As many as 1.25 million of America’s
least cared for homes are headed for  auction  after a year-long
probe into foreclosure practices kept them off the market.  Sales of repossessed properties probably will rise 25
percent this year from 1 million in 2011, according to Moody’s
Analytics Inc. Prices for the homes could drop as much as 10
percent because they deteriorated as they were held in reserve
during investigations by state officials resolved in February,
according to RealtyTrac Inc. That month, 43 percent of
 foreclosures  were delinquent for two or more years, from a 21
percent share in 2010, according to Lender Processing Services
Inc. in Jacksonville,  Florida .  “The longer a foreclosed home is in the mill, the bigger
the losses,” said Todd Sherer, who manages distressed mortgage
investments for Dalton Investments LLC, a Los Angeles-based
hedge fund that oversees $1.5 billion. “We have a bulge of
these properties coming through the system.”  Homes stockpiled less than a year sell for about 35 percent
below the value set by lenders, according to a March 15 report
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. At two years, the loss
is close to 60 percent. A surge of cheap foreclosures may erode
 prices  in the broader real estate market, even as the economy
expands and residential building increases, said  Karl Case , one
of the creators of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index.  ‘Complete Losses’  “The question on these aging foreclosures is how many are
going to be sold and affect prices and how many will be complete
losses,” said Case, professor emeritus at Wellesley College in
Wellesley, Massachusetts. “Depending on their condition, they
could have a big impact on home prices.”  The best measure of the influence foreclosures have on the
broader market is the 20-city S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index
that tracks deeds, including homes sold directly by banks and
deals that don’t use mortgages, said  Patrick Newport , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts. The
index probably will fall 5 percent to 10 percent this year, a
range that depends on the condition of the mothballed homes, he
said.  That compares with a forecast for a 2.9 percent decline by
Celia Chen, a housing economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , and a prediction of a 3.9 percent decline
by  Diane Swonk , chief economist of Mesirow Financial Inc. in
 Chicago .  Building Permits  While foreclosures slowed, the wider real estate market
improved. As banks held onto properties, the supply of homes for
sale dropped to 2.3 million in December, the lowest since 2005,
before rising  4.7 percent  the following two months, according to
the National Association of Realtors. Spurred by low inventory,
building permits that signal future housing demand rose 4.8
percent in February, from the prior month, to the highest level
since 2008, according to the Commerce Department.  The Standard & Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding Index rose 0.4
percent today and has gained 23 percent this year.  The  S&P/Case-Shiller index  fell 3.8 percent in January from
a year earlier, slowing from December’s decline of 4.1 percent,
a sign of stabilization. The measure has dropped 34 percent from
its 2006 peak to the lowest level in almost a decade.  “A lot of people look at bumps in the monthly data and say
we’re reaching a bottom,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S.
economist at MFR Inc. in  New York . “We won’t be there until
this supply of foreclosures clears.”  The National Association of Realtors predicts a 0.01
percent gain in prices for homes sold through multiple listing
services, which includes some though not all foreclosures.  Need to be Bulldozed  The Federal Housing Finance Agency’s price index measures
sales of homes with loans backed by  Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac .
That gauge likely will rise 0.7 percent, according to a forecast
by the  Mortgage Bankers Association  in Washington.  A quarter of homes in long-term foreclosure may need to be
bulldozed, according to the  Cleveland  Fed’s report. About
500,000 foreclosures in the U.S. are vacant, according to a
 housing study  Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke sent to Congress in
January. Many of them are “badly damaged,” he said.  Gloria Washington, 80, knows about dilapidated foreclosures
first-hand. There are four of them on her block on the south
side of Chicago. When she applied for a home equity loan last
year to fix up her front walkway, she was turned down because
her home’s value had plummeted.  “This used to be a good neighborhood, but now all our
homes are almost worthless,” she said.  ‘They Lack Money’  Whether a foreclosed property is  occupied  or not, its value
is deteriorating, said Tom Popik, research director for Campbell
Surveys, a real estate data firm in  Washington . The mortgage
servicers that oversee the homes aren’t likely to do major
repairs, he said. Residents probably would solve a problem like
a leaky roof by nailing a sheet of plywood over it, Popik said.  “They lack money -- that’s why they’re in foreclosure --so
maintenance isn’t going to get done, and that’s going to hurt
the value of the house,” Popik said. “Some of them feel abused
by the system and are going to strip the fixtures, the hot water
heater and even the kitchen cabinets when they go.”  Aging foreclosures also erode values in higher-priced
neighborhoods, such as a community in Tampa, Florida, where
properties sell for up to $500,000. A three-bedroom house with a
double garage and a pool came on the market in January for
$139,900 after being in foreclosure for almost three years,
according to court records. When the case was finalized in
December, the unpaid amount owed on the mortgage was $403,000,
the records show.  Preserving Value  In 2008 the same owner, a real estate investor, went
through a foreclosure on a similar home located less than a mile
away. In that situation, the foreclosure lasted six months,
helping to preserve the value of the property. The house sold
for $305,000 that same year and now is worth about $429,000,
according to an estimate by  Zillow Inc. (Z) , a real estate data
company in  Seattle .  “You can easily strip $100,000 or more off the value of a
property by letting it sit in foreclosure for an extended period
of time,” said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for
Economic and Policy Research in Washington. “You’ve got to fill
that home as quickly as possible.”  In Ohio, $75 million of an estimated $335 million it
received from the Feb. 9 settlement between state attorneys
general and servicers will be used to tear down vacant
foreclosures, the state’s Attorney General Mike DeWine  announced 
the same day. Banks held back on processing home seizures during
the probe to avoid potential liabilities. U.S. Representatives
Marcia Fudge and Steve LaTourette, both from Ohio, last month
said they would introduce a bill to provide $4 billion to issue
30-year bonds to demolish foreclosures.  ‘Have to be Dumped’  “Any homeowner knows that housing depreciates pretty
rapidly if you don’t take care of it,” said Case, who created
the index with Yale University professor Robert Shiller. “Some
of the supply in the bin is going to have to be dumped.”  The average price of a repossessed property has dropped 22
percent to $146,285 since 2008, according to RealtyTrac, a
foreclosure data firm in  Irvine ,  California .  The age of the foreclosure backlog complicates 2012 price-
forecasting, said Newport at IHS Global. The share of homes in
the legal process of being seized was 3.5 percent in 2011
compared with 3.2 percent in 2010, according to CoreLogic Inc.
in  Santa Ana , California. Completed foreclosures fell to 870,000
in 2011 from 1.1 million a year earlier, the firm’s data shows.  “We don’t know how much damage has happened to these
homes,” Newport said. The properties “are going to have a lot
of wear and tear in an already weak housing market.”  Even if the sale prices of long-term foreclosures affect
the value of  homes  in the wider market, it’s still better to get
rid of the properties as quickly as possible, said Stan Humphries, Zillow’s chief economist.  “We deferred a lot of the pain of foreclosure during the
post-robo-signing period,” Humphries said, referring to the
fraudulent signing of affidavits that sparked the servicer
probe. “Getting those homes onto the market and getting them
sold is the only way through it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 