-- Online Social Media Shares Drop on Fed Stimulus: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-03T23:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/online-social-media-shares-drop-on-fed-stimulus-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities traded in the U.S.
sank after the  Federal Reserve  indicated it won’t provide
further stimulus to the economy, sending online social media and
solar companies lower.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 0.3 percent to 103.63 yesterday
in  New York , after rising as much as 0.4 percent earlier.  Sina
Corp. (SINA) , provider of a Twitter-like service, erased earlier gains,
dropping 0.1 percent. LDK Solar Ltd. slid to a four-month low.
 Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  tumbled the most in two months after
Forbes magazine said the software developer’s business practices
are “notably” different from competitors.  Policy makers will hold off on trying to bolster the
economy by increasing monetary accommodation unless the U.S.
expansion falters or prices rise at a rate slower than its 2
percent target, according to the minutes of the Fed’s March 13
meeting, released yesterday.  Zhang Xiaoqiang , vice chairman of
China’s National Development and Reform Commission estimated
 China’s economy  may have expanded about 8.4 percent in the first
quarter, from 8.9 percent in the previous three months.  “People wanted the Fed to do further easing,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management, which manages
$1.5 billion of assets and holds short positions in Chinese
shares, said by phone yesterday from New York. “In equities,
the emerging markets seem to take it a little bit worse.”  U.S. stocks, Treasuries and gold tumbled while the dollar
rallied yesterday after the minutes were released. The  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.4 percent to 1,413.38, after reaching
the highest level since May 2008 in the previous day.  Sina Slumps  Sina Corp. (SINA) , which runs Weibo, a short-message social
network, slipped to $63.60 as trading closed in New York after
climbing as much as 4 percent earlier.  The Shanghai-based company, which has more than 300 million
registered users, resumed the comment function for its microblog
service after Chinese Internet companies, including competitor
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , imposed a three-day suspension. Sina
cited a need to “clear up rumors and illegal information” in a
March 31 online statement.  Sina’s “Weibo may be effectively too large for the Chinese
government to completely shut down,”  Gene Munster , a senior
analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in Minneapolis wrote in a note
yesterday.  Munster kept a 12-month price target of $90 and reiterated
his overweight rating on Sina, meaning he expected the stock to
outperform the median of the group of companies he covered.  Tencent, the nation’s largest Internet company by market
value, climbed 2.9 percent to HK$222.80 yesterday in  Hong Kong .  China ETF Rises  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 0.3 percent in its third
day of advance to a one-week high of $37.20. The Chinese
planning agency’s 8.4 percent growth forecast, 10 days before
official data are due, compares with the 8.3 percent median
estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The first quarter probably marked a low and growth for the
rest of the year will quicken, said  David Semple , director of
international equity at the Van Eck Emerging Markets Fund in New
York, which oversees $35 billion of assets, including Chinese
shares. “The growth should be reflected in the stock market.”  The China Securities Regulatory Commission increased the
quotas for qualified foreign institutional investors to $80
billion from $30 billion, according to a statement on its
website yesterday. Premier Wen Jiabao is seeking to attract
international investment as the economy cools, prompting the
benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (BLGS)  to slump 24 percent in the
past year.  Qihoo Sinks  Beijing-based Qihoo, which provides computer anti-virus
products and Web browsers, tumbled 4.7 percent to $23.83, the
biggest one-day decline since Feb. 6.  Qihoo’s American depositary receipts plunged as much as 16
percent yesterday after a Forbes Magazine article dated April 2
said Qihoo’s “revenue model” had changed since the company’s
March 2011 public offering, going from sales of software,
“which are easy to track and audit,” to “opaque” advertising
revenue.  Qihoo intends to “take all necessary legal measures to
defend itself against intentionally misleading and false
allegations,” the company said in a statement yesterday,
rejecting the magazine’s allegations.  LDK, a solar wafer producer based in Xinyu in China’s
Jiangxi province, lost 6.2 percent to a four-month low of $3.61
as the Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index declined for the
sixth day, plunging 3.6 percent yesterday to a record low.
 Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the world’s sixth-biggest
silicon-based solar module maker, sank 4.7 percent to $3.46, the
lowest level since Nov. 21.  Solar Struggles  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s biggest solar-cell maker,
filed for insolvency yesterday, the fourth large solar company
from Germany to do so since December. Q-Cells’s filing with the
Dessau-Rosslau court occurred a day after the Thalheim-based
company said it would have to take that step amid attempts to
continue operations.  German solar companies have struggled with reduced state
aid and competition from Chinese companies, including  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP) , that have expanded capacity, creating a glut
in solar panels.  Suntech Power, the world’s largest solar maker based in
China’s Jiangsu province, lost 3.4 percent yesterday to $2.85,
the weakest level since March 12.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong increased for the third day, rising 1.9
percent to a two-week high of 10,859.49. Exchanges in mainland
China are closed today for a holiday.  China Southern  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH) , Asia’s biggest airline by
passenger numbers, fell for a second day, widening a discount to
its Hong Kong stock to 1.2 percent. Its ADRs, each representing
50 common shares in the company, dropped 1.4 percent to $22.90.
The company’s Hong Kong-traded shares fell 0.6 percent yesterday
to HK$3.60, the equivalent of 46 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  