-- Montenegro to Repay Deutsche Bank Loan to KAP
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-04-05T13:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/montenegro-to-repay-deutsche-bank-loan-to-kombinat-aluminijuma.html
(Corrects ownership structure in April 3 story, adds En+
comment from first paragraph.)  Montenegro will pay back a 22
million-euro ($29.3 million) loan that  Kombinat Aluminijuma
Podgorica AD (KAPG) , partly owned by Oleg Deripaska’s En+ Group, took
out from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and failed to service.  The German bank told the government it is activating a
guarantee the state provided in 2009 when it backed the loan to
the aluminum producer, the biggest industrial plant in the
smallest former Yugoslav republic. Montenegro will use budget
proceeds to satisfy the bank demands, the  Finance Ministry  said
in an e-mailed statement.  Authorities asked KAP’s managers last month to sign
documents stating the company can no longer service the loan,
which would’ve shifted the liability to the state under the
original loan conditions. Managers refused to sign, triggering
an “accelerated procedure” last week for the full principle
plus 1.4 million euros in maturing interest, the ministry said.  “The authorities were constantly trying to force KAP to
sign a trilateral agreement between KAP, Deutsche Bank and the
Government of Montenegro,” En+ said in an e-mailed comment
today. “Such an agreement would infringe on the rights of the
other KAP lenders,” including  OTP Bank Plc (OTP)  and  Russia ’s  VTB
Bank OJSC. (VTBR)  “That was completely unacceptable for us.”  Montenegro sought to regain control of KAP and stop
subsidizing the electricity it consumes, a key cost in aluminum
production. Previously it also backed other KAP loans, totaling
132 million euros.  En+, which owns 29.3 percent of KAP, said “KAP’s future
could not be secured unless two fundamental problems were solved
-- long-term electricity supply at acceptable prices and a
reduction of the 360 million-euro debt.”  It reiterated it may
claim damages from the Montenegrin government after having
invested 200 million euros in the company.  En+ Group Ltd. offered on Feb. 17 that all KAP debts be
converted into equity, including 86 million euros to En+. It
also threatened legal action against any unilateral attempt to
wrest away its current stake in KAP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ; 