-- Orban Seeks to Cut Losses as Ally Toppled by Plagiarism Row
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-03T14:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/orban-seeks-to-cut-losses-as-ally-toppled-by-plagiarism-row-1-.html
Hungarian Premier  Viktor Orban  will
seek to shore up his support after the exit of President Pal Schmitt, who helped centralize his power over European Union
objections, political analysts in Budapest said.  Schmitt resigned yesterday after he was stripped of a 1992
doctoral degree in sports because of plagiarism. Orban nominated
Schmitt in 2010, ignoring objections in his ruling Fidesz party,
and declined to call for his departure as the issue divided his
electorate.  The first resignation of a Hungarian president since the
end of communism weakens Orban at a time when he faces pressure
by the EU to surrender some powers that Schmitt helped deliver.
The European Commission’s concerns for independent institutions
have blocked talks on an  International Monetary Fund -led bailout
which Orban requested in November as the forint fell to a record
and the country’s debt was cut to junk.  “Orban has to pay close attention to who he’ll nominate as
a successor because neither his electorate nor his party may
tolerate another mistake like Schmitt,” Attila Antal, a
lecturer at Eotvos Lorand University’s Institute of Political
Science in Budapest, said in a telephone interview.  Hungary’s ruling coalition asked Orban to nominate
Schmitt’s successor on April 16, state news service MTI said,
citing Janos Lazar, head of the ruling Fidesz party’s
parliamentary group.  Market Gains  The forint has rallied 7.2 percent against the euro this
year, the most in the world behind the Polish zloty, as
investors bet Orban will deliver on a January pledge to reach a
quick agreement on loan conditions. The benchmark  BUX (BUX)  stock
index has advanced 8.6 percent since January compared with a
23.6 percent gain for  Romania ’s Bucharest BET index.  More than four months since first requesting aid in
November, Orban has failed to convince the EU that independent
institutions such as the central bank and the judiciary are free
of government influence.  “The key question is whether this will impact the IMF
negotiations in any way,” Ilan Solot, a strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman in  London , said by e-mail. “We are inclined
to think” that “a weaker Orban, with less degrees of freedom,
is more likely to give in to IMF-EU demands rather than double
down on his antagonistic posture.”  Next President  Fidesz invited all five parliamentary parties to take part
in consultations about the procedure to elect the next
president, Lazar said yesterday, according to the MTI state news
service.  The legislature, where Orban’s lawmakers have a two-thirds
majority, has 30 days to choose a successor to Schmitt. Until
then, Laszlo Kover, the speaker of parliament who co-founded
Fidesz with Orban, takes over his duties.  Schmitt bowed to pressure to quit after Budapest-based
Semmelweis University stripped him of his doctoral title in
sports last week. Schmitt initially resisted, saying on public
television on March 30 that there was “no link” between his
doctorate and the presidency.  All of the opposition parties in parliament demanded
Schmitt’s resignation to restore the honor of the presidency.
The newspaper  Magyar Nemzet  and the news magazine  Heti Valasz ,
which back most government policies, both called on Schmitt to
quit.  Largely Ceremonial  While the office of the president is largely ceremonial and
the bulk of executive power lies with the prime minister,
Schmitt’s predecessors regularly returned legislation to
Parliament or sought Constitutional Court review. Schmitt signed
off on every piece of legislation Orban sent him, including a
new constitution, fulfilling a pledge he made when taking office
that he wouldn’t block the government’s agenda.  Losing Schmitt is a “very serious and direct defeat for
Orban,” Gergely Gimes, an analyst at  Political Capital  in
Budapest, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “This
scandal may narrow Orban’s maneuvering room within his party,
where until now he had an aura of invincibility.”  Orban is locked in a tug-of-war with the European
Commission over his powers. Hungary sent its responses to EU
concerns about the central bank, judiciary and data-protection
agency last week. The European Commission will assess the
responses as fast as possible, Pia Ahrenkilde-Hansen,
spokeswoman for European Commission President  Jose Barroso , told
reporters yesterday in Brussels.  ‘Good’ Successor  Orban may minimize damage to his standing by showing
pragmatism and appointing a “good” successor to Schmitt
quickly, in the same way German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  did
last month, according to Attila Tibor Nagy, a political analyst
at  Meltanyossag , a center for political analysis in Budapest.  Merkel backed the election of Joachim Gauck, 72, a former
pastor and East German anti-communist activist, whose election
she opposed in 2010. Merkel’s pick at the time was  Christian Wulff , who quit on Feb. 17 to face a criminal probe that may
lead to corruption charges. He denies any wrongdoing.  “Orban’s interest is to move as quickly as possible and to
put this embarrassing episode behind him,” Nagy said. “A
successful new candidate may help him prevent a hemorrhaging of
support within his party.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  