-- Morgan Stanley to Compensate Injured Saxon Borrowers
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-03T16:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/morgan-stanley-to-compensate-injured-saxon-borrowers.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-biggest
U.S. bank, was ordered by the  Federal Reserve  to review
foreclosures conducted by its Saxon mortgage servicer before the
unit was sold and compensate injured borrowers.  The bank agreed to hire a consultant to review  foreclosures 
pending in 2009 and 2010, correct errors and misrepresentations
and reimburse borrowers for unreasonable penalties or
impermissible costs, according to a consent order released today
by the Fed. Morgan Stanley acknowledged it would be responsible
for any penalty assessed against Saxon.  Regulators are targeting U.S. banks that engaged in shoddy
foreclosure practices, including the use of faulty documents to
seize homes. The five biggest mortgage servicers, including Bank
of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc.,
reached a $25 billion settlement with 49 states and the federal
government in February. Some state attorneys general are
conducting further probes into suspected misconduct.  Morgan Stanley “failed to respond in a sufficient and
timely manner to the increased level of foreclosures by
increasing financial, staffing and managerial resources to
ensure that Saxon adequately handled the foreclosure process,”
the Fed said. The New York-based bank “failed to have adequate
internal controls, policies and procedures, compliance risk
management, internal audit, training and oversight.”  Ocwen Financial  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  agreed in October to buy Saxon as
Morgan Stanley exits the mortgage-servicing business it bought
before the housing-market slump. The sale of Saxon assets was
completed yesterday, the Fed said.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment. The bank fell 1.9 percent, or 38 cents, to
$19.43 at 12:15 p.m. in New York trading. The shares gained 31
percent this year through yesterday after  tumbling  44 percent in
2011.  Morgan Stanley bought  Glen Allen , Virginia-based Saxon in
2006 for $706 million as the investment bank sought a mortgage
issuer and servicer to provide home loans that it packaged into
securities. The bank serviced a portfolio of more than 225,000
residential  mortgage loans , many of which became delinquent
during the financial crisis, the Fed said. During 2009 and 2010,
Saxon initiated at least 60,313 foreclosure actions, according
to the Fed.  ‘Personal Knowledge’  The Saxon unit’s staff said in foreclosure-related
documents that its assertions were based on “personal knowledge
or based on a review,” when this was often not the case, the
Fed said. Saxon pursued foreclosure proceedings without always
confirming that the documentation was in order, according to the
central bank.  The bank took a $700 million writedown in the fourth
quarter of 2008 related to businesses it owned, with most of the
charge coming from Saxon. Mortgage servicers do billing and
collections on behalf of banks and investors that own the home
loans, and handle foreclosures when borrowers default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  