-- Los Angeles Gasoline Weakens as Air Products Restores Operations
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-04-03T21:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/los-angeles-gasoline-weakens-as-air-products-restores-operations.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  weakened against futures after  Air Products & Chemicals
Inc. (APD)  began restoring operations at a plant delivering hydrogen
to Southern California refineries.  Air Products started the Wilmington hydrogen plant
following a  power failure  yesterday afternoon that reduced
deliveries in the Los Angeles area, said Art George, a spokesman
at the company’s headquarters in Allentown,  Pennsylvania . The
complex is expected to return to full operation within 36 hours,
he said in a telephone interview.  Air Products is supplying refinery customers with hydrogen
from a plant in Carson that’s connected to the Wilmington
complex by pipeline.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  fell 3
cents to a discount of 12 cents a gallon against gasoline
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:21 p.m.
East Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fuel rose 3 cents yesterday.  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  Carbob also fell 3 cents to a 15-cent
discount to gasoline futures.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD)  slipped
1.25 cents to a premium of 14.5 cents a gallon against Nymex
heating oil futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  weakened
0.75 cent to a 13-cent premium versus futures.  Portland Gasoline  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) , Oregon,
dropped 4.5 cents to a 1-cent discount against gasoline futures,
the lowest level since March 15.  BP Plc (BP/) , based in  London , shut the 400-mile  Olympic (PIPEA012)  oil
products pipeline running from western  Washington  into  Oregon 
twice over the weekend after two “small” spills at the Mount
Vernon control station, the state Ecology Department said on its
 website .  The line, which delivers diesel, jet fuel and gasoline to
terminals in both states, has returned to service, a person
familiar with the pipeline’s operations said today.  Low-sulfur diesel in  Portland (DIEISTPD)  rose 1.5 cents to a premium
of 35 cents a gallon versus heating oil futures, the highest
level in 10 months.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , based in  San Antonio , shut a diesel
hydrotreater at the 125,000-barrel-a-day  Anacortes (TEANCRUD)  refinery in
Washington on March 29 for two weeks of planned work, two people
with direct knowledge of the plant’s operations said March 30.  BP and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , based in Houston, are also
performing scheduled maintenance at their refineries in
Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  