-- Total Weighs Stake in Gas Pipeline to Europe From Caspian Sea
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-04-03T10:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/total-weighs-stake-in-gas-pipeline-to-europe-from-caspian-sea.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
energy company, may join a pipeline to carry Caspian natural gas
across  Turkey  as the European Union seeks to cut dependence on
Russian fuel.  Total was invited to participate in the Trans-Anatolia
pipeline project, or Tanap, planned by Turkey and Azerbaijan, as
were  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Statoil ASA (STL) , its partners in Shah Deniz, the
biggest Azeri gas deposit. It will take the Shah Deniz partners
“several months” to decide on a route, said Christian
Giudicelli, general manager of Total E&P Azerbaijan.  “We are evaluating the Tanap proposal very seriously,”
Giudicelli said in an interview in the Azeri capital of Baku.  Nabucco, a 7.9 billion euro ($10.5 billion) pipeline
project backed by the EU to import Caspian fuel, will consider
whether to link up with Tanap as it prepares to make a final
 investment decision  next year. The decision has been repeatedly
delayed as Nabucco vies with competing links for Azeri and other
Caspian region gas resources.  Turkey and Azerbaijan signed a memorandum of understanding
in December on building the 2,000-kilometer (1,240 mile) Tanap
pipeline from eastern Turkey to its European Union border. The
link may carry 10 billion cubic meters of gas a year to the EU
from Shah Deniz, while Turkey will buy 6 billion cubic meters.  A further agreement on Tanap was delayed from late March as
Turkish and Azeri companies work out their stakes. Turkey wants
as much as 50 percent, the non-state Azeri news service Turan
reported last week, citing unidentified Turkish officials.  Tanap Stakes  State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan , also known as Socar, plans to
start with about 80 percent of Tanap, which may cost $5 billion
to $7 billion, according to a preliminary feasibility study,
Socar President Rovnaq Abdullayev said in an interview in
February. The Istanbul-based state pipeline company Boru Hatlari
Ile Petrol Tasima AS, or Botas, and oil and gas producer Turkiye
Petrollari AO will get a combined 20 percent.  Turkey may increase its stake in Tanap if it has the
financial resources, the Azeri government-funded 1news.az
website reported yesterday, citing Industry and Energy Minister
Natiq Aliyev.  Socar plans to keep control of Tanap, while offering part
of its holding to BP, Total and Statoil, Abdullayev said.  The Shah Deniz partners plan to almost triple the capacity
of the 692-kilometer South Caucasus Pipeline, or SCP, that
connects the Sangachal terminal near Baku to the eastern Turkish
city of Erzurum via  Georgia , Total’s Giudicelli said.  Absheron Gas  The capacity will be increased to 24 billion cubic meters a
year from 8.8 billion cubic meters by adding compressor stations
and building a link parallel to the existing one, Giudicelli
said. The expansion will be completed before the planned second
phase of Shah Deniz starts in 2017, he said.  Total is continuing exploration of the Absheron development
with Socar and  France ’s GDF Suez SA after reporting a gas
discovery there in September.  “Our initial estimate of Absheron’s reserves is several
trillion cubic feet of gas,” Giudicelli said. “The range of
the evaluation is still large because we have only one well at
the moment.”  Socar has said Absheron may contain 300 billion cubic
meters of gas and 45 million tons of condensate. Total and Socar
each hold 40 percent, and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  has 20 percent.  Production at Absheron may start “somewhere in the
2020s”, Giudicelli said. The partners will invest “several
billions of dollars” to develop the field.  Total, which has been in Azerbaijan for the past 15 years,
is looking to expand its presence, Giudicelli said. “We are
interested in growing in Azerbaijan,” he said. “We can offer
our experience and knowledge in developing other prospective
structures in Azerbaijan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  