-- Motorola Mobility Faces EU Antitrust Probes on Patents
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-03T14:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/motorola-mobility-faces-eu-antitrust-probes-over-phone-patents.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) 
faces European Union investigations over the licensing of its
patents, following a similar probe into  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   The European Commission opened two formal investigations to
check whether Motorola Mobility violated EU competition rules
“by seeking and enforcing injunctions against Apple’s and
Microsoft’s flagship products such as iPhone, iPad, Windows and
Xbox on the basis of patents it had declared essential to
produce standard-compliant products,” it said in a statement.  Samsung, Motorola Mobility,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
are involved in litigation across  Europe  as demand for
smartphones and tablets soars.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which is buying
Motorola Mobility, has written to groups that set industry
standards to assure them it will fairly license patents.  “The commission will examine the cases as a matter of
priority,” regulators said in the statement today. It “will
assess whether Motorola has abusively, and in contravention of
commitments it gave to standard-setting organizations, used
certain of its standard-essential patents to distort
competition.”  EU regulators said they were acting on complaints filed by
Apple and Microsoft over Motorola Mobility’s possible abuse of a
dominant position for not licensing the patents on terms that
are “fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory,” or FRAND, as
agreed with standards organizations for mobile and wireless
telecommunications systems, video compression and wireless
local-area networks.  Thorough Investigation  Motorola Mobility is “confident that a thorough
investigation will demonstrate that it has honored FRAND
obligations and complied with antitrust laws,” Gemma Goatly, a
spokeswoman for the Libertyville, Illinois-based company, said
in an e-mail. It will “work closely with the European
Commission to resolve this matter as soon as practicable.”  Google hasn’t finalized its acquisition of Motorola
Mobility and “will work with the European Commission to answer
any questions they might have,” said Al Verney, a spokesman for
Google in Brussels. “We have longstanding concerns about patent
abuses, including lawsuits and royalty demands targeting” the
company’s Android  operating system .  Apple declined to comment on the probes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 