-- How Pink Slime’s Gruesome Predecessors Scared Congress
-- B y   L i n d a   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-03T17:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/how-pink-slime-s-gruesome-predecessors-scared-congress.html
The furor over “pink slime,”
the colorful term used in the media for what meatpackers
call “lean finely textured beef,” reminds us once again
that we don’t always know what we’re eating -- and that the
way our food is produced can be seriously unsettling.  “Pink slime,” producers assure us, is a safe filler
product made from beef trim that is treated with ammonium
hydroxide to kill bacteria, such as E. coli.  But many consumers -- including more than 220,000 who
recently joined an online effort to ban the substance from
the federal school-lunch program -- have been surprised to
learn that the slime is in the ground beef we buy at our
local supermarket (many chains now have dropped the
product) or order at McDonald’s (ditto).  After all, we’ve been through such uproars before --
and the government has assured us for more than 100 years
that the meat we buy is safe.  ‘In a Pickle’  “Meat Trust in a Pickle,” the  Washington  Post
announced in 1906. Indeed it was: Despite fierce pressure
by the meatpacking industry, Congress was about to sign
into law the Meat Inspection Act and the Pure Food and Drug
Act, both bold measures intended to protect consumers from
adulterated food. The laws gave the federal government
power to mandate compliance with meat inspections, which
had been voluntary, and to require food and drug
manufacturers to tell the truth about what ingredients were
in their products. Rules about allowable ingredients would
be set by the government.  The legislation was enacted within five months of the
publication of Upton Sinclair’s scandalous novel “The
Jungle,” which Sinclair hoped would expose the meatpacking
industry’s exploitation of immigrant workers. But what
caught the public’s attention wasn’t the workers’ long
hours, low pay and lack of adequate health care; or the
powerlessness of unions to bargain for decent wages; or the
tragedy of child labor. What horrified readers was
Sinclair’s nauseating depiction of meat processing.  Sinclair told of old, lame, diseased cattle still sent
to slaughter. He told of “potted chicken” made from tripe,
pork fat and the waste from veal; of rancid butter,
rechurned and sold to market; of meat that had fallen into
the filth, spittle and sawdust of the packing-house floor,
only to be retrieved and packaged; of rats and rat dung,
poisoned bread and spoiled meat, mixed together in sausage
hoppers.  All processed meat, Sinclair reported, contained what
was euphemistically called “filler”: “There would come back
from Europe old sausage that had been rejected, and that
was mouldy and white -- it would be dosed with borax and
glycerine, and dumped in the hoppers, and made over again
for human consumption.” There were “butt-ends of smoked
meat, and the scraps of corned beef, and all the odds and
ends of the waste” of the manufacturing plants, which was
added to fresh meat and churned into breakfast sausage. To
use parts of meat that couldn’t be sold whole, the packers
applied what Sinclair called “the miracles of chemistry” to
make the result appear palatable.  These processed meats were given innovative names:
boneless hams, California hams, skinless hams. (In modern-
day supermarket aisles, they’re known as deli ham and
luncheon meat.)  Outrage and Skepticism  Readers of “The Jungle” were outraged. One of those
readers was President  Theodore Roosevelt . Soon after the
novel was published, Roosevelt invited Sinclair to meet
with him in Washington, and he followed up by sending
investigators to the packing plants. When they confirmed
Sinclair’s findings, Roosevelt was convinced that reform
was needed immediately.  Sinclair was skeptical, though, that the new laws that
resulted would really work. The Pure Food and Drug Act “is
good as far as it goes, but it is like plugging up one leak
in a dam and making a devil of a fuss over it, and letting
a dozen other leaks go unnoticed,” he said. “A few months
after its enactment, it will be forgotten and former
conditions will be resumed.”  He was partly right. The  Food and Drug Administration ,
whose regulatory authority largely derived from the act,
has made significant progress in improving food standards
since Sinclair’s day, but it has seen its power threatened
in recent years by lobbying efforts and budget cuts. In the
case of “pink slime,” the FDA says it has done its homework
and the additive is completely safe. U.S. Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack agrees. So do industry executives.  Consumers, though, are almost as suspicious and
worried as they were more than a century ago. And the meat
industry -- which has suffered a collapse in demand and had
at least one bankruptcy result from the controversy -- is
back in a pickle.  (Linda Simon teaches at Skidmore College and is the
author of “Dark Light: Electricity and Anxiety From the
Telegraph to the X-Ray.” The opinions expressed are her
own.)  Read more online from  Echoes , Bloomberg View’s economic
history blog.  To contact the author of this post:
Linda Simon at  lsimon@skidmore.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 