-- Toyota’s Lost AAA Gives Japan Bonds Rare Value: Mortgages
-- B y   K o m a k i   I t o   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-04-04T06:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/toyota-s-lost-aaa-gives-japan-bonds-rare-value-mortgages.html
Credit ratings on Japanese mortgage
bonds have surpassed  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the country’s highest-
ranked company by  Standard & Poor’s , boosting their appeal for
investors and driving spreads to the narrowest on record.  The Japan Housing Finance Agency sold 148.8 billion yen
($1.8 billion) of 1.44 percent bonds tied to home loans on March
27 that yielded 40 basis points more than government bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread was the
narrowest for a new offering since April 2007, and compares with
a coupon of 1.92 percent and yield gap of 68 basis points on
residential mortgage-backed securities issued in March, 2011.  Insurers and banks are turning to the bonds, which are
rated AAA by S&P and Rating & Investment Information Inc. after
S&P on Feb. 20 affirmed  Japan ’s sovereign-debt rating at AA- and
maintained a negative outlook, while R&I downgraded Toyota’s
rating to AA+ on Feb. 15, effectively leaving no Japanese
companies with AAA ratings.  “Japan Housing’s RMBS has now become a very rare
investment in Japan,” said Nobuhiko Anbiru, a senior credit
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“There are no Japanese companies that are rated AAA by R&I or
S&P, so the fact that these bonds are rated AAA provides
investment opportunities.”  Post-Quake Demand  Demand for the bonds also has increased as banks and
insurers seek alternatives to utility debt, which accounts for
20 percent of outstanding corporate bonds in Japan, in the wake
of the March 11, 2011, earthquake. Nuclear-plant operators
stopped selling bonds after the disaster crippled Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, leading to a downgrade of
the utility to below S&P’s investment grade.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own mortgage-backed
securities instead of government debt has declined to 17 basis
points as of April 2, near the low touched in March 2011
following the earthquake, Nomura Securities Co. index data show.
The premium was 32 basis points on April 1 last year. In the
U.S., where defaults on subprime home loans triggered the global
credit freeze in 2008, the yield premium on mortgage bonds
versus  government bonds  fell to 37 basis points as of April 2
from 39 basis points as of April 1, 2011, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Mortgage Master Index.  The Bank of Japan’s policy to maintain rates near zero as
it struggles to spur the world’s third-largest economy has
already benefitted homeowners, who are enjoying financing costs
at all-time lows. The average 35-year fixed-rate mortgage was
1.36 percent for the March 27 sale in Japan, according to the
agency. That compares with the average 30-year fixed-rate
 mortgage  of 3.99 percent as of March 29 in the U.S., according
to a Freddie Mac index.  Toyota Downgrade  R&I cited Toyota’s earnings coming under pressure because
of a strengthening yen for its decision to downgrade the
carmaker’s debt.  “Toyota’s rating cut could set the standard for Japanese
corporate bond investments,” said Masakatsu Mizukami, a manager
at Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co.’s credit department in  Tokyo .
“Toyota’s downgrade could impact investors who are restricted
to making their investment decisions based on such ratings.”  S&P warned that a downgrade of Japan’s sovereign-debt
rating was likely if medium-term growth prospects weaken.
Moody’s Investors Service cut Japan by one step to Aa3 on Aug.
24, citing “the build-up in Japanese government debt since the
2009 global recession.”  Fitch Ratings  has the nation at AA-with
a negative outlook.  Expanding RMBS Market  The first RMBS in Japan was issued in 1997 and since then,
the market has grown rapidly. Japan Housing, which buys home
loans from financial institutions and packages them as
securities for sale to investors to pass on risks, issued its
first mortgage-backed securities in March 2001.  The Tokyo-based agency issued only about 50 billion yen
worth in the first year, with issuance expected to grow to about
10 trillion yen at the end of this fiscal year on March 31,
according to Shinsei Securities Co. Japan Housing also offers a
loan where the  interest rate  is fixed for as long as 35 years.  The agency is planning to issue 1.71 trillion yen of RMBS
in the fiscal year starting this month, and plans to price its
Series 60 notes later in April, according to its  website .  Japan Housing’s RMBSs are attractive because investors are
protected from the risks associated with possible defaults on
housing loans as the agency buys back those that become
 delinquent , leading to a AAA rating for the entity’s notes,
according to Mitsubishi UFJ’s Anbiru. The delinquency rate of
the  mortgage loans  extended by the government entity was 2.77
percent in March 2010, up from 2.11 percent the previous year.  ‘Hesitant to Invest’  S&P assigned a AAA rating to Japan Housing’s Series 59
Notes that were sold on March 27, citing the likelihood of the
timely payment of interest. The agency will put into trust 7,725
residential mortgage loan contracts worth about 189.6 billion
yen with Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp., S&P said. House
construction loans account for 62.3 percent, new home loans 26.5
percent, loans for existing homes 7.5 percent and refinancing
mortgage loans 3.7 percent, S&P said.  When S&P cut the rating on some of the Japan Housing RMBS
in October 2011, citing delinquent payments, some investors were
“hesitant to invest,” said Yukio Egawa, chief strategist and
head of research at Shinsei Securities in Tokyo. While not all
investors have the restriction to buy only AAA rated bonds,
there are investors who “prefer AAA rated bonds,” he said.  The agency’s RMBSs account for about 90 percent of Japan’s
total mortgage-backed securities, according to Japan Housing.
The former Government Housing Loan Corporation became the
current entity in April 2007 to focus more on securitization and
enabling private financial institutions to create a steady
supply of long-term fixed-rate housing loans. While it stopped
giving direct housing loans to potential homebuyers, it
continued to carry on responsibilities as loan guarantor from
the previous agency.  Similar U.S. Model  The structure of Japan Housing buying loans from private
financial institutions and issuing mortgage-backed securities
using the debt as collateral is similar to the U.S. government-
controlled  Fannie Mae . Japan Housing also underwrites insurance
for long-term fixed-rate housing made by private banks, and
guarantees the payment on mortgage-backed securities backed by
the loans, a model similar to Washington-based Ginnie Mae.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage-finance companies
that have been supported by the U.S. since being seized in 2008,
guarantee $4.3 trillion of home-loan debt.  Dai-ichi Life, Japan’s biggest publicly traded life insurer,
held 18.8 billion yen worth of Japan Housing’s RMBSs at the end
of December. About 1.7 trillion yen of S&P-rated mortgage bonds
were issued in 2010, 16.2 percent less than 2009, according to
S&P. Japan Housing accounted for 90 percent of the offerings,
with the rest by private financial institutions, mainly banks.  “We could see some widening in the RMBS only if utility
bonds come back with the same  credit quality  they used to have
before the nuclear crisis,” said  Dai-ichi Life (8750) ’s Mizukami,
adding that that is unlikely.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net ;
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  