-- PBOC’s Zhou Urges Fed to Consider Global Effect of Policy Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-03T04:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/pboc-s-zhou-urges-fed-to-consider-global-effect-of-policy-easing.html
China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the U.S. Federal Reserve has a responsibility to
consider the global effects of its actions after emerging-market
economies suffered from capital inflows.  Because the  U.S. dollar  is the world’s main reserve
currency, the Fed “may have more responsibility not only to
consider the  U.S. economy  but also the global economy,” Zhou
said today during a panel discussion at the Boao Forum for Asia
on the southern Chinese island of Hainan.  Zhou’s comments reprise criticism of the U.S. from emerging
nations who complained that so-called quantitative easing was
sending unwanted cash into their economies, adding to inflation
risks. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank will consider further stimulus, even after upgrading its
economic outlook March 13.  For  China  and some other emerging economies, the policy
goal is to “gradually bring inflation down” to help achieve a
so-called soft landing, and China is using interest  rates 
combined with additional tools to achieve that, Zhou said. He
declined to comment when asked if the central bank is planning
any adjustments to monetary policy.  Expanding domestic demand and reducing the  trade surplus 
have also been part of China’s strategic plan since the global
financial crisis, Zhou said today.  Premier Wen Jiabao has pledged to “fine-tune” economic
policies as needed as weakness in export demand and a cooling
housing market restrain an economy that probably grew at the
slowest pace in almost three years in the first quarter.
Analysts in a Bloomberg News survey last week unanimously said
that banks’ reserve requirements will fall this year, while nine
of 20 predicted lower benchmark borrowing costs.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Huiwen Yang in Shanghai at 
 hyang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  