-- Petronas’s South African Unit Suspends Oil Imports From Iran
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-04-03T14:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/petronas-s-engen-s-africa-unit-says-suspends-imports-from-iran.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. (PET) ’s Engen
unit, the biggest South African importer of Iranian crude, said
it has suspended imports of oil from the Middle Eastern nation
amid economic sanctions by the U.S. and the European Union.  The company has contingency supplies in place, Engen
spokeswoman Tania Landsberg said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Engen, which operates the country’s second-biggest
refinery based in Durban and with a capacity of 135,000 barrels
a day, normally buys about 80 percent of its supplies from  Iran .  Engen is “under heavy pressure” to halt Iranian imports
because of sanctions, Petronas Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas, said in a March 30 interview. Engen has sought
alternative supplies but hasn’t yet received any, he said.  President  Barack Obama  signed a law on Dec. 31 that denies
foreign banks that do business with the  Central Bank  of Iran
access to the U.S. financial system. The U.S. may impose
penalties should a country not make “significant” reductions
in Iranian crude oil purchases in the first half of this year. A
South African governmental team will submit a report to cabinet
by the end of May that will advise on Iran, Energy Minister
Dipuo Peters said today.  Sasol Ltd., which operates the Natref refinery in
partnership with Total SA in Sasolburg, south of Johannesburg,
said last month that it halted crude purchases from Iran, which
provided about 20 percent of supply. Refineries operated in the
country by BP Plc and Chevron Corp. don’t use Iranian oil. Royal
Dutch Shell Plc will comply with U.S. sanctions, CEO  Peter Voser 
said Feb. 2.  July 1 Deadline  The European Union decided in January to stop Iranian oil
imports effective July 1. The EU and U.S. are trying to pressure
Iran to abandon any work it may be conducting to acquire nuclear
weapons capability. Iran says that its nuclear program is
strictly for civilian energy and medical research.  The South African government is working to ensure the
higher cost of non-Iranian crude does not have a detrimental
effect on the Engen refinery and the South African and regional
economy, Nelisiwe Magubane, director general of the department
of energy, said at a briefing in  Pretoria  today. Refineries
“are struggling with low margins,” she said.  Engen’s cost to convert the refinery to handle other oil is
expected to be 300 million rand ($39 million), Magubane said.  Iran Report  The South African governmental team report will include
recommendations on whether the country should impose sanctions
on Iran, and whether an application should be made for a U.S.
waiver, she said.  South Africa  imported 2.8 billion rand of oil from Iran in
February, after no imports in January, according to data from
the South African Revenue Service. The country imported 27
billion rand of crude from Iran last year, comprising 26 percent
of total oil imports, it said.  About two fifths of South Africa’s supply is met from
plants run by Sasol that convert coal into motor fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  