-- Philadelphia’s Bond Rating Raised by S&P Citing Budget Surplus
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-04-03T22:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/philadelphia-s-bond-rating-raised-by-s-p-citing-budget-surplus.html
Philadelphia, the country’s fifth
most-populous city, had its general-obligation debt grade raised
one step by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the elimination of a
2011 deficit and this year’s projected surplus  The city’s rating rose to BBB+, the third-lowest investment
level, from BBB, with a positive outlook, New York-based S&P
said today in a statement.  “If the economic recovery is slow to gain momentum,
stagnates, or retrenches, Philadelphia’s strong management
practices will allow it to continue to take the necessary
actions to address imbalances,” Nicole Ridberg, S&P’s primary
analyst for the city, said in the report. About a quarter of the
city’s 1.53 million residents live in poverty, twice the
Pennsylvania average, according to U.S. Census Bureau data.  Another upgrade is possible within two years if the city
continues to rebuild financial reserves, said Ridberg, who is
based in  New York . The city had budget surpluses in fiscal 2010
and 2011, according to the report.  The S&P analysts cited fiscal oversight by the Pennsylvania
Intergovernmental Cooperation Authority, a state agency that
reviews Philadelphia’s annual five-year financial plans. The
raters also said economic diversification, focused on health
care and higher education, “should position the city for growth
as recovery ensues.”  Negatives noted in the report were cost pressures from
health care and pensions, high debt levels and the lingering
effects of the recession. Philadelphia’s pension  plan , with
assets valued at about $4.45 billion in 2010, had a projected
unfunded liability of about $5.1 billion that year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  