-- Picasso’s Erotic Women Meet Beckmann’s Quappi in Munich
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-04-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/picasso-s-erotic-women-meet-beckmann-s-elegant-quappi-in-munich.html
Pablo Picasso , famous for his love
life, put women at the center of his painting, interpreting the
world through them and using them to project his erotic desires.  Max Beckmann , devoted to his improbably named second wife
Quappi, put women on a pedestal and drew strength from their
self-assurance. Willem de Kooning, with two tempestuous long-
term relationships in his life, knowingly ran the risk of being
deemed misogynistic with his wild, joyful, sometimes comically
grotesque creatures merged into brightly colored landscapes.  An exhibition titled “Frauen” at Munich’s  Pinakothek der
Moderne , the most expensive the museum has ever mounted, brings
together a spectacular array of paintings of women by the three
artists for a thoughtful show.  If it’s not a complete success, that’s because De Kooning’s
paintings stand apart from the others. The conversation between
the works of Beckmann and Picasso is lively -- sometimes they
concur, sometimes they contradict each other.  De Kooning doesn’t join the debate and seems to be talking
about something else altogether. The curators may have thought
that too: Whereas Picasso and Beckmann often hang side by side,
De Kooning’s works are mostly together, away from the others.  Elegant Quappi  Beckmann’s “Quappi in Blau und Grau” shows his slim,
elegant brunette wife standing in front of a vase of flowers,
tapered fingers with painted nails loosely holding a letter. She
is a picture of cool self-containment.  Quappi is perfect next to Picasso’s 1941 portrait of Dora Maar, “Femme assise au fauteuil” (Woman Sitting in an
Armchair). Also dressed in sedate dark blue, Maar’s upright
torso is framed by the carved dark wood of the chair. With a hat
and a neat white blouse, she is as elegant as Quappi. Yet this
portrait was painted during the World War II German occupation
of Paris and there is fear in her wide open eyes with their red
pupils and the tangled jumble of hands in her lap.  Mathilde von Kaulbach -- Quappi was her nickname -- may be
one of the most-portrayed women in the history of art. Twenty
years younger than Beckmann, she gave up a career as an opera
singer to marry him. She emits a cool sensuality, an
unassailability, in his paintings. Even in a swimsuit perched on
the side of a boat, hand on hip, she looks in control.  Beckmann did paint women in distress, or a state of erotic
excitement, yet not his wife. Perhaps he had too much respect
for her?  Mandolin Attack  Take his blonde “Frau mit Mandoline in Gelb und Rot”
(Woman With Mandolin in Yellow and Red), who is clearly not
Quappi. It alludes to the Greek myth of Leda, impregnated by
Zeus in the shape of a swan. The mandolin handle stands in for
the swan: The woman’s breasts are bared to her attacker yet her
face and eyes are turned away.  Picasso’s second wife,  Jacqueline Roque , was his preferred
model in the last part of his life. Forty-six years his junior,
he painted her lying on her side, teasing a kitten, balanced on
her hip, with a feather. Looming over the image is the shadow of
the artist.  The most shocking work is Picasso’s 1965 “La pisseuse,”
showing a woman squatting on a beach, a stream of liquid from
her hairy genitals clearly visible. I wondered if it is more
provocative today, in an era when sanitized glamour dominates
our public image of womanhood, than it was then.  It is perhaps in this work that Picasso comes closest to De
Kooning’s untamed women, shown in fleshy pinks and sometimes
only discernible through a clompy high heel or a luscious mouth.
A sense of movement, light and natural joy is what surfaces in
these almost-abstract paintings with their feminine colors.  De Kooning said that his paintings of women might be
paintings of himself, and this is where his contribution to the
discourse seems to drift off at a tangent. His pictures are
about painting and about the artist -- women are incidental.  The exhibition runs through July 15. For more information,
go to  http://www.pinakothek.de/   Duchamp in Munich  Before he started putting bicycle wheels and urinals on
display and revolutionizing art history, Marcel Duchamp visited
Munich. It was a century ago, and he was in a huff with Paris
after his masterpiece painting, “Nude Descending a Staircase
No. 2,” was rejected by the Salon des Independants.  Munich, he later said, “was the scene of my complete
liberation.” He stayed for almost three months, drawing
inspiration from Lucas Cranach, Wassily Kandinsky and the
technical wizardry on display at the Deutsches Museum. He hit
the town with his friend the painter Max Bergmann and chased
hopelessly after the wife of another friend.  An exhibition in Munich’s dingy Kunstbau explores Duchamp’s
time in the city, bringing together three of his best-known
pictures, produced at that time.  At the center is the rejected painting. To one side of it
hangs “The Virgin’s Passage to Bride” and to the other,
“Bride.” Mechanical elements that recall dissected engines
feature in both these latter, Cubist works.  Duchamp was only to produce four more paintings before
turning away from paint as a medium.  The show also runs through July 15. For more information,
see  http://www.lenbachhaus.de/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 