-- Polish Central Bank to Hold Rate for 10th Month, Survey Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-04T08:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/polish-central-bank-to-hold-rates-for-10th-month-survey-shows.html
Polish policy makers will probably
hold off on increasing borrowing costs to choke inflation and
leave their main  interest rate  unchanged for a 10th month today
as economic growth slows.  The Narodowy Bank Polski will maintain the  benchmark seven-
day interest rate  at 4.5 percent, the highest since January
2009, according to all 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
bank will announce its decision after noon, followed by a news
conference at 4 p.m. in Warsaw.  Investors are watching policy makers for the timing of
a rate increase as inflation has remained above 3.5 percent, the
upper end of the central bank’s target range, since January
2011. While some policy makers warned that borrowing costs need
to rise, Narodowy Bank Polski Governor Marek Belka last week
said he’s prepared to wait before to avoid having to reverse the
move should the economy slow.  “We expect no change in the NBP’s decision on interest
rates today,” said  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-market
strategy at Societe Generale SA, in an e-mailed note today.
While “there will be a motion calling for a hike,” the first
such motion since June 2011, “there will be no majority to
enforce this decision.”  Zloty Gains  The zloty has gained 7.8 percent against the euro this
year, the world’s second-best performance behind the Hungarian
forint. The currency traded at 4.1425 per euro at 10 a.m. in
Warsaw, down 0.3 percent on the day. The yield on the
government’s  five-year bond  rose to 4.937 percent from 4.923
percent late yesterday.  Inflation (POCPIYOY)  accelerated to 4.3 percent in February from 4.1
percent the previous month, while industrial-output growth
slowed to 4.6 percent, a seven-month low, from 9 percent. Price
growth has remained above the 3.5 percent upper end of the
central bank’s tolerance range since January last year even as
economic growth slows amid  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  The government forecasts  gross domestic product  in the
largest eastern European Union member will expand 2.5 percent
this year compared with an estimated 4.3 percent last year.  ‘Take an Effort’  “The risk of a rate hike is significantly higher this time
due to the Monetary Policy Council’s growing disappointment with
central bank forecasts and the stigma of not fulfilling its
inflation mandate,” BRE Bank SA in Warsaw said in a research
note today. “It’s going to take an effort from the governor to
assemble a majority to keep rates unchanged.”  Hungarian central bankers left the two-week deposit rate at
7 percent for a third month on March 28, while Czech policy
makers kept their benchmark rate unchanged at a record-low 0.75
percent for a 15th meeting on March 29.  “I would rather not risk our reputation,” Belka said in a
March 26 interview. “Being too late is probably a lesser
mistake than increasing interest rates and then having to
reverse the move. This is the kind of calculation that I have in
mind when I look at interest rates.”  Expectations for an economic slowdown strengthened after a
report showed the March Purchasing Managers’ Index at 50.1
compared with a reading of 52.2 in January PMI, Piotr Bujak,
chief economist at Nordea Bank Poland, said April 2. A
contraction in sub-indexes for output, employment and new orders
points to a further weakening in manufacturing activity in the
coming months, he said.  ‘Hawkish Rhetoric’  “The euro area’s recession is filtering through to the
Polish economy,” Bujak said. “The MPC will decide to keep
rates on hold but will maintain hawkish rhetoric in an effort
to contain the still-elevated level of inflation expectations.”  Nine-month  forward-rate agreements , gauging expectations
for interest rate levels in December, traded 14 basis points
below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate yesterday,
down from 16 basis points on March 27, when Belka indicated it
would be less risky to refrain from a rate increase, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Taking into account that the central bank governor has a
strong impact on some members of the council and casts a tie-
breaking vote, we’re sticking to our opinion that rates will
stay unchanged in coming months,” said  Piotr Kalisz , chief
economist at Citigroup’s Bank Handlowy unit in Warsaw.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  