-- Portuguese Bailout Expectations Anchor Yield Curve: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-04-03T08:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/portuguese-bailout-expectations-anchor-yield-curve-euro-credit.html
Portugal  commemorates the one-year
anniversary of its bailout with  two-year yields  back below 10-
year levels as government officials and investors say the nation
will procure sufficient backing to avert a debt restructuring.  Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho , who plans to
resume bond sales next year, has said a failure to regain  market
access  would trigger additional “support” from European Union
peers. He has cut spending and raised taxes to comply with the
terms of a 78 billion-euro ($104 billion) aid plan from the EU
and the  International Monetary Fund .  Two-year borrowing costs, which reached 21 percent at the
end of January, have declined to about 9.99 percent. That’s
below the 11.76 percent investors demand to own debt repayable
in a decade, signaling investors are less concerned Portugal
will follow  Greece  in imposing losses on bondholders.  “If Portugal does not have capacity to go to the financial
markets in 2013, it may obtain a second aid package,” said
Andre Pinheiro, who helps oversee the equivalent of $133 million
at Orey Financial SA in Lisbon.  Investors made 13 percent  on Portuguese bonds maturing in
more than a year in the first quarter, including reinvested
interest, the most of 26 sovereign markets tracked by indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bunds rose 0.3 percent.  Price of Unity  “We certainly cannot rule out the possibility that there
will have to be a second bailout,”  Eric Maskin , a  Nobel Prize 
winning economist and Harvard University professor, told
reporters in Lisbon on March 30. “I wouldn’t regard that as a
disaster. I think that’s part of what you have to do to keep a
union together.”  Borrowing costs for debt repayable in more than two years
remain higher than when the country requested its first bailout.
The difference in yield that investors demand to hold Portugal’s
10-year bonds instead of German bunds reached a euro-era record
of 16.48 percentage points on Jan. 31 and was at 9.94 points
today, up from 5.11 when former Socialist prime minister  Jose Socrates  sought the rescue on April 6 of last year. On June 6,
the day after Passos Coelho defeated Socrates in an election,
the yield gap was 6.70.  Help at Hand  Socrates made the bailout request after lawmakers rejected
his minority government’s proposed deficit-cutting plan,
offering his resignation in March 2011. Social Democrat Prime
MinisterPassos Coelho started a four-year term in 2011 by
forming a coalition government with the  People’s Party . He’s
backed by a majority in parliament, easing the passage of
spending cuts.  “Unlike Greece, the Portuguese administration and the
people are fully behind the reforms,” said  Andrew Bosomworth ,
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Munich-based head of
 portfolio management . “They are implementing them. I think we
are going to observe slippage on those programs. They will
therefore require more money, but the signals are there that
that money is going to come.”  At debt auctions, borrowing costs have declined. Portugal
on March 21 sold 1.61 billion euros of 12-month bills at the
lowest rate in more than a year. The country sold 10 billion
euros of bills in the first three months of the year, more than
planned for the quarter. Tomorrow it’s selling as much as 1.5
billion euros of six-month and 18-month bills, the longest
maturity since March 2011.  Recycled Cash  The  European Central Bank  in February approved the
temporary use of additional collateral in funding operations by
seven euro-area members’ central banks, including Portugal. It
also offered unlimited three-year loans to the region’s
financial institutions, which banks say they have recycled into
higher-yielding  government debt .  “The ECB’s program to provide liquidity has also helped
lower financing costs in the short term,” Orey’s Pinheiro said.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
bank, is “slowly” buying longer maturities of the country’s
bonds in secondary markets and doesn’t expect a debt
restructuring, Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Salgado said in a
March 6 interview. “I believe that our yield curve will move
toward the Irish one,” he said.  Yields on  Irish debt  repayable in 2021 peaked at more than
15.5 percent in July, and have since dropped to about 6.83
percent. Two-year securities offer about 5 percent, down from
more than 23 percent in July.  No Restructuring  Greece carried out the biggest-ever sovereign bond
restructuring in March, forcing holders of 197 billion euros of
securities issued under domestic law to accept new bonds with a
53.5 percent reduction in face value. European leaders have
insisted that Greece’s situation is exceptional.  “I don’t see any kind of possibility that my government
could in a few years ask to restructure Portuguese debt,”
Passos Coelho said in a March 5 interview. He reiterated that if
Portugal is unable to return to markets as planned in September
2013 due to “external reasons,” it would be able to count on
continued support from both the IMF and European agencies.  Portugal should be able to resume bond sales next year and
private creditors aren’t expected to take writedowns on the
nation’s debt, Abebe Aemro Selassie, who heads the IMF’s mission
to the country, said on March 5. The IMF expects Portugal’s debt
to “stabilize” at about 115 percent of gross domestic product
in 2013, and “begin a gradual decline after that,” he said.  In January,  Standard & Poor’s  followed  Fitch Ratings  and
Moody’s Investors Service in cutting Portugal’s credit rating to
non-investment grade, or junk.  Moritz Kraemer, head of sovereign ratings at S&P, said on
March 22 that Portugal has a “good fighting chance” of
avoiding debt restructuring. “Compared to Greece, the debt is
not as high.”  Portugal has “the implementation capacity for policy
reform,” Kraemer said. “The institutions in Portugal are much
stronger than in Greece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  