-- Private-Equity Taxes, Systemic Firms, Rabobank: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-03T12:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/private-equity-taxes-systemic-firms-rabobank-compliance.html
Private-equity executives, who spent
millions of dollars successfully fighting efforts to raise taxes
on their investment profits, may not escape a new 3.8 percent
levy in President Barack Obama’s health-care law.  The overhaul enacted two years ago includes a tax on
unearned income to help pay for the expansion of insurance
coverage. It’s set to start in 2013 and will apply to capital
gains -- such as private-equity managers’ profits on leveraged
buyouts -- as well as interest, dividends, annuities, royalties
and rents for married couples who make more than $250,000 and
individuals who earn at least $200,000.  The impact will be even greater if tax cuts enacted during
the presidency of George W. Bush expire as scheduled at the end
of this year. Unless Congress acts, the top rate on long-term
capital gains and dividends, now 15 percent, would go to 20
percent and 39.6 percent. For high earners above the threshold,
the health-care tax would bring the levy on dividends to as much
as 43.4 percent.  The Supreme Court heard arguments last week on the
constitutionality of parts of the health care law, and a ruling
expected by the end of June could determine whether the tax
takes effect.  The share of profits private-equity managers receive from
investments is known as carried interest. It is often taxed as
capital gains, which carry a lower rate than ordinary income and
fall under the new Medicare levy, said Elizabeth Kessenides, a
tax attorney in  New York City  who represents people in financial
services including private-equity and hedge-fund managers.  The private-equity industry has argued that carried
interest should be taxed as investment income rather than wages
because it encourages entrepreneurial risk-taking.  For more, click here and see Interviews section, below.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Regulators to Move Closer to Designating Systemic Firms  The U.S.  Treasury Department  and regulators will move one
step closer today to designating some companies as posing a risk
to the country’s financial system in the event of their failure.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council will hold a
meeting at which it will finalize criteria for singling out non-
bank financial companies as systemically important and thus
subject to greater supervision, the U.S. Treasury Department
said.  The final rule is FSOC’s second attempt to define metrics
and a procedure for designating non-bank companies as systemic.
 Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said March 29 that
FSOC’s designation tool is a way regulators have become more
prepared for a crisis.  The FSOC, headed by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner,
proposed a rule in October that set standards for determining
which non-bank firms require Federal Reserve scrutiny. Banks
with over $50 billion in assets were automatically deemed risky
to the financial system in the event of their failure.  The final rule regulators will approve today will be
largely unchanged from that proposed in October, said officials
familiar with the deliberations who spoke on condition of not
being further identified. The wording, however, can be changed
until the vote is taken.  Under the October proposal, regulators will evaluate non-
bank financial companies with more than $50 billion in assets if
they meet any one or more of the following thresholds: A 15-to-1
leverage ratio; $3.5 billion in liabilities on derivatives
contracts; $20 billion of outstanding loans borrowed and bonds
issued; $30 billion in gross notional credit-default swaps
outstanding; or a 10 percent ratio of short-term debt to assets.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Rabobank Takes Over Friesland Bank as Capital Hurdles Loom  Rabobank Groep (RABO) , the biggest Dutch mortgage lender, will
take over Friesland Bank NV as the smaller 99-year-old lender
struggles to meet new capital requirements and sets aside more
money for bad loans.  Friesland Bank Chairman Kees Beuving confirmed the takeover
in a statement yesterday.  Friesland Bank, based in the Dutch city of Leeuwarden, said
bad-loan provisions rose to “unusually high” levels in 2011
and funding became more expensive after  Fitch Ratings  cut the
lender’s long-term credit rating in June. The bank, which
reported a 43 million-euro ($57 million) loss in 2010, said last
year’s results were also hurt by a writedown on its 23 percent
stake in  Van Lanschot NV. (LANS)   Friesland Bank “has stakes in Van Lanschot,  BinckBank NV (BINCK) 
and an insurance joint venture with  Delta Lloyd ,” said Jan
Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN Amro Bank NV.
The takeover will send a “ripple” through the Dutch sector, he
said.  To meet capital requirements under Basel III rules, “we
needed to be profitable, cut the Van Lanschot stake and not have
any setbacks,” Beuving told reporters yesterday. Results for
2011 “won’t be great,” he said, adding that Friesland hasn’t
been rescued.  Regulators gave permission for an “immediate merger,” the
banks said.  For more, click here.  Tanzania Planning Bourse Section for Small Business Listings  Tanzania’s central bank is planning to create a section on
the Dar es Salaam-based stock exchange to let small businesses
raise capital and list shares.  The bank is seeking consultants to prepare the plan for the
capital markets regulator, which will start in the 2012-13
fiscal year, it said in a statement published in the Daily News
yesterday. The plans also include trading of municipal bonds on
the bourse and setting up a commodities exchange, it said.  Overstock.com Says SEC Won’t Take Any Enforcement Action  Overstock.com (OSTK)  says SEC’s Salt Lake Regional Office closed
2009 investigation, won’t recommend any enforcement action.  The company became aware of the investigation in September
2009 when it received a subpoena from the Salt Lake Regional
Office of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
“following Overstock.com’s disclosure of restatements of
certain of its financial statements,” according to a statement
by Overstock.com.  Overstock.com brought “all of these matters to light, we
made the corrections, we fully disclosed these matters,”
Patrick Byrne, Overstock.com chairman and CEO, said in the
statement, adding that the company is “pleased with this
result.”  Karen L. Martinez, Assistant Regional Director of the SEC’s
Salt Lake City Regional Office, confirmed in a telephone
interview yesterday that the investigation was closed. She
declined to comment further on the matter.  ArcelorMittal, Evraz Face South African Collusion Penalties  South Africa’s Competition Commission recommended the local
units of  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  Evraz Plc (EVR)  pay as much as 10 percent
of their annual sales in penalties for colluding on steel
prices.  The regulator on March 30 asked the more senior antitrust
watchdog, the Competition Tribunal, to take the measure, the
Pretoria-based commission said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Its investigation of a 2008 complaint found that
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  and  Evraz Highveld Steel &
Vanadium Ltd. (EHS)  “engaged in concerted practices or had
understandings that Highveld would follow Mittal’s lead on the
pricing mechanism and changes in pricing,” the commission said.
The commission also found the companies divided the markets by
“specific types of goods.”  ArcelorMittal South Africa is the continent’s largest maker
of flat steel and Evraz the second-biggest producer in the
country.  “We will study the referral papers and comment
thereafter,” Themba Hlengani, a spokesman for ArcelorMittal
South Africa, said in an e-mailed response to a query yesterday.  “At this stage the Company doesn’t have any comments,”
Cathie Lewis, Evraz Highveld’s company secretary and investor
relations spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed reply. “We are
studying the Commission’s Complaint Referral we received
today,” she said yesterday.  India Bars Soybean Futures to Curb Excessive Price Volatility  India , Asia’s biggest supplier of soybean meal, barred
commodity exchanges from offering new contracts in soybeans in
April to curb speculation.  “In order to curb the excessive volatility in the prices
of soybean, the commission has decided not to allow soybean
futures contracts scheduled to be launched in the month of
April,” the  Forward Markets Commission  said in a circular to
exchanges published on its website today.  Motorola Mobility Faces EU Antitrust Probes on Patents  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  faces European Union
investigations over licensing of patents, following a similar
probe into  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   The European Commission opened two formal investigations to
check whether Motorola Mobility violated EU competition rules
“by seeking and enforcing injunctions against Apple’s and
Microsoft’s flagship products such as iPhone, iPad, Windows and
Xbox on the basis of patents it had declared essential to
produce standard-compliant products,” it said in a statement.  Samsung, Motorola Mobility,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (APPL) 
are involved in litigation across  Europe  as demand for
smartphones and tablets soars.  Google Inc., (GOOG)  which is buying
Motorola Mobility, has written to groups that set industry
standards to assure them it will fairly license patents.  Regulators said they were acting on complaints filed by
Apple and Microsoft over Motorola Mobility’s possible abuse of a
dominant position for not licensing the patents on “fair,
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms” as agreed with
standards organizations.  “We haven’t finalized our acquisition of Motorola
Mobility, but will work with the European Commission to answer
any questions they might have,” said Al Verney, a spokesman for
Google in Brussels. “We have longstanding concerns about patent
abuses, including lawsuits and royalty demands targeting the
Android ecosystem.”  Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility didn’t
respond to an e-mail out of regular office hours.  Apple declined to comment on the probes.  Courts  Lehman Unit Appeal on Interest-Rate Swaps Rejected by U.K. Court  Administrators of two  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  units
can’t force buyers of interest-rate swaps to make payments on
derivatives contracts arising from the period after the New
York-based bank collapsed in 2008, a U.K. court ruled.  Three  London  appeal judges said the obligation to uphold
swaps contracts when they matured was void where an “event of
default” occurred with the seller in bankruptcy. The case dealt
with four separate appeals, and the legal interpretation of
derivatives agreements, two of which involved Lehman units.  The decision means  ITV Plc (ITV) ’s Carlton Communications Ltd.
doesn’t have to pay about 2.7 million pounds ($4.3 million) plus
interest to Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc., and that  JFB
Firth Rixson Inc. (JFB)  and three other companies don’t owe anything
on interest-rate swaps sold by Lehman Brothers International
Europe in 2007.  Lehman Brothers, which bankruptcy filed in September 2008,
had more than 900,000 derivative contracts outstanding when it
collapsed.  Interviews  Regulators Should Propose New Volcker Rule, Paredes Says  U.S. financial regulators should “re-propose” the so-
called Volcker Rule that bans banks from engaging in proprietary
trading, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission member Troy
Paredes said.  “At this point, the most prudent path forward would be a
re-proposal,” Paredes, one of two Republicans on the five-
member commission, said at a conference in  Washington  sponsored
by the  Council of Institutional Investors . “We run the risk
that when we solve one problem we create many other problems and
other unintended consequences.”  The SEC, along with the Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency released a 298-page proposal in October to implement
the proprietary trading ban, which was a part of the 2010
financial regulatory overhaul.  The proposal includes exemptions that would allow banks to
conduct proprietary trading that is tied to market-making
activities or hedging risk. Those exemptions have been
criticized for adding complexity that would make implementing
the ban difficult.  The Dodd-Frank Act calls on regulators to finalize the
Volcker Rule by July 21.  Carlyle’s Rubenstein Expects U.S. Review of Carried Interest Tax  David Rubenstein, co-founder of  Carlyle Group (CG)  Inc., said he
expects the U.S. Congress will review the favorable tax
treatment of profit-based compensation for private equity
managers next year.  “The carried interest debate is likely to be resolved in
the next Congress in the context of comprehensive tax reform,”
Rubenstein said yesterday at a Washington conference sponsored
by the Council for Institutional Investors, a group representing
employee benefit funds, foundations and endowments with combined
assets exceeding $3 trillion, according to its website.  Carried interest, a share of profits taken as compensation,
are taxed at the capital gains rate of 15 percent rather than
the rates as high as 35 percent that apply to wages.  The tax treatment of private equity has gained attention in
part because of former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney’s bid
for the Republican presidential nomination. Romney, a co-founder
of Bain Capital LLC, said in January that he paid an effective
tax rate of 13.9 percent on income of $21.6 million.  Rubenstein, one of three Carlyle founders who received a
total of $413 million last year, declined to say how treatment
of carried interest should be changed.  Comings and Goings  JPMorgan’s Hannam Steps Down, Pledging to Appeal FSA Fine  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s global chairman of equity capital
markets, Ian Hannam, stepped down to appeal a 450,000-pound
($720,000) fine from the U.K. finance regulator for disclosing
inside information.  Hannam, 56, gave details of a new oil find and a potential
bid for  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  in two e-mails sent in 2008 to a
prospective client, the Financial Services Authority said in a
statement today. Hannam, who is based in London, said he had
been acting in the best interests of his client.  Hannam is among bankers advising Xstrata Plc, the subject
of a bid from  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) . At JPMorgan, which
also serves as a broker to Xstrata, Hannam helped the mining
company first sell shares in 2002, and was involved in many of
its subsequent takeovers, including the $18.1 billion purchase
of the Canadian nickel producer Falconbridge Ltd. in 2006.  JPMorgan is the third-ranked mergers adviser in Europe this
year after Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based firm
ranks third in arranging equity and equity-linked stock and
rights offerings in the region this year, the data show.  Hannam will complete his current commitments before leaving
the bank, Emilio Saracho, the head of investment banking for
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa, said in a memorandum to
employees today.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for the firm in
London, declined to comment beyond the memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 