-- Providence Cuts Off Adviser Citing Bankruptcy Comments
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-04-03T21:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/providence-cuts-off-adviser-citing-bankruptcy-comments.html
Providence Mayor Angel Taveras cut
ties to an adviser who said the  Rhode Island  capital probably
would be forced to seek  bankruptcy protection .  Taveras dropped Robert G. Flanders Jr., the receiver for
Central Falls and a former state  Supreme Court  justice, citing
the remarks, made in a March 27 interview with Bloomberg News.  “Judge Flanders’s recent comments concerning Providence’s
fiscal crisis are unacceptable,” Taveras, 41, said in a
statement. “Because of the harm his comments have done,
effective today the city of Providence has severed its
relationship with Judge Flanders.”  The  budget deficit  in Providence, Rhode Island’s largest
city, probably will force it into bankruptcy, the receiver said
in the interview last month. “I don’t see how they can get out
of it without going there,” Flanders said while at a conference
in Philadelphia. He put  Central Falls  under court protection in
August. His  law firm ,  Hinckley Allen & Snyder LLP (816655L) , had advised
the state capital on pension issues.  “The mayor disagreed with the comments I made about the
situation, in terms of the difficulty in obtaining voluntary
concessions in time to avoid the necessity for a Chapter 9
filing,” Flanders said by telephone today. “It’s his
prerogative to work with counsel he wants to work with.”  Bankruptcy Experience  Providence also had hired his firm to make use of its
experience with municipal bankruptcy, Flanders said. He has said
that the Chapter 9 filing by Central Falls, the state’s smallest
city with about 18,000 residents, provided “a tremendous tool”
to balance the municipal budget.  Taveras has put pressure on  Brown University  in Providence
as well as other nonprofit organizations to make voluntary
payments in lieu of taxes to help close a deficit of at least
$20 million. Governor Lincoln Chafee, an independent, is
pressing the state Legislature, led by Democrats, for action on
measures to curb municipal pension costs. Retiree expenses
helped push Central Falls into insolvency.  Hinckley Allen & Snyder, based in Providence, began
advising the city in October, Flanders said. He spoke to the
City Council earlier this year about the Chapter 9 process,
concluding the work he was asked to do, he said.  Bankruptcy may become more common in the near future,
Flanders said at the conference in Philadelphia, sponsored by
the Bond Buyer. He suggested that as many as 20 cities a year
may head to court.  “We are taking every measure to resolve Providence’s
fiscal crisis,” Taveras said in the statement, dated yesterday
and received today. “We can avoid bankruptcy and will only
consider such action as an absolute last resort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 