-- Putin Urges Duma Dominance as Medvedev Promotes New Parties
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-04-03T14:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/putin-urges-duma-dominance-as-medvedev-promotes-new-parties-1-.html
Prime Minister and President-elect
Vladimir Putin urged continuing dominance of his United  Russia 
party as outgoing President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed a law that
authorities say will make it easier for new parties to register.  “In parliament there is a leading political force, which
is a guarantee that the legislative process will continue in a
positive way,” Putin said at a meeting with leaders of his
People’s Front supporters’ movement outside Moscow today.  Medvedev called on the Justice Ministry to ensure that it
has “seriously well-founded” reasons if it refuses to register
political blocs in the future at a meeting with representatives
of some unregistered parties in the Kremlin.  Opposition leaders who organized protests that erupted in
Moscow and other cities after alleged fraud in December
parliamentary polls say the law won’t prevent the authorities
from blocking them from forming parties to compete for election.  Under the measure, parties would require 500 members from
at least half of Russia’s regions, down from 40,000 currently,
to gain registration.  “The authorities, if they want, can continue to keep
unwanted political parties out of the political system for
years,”  Mikhail Kasyanov , a former prime minister under Putin
who is now an opposition leader, said on his website on March
30.  Kasyanov’s pro-democracy Parnas party was refused
permission to register, preventing it from running in the
December parliamentary vote, and he was barred from competing in
the 2008 presidential elections.  First Concessions  Medvedev, who will be succeeded by Putin on May 7 after
replacing him as president for four years, promised in December
laws to make it easier to register parties and run for president
as well as restoring direct elections for governors. The changes
marked the authorities’ first concessions since facing the
biggest anti-government protests in Putin’s 12-year rule over
the alleged election fraud in the Dec. 4 parliamentary polls.  The unity of the ruling party, which has a majority in the
State Duma, the lower house of parliament, must be maintained,
Putin said. The party, which lost its two-thirds majority in the
election, was accused by opposition parties of
inflating its share of the vote from 30 percent to about 50
percent.  A strong ruling party in parliament “will allow us to take
decisions, otherwise we could get into a situation where we are
unable to adopt any measures,” Putin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penzs at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  