-- Q-Cells Files for Insolvency as Solar Bankrupcties Rise
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-04-03T16:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/q-cells-files-for-insolvency-as-solar-bankrupcties-rise.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s biggest
solar-cell maker, filed for insolvency today, the fourth large
solar company from  Germany  to do so since December.  Q-Cells’s filing with the Dessau-Rosslau court occurred a
day after the Thalheim-based company said it would have to take
that step amid attempts to continue operations.  German solar companies have struggled with reduced state
aid and competition from Chinese companies including Suntech
Power Holdings Co. that have expanded capacity, creating a glut
in solar panels.  Solon SE (SOO1) ,  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and  Solarhybrid
AG (SHL)  all filed for insolvency the past four months.  Q-Cells, with about 2,300 workers and production facilities
in Germany and  Malaysia , is one of the biggest renewable energy
employers in Germany.  Henning Schorisch, a lawyer with HWW Wienberg Wilhelm, was
appointed preliminary insolvency administrator and had arrived
at company headquarters, Ina von Spies, a spokeswoman, said
today by phone.  “It’s now on us to support with all our strength the
insolvency administrator in its plan to create a new concept to
secure the company and the jobs,” Chief Executive Officer Nedim Cen said in an e-mailed statement.  Q-Cells rose 7.9 percent, to 13.6 euro cents, by the 5:30
p.m. close of Frankfurt trading after Mitteldeutsche Zeitung
reported the German state of Saxony-Anhalt may help the company
in its restructuring effort. The newspaper cited an interview
with Jens Bullerjahn, the state’s finance minister.  Q-Cells said it had to file for insolvency after a decision
in late March by the Frankfurt Higher Regional Court required
 Pfleiderer AG (PFD4) , a wood processing company, to seek unanimous
agreement from creditors to a debt restructuring.  Until that court decision, Q-Cells had planned to
restructure its debt based on approval by a majority of
creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  