-- Rakoff Asked to Move 400 Madoff Suits as Deadline Passes
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-04-03T14:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/rakoff-asked-to-move-400-madoff-suits-as-deadline-passes.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
Merrill Lynch joined more than 400 defendants in lawsuits
brought by the liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s brokerage
filing papers in the past week to beat a deadline for asking
that their cases be moved to district court from bankruptcy
court.  U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff, who let the New York
Mets owners move their dispute to his court, gave others sued by
the Madoff trustee,  Irving Picard , until the end of yesterday to
request a transfer. He said district courts are the proper venue
for some of the claims lodged by Picard because they don’t
involve only bankruptcy law.  The transfer of cases may undercut U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland ’s power to reverse some fraudulent transfers and
limit Picard’s ability to collect money to pay victims of
Madoff’s $52 billion Ponzi scheme, the largest in U.S. history.
In the Mets case, the parties settled after Rakoff made
principal harder for Picard to take back and limited the
recoverable profits, cutting the trustee’s permitted demands by
almost two-thirds to $386 million from $1 billion.  “For Picard, this is a serious blow” in handling Madoff
cases, Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham Greenebaum
Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky , said of the Mets ruling.
Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Rakoff’s impact on
Madoff suits.  ‘Perverting’ the Law  Rakoff, who with U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  has
tossed $90 billion of Picard’s claims, set his deadline for new
applications in early March. At the time, more than 400
defendants had tried to move their cases from bankruptcy court,
mostly to Rakoff, according to a March 5 bankruptcy court order.  Rakoff by then had about 280 Mets-related cases to review.
Just since March 27, more than 400 new requests were filed in
court. Among defendants were Koch Industries Inc., the company
run by billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch, and Mark Madoff’s widow, Stephanie.  Picard has said people and companies he sued are
“eviscerating” the bankruptcy court and “perverting” the law
by rushing to find new judges for their cases. They seek an
“escape hatch” from bankruptcy court, which Congress intended
to handle cases involving clawbacks of money withdrawn from a
 Ponzi scheme , the trustee said in an October filing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “With the floodgates fully flung open, more and more
parties are blatantly engaging in forum shopping,” Picard said.  Second Look  HSBC, based in  London , and UniCredit, based in Milan,
applied to Rakoff a second time after he deleted Picard’s
biggest demands for money and sent their cases back to
bankruptcy court. They merited a second look because Rakoff
changed the rules about Ponzi transfers in handling the Mets
suit, the banks said last week in district court filings.  Rakoff said in the Mets ruling that Picard can sue for two
years’ of Ponzi profit, not six, and can’t take back principal
if the defendants can prove they acted in good faith.  “My guess is, to the extent Judge Rakoff has the Madoff
cases, he’ll rule consistently with his previous limits,”  Nancy Rapoport , a bankruptcy law professor at the University of
 Nevada ,  Las Vegas , said in an e-mail. “In any other court, it’s
still an open question.”  District judges are reexamining the way bankruptcy trustees
use the law since the Anna Nicole Smith case, when the U.S.
Supreme Court in June described limits to bankruptcy judges’
power. That stopped the former Playboy model’s heirs from
collecting $449 million from Texas billionaire J. Howard
Marshall’s estate and put district judges in control of more
bankruptcy issues.  Brokerage Cases  Rakoff’s ruling on taking back two years of profit applies
only to cases involving a brokerage such as Madoff’s, so
bankruptcy trustees will continue to sue for six years of profit
in other cases, said  Peter Henning , a former Securities and
Exchange Commission lawyer who teaches at Wayne State University
in  Detroit . He predicted that Picard will seek an opportunity to
appeal the two-year ruling relating to brokerages as well.  “Strictly speaking, one district judge’s bankruptcy
decision does not bind another district judge,” even in the  New
York  district where Rakoff has his court, said  Stephen Lubben , a
bankruptcy law professor at Seton Hall University in  Newark ,  New
Jersey . If the judges disagree, an appeals court will have to
resolve the issue, he said in an e-mail.  When asked to review a Picard case, Rakoff considers the
request, then decides if he will remove the case from bankruptcy
court and what aspects he will rule on, explaining his reasoning
in a written opinion.  Maxam Capital  Rakoff told Maxam Capital Management LLC and founder Sandra Manzke on March 14 that he would take their case to decide
Picard’s rights and obligations under non-bankruptcy law. Picard
demanded almost $100 million of principal invested in the Ponzi
scheme by Maxam, which said it lost $215 million on its
investments.  Picard filed more than 1,050 lawsuits to recoup
$100 billion he alleges was stolen from the confidence man’s
other customers. He often accused parties of ignoring “red
flags” warning of fraud. Rakoff told him that wasn’t enough to
recoup money they invested -- there must be proof of bad faith.  Picard, who has charged $273 million for his firm’s Madoff
work, is appealing the district court decisions that knocked out
$90 billion of his claims against banks. Madoff is in jail,
serving a 150-year sentence for fraud.  The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 