-- Rand Worst Emerging Currency as Copper Declines on Stockpiles
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-04-03T15:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/rand-gains-for-third-day-as-u-s-chinese-data-suggest-growth.html
The rand fell for the first time in
three days as copper declined on rising stockpiles and as
investors awaited the minutes of last month’s U.S. Federal
Reserve policy meeting.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated as much as 0.7 percent
and traded 0.4 percent weaker at 7.6787 per dollar as of 4:47
p.m. in Johannesburg, the worst performer out of 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on South
 Africa ’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 rose four basis points to
6.724 percent.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange
rose for a third session and are on course for the first monthly
climb since September. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will
release today minutes of its March 13 meeting when policy makers
raised their assessment of the economy and repeated that
“exceptionally low” interest rates may be needed through late
2014.  “The FOMC minutes will probably be the one that the market
focuses on; that will really give us an insight into what the
Fed is thinking,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based
chief dealer at Bidvest Bank Ltd., the nation’s biggest chain of
money-changers, said by phone.  The rand may strengthen against the dollar if the FOMC
minutes confirm the Fed is still concerned about growth in the
U.S. and is not going to raise  interest rates  anytime soon, he
said.  Copper for three-month delivery fell as much as 0.9 percent
to $8,562 a metric ton. Commodities including metals account for
64 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to government
data. The nation has the world’s biggest reserves of platinum,
manganese and chrome.  Easter Weekend  Importer demand due to a shortened week also contributed to
rand weakness, De Vleeschauwer said. South Africa’s markets are
closed on April 6 and April 9 for the Easter holidays.  “Demand at the bottom end of the 7.60 to 7.70 range from
local importers who want to hedge their exposures ahead of the
Easter long weekend is driving the rand up,” he added.  Earlier, the National Association of Automobile
Manufacturers of South Africa said vehicle sales increased at
the slowest pace in more than two years in March as companies
cut back on purchases.  Sales rose 4.8 percent in March from a year earlier to
56,110, the Pretoria-based industry organisation said in an e-
mailed statement. Growth in sales eased from 6.4 percent in
February.  Companies have pared back spending as the debt crisis in
 Europe  curbed demand in a region that buys about a third of
South African manufactured exports. Growth in Africa’s largest
economy is set to slow to 2.7 percent this year from 3.1 percent
in 2011, according to the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net 
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at  