-- Trash Saved by Waste Management Worth Up to $40 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-04-04T13:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/trash-saved-by-waste-management-worth-up-to-40-billion.html
Waste Management Inc. (WM) , the biggest
trash hauler in the U.S., estimates the $12.3 billion it gets
for carting off rubbish to landfills may be worth more than $40
billion a year in energy.  That’s the value of fuel and chemicals the Houston-based
company estimates could be extracted from the 112 million tons
of trash it collected last year if the entire waste stream was
diverted from landfills, said Carl Rush, senior vice president
of Waste Management’s Organic Growth unit.  About 82 percent of that rubbish currently is put into
dumps. Since 2009, Waste Management has bought stakes in eight
companies that gasify, ferment or digest trash, turning it into
a source of heat, power, transportation fuel and specialty
chemicals. All of it is worth more than trash buried
underground.  “We don’t think the future, long term, is going to be
continuing to put everything in the landfill,” Rush said in an
interview. “It’s going to be recovering more value from this
material. The customers will demand it, the struggle for
resources will demand it, and quite honestly, economically, it’s
the thing we should be doing.”  About 92 million tons of the garbage that Waste Management
hauled away last year ended up in dumps, with collection,
landfill and transfer operations generating $12.3 billion in
 revenue . The company’s total 2011 revenue of $13.4 billion
includes a $2 billion reduction for intercompany payments.  While it’s impossible to divert all of the waste, the
never-ending source of raw materials holds the potential to
produce energy, fuel and chemicals that the company is at the
forefront of tapping.  Trash to Electricity  Waste Management already produces energy from trash, by
incinerating it to make electricity at 17  waste-to-energy  plants
and capturing methane from decomposing garbage at 131 landfill
facilities. The company’s investments highlight a strategy to
develop more profitable conversion technologies and move beyond
a business model dependent on per-ton disposal rates, known as
tipping fees, Rush said.  About 7.1 percent the company’s trash was burned to make
electricity last year and it recycled 12 million tons of garbage
worth $1.58 billion in revenue. The entire stream, if recycled,
would generate about $12 billion a year, Rush estimated. The
company charges about $20 to $100 a ton to collect garbage and
to customers who dump waste at its landfills.  “Based on a typical tipping fee,” the returns from
selling fuel and chemicals made from garbage are “pretty
attractive,” Rush said.  Venture Capitalist  Pursuing those returns means Waste Management is taking on
a new role, which may not be a good fit for its existing
businesses, said Hamzah Mazari, an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG in  New York . By investing in technology startups the
waste-hauler is becoming a source of capital, requiring it to
evaluate multiple prospects to identify the most promising
recipients.  The company “has no core competency in any of these
businesses, so they’re strictly acting as a silent partner, or
acting as really a venture capital company,” Mazari said.  “Whoever develops the technology needs Waste Management,
and they can strike a deal once a technology is commercial,”
Mazari said. “Waste Management doesn’t have to make these
investments because they already control the waste stream.”  Waste Management shares have risen about 12 percent since
the beginning of December, tracking the 13 percent gain in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  Eight Stakes  Waste Management owns 11 percent of  Enerkem Inc. (NKM)  and 12.3
percent of  Fulcrum BioEnergy Inc. (FLCM) , which are developing systems
to process waste into ethanol. It also has 25 percent of Agilyx
Corp., which converts waste plastic into a synthetic  crude oil .
It owns 6.9 percent of  Genomatica Inc. (GENO) , which is developing
genetically modified microorganisms that convert gasified
garbage into chemicals.  Waste Management is backing four other ventures developing
processes to produce transportation fuels, heat or electricity
from waste: Terrabon Inc., Harvest Power Inc., Agnion Energy
Inc. and InEnTec Inc.  Enerkem expects to produce about 100 gallons (379 liters)
of ethanol from a ton of municipal solid waste, and Fulcrum is
aiming for about 70 gallons a ton, according to filings.  Agilyx can convert a ton of plastic into about 5 barrels of
oil, according to chief executive officer Chris Ulum. At those
conversion rates, the companies can turn a ton of waste into
about $520 of oil, or as much as $232 of ethanol, based on
current prices. As much as $600 of chemicals could be produced
from a ton of waste, Rush said.  “That’s a significant step up in value,” Rush said.  Waste Management won’t say how much it’s invested in
garbage-to-energy companies. Mazari estimates it’s “spending
about $8 million per investment on average,” and more than $50
million a year.  Three IPOs  Beside revenue from selling energy and fuel, Waste
Management’s minority holdings may yield a return if the
ventures sell shares in public offerings. At least three are
planning to do so.  Enerkem is seeking to raise as much as $137.8 million and
may price its shares at $17 to $19 each tonight. Fulcrum and
Genomatica are planning to raise as much as $115 million and
$100 million through IPOs, respectively, and haven’t said when
their shares may start trading. Agilyx may register for an IPO
this year, according to Chrysalix Energy Venture Capital, one of
the company’s other venture backers.  Buying Technology, Production  Waste Management’s investments are aimed primarily at
acquiring new technology and production capacity, Rush said.  “The only reason we invest in the companies, quite
frankly, is to get some opportunities to invest in those kinds
of facilities,” Rush said. “At a minimum we want be partners
in facilities that use our feedstocks. We do not care to be just
a feedstock supplier.”  It’s also acquired 7.25 percent of Enerkem’s first
commercial plant, under construction in  Edmonton ,  Canada , and it
may build six U.S. plants to use the ethanol technology,
according to a filing.  Waste Management is building a plant in  Oregon  to use
Agilyx’s fuel technology, and its investment includes rights to
the plastic-conversion technology for a decade, Rush said.  The company is providing feedstock for Fulcrum’s first
commercial ethanol plant near Reno,  Nevada , and agreed in
December to jointly develop chemicals with Genomatica for four
years.  Energy Technology  The trash hauler is also developing energy technology
internally. It operates a pilot plant in  Oklahoma City ,
 Oklahoma , that converts landfill gas into about 250 gallons of
diesel a day for the company’s trucks. He said the company is
open to acquiring outright energy companies instead of buying
minority stakes.  Moving into energy is a good strategy for Waste Management,
according to Aleksandra Rybczynska, an analyst with Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  “Landfill space in the U.S. is getting more and more
limited,” she said. Fulcrum and Enerkem offer a new source of
revenue and a new way to dispose of waste, while Genomatica
provides an opportunity to “tap into high-revenue chemicals.”  Having Waste Management’s support helps small companies
achieve scale as they move their technologies from a lab to a
commercial setting, she said. “That’s what Waste Management
needs, commercially available technology,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  