-- RBS Said to Scrap Sale of Bonds Backed by Own Derivative
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-04-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/rbs-said-to-scrap-sale-of-bonds-backed-by-own-derivative.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
pulled a $207 million sale of bonds backed by its own derivative
trades after investors scarred by losses on exotic debt balked
at the complexity, three people briefed on the matter said.  The deal, called Score, was canceled in February, said the
people, who asked to remain anonymous because the plan wasn’t
public. Money put up by  bondholders  would have been used to
reimburse RBS if customers failed to pay up on a 2 billion-pound
($3.2 billion) book of derivatives trades, according to a
November presentation. If no customers defaulted, bondholders
would get their money back plus interest topping 15 percent.  The cancellation shows RBS misjudged the appetite for
securities constructed like those that led to the 2008 financial
crisis. While RBS described deals such as Score as a “key
tool” to build capital after its government bailout, investors
burned by about $420 billion of losses on subprime-backed
collateralized debt obligations remain wary of intricate
vehicles that promise outsized returns, the people said.  “I don’t know who would actually go out and purchase
these,” said  Dan Rosen , chief executive officer of Toronto-
based consultant R2 Financial Technologies Inc., which advises
banks and investors on risk management. “You have thousands of
derivatives, hundreds of risk factors.”  Sale Aborted  The bank abandoned the idea after a rally this year in
corporate bonds reduced pressure on RBS, a person with knowledge
of the decision said. An RBS spokeswoman, Rebecca Nelson,
declined to comment. The Edinburgh-based firm, the U.K.’s
largest government-owned lender, received a 46 billion-pound
U.K. rescue and has posted annual losses for  four straight
years , including 2011’s 2 billion-pound deficit.  “RBS is going to be under continued pressure to raise
capital for the foreseeable future,” said Glenn Blasius, CEO of
Ovid Capital Advisors LLC in  New York , formed last month to
manage and invest in structured deals that help banks free up
capital. Blasius said he couldn’t imagine why the bank backed
off “just because the market rallied.”  Score -- short for Securitization of Credit Risk Exposures
-- was among a breed of deals conceived by financiers over the
past decade to help banks free up capital while minimizing the
need for asset sales. Lenders are facing regulations adopted
after the 2008 crisis requiring them to hold more capital to
serve as a buffer against losses and head off future bailouts.  When Trades Fail  The Score deal also was responding to a growing awareness
among bankers and regulators of the havoc unleashed when a
derivatives trade goes bad. The U.S. government bailed out New
York-based  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  partly on concern
firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. might incur
multibillion-dollar losses if AIG failed to make good on
derivatives payments.  RBS planned to sell the Score bonds in U.K. currency
totaling 130 million pounds. Here’s how the deal was supposed to
work, according to the bank’s presentation:  RBS first would estimate its “credit-risk exposures” on
derivatives trades with about 230 customers. Such risks arise
when a lender uses a derivatives contract to bet on  interest
rates , commodities, currencies and  stocks . If prices move in the
bank’s favor, it effectively creates a debt to the bank -- and
the risk that the loser might not pay. The credit exposure is
the estimated potential profit on all of RBS’s trades with each
customer at any point in the deal’s six-year life.  Loss Buffer  Next, RBS would put the exposures -- in this case totaling
2 billion pounds -- into a pool and agree to absorb the first
0.5 percent of losses from any customer defaults, or 10 million
pounds. It then would sell investors 70 million pounds of junior
notes whose principal would take a hit if customer defaults
climb beyond 10 million pounds.  In return for that risk, the bonds offered an interest rate
of 15.5 percent over benchmark money-market rates. Another 60
million-pound class of “mezzanine notes” paying 11.5 percent
over the benchmark would get wiped out if losses reached 140
million pounds.  RBS planned to keep the remaining 1.86 billion pounds of
credit exposures, or the top 93 percent. Since the firm would
then have a 7 percent buffer against losses, its own position
garnered an  Aa3 rating  from Moody’s Investors Service -- the
fourth-highest among 21 grades. As a result, the bank would be
deemed less likely to suffer losses than before the deal, and
would be allowed to keep less capital on hand.  Free Pass  “Alignment of interest is achieved as RBS retains an
economic interest in all the underlying names in the
portfolio,” the bank said in the presentation. “This will also
fulfill new regulatory requirements.”  If all the derivatives trades had gone against RBS, the
credit exposures would have dropped to zero, because customers
on the other side of the trade owed nothing to the bank. The
upshot: Bond investors would have gotten a free pass on
reimbursements, the people said.  Score offered “attractive returns” as well as the ability
to invest in “names which are not readily available in the
market,” according to the presentation. Some of the trading
customers “may not have public ratings,” the bank said.  Still, when RBS marketed the deal to investors late last
year, it couldn’t find enough takers for the junior notes at the
proposed interest rate, the people briefed on the sale said. The
10 million-pound buffer against losses wasn’t enough insulation,
making the bonds too risky to hold even with the coupon of more
than 15 percent, one of the people said.  Bonds Rally  The bank canceled the transaction in February after a rally
in corporate bonds made the deal less attractive compared with
other available methods of freeing capital, one person said.
Shares of RBS advanced more than 30 percent this year.  Wall Street’s practice of packaging debt into structured
securities with arcane names became tainted after subprime-
mortgage-backed collateralized debt obligations saddled lenders
and investors with hundreds of billions of dollars of losses
during the financial crisis. Losses quickly burned through
junior portions of structured securities, forcing holders of the
senior AAA portions to take writedowns and contributing to the
collapse of some credit markets in the 2008 financial crisis.  Capital-relief deals like Score have proved more reliable,
said two investors who asked not to be identified because most
of the deals are negotiated privately.  Customer Backing  That’s partly because the bonds are usually backed by the
financial strength of the bank’s regular corporate customers,
with whom they have continuing relationships. By contrast,
subprime loans were often written by independent lenders and
then bought up by firms including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Merrill
Lynch & Co., mainly to generate fees from packaging them into
new securities.  According to the November presentation, RBS and one of its
predecessors, ABN Amro Bank NV, have “structured more than 15
such customized transactions with a nominal amount exceeding 180
billion pounds.” An ABN Amro deal from 2003 called Amsco valued
at about 5 billion euros paid off in full.  A group of former ABN Amro executives led the Score deal,
including Emaad Siddiqui, Serdar Ozdemir, Kaikobad Kakalia and
Gerwin Scharmann. Siddiqui, who left the bank earlier this year,
said he couldn’t comment. The others declined to comment or
didn’t return calls for comment.  RBS has strengthened its financial base since its
government bailout by seeking private investment and reducing
holdings of corporate, real estate and project-finance loans,
according to a January report by Jonathan Glionna, a Barclays
Plc analyst.  More Capital  While the lender has improved its  capital base  to about 10
percent of assets from 2 percent in 2007, “it’s their intention
to continue to build capital, like it is for almost all the
banks,” Glionna said in an interview.  Ann Rutledge, a former Moody’s analyst who’s now a
principal at R&R Consulting in New York, said shifting risks to
outside investors was a good idea in theory.  “It’s true finance,” said Rutledge, whose firm rates
mortgage bonds and other asset-backed securities. “You
stabilize things for the people who really want predictability
and you leave more yield for the people who are willing to take
a bigger risk.”  Still, elaborate financing structures don’t always work out
as intended, she said.  “You’re trying to engineer more precision than may
actually exist,” Rutledge said. “That kind of precision in the
corporate world isn’t possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 