-- Real Madrid Targets Manchester City’s Sergio Aguero: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-03T09:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/real-madrid-targets-manchester-city-s-sergio-aguero-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Aguero Targeted  Real  Madrid  is targeting Manchester City striker  Sergio Aguero  and is willing to offer the Premier League club 8.5
million pounds ($13.6 million) and Gonzalo Higuain for the
Argentine, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Real want to take advantage of a recent row between Aguero
and City’s manager  Roberto Mancini , the newspaper said.  Aguero has scored 17 league goals since he joined City from
Real’s crosstown rival Atletico Madrid last summer for 38
million pounds.  M’Vila Price  Arsenal may have to break its transfer record to sign Yann
M’Vila from French club Rennes, the  Telegraph reported .  With Real and Inter Milan interested in the midfielder,
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger will have to pay at least 17
million pounds to secure the player, the newspaper said.  “If it is Wenger who asks you and wants you then of course
that changes things,” the Sun cited M’Vila as saying.  Liverpool Review  Liverpool’s owners, Fenway Sports Group, are conducting a
“strategic review” of the club including its manager  Kenny
Dalglish , the  Daily Mail reported .  Liverpool has lost six of their last seven Premier League
matches, the worst losing streak since 1953.  Bank Breakers  West Bromwich offered coach  Roy Hodgson  a contract
extension worth 3 million pounds a year, the  Daily Mail
reported .  The offer is the biggest managerial contract in the history
of the club, the paper said. Hodgson’s current agreement with
West Brom runs out at the end of the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London Sydney at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  