-- Treasuries Fall as Fed Minutes Damp Sentiment for More Stimulus
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-03T21:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/treasuries-fall-as-fed-minutes-show-no-emphasis-on-more-easing.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
yields to the highest level in more than a week, after minutes
from the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed policy makers are
holding off on increasing monetary accommodation unless the U.S.
economic expansion falters.  Thirty-year bond yields rose the most in more than two
weeks as the minutes from the March 13 meeting dashed
speculation policy makers would hint at more asset purchases,
known as quantitative easing. Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said the central bank must
continue to act “vigorously” to boost the economy.  “The market was looking for QE3,” said  William Larkin , a
fixed-income  money manager  who helps oversee $500 million at
Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts . “They are
saying that the recovery is on track. They are moving to more
neutral, from more dovish.”  The benchmark  10-year note ’s yield rose 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 2.3 percent at 4:59 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
note due in February 2022 fell one point, or $10.00 per $1,000
face value, to 97 3/8. The yield touched the highest level since
March 22. It declined earlier as much as three basis points. It
touched a record low 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  The yield on the 30-year bond rose 12 basis points to 3.44
percent, the most since March 14.  “The anti-QE3 language that’s in here is definitely
pushing the market to higher yields,” said Thomas Simons, a
government-debt economist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc.,
one of 21 primary dealers that trades with the Fed.  ‘Too Excited’  The odds are that the Fed will need a third round of bond
purchases, or quantitative easing, to bolster the economy,
according to 15 of 21 primary dealers surveyed last week.  “The market had been getting too excited that QE was
coming no matter what,” said  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates
strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. “Now
it’s all about the economy. If we get a 200,000 plus on
payrolls, there is no way the Fed will do QE now. They need to
see a slowing in the momentum.”  Treasury yields have remained close to historic lows on a
flight to quality from  Europe  and as the U.S. central bank has
become the largest purchaser of the securities.  Williams’ View  “We are far below maximum employment and are likely to
remain there for some time,” Williams said in the text of
remarks given today in  San Diego . “Under these circumstances,
it’s essential that we keep strong monetary stimulus in place.
The recovery has been sluggish.”  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said with the
positive outlook for the  U.S. economy , he sees no need for
quantitative easing at this time. Lockhart spoke in an interview
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays .  “The economy is in a situation where it can be interpreted
as half full or half empty,” Lockhart said. “I’m not concerned
about a double-dip reaction. We have an economy that’s growing
at a moderate pace and is getting more traction.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank will consider further stimulus. The bank on March 13 left
unchanged its statement that economic conditions would probably
warrant “exceptionally low”  interest rates  at least through
late 2014. It has held its target rate to a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note touched a 2012 high of 2.4 percent on March 20.  ‘Student of History’  “The Chairman, a great student of history, believes one of
the great monetary mistakes this Fed could make is to remove
accommodation too early,” said Jeffrey Schoenfeld, a partner
and chief investment officer in New York at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., which manages $33 billion in assets. “The Fed
is likely to keep monetary policy easy for an extended period.
Still, with actual rates improving and expectations of growth
improving, it’s hard to hold rates at historical low level.”  Treasuries rose earlier after a government report showed
U.S. factory orders rose 1.3 percent in February, after a
revised 1.1 percent decline in January, compared to median
estimate of a 1.5 percent increase by economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before the report today.  A report April 6 is forecast to show the U.S. added 201,000
jobs in March.  ‘About the Economy’  Treasuries fell 1.3 percent in the first quarter, the
biggest decline since the last three months of 2010, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks returned 12
percent in the period including reinvested dividends, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
spur the economy. The Fed today purchased $1.347 billion in
inflation-indexed securities as part of a program ending in June
that replaces $400 billion of shorter-term debt with longer
maturities to hold down borrowing costs.  Valuation measures show government debt has cheapened. The
term premium, a model created by economists at the Fed, reached
negative 0.37 percent today, the least expensive since March 22.
It reached negative 0.26 percent on March 19, the least
expensive since October. It closed yesterday at negative 0.47
percent. A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Gross on Portugal  Yields dropped earlier as falling prices of bonds of
 Portugal  and Spain renewed concern the region’s sovereign debt
crisis will worsen.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
Portugal was headed for a debt “haircut” after yields on the
nation’s 10-year note today touched the highest level in a week.
Gross, co-chief investment officer and founder of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a
Twitter post about Portugal that “a ‘voluntary exchange’ by
private market seems inevitable.”  Portugal’s 10-year yield touched 12.2 percent, the highest
level since March 26.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds rose 10 basis points to
5.45 percent today and has gained more than 50 basis points
since March 2.  Spain ’s public debt will rise to a record this
year as it sells almost 37 billion euros ($49 billion) of bonds
to finance a  budget deficit  that was more than twice the euro-
region limit last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  