-- Treasuries Hold Gains on After U.S. Factory Orders Rose
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-03T17:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/treasuries-drop-for-second-day-after-china-manufacturing.html
Treasuries rose amid concern the
European sovereign-debt crisis may spread and as traders bet the
minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s March meeting may show
discussions that support additional asset purchases.  Treasuries remained higher after a government report showed
U.S. factory orders increased in February less than forecast.
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
Portugal was headed for a debt “haircut” after yields on the
nation’s 10-year note today touched the highest level in a week.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  will release minutes of its
March 13 meeting at 2 p.m.  “The weakness in euro land is one of the main drivers,”
said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government-bond trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “That’s led to a decent rally. Some
people who would want to sell the market are on the sidelines
until the Fed minutes come out. People are not wanting to fight
the rally.”  The benchmark 10-year note’s yield fell two basis points,
or 0.2 percentage point, to 2.16 percent at 1:35 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
note due in February 2022 rose 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face
value, to 98 18/32. The yield slid three basis points yesterday.
It touched a record low 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year bonds rose 10 basis points to
5.45 percent today and has gained more than 50 basis points
since March 2. Spain’s public debt will rise to a record this
year as it sells almost 37 billion euros ($49 billion) of bonds
to finance a  budget deficit  that was more than twice the euro-
region limit last year.  Lockhart’s View  Treasury yields have remained close to historic lows on a
flight to quality from  Europe  and as the U.S. central bank has
become the largest purchaser of the securities. Primary dealers
say the Fed will continue to buy. Last week, 15 of 21 primary
dealers surveyed said the odds are that the Fed will need a
third round of bond purchases, or quantitative easing, to
bolster the economy.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said with the
positive outlook for the  U.S. economy , he sees no need for
quantitative easing at this time. Lockhart spoke in an interview
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays .  “The economy is in a situation where it can be interpreted
as half full or half empty,” he said. “I’m not concerned about
a double-dip reaction. We have an economy that’s growing at a
moderate pace and is getting more traction.”  ‘Exceptionally Low’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank will consider further stimulus. The bank on March 13 left
unchanged its statement that economic conditions would probably
warrant “exceptionally low”  interest rates  at least through
late 2014. It has held its target rate to a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note touched a 2012 high of 2.4 percent on March 20.  U.S.  factory orders  rose 1.3 percent in February, after a
revised 1.1 percent decline in January, compared to median
estimate of a 1.5 percent increase by economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before the report today.  A report April 6 is forecast to show the U.S. added 201,000
jobs in March.  “People were getting negative on the Fed,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-bond strategy at CRT Capital Group
LLC in Stamford Connecticut. “People were saying the Fed’s
going to back away and pull up the 2014 time frame. Now they are
rethinking and saying it’s too early to do the Fed-off trade.”  First-Quarter Loss  Treasuries fell 1.3 percent in the first quarter, the
biggest decline since the last three months of 2010, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 12
percent in the period including reinvested dividends, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
spur the economy. The Fed today purchased $1.347 billion in
inflation-indexed securities as part of a  program  ending in June
that replaces $400 billion of shorter-term debt with longer
maturities to hold down borrowing costs.  China ’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the U.S.
Fed has a responsibility to consider the global effects of its
actions after emerging-market economies suffered from capital
inflows.  Valuation Measures  Zhou’s comments reprise criticism of the U.S. from emerging
nations who complained that so-called quantitative easing was
sending unwanted cash into their economies, adding to inflation
risks.  Valuation measures show government debt is near the most
expensive level in almost three weeks. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, dropped to negative 0.48
percent today after reaching negative 0.26 percent on March 19,
the least expensive since October. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Gross, co-chief investment officer and founder of  Newport
Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said
in a Twitter post about  Portugal  that “a ‘voluntary exchange’
by private market seems inevitable.” Portugal’s 10-year yield
touched 12.2 percent, the highest level since March 26.  “There are concerns about Portugal,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “It looks like people
are hedging bets out of Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  