-- Regulators Should Move Faster to Make Shadow Banks Safer
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-03T23:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/regulators-should-move-faster-to-make-shadow-banks-safer.html
The U.S. is busy  exiting  its
taxpayer-funded bailouts, most recently reducing its stake in
American International Group Inc. And  AIG (AIG)  is considering
increasing its mortgage book by purchasing the loans it insures,
a move that could be profitable for AIG, but could also heighten
the insurer’s risks -- and taxpayers’ too.  Nearly four years after the financial crisis began,
regulators on Tuesday finally  agreed  to the criteria they will
use to decide which parts of the shadow banking system to
regulate, but they still haven’t imposed tougher standards on a
single insurer, hedge fund, private-equity shop or money-market
mutual fund. Failure to do so exposes the  U.S. economy  to
unnecessary dangers.  AIG is a prime example. The giant insurer required a $182
billion bailout in 2008. Its near-collapse helped propel the
 Dodd-Frank  financial regulatory overhaul. Many lawmakers and
policy makers agree that large, complex companies like AIG had
fallen through the regulatory cracks.  The Dodd-Frank law addressed this by creating a special
panel of top financial regulators, called the  Financial
Stability Oversight Council , to supervise large companies whose
unraveling could threaten the economy. Those designated as
“systemically important financial institutions” would be subject
to stricter supervision and tougher capital and liquidity
requirements.  Holes Remain  The stability council spent 18 months debating the criteria
it would use to name so-called SIFIs. With that chore out of the
way, the council should move quickly -- next month wouldn’t be
too soon -- to begin naming the actual institutions.  The final criteria are an improvement over an earlier
proposal, but holes remain. For one thing, many potentially
risky companies probably won’t make the list. A Bloomberg
Government  analysis  identified 15 that would meet or exceed the
thresholds, and 10 more that might. Among the companies that
probably will make the cut are AIG, General Electric Capital
Corp. and 10 government-sponsored enterprises, including
mortgage giants  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  Not a single hedge fund, private-equity shop or money-
market mutual fund made the list.  Many of the criteria make sense, including a company’s debt
relative to the capital it holds, reliance on short-term
funding, importance as a source of credit and amount of
derivatives outstanding. The U.S. will also consider existing
regulatory scrutiny to ensure a company is not drowned by
excessive oversight.  Yet the rule will mostly apply to firms with at least $50
billion in assets, the same threshold the Dodd-Frank law set for
banks. It’s unclear whether any hedge funds or private-equity
shops would meet that or the other tests. For example, just one
U.S. hedge-fund manager, Bridgewater Associates LP, has more
than $50 billion in assets, according to Bloomberg Markets.  The council said it lacks data on such firms and may have
to adjust its criteria once it gathers more information. It also
retained the right to designate any non-bank firm as systemic if
“material financial distress” at the company could threaten the
system. We hope the panel makes broad use of those powers -- and
doesn’t let the $50 billion cutoff blind it to potential
threats.  Hedge funds and private-equity firms have been lobbying
regulators not to pull them into the dragnet. Many of these
companies are closely held, and their financial data are not
available to the public. The council should do whatever it takes
to properly assess these firms’ risks.  Money-Market Funds  The panel also delayed a decision on whether to designate
money-market mutual funds as systemically important. That’s
surprising, given the tumult the Reserve Primary Fund caused in
fall 2008 when it “broke the buck,” meaning its net asset value
fell below the $1-a-share level that money-market funds are
expected to maintain. The Securities and Exchange Commission is
considering new rules for these funds, but if it fails to act,
the council should.  BlackRock Inc., (BLK)  the giant money-management firm with more
than $3.5 trillion in assets, is also worth a close look. The
firm might not trigger any thresholds beyond size, but it’s hard
to imagine why regulators wouldn’t want to closely supervise
such a sprawling complex, regardless of how well it’s managed.  Large insurers, too, should get closer scrutiny, given that
other financial institutions are highly exposed to them through
derivatives and other instruments. It would be calamitous if an
insurer with millions of policyholders and thousands of
financial counterparties collapsed -- as the government feared
would happen if AIG weren’t rescued.  If the council of regulators did all this, it would
probably sweep up more firms than it expected to have to
oversee. But erring on the side of tagging too many shadow banks
as systemically risky, and making adjustments later, seems the
wiser course. Anything less is asking for trouble.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on sanctions as  tools of
diplomacy ;  Peter Orszag  on  student performance and food stamps ;
William Pesek on  Japan ’s  embrace of Herbert Hoover ; Clive Crook
on  “Why Nations Fail” ; and Clare Malone on  Yale’s campus in
illiberal Singapore . 