-- LDP Rejection of Bank of Japan Nominee Adds Pressure
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-04-04T06:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/rejection-of-bank-of-japan-nominee-by-ldp-adds-pressure-to-ease.html
Japan ’s biggest opposition party
said it will reject Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s central bank
nominee as lawmakers press for a more aggressive monetary policy
to spur growth and end deflation.  Liberal  Democratic Party  officials agreed yesterday to
oppose BNP Paribas SA economist  Ryutaro Kono  joining the policy
board, said Fumio Kishida, head of the party’s Diet affairs
committee. LDP lawmaker Tsuruho Yousuke today said the
nomination will be voted on tomorrow in the upper house, where
Noda’s Democratic Party of Japan lacks a majority.  Lawmakers’ complaints, forecasts for a stronger yen and
pessimism among large manufacturers may add pressure on the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  to loosen monetary policy further this month.
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his officials have pledged
“powerful easing” until 1 percent inflation is in sight after
increasing asset purchases by 10 trillion yen ($122 billion)
on Feb. 14.  “It looks very difficult for the nomination to be
passed,” said Yasuhide Yajima, senior economist at NLI Research
Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The BOJ may feel more pressure to
ease this month because of this disagreement.”  Opposition to Kono’s nomination spans smaller parties and
some lawmakers within the Noda’s DPJ. Takeshi Miyazaki, a DPJ
lawmaker and a leader of the ruling party’s anti-deflation
group, said last month that Kono was perceived as someone who is
“negative towards monetary easing.”  Kono, ranked the nation’s top economist by Nikkei Veritas,
the weekly edition of Japan’s largest business newspaper, wasn’t
available to comment after his nomination was announced.  Yen’s Retreat  The yen traded at 82.63 against the dollar as of 3:01 p.m.
in Tokyo. It has retreated more than 8 percent since reaching a
postwar high of 75.35 in October.  The five-year terms of Seiji Nakamura, 69, and Hidetoshi Kamezaki, 68, former executives in the shipping and trading-
company industries, conclude today. The next policy meeting is
on April 9-10, and the bank doesn’t require all nine board seats
to be filled.  “The LDP has chosen a stance of opposing anybody,” said
 Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist at Societe Generale SA in
Tokyo. “This proposal is dead unless the DPJ can somehow
compromise with the LDP.”  Both houses of parliament need to approve appointments, and
while the DPJ controls the lower house it lacks a majority in
the upper chamber, where the LDP is the largest force. Smaller
opposition groups New Komeito and Your Party last week said that
they would oppose the appointment.  Disagree  “The LDP is taking the approach that we disagree with the
BOJ nomination,” Kishida told reporters yesterday. “This
person’s thinking, his approach to policy and other aspects were
taken into consideration.”  The world’s third-largest economy has contracted in three
of the past four years and is struggling to recover from last
year’s earthquake and tsunami. Closures of nuclear reactors have
swelled energy costs, while deflation that has lingered for more
than a decade makes it harder to revive growth.  This week, the BOJ’s Tankan survey showed large
manufacturers’ confidence failed to improve in March from the
previous quarter and executives see the Japanese currency
averaging 78.14 per dollar this fiscal year, a gain that would
make exports less competitive. Akio Toyoda, the president of
Toyota Motor Corp., said last month that an “appropriate
level” is 95 to 100.  Kono said last month that BOJ policy alone cannot solve
structural problems in the economy and warned of risks
associated with “aggressive monetary policy” in a country with
a ballooning public debt.  Echoing Shirakawa  His comments echo the views of Shirakawa, who has warned
that monetary policy cannot solve all of Japan’s woes and
financing public debt would damage the economy over time.  The Bank of Japan has kept its main  interest rate  below 1
percent since the mid-1990s. Lawmakers have called on the
central bank to double the 1 percent inflation goal set in
February and increase bond purchases, measures that helped to
weaken a currency that hit a postwar high of 75.35 in October.  “LDP opposition will make the nomination very difficult,”
said  Koji Ochiai , Tokyo-based chief market economist at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co., a primary dealer. “Politicians are
keen to see more BOJ actions as the February decision proved
they can make a difference.”  The BOJ nomination is not the only challenge Noda faces.
His approval ratings have fallen by half since September, when
he became Japan’s sixth leader in five years. His plan to double
the nation’s consumption tax to 10 percent by October 2015 is
opposed by some members in his own party as well as the LDP,
which has called for early elections before it considers the
legislation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  