-- Republicans Fail at Business Role in Defying Chamber
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/republicans-fail-at-business-role-in-defying-chamber.html
Business groups counting on
Republican gains in Congress to deliver their legislative agenda
are voicing frustration over obstacles within a party usually
allied with their interests.  At least two measures are hitting snags -- long-term
highway construction funding and authority to keep the Export-
Import Bank in business beyond May 31. Many of the Republicans
elected in 2010 lean too heavily toward the demands of the Tea
Party and other anti-spending groups, business leaders say.  “There are a number of Republican members, particularly
new members, who are against the federal government having a
large role in transportation issues,” said Pete Ruane,
president of the American Road and Transportation Builders
Association in Washington, D.C. “I don’t understand that,”
Ruane said. “Their larger idea of cutting off federal spending
trumps their support for transportation.”  Bruce Josten , top lobbyist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
said Tea Party-backed lawmakers have focused the congressional
agenda on the  deficit  and  debt . “It’s entirely appropriate if
you look at the numbers,” he added.  Still, Josten criticized the anti-spending Club for Growth,
which rates lawmakers in part on whether they join it in
opposing the highway and bank bills.  “Just saying no to everything is not a contribution to the
debate,” Josten said.  Export-Import Prospects  Business groups will probably see a resolution of both
issues this year, some lawmakers say.  “Ex-Im is likely to be reauthorized,” said Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, “and if a final highway bill
can be paid for appropriately and doesn’t add to the deficit, I
think it will pass.”  Other Republicans maintain that the party won control of
the U.S. House in 2010 and gained Senate seats because voters
wanted restraint on  government spending , not an agenda aligned
entirely with business. New House members react to that and pull
the debate their way, they say.  “This is actually a very free-market-oriented majority,”
said Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican. “It’s
focused more on the deficit, the long-term tax structure, than
things individual industries might like. But it’s getting really
big issues taken care of.”  The business lobby, he said, should take heart in last
year’s passage of three free-trade agreements with  Panama ,
 Colombia  and  South Korea  and other gains.  “Nobody gets everything they want every day,” Cole said.
“Welcome to the world of politics.”  Shutdowns Possible  A stymied debate on the highway-funding and Export-Import
Bank bills is replaying a scenario familiar in Washington:
carrying government operations important to companies close to a
shutdown. Businesses, including  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,
count on the bank to provide loans, loan guarantees and
insurance to foreign companies to buy U.S.-made products.
Companies like Clark Construction Group LLC seek to win
contracts underwritten by highway funds.  Congress voted March 29 to extend highway funds through
June 30, the ninth short-term extension since 2009. President
 Barack Obama  signed the measure, which will keep construction
projects going and 3,500 federal workers on the job.  House leaders’ effort to create a long-term bill stalled
amid disputes among Republicans over how to pay for projects and
whether mass transit should keep getting  gas-tax  money.  $109 Billion Bill  The Senate passed a two-year, $109 billion highway spending
plan March 14 on a 74-22 vote. Yet the struggle to agree on a
multi-year bill has dragged on so long that the Highway Trust
Fund, which pays for highway and mass transit projects, is
almost insolvent.  The Export-Import measure also is hitting roadblocks.  Senate Republicans refused to advance a measure March 20 to
reauthorize the bank for four years and boost its lending limit
by 40 percent to $140 billion. Republicans said they didn’t want
to debate it as part of a bill on Securities and Exchange
Commission rules.  House Republicans  proposed a one-year renewal
lifting the bank’s lending cap by 13 percent.  Bank Chairman  Fred Hochberg  said March 23 a one-year
extension would signal the bank can’t be relied on for steady
funding. It probably will reach its $100 billion lending limit
before the charter expires May 31, he said.  More than 300 trade groups and businesses, including United
Technologies Corp. and  Textron Inc. (TXT) , sent a letter March 29
urging congressional leaders in both parties to act quickly to
renew the bank.  ‘The Only Tool’  “Ex-Im is the only tool manufacturers have to offset the
financing support our competitors receive from their
governments,” they wrote. “The ability of U.S. companies to
maximize their exports is more important than ever.”  Business groups favoring the highway and lending programs
face opposition from groups like the Club for Growth and Tea
Party Express, which support companies’ desires for low taxes
yet disagree when business wants more spending on programs such
as energy production and transportation.  “There’s a difference between being pro-business and being
pro-free market,” said Barney Keller, a Club for Growth
spokesman. His group wants states to pay a larger share of
highway projects and calls the Export-Import bank “another form
of corporate welfare” picking economic winners and losers.  Sal Russo, political director of the  Tea Party  Express,
says it doesn’t use “litmus tests,” though it endorses
lawmakers who question the wisdom of expanding government
programs such as the Export-Import Bank.  Government Versus Banks  “Governments don’t make good decisions with banks and with
loans,” said Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, a first-term
Republican elected with Tea Party backing. “When Republicans
are in charge, they give the loans to their friends; when
Democrats are in charge, they give the loans to their friends.”  “If you want to be a critic of deficits, you should
criticize them” no matter who they’re helping, Paul said. “You
should be against big government.”  Some of the anti-spending groups are starting to rival
business in campaign donations and activism, and are trying to
replace Republican incumbents they don’t like with small-
government challengers.  Founded in 1999, the  Club for Growth  has a super-political
action committee that can raise and spend unlimited amounts in
federal elections. It has raised $5.2 million for 2012 elections
and spent more than $574,000.  Upton, Lugar  The group is working to defeat House Energy and Commerce
Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, and
Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , the top Republican on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee. It says they don’t do enough
to curb the size of government.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce spends more, yet centers its
efforts on the general elections. So far in this campaign, it
has spent $3.9 million for network TV ads in House races and
$5.5 million in Senate races, according to Kantar Media’s CMAG,
which tracks campaign ads. Many of them support vulnerable
Republican incumbents and help party members seeking open seats.  As Republicans split over business bills, some Democrats
say their party may benefit. Tea Party influence leaves
congressional Democrats more closely aligned with business
interests than Republicans, said Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New
York , the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat.  “The hard right is pretty far away from the mainstream
business community,” Schumer said, “and there are many issues
where Democrats are closer to them now than the  Republican Party 
because they’ve moved so far to the right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  