-- TripAdvisor Files Antitrust Complaint Against Google With EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-03T15:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/tripadvisor-files-antitrust-complaint-against-google-with-eu.html
TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  filed an antitrust
complaint against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  with European Union regulators,
adding a second set of allegations from an online travel company
against the world’s largest search-engine operator.  TripAdvisor’s complaint addresses “anti-competitive and
unfair practices by Google that harm the marketplace and
consumer welfare,” the Newton, Massachusetts-based company said
today in a statement, which didn’t give details of the claims.
Streetmap, a British mapping service, also filed a complaint
with regulators, the European Commission said.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  last week filed a complaint with the
commission, which is investigating claims that Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting rival ads.  Joaquin Almunia ,
the EU’s competition commissioner, has said he may decide this
month whether to proceed with a case against Google.  “We hope that the commission takes prompt corrective
action to ensure a healthy and competitive online environment
that will foster innovation across the Internet,” TripAdvisor
said in the statement.  Google hasn’t seen the complaint and “will continue to
discuss any concerns with the commission, knowing that there’s
always room for improvement,” said Al Verney, a spokesman for
the company in Brussels.  The commission has received TripAdvisor’s complaint,
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the regulator in Brussels,
said in an e-mail.  Thwarting Competition  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is under
growing pressure from global antitrust agencies probing whether
the company is thwarting competition in the market for Web
searches. While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have
about a quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost
95 percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog
post last year, citing data from regulators.  Google  introduced  a flight-search service last year that
“excludes any link to online travel agencies,” which hampers
customers’ comparison shopping, an outside counsel for Bellevue,
Washington-based Expedia told a U.S. Senate subcommittee in
September. Google’s actions strayed from a commitment it made to
U.S. regulators to gain approval to buy ITA Software Inc., it
said.  Misleading Consumers  Lastminute.com Ltd. “shares Expedia’s concerns surrounding
Google’s practices,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Tactics that may mislead consumers and exclude rivals call
for “a full investigation into Google’s practices on the travel
verticals, such as flight and hotel search,” said Matthew Crummack, Lastminute.com’s president and chief executive officer
in the statement.  “Value per transaction” of travel websites “is quite
significant, which makes it interesting for competitors to move
into this space,” said Christoph Klenner, secretary general of
the European Technology and Travel Services Association, a
Brussels-based group whose members include Expedia. “We
certainly hope the commission adds a chapter on travel” to its
ongoing investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 