-- Roche Sees No Justification for Illumina’s Refusal on Talks
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-03T13:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/roche-sees-no-justification-for-illumina-s-refusal-on-talks-2-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  said it’s
disappointed that  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) ’s board rejected its increased
offer for the maker of gene-mapping tools and said there’s “no
justification” for the company’s refusal to negotiate a deal.  The board of San Diego-based Illumina “continues to rebuff
our attempts to engage in substantive discussions,” Roche Chief
Executive Officer Severin Schwan said today in a statement.
“Roche’s increased offer is highly attractive. By not engaging
with Roche, Illumina reinforces the notion that its board and
management are determined to preserve their positions rather
than maximize  shareholder value .”  Illumina today urged shareholders to reject Roche’s slate
of board members, which mean to allow Roche to buy Illumina “at
a low-ball price.” Basel, Switzerland-based Roche raised its
offer last week by 15 percent to about $6.7 billion, or $51 a
share, after Illumina rejected the company’s original bid. That
offer is “grossly inadequate,” Illumina said again today.
Investors have until 6 p.m. New York time April 20 to tender
their stock for the new cash offer, Roche said on March 29.  The increased offer “does not adequately reflect
Illumina’s singular position in an industry poised for
extraordinary growth,” Illumina Chief Executive Officer  Jay Flatley  said in a letter to Roche Chairman Franz Humer. “We are
advising our stockholders that your revised offer is not in
their best interests and not to tender any shares,” Flatley
said in the letter, which was distributed in a statement
yesterday.  Illumina shareholders will decide April 18 whether to
replace board members with Roche nominees, which would clear the
way for talks from both sides. Illumina urged investors to
support the company’s directors.  Illumina rose less than 1 percent to $51.40 at 9:42 a.m.
New York time.  To contact the Reporters responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  