-- Romney Focuses on Obama as Santorum Goes Bowling
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-03T18:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/romney-focuses-on-obama-as-santorum-goes-bowling.html
The leading rivals for the
Republican presidential nomination campaigned today before
 Wisconsin ’s primary polls close with different missions: Mitt Romney focused on President Barack Obama and November’s general
election while Rick Santorum tried to stay viable.  Romney didn’t mention Santorum as he expressed increasing
confidence that he will claim his party’s nomination. Favored to
win today’s other primaries in Maryland and  Washington , D.C.,
Romney is counting on a victory in Wisconsin to intensify
pressure on Santorum to end his candidacy.  “If we have a good turnout, then I’ll become the person
who receives the Wisconsin delegates that I need to go on to
become the nominee,” he said after handing out sandwiches to
potential voters in the Milwaukee suburb of Waukesha.  Targeting Obama, Romney said the president is “looking
everywhere he can to find someone else to blame” for the
failures of his administration. He said Obama’s policies haven’t
encouraged private-sector growth and hiring.  “He gets full credit or blame for what’s happened in this
economy and what’s happened to gasoline prices under his
watch,” Romney said.  For the fifth consecutive day, Romney, 65, was accompanied
by Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, the House Budget
Committee chairman who endorsed him last week and is often
mentioned in media reports as a possible running mate.  Element of Uncertainty  As was the case in Michigan, the Wisconsin primary is open,
meaning Democrats can vote if they like. That offers an element
of uncertainty as both campaigns await the results after the
polls close at 9 p.m. eastern time.  Santorum, 53, planned to spend today fundraising in Austin,
Texas, before flying to his home state of  Pennsylvania  for an
election-night rally, campaign manager Mike Biundo said.  Traveling yesterday through Wisconsin’s northern section,
Santorum stopped at bowling alleys, cheese stores and banquet
halls to try to appeal to the rural voters and evangelical
Christians whose backing has made him Romney’s chief opponent.  “I’m asking small-town America, rural America, rural
Wisconsin to come out and speak loudly tomorrow,” he said in
Oshkosh. “Take the day off tomorrow. It’s on me. And spend some
time getting folks to the polls.”  Also still in the race are U.S. Representative Ron Paul of
 Texas  and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich .  Criticizing Obama  Romney has tried to keep the attention on Obama. “The
right thing for us I think is to get a nominee as soon as we can
and be able to focus on Barack Obama,” he said today on Fox
News.  Romney criticized Obama’s handling of the economy as he
sought votes yesterday in Wisconsin, a state that has been
closely contested in recent presidential elections.  “One of the reasons we’re going to take over the White
House is because he does not know how to make this economy
work,” he said at a Milwaukee stop.  Lis Smith, an Obama campaign spokeswoman, responded with an
e-mail criticizing Romney’s record as governor of  Massachusetts .  “We’ve seen what happens when  Mitt Romney  is in charge,
and it’s greatly at odds with his message today of more jobs,
less debt and smaller government,” Smith said. “During his
four years as governor, Massachusetts had the fourth-worst job-
creation rate of any state in the nation; debt increased by 16
percent; government jobs grew six times as fast as private
sector jobs, and taxes increased by $750 million each year.”  Obama Leads  Obama holds a 51 percent to 42 percent lead over Romney in
a dozen states expected to be the closest in the November
general election, according to a USA Today/Gallup  poll  published
yesterday.  The survey found Romney has lost support among women during
the primaries, giving Obama an 18-percentage-point advantage
among female voters combined in  Colorado ,  Florida ,  Iowa ,
 Michigan , Nevada, New Hampshire,  New Mexico ,  North Carolina ,
 Ohio , Pennsylvania,  Virginia  and Wisconsin.  In his Fox News interview, Romney said he will win over
more support from women as he continues to talk about his
economic views.  “The way we’re going to get women voters in our side of
the column is by talking about how we’re going to get this
economy going again,” he said.  Interracial Marriage  During a stop in a suburb of Green Bay, Romney was asked by
an audience member whether he views interracial marriage as a
sin because he’s a Mormon.  “No,” he said. “Next question.”  Until 1978, the Mormon Church had a policy against
ordaining blacks for the priesthood.  Later in  Milwaukee , he said there’s a “war on religion,”
when asked by an audience member about the Obama
administration’s requirement that employers offering health
care, including religious-affiliated institutions, must cover
contraception.  Overshadowing the presidential race in Wisconsin has been a
recall campaign involving Republican Governor Scott Walker, a
fight that has energized activists in both major parties.  “I understand that you’re involved in this state race,”
Santorum said in Oshkosh. “But I think you also understand how
important this race is for president.”  No Foregone Conclusion  In an effort to pre-empt a poor showing in the state, he
continued stressing the insurgent, underdog nature of his
candidacy.  “I wasn’t supposed to be in Wisconsin in April campaigning
for president because, well, this race was a foregone conclusion
before it started. Governor Romney was going to be the
nominee,” said Santorum, a former U.S. senator from
Pennsylvania.  A contested convention in Tampa, Florida, in August would
be an “energizing thing” for Republicans, Santorum said
yesterday in Appleton. Whoever wins the nomination would have
little difficulty raising money or expanding the campaign staff,
he said.  Still, with polls showing him behind in Wisconsin,
Santorum’s campaign has taken on the air of a Midwestern family
vacation. He made a stop at a cheese store in Appleton, where he
signed a cheese-head hat, headed behind the deli counter to cook
a grilled cheese sandwich, and indulged in a lunchtime beer.  Bowling Alley  From there it was off to a bowling alley in nearby Menasha
-- his seventh such stop in eight days -- to bowl several frames
and reinforce his everyman image against Romney, a former
private-equity executive.  While Santorum says he will stay in the race even if he
loses all of today’s contests, he faces a challenge to keep his
campaign alive through April.  “The map looks a lot better for us in May,” he said
yesterday, referring to primaries scheduled that month in
Southern and border states that include North Carolina,  West
Virginia , Arkansas and Texas.  A three-week voting lull follows today’s contests.
Primaries on April 24 are being held in four states where Romney
is favored -- Rhode Island,  Connecticut ,  New York  and Delaware -
- and Pennsylvania, which Santorum represented for 16 years in
the House and Senate.  A  Quinnipiac University Poll  released today showed Santorum
leads Romney among likely Pennsylvania primary voters, 41
percent to 35 percent. The poll, with a margin of error of plus
or minus 3.9 percentage points, was done March 27 to April 1.  With about half the Republican nominating contests
complete, Romney has exactly half -- 572 -- of the 1,144
delegates needed to capture the nomination, according to an
Associated Press tally. Santorum has 273 delegates and would
need to win about three-fourths of those remaining.  In a NBC News/Marist poll released March 30, Romney led
Santorum in Wisconsin, 40 percent to 33 percent. The telephone
survey of 740 likely Republican primary voters was conducted
March 26-27 and had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6
percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Waukesha, Wisconsin at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Lerer in Appleton, Wisconsin at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  