-- Romney Seeking Three-Way Sweep in Today’s Voting
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-03T21:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/romney-seeking-three-way-sweep-in-today-s-voting.html
Mitt Romney  seeks a three-way sweep
over Rick Santorum in today’s Republican presidential primaries
in Wisconsin,  Maryland  and the  District of Columbia  as he pivots
his focus almost entirely to President Barack Obama and
November’s general election.  Romney didn’t mention Santorum during his final campaign
appearances in Wisconsin as he expressed increasing confidence
that he will claim his party’s nomination. Favored in all of
today’s contests, Romney is counting on a victory in Wisconsin -
- the most competitive -- to intensify pressure on Santorum to
end his candidacy.  “If we have a good turnout, then I’ll become the person
who receives the Wisconsin delegates that I need to go on to
become the nominee,” he said after handing out sandwiches to
potential voters today in the Milwaukee suburb of Waukesha.  Intrade, an online exchange where investors buy shares in a
market that bets on political outcomes, suggests Romney has a
96.1 percent chance of winning  Wisconsin . The state is one of
about a dozen where the general election is expected to be
closest, based on polling and past outcomes.  Targeting Obama, Romney told those gathered in the sandwich
shop that the president is “looking everywhere he can to find
someone else to blame” for the failures of his administration.
He said Obama’s policies haven’t encouraged private-sector
growth and hiring.  ‘Credit or Blame’  “He gets full credit or blame for what’s happened in this
economy and what’s happened to gasoline prices under his
watch,” Romney said.  Minutes after Romney spoke, Obama criticized the former
Massachusetts governor by name and mocked him for describing as
“marvelous” the U.S. House-passed budget that would overhaul
Medicare and cut domestic programs while lowering taxes for high
earners.  “He said that he’s very supportive of this new budget and
he even called it ‘marvelous,’ which is a word you don’t often
hear when it comes to describing budgets,” Obama said at an
Associated Press luncheon in  Washington . “It’s a word you don’t
often hear generally.”  Romney, commenting later in the day on Sean Hannity’s talk
radio show, accused Obama of misrepresenting his policies and
called the president’s speech a “disingenuous, fear-mongered
approach.”  Ryan’s Help  As Romney, 65, wrapped up his campaigning in Wisconsin, he
was accompanied for the fifth consecutive day by Representative
Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the House Budget Committee chairman who
endorsed him last week and is often mentioned in media reports
as a possible running mate.  As was the case in  Michigan ’s Feb. 28 primary -- which
Romney won by three percentage points -- the Wisconsin primary
is open, meaning independents and Democrats can vote in it. That
offers an element of uncertainty as both campaigns await the
results after the polls close at 9 p.m. eastern time.  Santorum, 53, was fundraising today in Austin,  Texas ,
before flying to his home state of Pennsylvania for an election-
night rally, campaign manager Mike Biundo said.  A three-week voting lull follows today’s contests.
Primaries on April 24 are being held in four states where Romney
is favored -- Rhode Island,  Connecticut ,  New York  and  Delaware  -
- and Pennsylvania, which Santorum represented for 16 years in
the House and Senate.  Pennsylvania Poll  A  Quinnipiac University Poll  released today showed Santorum
leads Romney among likely Pennsylvania primary voters, 41
percent to 35 percent. The poll, with a margin of error of plus
or minus 3.9 percentage points, was done March 27 to April 1.  Biundo challenged the notion that April would be a tough
month for the Santorum campaign.  “They’ve written our obituary before,” he said in an
interview.  Biundo said Santorum would spend the bulk of the next three
weeks in  Pennsylvania , as well as 10 Republican-leaning
congressional districts in New York where the candidate will be
seeking to win delegates in the state’s primary.  “I feel really good about Pennsylvania and I think we feel
good about May,” Biundo said. “We see some good contests
coming up for us.”  Biundo charged that Romney campaign is trying to end the
nomination fight early to avoid more competitive contests in the
southern U.S. in May, including primaries in  North Carolina ,
 West Virginia , Arkansas and  Kentucky .  “They know that May is going to be a good month” for
Santorum and “would like to shut the door down here,” he said.
“That’s wishful thinking on their part.”  Rural Voters  Traveling yesterday through Wisconsin’s northern section,
Santorum stopped at bowling alleys, cheese stores and banquet
halls to try to appeal to the rural voters and evangelical
Christians whose backing has made him Romney’s chief opponent.  “I’m asking small-town America, rural America, rural
Wisconsin to come out and speak loudly tomorrow,” he said in
Oshkosh. “Take the day off tomorrow. It’s on me. And spend some
time getting folks to the polls.”  Also still in the race are U.S. Representative Ron Paul of
Texas and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich .  Romney said today that it would be best for Republicans to
bring a rapid end to the nomination contest.  “The right thing for us I think is to get a nominee as
soon as we can and be able to focus on  Barack Obama ,” he said
on Fox News.  Obama holds a 51 percent to 42 percent lead over Romney in
a dozen states expected to be the closest in the November
general election, according to a USA Today/Gallup  poll  published
yesterday.  Gender Gap  The survey found Romney has lost support among women during
the primaries, giving Obama an 18-percentage-point advantage
among female voters combined in Colorado,  Florida , Iowa,
Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire,  New Mexico , North Carolina,
 Ohio , Pennsylvania,  Virginia  and Wisconsin.  In his Fox News interview, Romney said he will win over
more support from women as he continues to talk about his
economic views.  “The way we’re going to get women voters in our side of
the column is by talking about how we’re going to get this
economy going again,” he said.  Overshadowing the presidential race in Wisconsin has been a
recall campaign involving Republican Governor Scott Walker, a
fight that has energized activists in both major parties.  Delegate Tally  With about half the Republican nominating contests
complete, Romney has exactly half -- 572 -- of the 1,144
delegates needed to capture the nomination, according to an
Associated Press tally. Santorum has 273 delegates and would
need to win about three-fourths of those remaining.  The biggest prize today is Wisconsin, where 42 of today’s
98 delegates are at stake. The statewide winner will get 18 and
the rest will be awarded winner-take-all based on the outcome in
each of eight congressional districts.  Romney and his allies dominated broadcast television
advertising during the Wisconsin campaign, according to New
York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Romney’s campaign and Restore Our Future, a political
action committee backing him, have aired seven spots for every
two by Santorum’s campaign and Red White and Blue Fund, a PAC
promoting him.  Through April 2, Romney and his allies had run 5,272
commercials in the state at a cost of $2 million, compared to
1,510 for Santorum and his backers at a cost of $482,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Waukesha, Wisconsin at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Lerer in Appleton, Wisconsin at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  