-- Royal Bank of Canada to Buy Dexia Stake for C$1.1 Billion
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-04-03T15:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/royal-bank-of-canada-to-buy-dexia-stake-for-c-1-1-billion-cash.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest bank, agreed to buy the 50 percent of RBC Dexia Investor
Services Ltd. it doesn’t already own from Banque Internationale
a Luxembourg SA for about C$1.1 billion ($1.1 billion) in cash.  Royal Bank must revalue its investment to reflect the
purchase price, resulting in a non-cash loss of about C$170
million, the Toronto-based firm said today in a statement. Most
of the loss will be taken in the bank’s fiscal second quarter.
Royal Bank will also have a C$30 million loss in the quarter
from selling Dexia Group debt securities as part of the deal.  Royal Bank agreed to take over the RBC Dexia partnership to
expand a business that provides global custody, fund and pension
administration, shareholder services and treasury. The
transaction follows the breakup of  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the Belgian bank
that lost access to short-term funding during  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis.  “This really puts us on a strong footing against all of
the global peers that we compete with for business.” James Westlake, group head of international banking and insurance,
said today in an interview. “We’re excited about the growth
opportunities.”  Royal Bank said the acquisition will “moderately” add to
earnings in 2013 while cutting the Tier 1 capital ratio by about
25 basis points. RBC Dexia had net income of 123 million euros
($164 million) last year.  “This should ultimately be a successful transaction,
assuming that Royal is able to continue to grow the business,”
 John Aiken , an analyst with  Barclays Capital , said today in a
note. “We do not view the reduction in capital ratios as
significant and believe that this is more than offset by the
anticipated increase in earnings.”  Royal Bank will “get very aggressive” in expanding the
business, with an “early focus” on Europe, followed by  Asia 
and then  South America , particularly Brazil, Westlake said.  “It’s really a great fit with our global growth strategy
for both our wealth management business and our capital markets
business,” Westlake said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  