-- Rubber Declines as Higher Yen, Oil Outweigh U.S. Manufacturing
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-04-03T08:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/rubber-declines-as-higher-yen-oil-outweigh-u-s-manufacturing.html
Rubber fell as an advance in the
Japanese currency against the dollar cut the appeal of yen-
denominated contracts even after a stronger-than-expected U.S.
manufacturing report boosted the demand outlook.  September-delivery rubber fell as much as 0.5 percent to
329.5 yen a kilogram ($4,015 a metric ton) before settling at
330.8 yen on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange. The most-active
contract has advanced 26 percent this year.  China ’s markets are
closed for a public holiday.  The yen advanced to the highest level in more than three
weeks against the dollar amid investor concern manufacturing in
China is weakening as government data conflicted with a private-
sector purchasing-manager index. Futures were also sold as oil
in  New York  fell from a three-day high, reducing the appeal of
natural rubber as an alternative to synthetic products.  “Rubber was capped as it lost support from the currency
and energy markets,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker
Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  Losses in futures were limited after manufacturing in the
U.S. expanded at a faster pace than forecast in March, a sign
that industry is weathering slower global growth.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory  index  rose to
53.4 from 52.4 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
data showed yesterday. Fifty is the dividing line between growth
and contraction. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
the gauge would climb to 53.  Thai  rubber  on free-on-board basis was unchanged at 122.55
baht ($3.98) a kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand . The price was supported by a government
policy to boost domestic prices through rubber purchases and
tree-cutting programs, said Chaiwat Muenmee, analyst at Bangkok-
based commodity broker DS Futures Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  