-- Russian Olympic Team Outfitter Bosco Plans Expansion Into Europe
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-04-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/russian-olympic-team-outfitter-bosco-plans-expansion-into-europe.html
Bosco di Ciliegi, the owner of the
 GUM department store  on Moscow’s Red Square and the official
apparel provider of the Russian Olympic team, is targeting
annual sales growth of 20 percent as it opens new European
shops, its founder said.  The company’s Bosco Sport brand last week opened its first
U.K.-based outlet at the Westfield Stratford City shopping
center on one of the main thoroughfares accessing  London ’s
Olympic Park. It’s the retailer’s 65th own-brand store, and the
first outside of  Russia  or Ukraine. The London Olympics start
July 27.  “We are well-known in our own market, but to be present in
a different part of the world, we need to take a step like
London,” Mikhail Kusnirovich, who founded fashion retail chain
Bosco di Ciliegi in 1991 in Moscow, said in an interview in
London. “London is one of the world’s great capitals, and there
is a big Russian community here.”  Bosco di Ciliegi, which is Italian for “Cherry Orchard,”
the title of Czarist-era playwright Anton Chekhov’s last work,
has annual sales of 600 million euros ($794 million). The
company is the local franchisee for luxury brands including Jil
Sander and Kenzo. Kusnirovich said he’s targeting “organic
sales growth” of about 20 percent a year. Revenue grew 24
percent in 2011.  Kusnirovich, who speaks Italian and is also deputy chief of
mission of the Russian Olympic delegation, said he’s planning to
open a second Bosco Sport store in central London, as well as
shops in  Madrid , Barcelona, and in European ski resorts “where
there are lots of Russians” such as  Courchevel ,  France , Cortina
d’Ampezzo in the Italian Dolomites and St. Moritz in the Swiss
Alps. A store in Nice, France, is also a possibility, he added.  Team Supplier  Bosco Sport, which was founded in 2001, has produced the
official jerseys for the Russian Olympic team since the 2002
Salt Lake City  Winter Games . It’s the official apparel supplier
for the Spanish and Ukrainian Olympic teams, as well as for the
 International Tennis Federation . In 2009, Bosco Sport signed a
licensing deal worth more than $100 million with the organizers
of the 2014 Sochi Winter Games to become their official clothing
supplier.  Although the global sportswear market is dominated by the
likes of  Adidas AG (ADS)  and  Nike Inc. (NKE) , there is room for Bosco,
Kusnirovich said. He compared Bosco to  Richard Branson ’s Virgin
brand, which has an airline, financial products, gyms and
television and Internet service businesses.  “We are not Adidas or Nike, because the products of Bosco
are not just T-shirts or polos,” he said. “We try to produce
an atmosphere all around the customer. Because in Russia, we
manage fashion shops, accessories, food and beverage,
restaurants, spas, dental clinics and also sportswear. We are
more Virgin then Nike.”  ‘Pole Position’  Kusnirovich developed a lifelong love for the Olympics
after watching British track athlete Sebastian Coe win a middle-
distance gold medal at the 1980 Moscow Olympics as a 12-year-old
boy with his father. Coe is now chairman of the London 2012
organizing committee. Bosco’s connections to the Olympic
movement have helped lift the company, according to Kusnirovich.  “We are in pole position,” he said at newly opened
Russian restaurant  Novikov  in London’s Mayfair district. “The
Olympics is a great marketing idea. We want to use the London
Olympics to become more international.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  