-- Samsung SDI Aims to Boost Battery Sales on IPad-Led Tablet Boom
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-04-03T05:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/samsung-sdi-aims-to-boost-battery-sales-on-ipad-led-tablet-boom.html
Samsung SDI Co. (006400)  aims to boost sales
of batteries for portable gadgets at twice the industry growth
rate this year to capitalize on demand for Apple Inc.’s iPad
and other mobile devices.  “We want to widen our lead more visibly,” Kwon Myung
Sook, vice president of global marketing operations at the
world’s largest maker of  lithium-ion batteries , said in an
interview today in Seoul. Global industrywide shipments may rise
by about 10 percent this year to 4.6 billion units, she said.  Samsung SDI, which supplies Apple, is getting about half
its revenue from the small-battery business. The company’s total
battery sales may surge 26 percent this year, offsetting falling
sales at its plasma panel business and contributing to a 10
percent gain in overall revenue, Kang Yoon Hum, an analyst at NH
Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul , said in a March 27 report.  The company, which also makes cathode ray tubes, has enough
capacity to meet battery demand this year, Kwon said. Samsung
SDI plans to start producing batteries at its CRT factory in
Malaysia in the second half of this year.  The battery maker may report an operating profit of 62.9
billion won ($56 million) in the first quarter, a 4 percent
increase from a year earlier, helped by shipments of batteries
for the new iPad, Lee Hak Moo, a Seoul-based analyst at Mirae
Asset Securities Co., wrote in a March 30 report.  New iPad  Batteries used in the new iPad, which has a faster chip and
sharper display than its predecessor, have 70 percent more
capacity than those used in the iPad 2, making them more
profitable, according to Lee.  Samsung SDI accounted for more than half the batteries used
in the initial batch of the new iPad shipments, according to
NH’s Kang. Kwon declined to discuss the company’s business with
 Apple. (AAPL)   The company is benefitting from an early investment in
batteries used in tablet devices, which are thinner than those
for laptop computers, so harder to develop, Kwon said. Samsung
SDI spent about 350 billion won in capital expenditure in 2011,
25 percent more than a year earlier to boost output of such
batteries.  The South Korean company, which overtook  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s
 Sanyo Electric Co. (6767)  unit as the top rechargeable battery maker in
2010, had about 24 percent market share after selling about 1
billion units last year, Kwon said. The company had a bigger
share than what Panasonic and Sanyo held together for the first
time last year, according to Tokyo-based Institute of
 Information Technology . Other competitors include  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
 LG Chem Ltd. (051910)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  