-- San Miguel Said Set to Sign Philippine Air Stake Deal Today
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-04-03T04:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/san-miguel-said-set-to-sign-philippine-airlines-stake-deal-today.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  is set to sign an
about $500 million agreement today that will effectively give it
49 percent of Philippine Airlines Inc., according to three
people familiar with the situation.  The brewer will also get management control and 49 percent
of budget carrier Air  Philippines  Corp., said the people, who
declined to be identified ahead of an official statement.
Billionaire Lucio Tan controls the airlines at present.  Tan’s PAL Holdings Inc., Philippine Air’s biggest
shareholder, rose to a record intraday high in Manila trading on
speculation an accord may help the carrier bolster services amid
rising competition from budget airline  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB)  and AirAsia
Bhd.’s new local venture. A deal would also support  San Miguel 
President Ramon Ang’s goal of doubling sales to 1 trillion pesos
($23.5 billion) by 2016 through expansion beyond its main food
and drink business into travel, infrastructure and power.  “The next ballgame in the Philippines is in air
transportation since there isn’t enough capacity,” said Jomar Lacson, an analyst at Campos Lanuza & Co. Inc. “San Miguel wants
to be a conglomerate that’s a proxy of the Philippine economy.”  San Miguel, which was established as brewer in 1890, said
in a statement today that it’s in talks about a possible
investment in Philippine Air and Air Philippines. Philippine Air
President Jaime Bautista said he was unable to comment as he was
in a meeting when called by Bloomberg News today.  San Miguel Deals  PAL (PAL)  Holdings, 98 percent owned by Tan, rose as much as 4.9
percent and was up 2.1 percent at 8.35 pesos as of the lunchtime
break.  San Miguel (SMC)  rose 0.3 percent to 114.00 pesos. The company,
based in Mandaluyong City, has dropped 2.4 percent this year,
compared with a 16 percent advance for the Philippine Stock
Exchange Index.  San Miguel has announced 25 deals worth a total of at least
$4.76 billion since 2006 before today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company expanded into industries such
as oil, power, mining and infrastructure to triple the 7 percent
return it used to earn from food and drinks alone.  Philippine Air,  started in 1941 , had a “total
comprehensive loss” of $33.5 million in the quarter ended
December as weak passenger demand and cargo markets pulled down
sales, it said in February. PAL has direct and indirect
shareholdings of 82 percent and 3.1 percent respectively in
Philippine Air, according to a filing from the holding company
in February.  Low-Cost Competition  Philippine Air has lost domestic market share to Cebu Air,
which lured passengers with newer planes and cheaper fares.
Competition has intensified with the entry of AirAsia’s
Philippine unit last month.  Cebu Air, which flies as Cebu Pacific, carried 8.5 million
domestic passengers in 2011, almost twice as many as Philippine
Air, according to the Civil Aeronautics Board. Philippine Air
flew 3.9 million people overseas compared with Cebu Air’s 2.5
million, data from the agency showed.  Operations at Philippine Air were hampered by a strike in
September as employees protested the outsourcing of some
services. The company expects to save $15 million from the move
and sees “many opportunities” for more of the same, Bautista
said Sept. 30.  Billionaire Tan  Tan and partners gained control of Philippine Air in 1992,
when it was privatized. He is the nation’s second-richest tycoon
behind  Henry Sy  with a fortune valued last month by  Forbes  at
$3.5 billion. His other companies include  Philippine National
Bank , cigarette-maker Fortune Tobacco Corp. and Asia Brewery
Inc., the country’s second-biggest brewer.  San Miguel, the biggest and  most acquisitive  company in the
Philippines, said in February last year it plans to invest more
than $4 billion to double revenue in five years by expanding
ventures in energy and transportation and bidding for
infrastructure projects.  The company’s Petron Corp. unit completed the $577 million
acquisition of Malaysian assets from Exxon Mobil Corp., it said
yesterday. San Miguel is planning “bigger” acquisitions in the
region and is looking at energy assets in Indonesia and
 Australia , President Ang said in August.  Net income last year declined 13 percent to 17.5 billion
pesos. That exceeded the 16.2 billion-peso average of five
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  