-- Scene in D.C.: Bob Schieffer, CBS ’Hangouts’ With Google+
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-03T15:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/scene-in-d-c-bob-schieffer-cbs-hangouts-with-google-.html
Guests entering Fathom art gallery
last night encountered purple socks hanging on a makeshift
laundry line.  The socks bore logos of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and the  CBS (CBS)  Sunday
morning fixture “Face the Nation,” which were celebrating a
new partnership.  The purple came from the school colors of  Texas Christian
University , alma mater of Bob Schieffer, the longtime CBS anchor
and a fan of colorful hose.  Starting this week, he and colleagues John Dickerson and
Norah O’Donnell will host a series of online video conversations
about topical issues for a CBS “Hangout” on Google+, the web-
search company’s foray into social media.  Schieffer told guests stories of past interviews. He said
television news lion Walter Cronkite “had a great sense of
humor” like his own.  CBS associate producer Emily Bradley got the purple memo,
judging from her lilac dress. Schieffer rolled up his trouser
leg to show off bright purple socks and shared his excitement
about the new partnership.  The first Hangout conversation, concerning religion and
politics, will take place Thursday on a new Face the Nation
Google+ page, which already has “close to” 100,000 followers,
according to Daniel Sieberg, a former CBS correspondent now in
media outreach for Google. He called the new partnership a
“win-win.”  Segments of the Hangout will be broadcast on the CBS Sunday
morning program, which just expanded to an hour from 30 minutes.  CBS Exposure  Samantha Smith , a spokeswoman for Google, said that the
company’s “products are part of people’s everyday lives” and
that the partnership with “Face the Nation” will help Google
expose its new social media capabilities to a larger audience.  The CBS and Google contingents mingled with other media
types inside the gallery and enjoyed the early April breezes on
the patio.  Christopher Isham, the CBS  Washington  bureau chief, said
Google and CBS had been talking about working together for a
long time, but this project in particular seemed to just
“click,” especially during a presidential campaign.  Bill Plante, a veteran CBS correspondent, is still amazed
at the way the news is transmitted now, since he started in the
days of the typewriter.  “I didn’t get my first computer until 1984,” Plante said.
“I think Cronkite would be pleased to see what’s possible
now.”  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 