-- Scotiabank Turns to Immigrants to Boost Canadian Banking
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-04-03T14:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/scotiabank-turns-to-immigrants-to-boost-canadian-banking.html
Bank of Nova Scotia , Canada’s third-
largest bank, plans to increase the share of banking services it
offers for newcomers to the country, said Anatol von Hahn, the
lender’s group head of domestic banking.  “Emigrating  India ,  China  or Mexico, we try to get you
before you arrive to get you to open some of your banking
services,” von Hahn said yesterday during an interview in
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, where the Toronto-based bank is holding
its annual meeting.  By gaining a larger share of immigrants, which von Hahn
said enter Canada at a rate about 250,000 per year, Scotiabank
can increase its “share of wallet” for services such as
mortgages and credit cards. Von Hahn estimates the bank has a 17
percent to 18 percent share of newcomers to  Canada , with the
biggest “opportunity” to expand being with skilled workers who
come to Canada for a short period.  “The bigger objective is, we need to get more customers
through the front door so that we can provide them with our
services,” said  von Hahn , who has been with Scotiabank since
1984. “That’s of course a very hard thing to do in a mature
market when most of your customers are already banked, and it’s
difficult to switch them.”  Domestic banking accounted for 32 percent of the lender’s
C$5.3 billion ($5.35 billion) in record  net income  last year,
and von Hahn’s unit was the biggest contributor to profit. The
lender uses its moniker of being “Canada’s most international
bank,” with operations in more than 50 countries, as a starting
point to seek out new clients before they move to Canada.  Scotiabank often receives referrals from immigration
consultants in the countries it does business in for clients
moving to Canada. The bank also has a three-person branch inside
 Mexico ’s Canadian embassy, where newcomers to Canada often visit
and explore banking relationships before they leave the country,
von Hahn said.  In addition, Scotiabank plans to bolster domestic banking
profit by expanding auto lending and small banking businesses,
von Hahn said.  “There’s a lot more in the small business segment where we
can continue to grow,” said von Hahn, who has worked for the
bank in Chile, Argentina and Mexico. “I think that’s an area
you’ll continue to see us grow in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  