-- Shire Reversal on Rare-Disease Drug Application Stumps Patients
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-04-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/shire-reversal-on-rare-disease-drug-application-stumps-patients.html
Cheryl Barcomb, a school-district
clerk in Pittsford,  New York , never wanted to start taking  Shire
Plc’s (SHP)  Replagal medicine for her rare genetic illness. Now, after
more than two years, she doesn’t want to give it up.  Soon she won’t have a choice. Shire is ending a temporary
program, begun at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s
request, under which it provided Replagal for free to U.S.
patients with Fabry disease. Last month the Dublin-based
drugmaker dropped an application to gain the agency’s approval
to sell the medicine, 13 days before an FDA advisory committee
was to consider the proposal. The news shocked Barcomb, who
relies on infusions of Replagal to help ease her strokes and
crippling bouts of pain better than a rival drug.  Shire says the FDA wants additional clinical trials that
will take years. The FDA said the agency had made no decision
about whether further studies would be needed. Patients,
confused by the conflicting statements, don’t know whom to
blame: an overzealous regulator or a profit-minded company.  “If the FDA has a good reason for wanting more long-term
studies, Shire should force them to make it in public,” said
 Ira Loss , an analyst at the investment research firm Washington
Analysis who has been watching the agency for 35 years. “If
they don’t, the committee would tell them they don’t have any
reason to make this demand, and Shire looks like the victim.”  Either way, Loss said, patients deserve to know “what are
the valid concerns when the FDA was happy to have the product
here for two years.” The fact that Replagal is sold in 46
countries and has been on the market in the EU for more than a
decade should have helped seal a quick FDA clearance, he said.  Dependent on Fabrazyme  The withdrawal will leave U.S. patients dependent on the
only approved treatment, Fabrazyme, which has been in short
supply since 2009, when a virus contaminated the Genzyme Corp.
factory in  Boston  where it was produced. Yet some people do
better on Replagal than Fabrazyme, so patients say they want
access to both.  As of last month, Genzyme is able to take on demand
globally, including the extra Replagal patients, said Lori Gorski, a spokeswoman for Genzyme in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
The company was acquired by  Sanofi (SAN)  last year.  Fabry is a so-called  lysosomal storage disorder , caused by
low levels of certain enzymes needed to break down fatty
substances that can build up in the body’s organs. Only about
8,000 people worldwide are affected. Shire’s Replagal treats the
majority of patients outside the U.S., while Genzyme’s Fabrazyme
is used in the U.S.  Felt Better  Barcomb worried when the virus cut the supply of Fabrazyme.
Faced with rationed doses, she was pleased to be able to take
Replagal, and soon found it worked better for her than the
Genzyme drug, she said.  Replagal brought an end to the mini-strokes Barcomb
suffered from the disease, as well as her emergency room visits
for pain. She also wasn’t groggy after the twice-monthly
infusions, nor did she have bouts of fatigue as she had with
Fabrazyme, she said. “I just felt better on Replagal,”
Barcomb, 54, said by phone. “I don’t even think people realize
anymore, ‘Oh, she’s sick.’”  Shire enrolled 140 U.S. patients into the free treatment
program with the hope of winning a speedy FDA approval in
return. Shire, which applied in 2009, withdrew and then
resubmitted the application in 2010 after the FDA sought more
data. The agency scheduled a March 27 meeting for a committee of
outside experts to discuss Replagal.  Shire’s Withdrawal  On March 14, Shire said it was withdrawing the application.
The FDA led the company to believe an approval was “highly
unlikely” without lengthy and expensive clinical trials, said
Jessica Cotrone, a Shire spokeswoman in Lexington,
 Massachusetts .  “There was no point in going through the exercise since
our filing was motivated by the potential approval of Replagal
for U.S. patients now,” Cotrone said. “It was clear that even
if we were to get U.S. approval of the product, the approval
would be in the distant future.” The company has no plans to
re-apply.  Stephanie Yao, a spokesman for the agency in  Silver Spring ,
 Maryland , disputed Shire’s assertion.  “The FDA had not made any decision regarding the
application, including the need for additional data,” she said.
“We wanted advice on the efficacy and safety data that was
contained in the application and we wanted to be able to discuss
it in a public forum.” She declined to comment further and said
the agency can’t release briefing documents prepared for the
March 27 meeting of the Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory
Committee without Shire’s permission.  Switching Back  Shire declined to release the documents, Cotrone said.  “Why didn’t Shire just give them the answers they were
looking for?” said Barcomb, who is preparing for her switch
back to Fabrazyme on May 30. “If they thought the FDA were
going to reject it, why not just let them reject it?”  Shire might have wanted to keep the FDA briefing documents
secret because they may have contained some information that
would hurt sales outside the U.S., “though of course that’s
speculative,” Loss said. Shire spokespeople didn’t respond to
calls or e-mails seeking comment about that speculation. The
Fabrazyme shortage helped double Replagal’s market share outside
the U.S. to about 80 percent. Replagal sales surged 35 percent
last year to $475.2 million.  Genzyme’s recovery from the virus contamination was
delayed, so patients faced rationed dosing schedules or going
without the drug completely.  ‘Very Frustrating’  Genzyme Chief Executive Officer Henri Termeer said in 2009
the disruptions would be sorted out in weeks, which later
changed to months. As patients worldwide struggled to cope with
symptoms that were aggravated by limited doses, months turned to
years.  “Hearing these assurances repeatedly over the years got
very frustrating, and that’s why we got cautious with our
thinking,” said Jack Johnson, head of the Fabry Support &
Information Group, a Concordia, Missouri-based patient-support
network representing about 1,200 members.  If the FDA is really to blame, said Loss, Shire could have
removed any doubt as to the FDA’s demands by waiting for the
advisory committee meeting.  “But honestly, what concerns could possibly be valid?”
Loss said. “Why was this product good enough during the crisis
and not good enough now?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  