-- Siemens Osram Light Unit Said to Plan First China LED Plant
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-04-03T10:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/siemens-osram-light-unit-said-to-plan-its-first-china-led-plant.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , which is seeking to sell
shares in its lighting subsidiary Osram this year, is drafting
plans for its first production plant for light-emitting diodes
in  China , two people familiar with the project said.  Osram has given the go-ahead for the project and is
negotiating which parts of LEDs and related components it will
produce in the country, said one of the people, who declined to
be named as the plans haven’t yet been finalized.  The facility would fill a gap for Osram in China, the
world’s largest lighting market at 8 billion euros ($10.6
billion). Osram now only has production sites for the
semiconductor-based technology in Regensburg, Germany, and
Penang, Malaysia. The company said yesterday that it appointed
Samuel Wu, a Chinese native who last ran  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON) ’s process solutions business in China, to oversee
operations in  Asia .  Wolfram Trost, a spokesman for Siemens, had no comment.
Siemens competes in lighting with Royal Philips Electronics NV,
the industry leader. In LEDs, the company’s rivals include
Nichia Corp. of Japan and  Cree Inc. (CREE)  of the U.S.  Production Costs  Such a plant may cost “several hundred million euros,”
said Martin Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in
 London . “The question is how Osram plans to grow the business
going forward. Given Nichia or Cree have a multiple of Osram’s
production capacity in LEDs, it’s hard to see how Osram could
become the cost leader.” Prozesky rates Siemens “market
perform” and expects the shares to drop to 73 euros in a year.  Constantin Birnstiel, a spokesman for Osram, wasn’t
available for comment.  With an LED plant in China, Siemens would be expanding in a
region that includes South Korea’s  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  as competitors. Unlike the traditional
lighting market, which was dominated by Philips, Osram and
 General Electric Co. (GE) , the market for LEDs is fragmented, and
booming. GE has decided not to produce LED chips.  The plan for an initial public offering later this year in
Osram, the world’s second-largest lighting company, is intended
to allow the unit to better capture growth in an industry moving
from traditional bulbs to LEDs, Munich-based Siemens has said.
The company,  Europe ’s biggest engineering company, put the plan
for Osram’s IPO on hold last year, citing volatile market
conditions.  Shares Rise  Siemens rose as much as 0.7 percent to 76.99 euros and was
trading 0.3 percent up at 12:39 p.m. in Frankfurt. Shares of
Aixtron SE, a German maker of equipment for the semiconductor
and lighting-technology industries, rose 2.9 percent to 13.37
euros, the third-biggest gain on the  TecDAX (TDXP)  index for German
technology companies.  Revenue at Osram increased 8 percent to 5.03 billion euros
in the year through Sept. 30, driven by demand for specialty
lighting products and LEDs. Osram generated net income of 309
million euros for Siemens in fiscal 2011, a 2.8 percent drop.  Osram  employs about 8,000 people in China, including at an
assembly plant for retrofit bulbs using LEDs in Shaoxing, China.
The Chinese lighting market will more than double by 2020, Osram
predicts. The company has about 41,000 employees worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  