-- Sina, Tencent Microblog Users Resume Commenting After 3-Day Ban
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-03T04:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/sina-tencent-microblog-users-resume-commenting-after-3-day-ban.html
Sina Corp. (SINA)  and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) 
resumed the comment function for their microblog services after
the Chinese Internet companies imposed a three-day stoppage amid
a crackdown on online service providers.  Sina Chief Executive Officer Charles Chao made a post about
the weather at 8:00 a.m. Shanghai time, when the facility was
due to resume. That attracted more than 600 comments from users
of the Shanghai-based company’s service, similar to that of
Twitter Inc.’s. Kai-Fu Lee, former head of  China  at Google Inc.,
and the ninth-most-followed subscriber of Tencent’s microblog,
attracted more than 400 comments for a post today.  Speculation on the Web on March 20 of a coup attempt
prompted a nationwide crackdown on Internet-related crimes,
leading to the arrest of 1,065 suspects and deletion of more
than 208,000 “harmful” online messages, according to the
official Xinhua news agency. Sina and Tencent, each with more
than 300 million users for their microblogs, known as Weibo in
Chinese, suspended users’ ability to comment March 31, citing
the need to clear rumors and illegal information.  “The government certainly doesn’t want to shut Weibo, they
don’t want to kill it - they want to control it,” said  Bill
Bishop , a Beijing-based independent media consultant. “If there
is another burst of rumors in the next couple of weeks about
particularly sensitive things, I don’t think the government will
have any qualms about taking other steps to rein things in.”  Tencent, China’s biggest Internet company by revenue, rose
2.3 percent to HK$221.60 as of 10:07 a.m. in Hong Kong trading
today, compared with a 0.6 percent gain in the city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . Sina fell 2.1 percent in New York trading
yesterday, the lowest closing price in more than a month.  The closing of Sina’s comment function is “negative, as we
believe that comment functionality is key to Weibo user
engagement,” Qi Guo, a San Francisco-based analyst at
ThinkEquity Partners LLC, wrote in a research note yesterday.  Speculation on the Internet on March 20 of a coup attempt
helped spark the biggest jump in four months in the cost of
insuring against a default on Chinese  government bonds . That was
five days after Bo Xilai, earlier seen as a contender for
promotion to China’s top decision-making body, was removed as
party secretary of the municipality of Chongqing.  On March 30, Beijing Police announced the detention of six
people for “fabricating and spreading rumors” on the Internet
and forced 16 websites to close.  Sina and Tencent had been “criticized and punished
accordingly” by authorities for a number of rumors, Xinhua
said.  Government oversight of microblogging services has
tightened as they’ve grown in popularity. In December, China
began requiring users in cities including Beijing, Guangzhou and
Shenzhen to register their real names. That rule will be
expanded to other regions,  Wang Chen , minister of the State
Council Information Office, said in January.  Sina accounted for 65 percent of China’s microblog market
by pageviews in December, compared with 27 percent for Tencent,
according to a Jan. 12 report by BOCOM International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  