-- Sioux Nation Reservation Is Least Healthy Place in U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/sioux-nation-reservation-is-least-healthy-place-in-u-s-.html
Sioux County,  North Dakota (USUSND) , is the
least healthy place in the U.S. for the second consecutive year,
while Los Alamos County,  New Mexico (USUSNM) , is the healthiest,
according to a study.  Sioux County, headquarters of the Standing Rock Sioux
Nation, which covers about 1 million acres in North and South
Dakota, has the highest rate of premature deaths in the nation,
researchers at the  University of Wisconsin  found. The county
loses almost 24 years of potential life per 100 residents,
compared to less than 3 years lost per 100 in Los Alamos, home
to the Los Alamos National Laboratory.  Eight of the 10 least-healthy counties are home to large
populations of Native Americans in the Dakotas, Alaska and
 Montana , according to the  U.S. Census . Counties with the highest
rates of premature death tend to have high poverty rates, poor
education systems and low levels of economic development, said
Patrick Remington, a professor of population health sciences at
the University of Wisconsin in Madison, who compiled the  data .  “We almost have a blind spot to the fact that we have
counties, that represent all or part of Indian nations, that are
some of the least healthy places certainly in each state and
nationwide,” Remington said in an interview. “To me, that
should be sort of a national disgrace.”  Rounding out the 10 least healthy counties are McDowell
County in  West Virginia , where median income is $22,154 a year,
and Union County in  Florida , home to a large prison. Poverty is
strongly associated with poor health and shorter lifespans,
Remington said.  Los Alamos Income  Only 2.4 percent of families in Los Alamos live in poverty,
and median  household income  is about $104,000, according to the
census. Los Alamos County had the lowest rate of premature death
followed by Douglas County,  Colorado , a Denver suburb, and
Leelanau County in northern  Michigan .  Native Americans on reservations are in poor health because
of “a whole host of reasons,” said Donna Galbreath, a member
of the Ahtna Athabascan tribe who is a family physician at the
Alaska Native Medical Center in Anchorage and president of the
 Association  of American Indian Physicians.  “It comes from marginalization early on, it comes from
substance abuse, it comes from lack of health care and
underfunded health care,” she said by phone.  She spoke from a conference of the National Indian Gaming
Association in  San Diego , where she said she’d been invited to
make a presentation on diabetes in Native American populations.  “This is like a first,” she said. “Gaming isn’t health.
But Indian people are saying we need to do something.”  Remington’s work is co-sponsored by the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation, a nonprofit group in Princeton,  New Jersey , that
studies health issues. The annual survey is the third produced
by the foundation and the University of Wisconsin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  