-- Solyndra’s Loan Guarantee ‘Was Rushed,’ Treasury Audit Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-04-03T23:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/solyndra-s-loan-guarantee-was-rushed-treasury-audit-says-1-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department was
given one day to complete its review of the government’s $535
million loan guarantee to Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar-panel
manufacturer, to accommodate an Energy Department press release,
according to a Treasury audit.  While Treasury staff say they had enough time to review the
loan, internal e-mails cast doubt on whether staff suggestions
to provide a partial instead of a full guarantee were addressed
by the Energy Department, the Treasury’s Inspector General’s
Office said today in the  report .  “Treasury’s consultative role was not sufficiently
defined, the consultation that did occur was rushed and no
documentation was retained as to how Treasury’s serious concerns
with the loan were addressed,” the audit said.  Solyndra, heralded by President  Barack Obama  as proof that
“the promise of clean energy isn’t just an article of faith,”
filed for bankruptcy in September, days before the FBI raided
its headquarters in Fremont,  California . The company received a
$535 million loan guarantee under the Energy Department’s Loan
Guarantee Program in September 2009 that was funded by the
Treasury’s Federal Financing Bank, a government corporation
created by Congress in 1973.  An Energy Department spokesperson wasn’t immediately
available for comment.  Draft Press Release  The Energy Department didn’t consult the Treasury on the
terms and conditions of the loan transaction before or during
Energy’s review. The Treasury’s review happened after its staff
was told by the Office of Management and Budget that the Energy
Department was ready to make a conditional commitment to
Solyndra, the report said.  The Energy Department sent a draft press release to the
Treasury on March 18, 2009, “announcing Solyndra’s conditional
commitment planned for issuance later that afternoon,” the
report said. The Treasury requested more time for review and
later agreed with the Energy Department’s request to expedite
the review by March 19, 2009, “so that the press release could
be issued on the morning of March 20, 2009,” the report said.  Treasury staff offered feedback in a March 19, 2009,
conference call, noting concerns that included the amount of
equity in the project, a preference for a partial guarantee and
the Energy Department’s claims on Solyndra’s intellectual
property in the event of default.  Comments Raised  While “Treasury officials told us that all comments raised
were addressed by” the Energy Department, internal Treasury e-
mails from that time “leave questions” as to whether concerns
were fully addressed, the audit said.  “We pressed on certain issues such as why we aren’t
providing only a partial guarantee and covering a smaller
percentage of the eligible project costs, but the train really
has left the station on this deal,” an internal Treasury e-mail
said, according to the report.  The Treasury conducted the audit because of “heightened
media attention” and congressional inquiries into the loan, the
report said.  Congressional Republicans  investigating Solyndra have
criticized the Energy Department for not including Treasury
officials in a decision to restructure the terms of the loan
guarantee that was approved in February 2011.  The last-ditch effort to save Solyndra from bankruptcy put
taxpayers behind $75 million in private investment in case of
liquidation. Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican
and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee panel
investigating Solyndra’s loan, said Treasury was “not
sufficiently consulted” on the new terms at a hearing in
October.  Treasury officials told auditors that it was “unclear if
Solyndra’s restructure was considered a deviation” of the
terms, which would have required consultation. The report says
the departments should develop a “common understanding” of
what qualifies as a deviation of the loan terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Pete Young at 
 pyoung13@bloomberg.net  