-- South African Equities: AngloGold, British American Tobacco Move
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-03T15:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/south-african-equities-anglogold-british-american-tobacco-move.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
advanced for a third day, rising 0.6 percent to 34,192.19 by the
close in Johannesburg.  The following were among the most active equities in the
market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  ,  South Africa ’s largest
producer of the metal, fell for the first time in three days,
dropping 1.1 percent to 281.43 rand. Gold declined in  London  on
concern physical purchases are declining and selling by some
investors after the biggest gain in a week.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  , the country’s second-biggest
gold miner, slid 1.5 percent to 106 rand.  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  ,  Europe ’s largest
cigarette maker, jumped to a record, adding 1.4 percent to
399.10 rand. The stock was rated outperform, the equivalent of
buy, in new coverage at Exane.  Cadiz Holdings Ltd. (CDZ)  , the owner of a stock broker
and money manager, jumped the most since October 2008, climbing
15 percent to 2.77 rand. The company announced a special
dividend of 50 cents a share following the sale of 60 percent
its securities business to BNP Paribas SA.  Erbacon Investment Holdings Ltd. (ERB)  , a civil-
engineering company, increased to the highest in more than two
months, rising 5.4 percent to 59 cents. The company named Andrew
Langham as new group financial director, replacing Rob
Braithwaite, who resigned yesterday.  Firestone Energy Ltd. (FSE)  , an Australian exploration
company with interests in South Africa, rallied to the highest
in more than four months, rising 18 percent to 13 cents. The
company rejected an offer from Tata Power Co. to invest in its
joint venture with Sekoko Resources (Pty) Ltd. to develop a
South African  coal mine , it said in a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at  