-- Spanish Stocks Sink to Four-Month Low on Deficit Concerns
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-04-03T16:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/spanish-stocks-sink-to-four-month-low-on-deficit-concerns.html
Spanish stocks tumbled to a four-
month low, led by banks and construction companies, as concern
grew that the government’s efforts to rein in the  budget deficit 
will choke off growth.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
the nation’s largest lenders, fell at least 4 percent. Ferrovial
SA, a Madrid-based builder and airport operator, sank the most
since May 2010 as government changes to corporate taxes capped
deductions on financial costs.  The  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  dropped 2.7 percent to 7,824.5 at the
close in  Madrid , the lowest since Nov. 25. The gauge has
declined 8.7 percent this year, the worst performance of 24
developed markets tracked by Bloomberg. The losses take the
gauge within 2 percentage points of its 2011 low, and 13 points
from the March 2009 bottom that followed the financial crisis.  “You have austerity, indebtedness and unemployment all
being talked about constantly in a mix that is not good,” said
Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG Valores, a Madrid-
based broker. “Either this explodes into a further selloff or
investors move onto another theme. I believe there are still
some more losses to come.”  Spain’s public debt will rise to a record this year, the
government said today as it presented its budget to Parliament.
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is implementing the deepest
austerity measures since the nation returned to a democracy in
1978 in an attempt to contain the shortfall.  Unemployment Gains  Unemployment in Spain, where more than half of young people
are out of work, rose for the eighth month in March. The number
of people registering for jobless benefits increased by 38,769
to 4.75 million, the Labor Ministry said today.  Writing in a report today, Citigroup Inc. economists said
Spain is likely to receive funding this year from the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union partners as
Greece did. While a debt restructuring is unlikely, “more
radical fiscal and structural” measures are required in the
country, London-based Ebrahim Rahbari and Guillaume Menuet wrote
in the note.  Spanish bonds fell as the nation prepared to sell as much
as 3.5 billion euros ($4.67 billion) of government debt
tomorrow. The yield on the 10-year note rose 10 basis points to
5.45 percent at 6 p.m. local time.  Santander Sinks  Santander dropped 4 percent to 5.55 euros, the lowest in
almost three months. BBVA declined 4.5 percent to 5.70 euros.  Ferrovial (FER)  tumbled 6.4 percent to 8.24 euros for its largest
retreat since May 2010. As part of its budget measures affecting
taxes, the government said last week it will cap deductions on
financial costs to 30 percent of earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , Spain’s biggest oil operator, declined 2.9
percent to 18.26 euros. The firm’s YPF SA Argentine unit tumbled
15 percent in New York trading yesterday on concern the
government of President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will try
to take control of the subsidiary.  The cost of options protecting against losses in shares of
Santander and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone company, has
never been lower relative to credit-default swaps on their
bonds, spurring concern investors are underestimating risk in
the equities.  Implied volatility for three-month puts priced 10 percent
below shares of Santander,  Spain ’s largest lender, fell to 39.75
yesterday, while five-year swaps were at 359.48 basis points,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The ratio between the values
fell to 0.107-to-1, an unprecedented level, on March 29. The
equivalent figure for Telefonica reached a low yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  