-- Steel Authority Increases April Prices as Construction Gains
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-04-03T15:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/steel-authority-increases-prices-in-april-as-construction-gains.html
Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the
nation’s second-largest producer, increased prices of products
for the fourth time in three months as demand for the
construction-grade alloy surged.  The  company  raised prices of long products, or rods used in
building and construction, by as much as 2.6 percent effective
April 1, according to data on its website. Prices of long
products have been increased by 8 percent since Feb. 1, while
rates for flat grade steel, used mainly to make cars and
electronic appliances, were unchanged.  Consumption of steel used in construction surged last
quarter after a rise in demand for new homes and higher
 government spending  on road and power projects. New home sales
in Mumbai are expected to increase 10 percent in 2012 after
declining 40 percent in the 11 months ended Feb. 29, Crisil
Ltd., the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s , said in an e-mailed
statement on March 26.  “Against a raise in April’s base price, the company has
also increased the discount that it offers to the buyers,”
Steel Authority spokesman R.K. Singhal said over the phone from
 New Delhi . “The net effect on final prices is nil.”  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government plans to attract
$1 trillion in investments by 2017 to build power plants, ports
and roads, seeking to boost economic growth.  Asia ’s third-
largest economy expanded 6.1 percent in the three months ended
Dec. 31 from a year earlier, government data show.  Shares of New Delhi-based Steel Authority climbed 3 percent
to 98.90 rupees at the close in Mumbai, the highest level since
March 14. The stock has gained 21 percent this year, compared
with a 14 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  