-- Stockton Gorged on Debt for City Amenities Before Crash
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-04-03T17:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/stockton-gorged-on-debt-for-city-amenities-before-economic-crash.html
(Corrects spelling of the name of former City Manager
Dwane Milnes in 11th paragraph.)  In 2005,  Stockton (3654MF) ,  California ,
unveiled a gleaming new arena and ballpark on its riverfront,
part of a $145 million plan to draw people downtown. The city
east of San Francisco, a shipping hub for wine and almonds, is
now negotiating with creditors to stave off bankruptcy.  The 10,000-seat arena, a glass-walled symbol of the city’s
fight against a soaring crime rate and downtown blight, was one
piece of a redevelopment boom that also saw the addition of a
5,000-seat minor league ballfield, a 650-space parking garage, a
66-slip marina and the purchase of an eight-story City Hall.  “This is the project that’s going to bring folks home, and
it’s going to bring people from around the region to Stockton,”
then-Council Member Leslie Martin said in 2004 when the
waterfront revival was approved.  Today the new  City Hall  stands empty because the government
can’t afford to move in. The parking garage may be seized by
creditors because the city defaulted on $32.8 million in bonds.  The shopping spree contributed to the $319 million in debt,
financed mostly with seven bond issues from 2003 to 2009, tied
to its general fund -- the pool of money used for most day-to-
day operations, equivalent to having loans backed by the
contents of a checking account.  By the end of this February, Stockton found itself on the
verge of insolvency from mounting retiree costs, the recession
and accounting errors, City Manager Bob Deis told reporters.  Municipal Bankruptcy  The city, about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of  San
Francisco , said it would default on $2 million in bond payments
and begin negotiations with creditors, the first hurdle under an
untested state law restricting municipal bankruptcy.  If negotiations fail, Stockton, with a population of about
292,000, stands to become the largest U.S. city to seek Chapter
9 protection. It would join  Central Falls ,  Rhode Island , which
filed in August after failing to win union concessions, and
Jefferson County,  Alabama , which turned in the biggest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history in November, with $4.2 billion in
debt.  State Controller John Chiang informed Stockton officials
yesterday that his staff would begin an investigation into the
city’s financial practices as early as May. The city’s ability
to provide reliable and accurate financial data “is
questionable,” Chiang said in a letter to Deis.  Downtown Redevelopment  Since the 1980s, the city had struggled to draw people
downtown as homicides, which hit a record of 55 in 1992, emptied
the streets and prompted stores to move to suburban malls. The
record was surpassed last year when killings rose to 58, or more
than one a week.  “Redeveloping downtown was a big political deal for the
city,” Dwane Milnes, Stockton’s city manager from 1991 to 2001,
said in a telephone interview. “Downtown was deteriorating,
businesses had left.”  Then Stockton hit the radar of San Francisco Bay Area
homebuyers, in search of affordable alternatives to escalating
 home prices . The city’s population grew 20 percent in a decade.
Tax revenue rose on a burst of homebuilding. The city began
pouring funds and debt into sprucing up the downtown and
developing the waterfront in an ambitious plan to spur economic
activity.  “Our leaders were dazzled by rosy projections and their
desire to jumpstart downtown revitalization projects,” David
Renison, president of the San Joaquin County Taxpayer’s
Association in Stockton, said in a telephone interview. “We’re
going to be paying the price for a long time.”  Financial Risks  In March 2004, the council agreed to issue $37 million in
bonds to fund a $114 million plan to develop the waterfront.
While acknowledging the financial risks, the lawmakers said the
plan would draw people to return to the downtown and millions in
private investment. Lawmakers said they were satisfied that the
risks of the project, which eventually grew to $145 million,
would be contained.  “We’re putting two-thirds down,” then-Council Member
Larry Ruhstaller said in debating the issue. “We’re financing a
third. That’s a pretty acceptable risk in my eyes and that’s why
I’m for it.”  Then-Council Member Richard Nickerson, the sole dissenting
vote, expressed doubts and said he’d prefer to build the venues
one at a time.  “We’ve strained everything we’ve got to get to a place
where we can finance this project,” Nickerson said during the
meeting. “And if it doesn’t go perfect, if the state is in
trouble, if the federal government is in trouble, if we in this
city are in trouble, heaven help us.”  Diamond’s Million  The ballpark and arena were completed the following year.
In 2006, the city paid singer  Neil Diamond , whose last Top 10
hit was in 1983, $1 million to perform at the arena. In 2007,
the city bought the 8-story Washington Mutual building for $35
million with the intent of making it the new City Hall.  While the city borrowed for buildings, it also ran up
compensation and retiree-health liabilities it now can’t afford.  In the 1990s, city officials approved a retiree-health
benefit that allowed a worker employed as little as a month to
qualify for city-paid retirement health care for the retiree and
his or her spouse for life, Deis has said.  “We now have the tail end of a legal but mismanaged
program that feels similar to a  Ponzi scheme  that has ballooned
to a $434.8 million unfunded liability that would require 31.58
percent of the payroll to adequately fund it,” Deis said in a
Feb. 28 report to the City Council.  Automatic Increases  The city agreed to automatic salary increases regardless of
whether it had the revenue to support them. The contract with
the fire union required Stockton to compare its pay with that of
16 cities including  Huntington Beach , Anaheim and Torrance.
Stockton firefighters’ salaries were required to rank fifth-
highest, according to the city’s May 2011 emergency declaration
document.  By June 2011, the city had accumulated $977 million in debt
on bonds, notes and long-term leases, according to a February
report by Management Partners Inc., a Cincinnati-based firm the
city hired in December to assess its financial condition.  About $319 million of the city’s debt is secured by the
general fund, according to the report. That includes $303.9
million in outstanding debt on seven bonds issued from 2003 to
2009, nearly double the city’s $163 million general-fund budget
for the fiscal year ending June 30.  “It assumed that the growth the city was experiencing was
going to continue forever,” Deis, the city manager, said at the
Feb. 28 city council meeting. “So not only did the city
leverage the funds that were coming in during the first decade,
it assumed and committed future growth for the next 20 years.”  Dedicated Revenue  The bonds were sold with the understanding that there was a
dedicated revenue source outside the general fund that would pay
the debt, Deis said.  “The  bond market  wasn’t convinced that the special
dedicated revenue will be there for the next 30 years so they
said, ‘We want you to put the general fund as security,’” Deis
said. “The dedicated revenues dried up so now the general fund
is having to pay the shortfall.”  Securities issued in 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2009 increased
debt service payments linked to the general fund by 600 percent
by fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2007. That created “major cash flow
demands” after revenues and reserves fell, according to the
Management Partners report.  Missed Payments  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets,
sued Stockton for failure to make payments on $32.8 million in
bonds for parking garages. The city missed a $779,935 payment
due Feb. 25 on the revenue bonds issued in 2004, the bank said
in documents filed March 7 in San Joaquin County Superior Court.  “One has to assume that the fathers of Stockton thought
they could borrow to create infrastructure which in turn would
attract more people,” John Ellwood, a public policy professor
at the  University of California , Berkeley, said in a telephone
interview. “And that would lead to more building, which would
lead to more revenues, which would lead to a richer, better
community.”  “All of this presumed that the value of real estate would
go up and up,” Ellwood said. “And they were wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  