-- Suffolk Finds One-Shots Hard Habit to Break to Close Deficit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-04-03T21:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/suffolk-finds-one-shots-hard-habit-to-break-to-close-deficit-1-.html
Suffolk County (8320MF)  Executive Steve Bellone has proposed spreading out pension costs to help close a
projected $530 million deficit even after a fiscal  task force  he
appointed warned against such “one-shot” maneuvers.  Amortizing the New York county’s 2013 pension payment over
10 years will save $66.8 million, Bellone said yesterday. Last
week, Suffolk, where hedge fund billionaires  John Paulson  and
 George Soros  have homes in the Hamptons beach towns, borrowed
$37.6 million to pay for operations. The county declared a
fiscal emergency last month after ending 2011 with its first
deficit in two decades.  “Clearly, they’re waiting for the economy to come roaring
back and pour tens of millions of dollars and new sales taxes”
into their coffers, said Lawrence Levy, executive dean of the
National Center for Suburban Studies at Hofstra University in
Hempstead, New York. “A lot of really hard decisions lie ahead.
So far they don’t seem to have made many of them.”  Suffolk’s continued use of one-time revenue to balance its
budget underscores how difficult it is for municipalities to
take politically painful steps, such as making cuts to popular
programs or raising taxes. Since 2008, the county has used $424
million of one-shots, including property sales, delayed pension
contributions and proceeds from bonds backed by payments from
 tobacco companies  as part of a 1998 settlement.  The $162.3 million  deficit-cutting plan  announced yesterday
by Bellone and county legislators is only the first phase of a
three-part program, said Vanessa Baird-Streeter, a spokeswoman
for Bellone.  ‘One-Shots’  “It’s going to be a multipronged approach to tackle the
projected budget deficit,” said Baird-Streeter. “Everything
can’t be a one-shot. But you’re going to have to look at some
opportunities that may be one-shots.”  The plan counts on about $32.3 million from new red-light
cameras at 50 intersections, a new traffic-violations bureau
that will improve ticket collections and measures including a
25-cent surcharge on ferry trips to Fire Island.  Another $58 million in savings will come from operational
improvements and withholding 10 percent of department budgets,
which is allowed under the emergency decree.  In a March 22 report on municipal defaults,  Standard &
Poor’s  said that four years after the recession began, fewer
state and local governments are able to solve their budget gaps
by using one-time revenue.  Task Force Warning  “At this point in the economic cycle, finding additional
fiscal adjustments with the potential to yield substantial
budgetary savings without reducing service levels meaningfully
may be politically -- if not practically -- difficult for many
governments,” S&P said. “Numerous governments now confront the
starker reality of their underlying fiscal structure.”  Last month, a fiscal task force appointed by Bellone, a 42-
year-old Democrat and former supervisor for the town of Babylon,
criticized the county for using one-time fixes such as borrowing
and spreading out pension payments to close deficits during the
recession.  “These kinds of budgetary-relief measures do nothing to
alter the underlying structure of the county’s operations,” the
task force wrote in a report.  Suffolk, which spans 80 miles (129 kilometers) from Babylon
to Montauk on  Long Island  and had a 2010 population of about 1.5
million, was wracked by the bursting of the real estate bubble
and the 18-month recession, the longest since the Great
Depression. The value of taxable property has declined 16
percent since 2008, according to county bond documents.  Sales Taxes  Sales-tax revenue, which makes up almost half of Suffolk’s
budget, has declined about 10 percent from a high of $1.2
billion in 2007 and hasn’t fully recovered. Spending on
“economic assistance” has increased 20 percent to $643 million
this year from 2006.  Moody’s Investors Service last month cut Suffolk’s general-
obligation bond ratings two levels to A1, its fifth-highest
investment grade, after Bellone reported that the county’s
deficits through 2013 were projected at $530 million.  The plan announced yesterday is only a start, said Levy of
Hofstra.  “What would have been better is to come up with a plan
that begins to prepare the public for what were truly
unthinkable changes that could render county government all but
unrecognizable,” he said.  Those changes may include a smaller police force, fewer
capital projects and higher property taxes, he said.  Cutting Jobs  Last year, Suffolk’s Legislature passed a budget that
rejected a proposal by former County Executive Steve Levy to
close a 210-bed county-owned nursing home and cut 450 unrelated
jobs. Instead, legislators kept the employees on the payroll for
six months.  Bellone has to convince the Legislature that the job cuts
are necessary and extract concessions from unions representing
about 9,700 of the county’s 10,300 employees, said E.J. McMahon,
senior fellow at the  Manhattan Institute for Policy Research  in
 New York , which supports lower taxes and less  government
spending .  Suffolk employees don’t contribute toward their health
insurance, said Baird-Streeter, Bellone’s spokeswoman. By
contrast, state employees pay as much as 16 percent of the
health-care premium for an individual and as much as 32 percent
for a family, McMahon said.  “At the end of the day, they need to reduce recurring
expenditures,” McMahon said. “It’s always painful in political
terms. The sooner you start doing it the less painful it will
be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  