-- Sun Hung Kai’s Raymond Kwok Denies Wrongdoing Amid Probe
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2012-04-04T02:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/sun-hung-kai-s-raymond-kwok-denies-wrongdoing-amid-icac-probe.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  Co-
Chairman  Raymond Kwok  denied any wrongdoing and his brother
Thomas said it was business as usual five days after Hong Kong’s
anti-graft regulator detained the pair as part of a bribery
investigation.  “I can’t comment on the probe but I can definitely say
that I haven’t done anything wrong and I believe Thomas hasn’t
done anything wrong either,” Raymond Kwok said at a press
conference in the city yesterday. “I expect this investigation
to prove my innocence.”  The comments were the first by the Kwoks since they were
arrested by the Independent Commission Against Corruption on
March 29. The  stock  climbed 2 percent yesterday ahead of the
event, the first advance in five days, after falling 15 percent
in the previous two trading sessions, the biggest two-day plunge
in 14 years. The stock market is closed today for a holiday.  Facing a packed press conference, the pair declined to take
questions, saying only that development plans and projects won’t
be affected by the investigation.  “Don’t worry, it’s business as usual here at Sun Hung
Kai,”  Thomas Kwok  said. “No one in Sun Hung Kai is going to
slow down a bit, neither in  Hong Kong  nor in mainland  China .”  The arrests marked one of the highest-level investigations
in the corruption commission’s 38-year history and came after a
Hong Kong leadership election on March 25 in which close ties
between government and business emerged as a key campaign theme.
Current Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  is being probed separately
by the commission for accepting trips on the yachts and planes
of tycoons.  ‘Positive Gesture’  The two Kwoks were detained in connection with a probe into
offenses suspected to have been committed under the Prevention
of Bribery Ordinance, the company said. Sun Hung Kai had also
said the two men, who were released the same day of their arrest,
will keep running the developer.  The press conference yesterday “is a positive gesture to
give investors greater confidence, though the speech will not
remove the overhang completely,” Alfred Lau, a Hong Kong-based
analyst with BoCom International Holdings Co., said by phone.  The company’s U.S.  shares  advanced 0.3 percent yesterday,
the first gain in five days.  Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc cut their recommendations
on Sun Hung Kai’s stock and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. suspended
its rating.  Lower Credit Outlook  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the outlook on the developer’s A+
 credit rating  to negative, saying that the probe “may weaken
the stability of its management and reputation of the company.”
Moody’s Investors Service also lowered the company’s A1 outlook
to negative from stable.  Sun Hung Kai has been run by Thomas Kwok, 60, and Raymond
Kwok, 58, since the ouster as chairman in 2008 of their older
brother Walter. Walter is still a non-executive director of the
company. Their ages are cited in the company’s latest annual
report.  Walter Kwok applied to the  High Court  in 2008 to prevent
the board from removing him from office, alleging his brothers
opposed his inquiries into impropriety in the way the company
awarded construction contracts, and other corporate governance
issues.  Thomas and Raymond have assets of $13.9 billion from a 42.9
percent stake in the company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They and  Walter Kwok , who remains a non-executive
director, are the only family members on Sun Hung Kai’s 16-
member  board of directors , according to the latest interim
report.  Investor Concerns  Sun Hung Kai built and runs the 118-floor International
Commerce Centre, which at 484 meters (1,588 feet) is Hong Kong’s
tallest building, as well as the International Finance Centre
complexes in Hong Kong and  Shanghai .  The Kwoks “want to show they’re responsible and are aware
of investor concerns, so they show their presence for that
purpose,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at KGI Asia
Ltd., a Hong Kong-based brokerage. “It’s hard to say whether
investors feel that will be enough. The investigation is still
ongoing and it’s difficult to predict what will come out of
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net ;
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  