-- U.K. Grocery Market to Pass Germany by 2015 as China Beats U.S.
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-04-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-k-grocery-market-to-pass-germany-by-2015-as-china-beats-u-s-.html
The U.K. grocery market will
overtake that of  Germany  by 2015 to reach 162 billion pounds
($259 billion) as online and convenience sales give Britain
faster revenue growth than other European countries, according
to the  Institute of Grocery Distribution .  The U.K. will have the eighth-largest grocery market within
four years, pushing Germany down one place to ninth, according
to London-based IGD. The U.K. market will grow 13.2 percent in
the four-year period, faster than Italy, Germany and France,
according to the IGD forecast.  A push by grocers including  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the world’s third-
largest retailer, into small, in-town  convenience stores  and
enhanced online ranges such as non-food will raise U.K. sales.
China, which overtook the U.S. as the largest market in 2011,
will maintain its top position through 2015, driven by economic
growth, increasing population and rising food inflation,
according to the IGD.  “In the U.K., we expect the online sector to perform well,
with  Internet sales  boosted by the increasing use of smartphones
and tablet computers,” IGD Chief Executive Officer Joanne Denney-Finch said. “Convenience stores, with their increased
focus” on fresh food and tailoring of outlets to local demand,
will also be a “key performer.”  Population Growth  IGD’s definition of the grocery market includes modern
retail formats, such as supermarkets and hypermarkets, and
traditional retail formats, such as open-air markets and bakers.
It excludes cash-and-carry operations, drugstores, pharmacies
and  sales tax .  The U.K. market will grow at a compound annual growth rate
of 3.2 percent from 143 billion pounds last year. Germany’s
grocery sales will increase by 4 billion pounds to 148 billion
pounds by 2015, according to the forecast.  Differing levels of inflation across  Europe  are affecting
growth rates, said Cecile Riverain, IGD’s head of international
research. Germany is a “mature market,” she added. The
forecasts don’t include drugstore sales, which are a key growth
channel in the country, Riverain said.  “Germany has been more resilient economically, which is
good news for retailers, but this will not necessarily translate
into a marked increase in grocery retail spend per capita,”
Riverain said. “Our current forecast assumes faster population
growth in the U.K. than in Germany but, with the euro zone in
crisis, it is possible that new migration trends will take
place.”  China Growth  In Germany, “where  discount stores  still play a dominant
role, growth in the consumer goods market has been subdued,”
Reverain said. “We anticipate this will remain the case,
although some leading retailers in Germany are actively
exploring opportunities offered by online and convenience.”  In 2010, the U.S. grocery sector was the largest in the
world at $876.75 billion, beating  China  by $52.7 billion,
according to the IGD. A growth rate of 18.4 percent last year
pushed China into the top position at $975.51 billion, compared
with the U.S.’s 4.8 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  