-- U.K. Construction Growth Accelerates to Fastest in 21 Months
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-03T09:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-k-construction-growth-accelerates-to-fastest-in-21-months-1-.html
U.K.  construction  expanded at the
fastest pace in 21 months in March, adding to signs the economy
returned to growth in the first quarter.  A gauge of building activity rose to 56.7 from 54.3 in
February, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said in a report today in  London . The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of nine economists
was 53.4. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. Markit said
confidence at companies increased to a 22-month high.  The construction report follows a survey yesterday showing
 manufacturing  grew at the fastest pace in 10 months in March.
The British Chambers of Commerce said today Britain has probably
avoided a second recession, though the government needs to do
more to stoke a “weak” recovery.  “The good weather appears to have led to a surge in demand
for construction projects in March, adding to the recent flow of
good news which suggests the economy will have skirted a
recession,” said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit.
“The particularly encouraging news is that the improvement in
confidence is generating more jobs.”  The report showed that all three construction categories --
housing, commercial and civil engineering -- registered growth
in March. Employment increased, which Markit said reflected
growth in new orders and output at companies.  Newcastle, England-based  Bellway Plc (BWY) , the U.K.’s fourth-
largest homebuilder by volume, said March 27 first-half profit
rose as it sold properties at higher average prices. It also
said that while there are “uncertainties in the wider
economy,” there remains “an underlying demand for our homes.”  Rising Prices  Britain’s economy contracted 0.3 percent in the  fourth
quarter  as the European debt turmoil constrained services from
airlines to banks. The BCC said the economy probably expanded
0.3 percent in the first quarter.  Markit said input prices faced by U.K. construction
companies rose “sharply” in March, driven by higher costs for
raw materials such as oil. “Nonetheless, the latest increase
was below the long-run trend,” it said.  The  Bank of England  expanded its  bond-purchase program  by
50 billion pounds ($80 billion) in February to 325 billion
pounds to support the economic recovery. Officials will start a
two-day policy meeting tomorrow, and will probably maintain the
target for purchases at that level while holding their benchmark
 interest rate  at 0.5 percent. The bank will announce the
decision at noon in London on April 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  