-- U.K. Agency Urges Ban on Metal Hip Implant Combination
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-04-03T10:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-k-agency-urges-ban-on-metal-hip-implant-combination-1-.html
Surgeons should stop using a
particular combination of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Stryker (SYK)  Corp.
metal hip devices because of “unacceptably high” rates of
follow-up operations, British regulators said.  Patients with a combination of Mitch TRH cup/heads made by
Finsbury Orthopaedics, a unit of J&J, and Accolade femoral stems
made by Stryker, should be closely monitored, the U.K.’s
 Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency  said in a
statement on its website. After four years, 10.7 percent of
patients with the product combination required a second
operation, according to a patient registry.  Metal hips have come under scrutiny by regulators as
researchers have highlighted some devices’s increased failure
rates and higher risk of exposure to toxic materials. The U.S.
Food and Drug Administration will meet June 27 to discuss safety
concerns about devices made by manufacturers including J&J,
 Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and  Smith & Nephew Plc. (SN/)   “While this further action will not help the metal-on-
metal product class, the damage to the industry in terms of
ongoing sales has, in our view, largely already been done,”  Tom Jones , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London, wrote in a note
to clients. “The concerns about metal-on-metal generally came
to the forefront of surgeon thinking over two years ago.”  Spokespeople for J&J and Stryker were unavailable for
comment outside of U.S. business hours.  Many medical devices didn’t undergo clinical testing like
that required of drugs before they were used in patients,
according to a February investigation by the British Medical
Journal and the British Broadcasting Corp. Manufacturers have
replaced plastic with metal materials over the last decade to
improve movement and decrease dislocation without conducting
safety studies, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in  London  at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  