-- U.S. Alongside China in Roll Call of Basel Bank-Rule Laggards
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-03T14:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-s-alongside-china-in-roll-call-of-basel-bank-rule-laggards.html
The U.S. and  China  are among eight
nations lagging behind in their implementation of international
 bank -capital rules, according to a report by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision.  The group also called today for regulators to “keep up
their efforts” to ensure that they meet a January 2013 deadline
to adopt further requirements, known as Basel III.  “Full, timely and consistent implementation of the new
capital standards by internationally active banks is a top
priority for the Basel committee,”  Stefan Ingves , the group’s
chairman, said in a statement.  Global regulators have agreed on two overhauls of bank
capital and liquidity rules since the financial crisis that
followed the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in 2008.  A first set of changes, known as Basel 2.5, boosted the
reserves that lenders must hold against assets they intend to
trade. Published in 2009, the requirements were scheduled to
take effect globally at the end of 2011.  Six of the committee’s 27 members:  Argentina , Indonesia,
 Mexico ,  Russia , Turkey and the U.S., haven’t implemented any of
the Basel 2.5 rules, the group said. Two other nations, China
and  Saudi Arabia , have made limited progress, the group said in
a report  published  on its website.  A more extensive upgrade of the Basel rules, known as Basel
III, was published in December 2010. The measures, which include
forcing lenders to build up buffers of easy-to-sell assets, are
supposed to be adopted by nations by January 2013, and to fully
apply from 2019.  In-Depth Probes  So far only two nations, Japan and Saudi Arabia, have
published their final implementing laws for Basel III, the group
said.  The Basel committee also  published plans  today for more in-
depth probes of how well nations apply its rules. A first set of
investigations, covering the EU, U.S. and  Japan , has already
begun, the group said.  The committee said it is conducting a separate review into
whether lenders are using different approaches to calculate the
riskiness of their assets. The “initial findings” of this
investigation should be ready by year-end, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  