-- U.S. Mortgage-Bond Sale Surge Will Prove Fleeting, Fitch Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-04-03T17:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-s-mortgage-bond-sale-surge-will-prove-fleeting-fitch-says.html
A surge in sales of securities
backed by new U.S. home loans will probably be short-lived,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  sold bonds tied to $328 million of loans
on March 28, while  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  closed a $742 million
transaction on March 30 in which the bank partnered with Chimera
Investment Corp., another real estate investment trust,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last week’s issuance
almost doubled the total since the market seized in 2008 to $2.4
billion.  “It’s still going to continue to be a slow rebuilding
process that’s going to take some time,” Rui Pereira, a
managing director in New York at Fitch, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “My expectation is we’ll see another
handful of transactions done this year.”  Expanded limits on the sizes of loans eligible for
government-supported programs and “a strong bid” by banks for
mortgages to hold on their balance sheets are curbing the supply
available to securitize, Pereira said. Fitch isn’t seeing any
additional deals that are “imminent or that I can comment on
right now,” he said. The firm often starts studying
transactions as much as six weeks before sales and has graded
four of the six deals completed since the market froze.  Issuance of so-called non-agency home-loan bonds peaked at
about $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006 before collapsing
as foreclosures soared, home values plunged and prices for the
debt tumbled, roiling global markets. The outstanding amount
contracted to $1.09 trillion on Dec. 31, from $2.3 trillion in
mid-2007, according to Federal Reserve data.  Demand for Redwood  Demand for the Redwood bonds sold last week was “strong”
because “there’s a shortage of highly rated, high-quality
assets,” said Adam Yarnold, managing director of securitized
products trading at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s securities arm, the
underwriter. Buyers included banks, insurers and mutual funds.
“Our investors want more assets like this, so we’re interested
in bringing more deals,” he said.  Barclays has an agreement to provide  Two Harbors Investment
Corp. (TWO)  a  credit line  to accumulate new loans and then plans to
underwrite a deal in which that REIT would retain the lowest-
ranked portions, according to securities filings. Redwood and
Chimera took those slices in the transactions last week,
according to Fitch.  Jumbo Mortgages Predominate  All of the deals since 2010, when the market revived, have
comprised so-called jumbo mortgages, or ones larger than
government-supported programs allow. That’s currently as much as
$729,750 for single-family properties in some areas. For  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for borrowers
with 20 percent down payments, limits range from $417,000 in
most places, to $625,500.  Government-backed lending accounted for 88 percent of new
mortgages and home-equity loans last year, according to
newsletter  Inside Mortgage Finance . Other debt of more than
$417,000 represented 8.7 percent of the total. That share rose
to 9.3 percent in the fourth quarter as Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac loan limits fell, even with their minimums remaining
elevated amid falling home prices under a law passed in 2008.  “The mortgage market can’t stay with 90 percent government
originations and investors want high quality assets, so it’s
natural” that the amount of non-agency deals is poised to
increase, Yarnold at Barclays said.  Banks Restrain Supply  Banks so far have ample capital and capacity to hold onto
more jumbo mortgages amid generally limited loan demand,
restraining supply for bond issuers, said  Michael McMahon ,
managing director of  investor relations  at Redwood, which
completed the first five deals after the market revived. They
also have plenty of cheap deposit funding, so selling off
portions of the debt they hold as a financing tool isn’t
attractive to them, he said.  “Banks have zero economic incentive to securitize,” he
said in an e-mail.  Fitch, which said in a March 30 statement that the grades
its rivals assigned to the Credit Suisse bonds were too high and
that it wouldn’t rate the deal, still described the underlying
loans as “high quality.” The company in a statement yesterday
said only a single borrower of the approximately 1,800 whose
loans were packaged into bonds since the start of 2010 is
delinquent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  