-- U.S. Factory Orders Rose 1.3% in February on Capital Goods
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-03T14:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-s-factory-orders-climbed-1-3-in-february-on-capital-goods.html
Orders to U.S. factories climbed in
February for the third month in the last four, boosted by demand
for business equipment.  Bookings rose 1.3  percent  after a revised 1.1 percent
decline in January, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in  Washington . The median of 60 economists’ projections in
a Bloomberg News survey called for a 1.5 percent advance. Orders
excluding transportation equipment increased by the most in five
months.  Demand for new vehicles and business investment are
sustaining production gains at American factories, which account
for about 12 percent of the world’s largest economy. At the same
time, slower growth in Europe and  China  show that sales overseas
remain a risk.  “The manufacturing sector is the rock on which the recovery
is being built and the base is as stable as it gets,”  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. “The economy has leaned on
the manufacturing sector for much of the growth during the entire
recovery. There appears to be no reason to believe that will
change anytime soon.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
gains of 0.5 percent to 2.6 percent. The Commerce Department
revised the January decline from a previously estimated 1 percent
decrease.  Stocks were little changed after the figures. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped less than 0.1 percent to 1,418.11 at
10:08 a.m. in  New York .  Minus Transportation  Factory orders minus transportation equipment increased 0.9
percent in February after a 0.5 percent drop.  Bookings for goods meant to least at least three years rose
2.4 percent in February, more than the 2.2 percent advance the
government estimated in a March 28 report.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, climbed 1.7
percent after dropping 3.4 percent in January.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, increased 1.4 percent after a 2.8 percent
decline in January.  Bookings for non-durable goods, including petroleum, climbed
0.4 percent, today’s report showed.  Factory inventories rose 0.4 percent in February, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.33 months at the
current sales pace, the same as in January.  Unfilled Orders  A 1.3 percent increase in unfilled orders in February was
almost twice the gain in the previous month and points to a
pickup in production.  Improving demand for autos is underscoring the strength in
manufacturing. Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.6 million
annual rate last month after a 15 million pace in February that
was the fastest since February 2008, according to industry data.  “As the economy continues to strengthen, more of the pent-
up demand will be released,”  Don Johnson , U.S. sales chief for
General Motors Co., said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “In
The Loop With Betty Liu.”  Chrysler Group LLC said today its U.S. sales climbed 34
percent in March from the same month last year, while purchases
at Ford Motor Co. increased 5 percent.  Orders for motor vehicles and parts increased 0.2 percent in
February after a 1 percent drop, today’s report showed.  Industry in March  Another report showed that the industry strengthened further
in March. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index 
rose to 53.4 from 52.4 in February, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said yesterday. Readings above 50 signal growth.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that
while he was encouraged by recent data showing an improved
economy, a further reduction in the jobless rate will probably
require a quicker expansion of business production and consumer
demand, which “can be supported by continued accommodative
policies.”  Recent “better news” on the  U.S. economy  has also included
strength in manufacturing, Bernanke said. The improvement could
contribute to higher consumer confidence and lead to a self-
sustaining recovery, he said. “We haven’t seen that in a
persuasive way yet,” Bernanke said in a speech in Arlington,
Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  