-- U.S. Economy Enters Sweet Spot as China Slows
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-04-03T04:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-s-economy-enters-sweet-spot-as-china-slows.html
The U.S. once again may be emerging
as a main engine for global growth -- and at an opportune time,
as Europe slides into recession and China’s economy decelerates.  An improving job market, rising stock prices and easier
credit are combining to lift U.S. consumer confidence and
spending, with optimism measured by the Bloomberg Comfort Index
near a  four-year high . Personal-consumption expenditures
increased by the most in seven months in February, rising 0.8
percent, the Commerce Department said last week.  “We’re entering a sweet spot for the economy,” said  Allen Sinai , president of Decision Economics Inc. in  New York . “We’re
in a self-reinforcing cycle,” where faster employment growth
leads to higher household income and increased consumer
spending.  International companies, including Milan-based  Gianni
Versace SpA (GIAN) , already are benefiting. Revenue for the Italian
designer will rise at a “really strong double-digit” pace this
year in the U.S., compared with “a significant single-digit”
amount in Europe, according to Chief Executive Officer Gian Giacomo Ferraris.  “America is doing fantastic,” he said last month.  The blossoming of the U.S. expansion comes amid a slowdown
in China, until now the pacesetter for the world. While a
purchasing-managers’ index rose to a one-year high in March,
according to  China ’s logistics federation and the National
Bureau of Statistics, analysts said the gain was seasonal and
pointed to a separate index produced by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics that showed manufacturing contracted and export
orders fell last month.  Reduced China Forecast  Premier Wen Jiabao cut this year’s growth target to 7.5
percent last month from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005 as
officials seek to shift the economy toward more consumption.
That’s down from last year’s 9.2 percent expansion.  For China and some other emerging economies, the policy
goal is to “gradually bring inflation down” to help achieve a
so-called soft landing, Chinese central bank Governor Zhou
Xiaochuan said in the southern Chinese island of Hainan today.  The 17-nation euro-area, meantime, is flirting with
recession after gross domestic product fell  0.3 percent  in the
fourth quarter, the first contraction since 2009. Manufacturing
contracted in March, and unemployment rose to 10.8 percent in
February, the highest in more than 14 years, reports showed
yesterday.  ‘Big Plus’  All this means the consumer rebound in the U.S. “is a big
plus for  Europe  and  Asia ,” as companies in the two regions will
see increased demand for their exports, said  Joseph Carson ,
director of global economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in
New York. The  U.S. trade deficit  widened 4.3 percent in January
to $52.6 billion, the largest since October 2008, as imports
rose to a record high.  U.S. consumer spending was the “fundamental reason”
department-store sales for Prada SpA increased in the year ended
Jan. 31, the maker of $2,950 perforated patent-leather handbags
said March 29. The Milan-based company reported net income rose
72 percent to 431.9 million euros ($574 million) for the period,
topping analysts’ forecasts.  North American deliveries of Accord sedans and Civic
compacts will lead the strongest business results in at least
five years for  Japan ’s  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , President Takanobu Ito
forecast in January.  The 12 months ending March 2013 “will be the year of the
complete rebound,” he said in an interview at the company’s
Tokyo headquarters. “We’ll introduce a fully revamped Accord in
the fall, and that will be a big plus to our sales.”  Household Spending  U.S. households spent $10.7 trillion in 2011, accounting
for about 70 percent of GDP, according to the Commerce
Department. That’s more than China’s total GDP of $7 trillion
last year, based on International Monetary Fund figures.  “The consumer economy of the U.S. is the biggest in the
world,” Sinai said.  He estimates the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will end the
year around 1,500, compared with  1,419.04 (SPX)  yesterday at 4:00 p.m.
in New York, as growth strengthens to as much as 3 percent this
year from 1.7 percent in 2011. The index has risen  13 percent 
since Dec. 31.  The dollar also will benefit from the shifting pattern of
global expansion, said Stephen Jen, a managing partner at the
London-based hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners LLP. He predicts it
will rise toward parity against the Australian dollar and also
gain compared with emerging-market exchange rates. The so-called
Aussie climbed 0.7 percent yesterday to $1.0419.  “The world is set up to allow the undervalued dollar to
reassert itself,” Jen said.  Spending Recovers  U.S. consumers helped power the global economy from 1995
through 2007, as their spending was boosted first by a run-up in
stock prices and then by the housing bubble. Personal-
consumption expenditures rose at an average annual inflation-
adjusted rate of 3.5 percent during the period. After nose-
diving in the recession, spending has recovered to grow at an
annual 2.1 percent pace.  A return to the heady pre-slump days isn’t likely as
households still are burdened with debt, according to Nariman Behravesh, chief economist in Lexington, Massachusetts, at  IHS
Inc. (IHS)  “The U.S. won’t be as powerful an engine as it was, maybe
four-cylinder rather than six- or eight-cylinder,” he said.  That still will be welcome news for many companies.  ‘Big Potential’  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , Europe’s second-largest clothing
retailer, is “growing fast” in the U.S., where it continues to
open stores, Nils Vinge, head of investor relations, told
reporters on March 29.  The Stockholm, Sweden-based company also
sees “big potential” for its planned U.S. online business,
according to Chief Executive Officer Karl-Johan Persson.  Daimler AG (DAI)  Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said Feb.
9 the “U.S. certainly is the bright spot as far as the
development in the recent months is concerned.” American sales
of the company’s Mercedes-Benz models rose 17 percent that month
compared with a year earlier. Meanwhile, Mercedes dealers in
China are offering record discounts of as much as 25 percent.  President Barack Obama should get a boost in his bid to win
re-election in November if the  U.S. economy  strengthens and the
job market continues to improve. Unemployment held at a three-
year low of  8.3 percent  in March, and payrolls rose by more than
200,000 workers for a fourth consecutive month, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
Labor Department will release last month’s figures on April 6.  Better Off  More Americans say they are personally better off since
Obama took office in January 2009 than worse off, a Bloomberg
National Poll found last month. That’s the first favorable
reading for the president on that question since Bloomberg began
asking it in December 2010.  The U.S. is taking the lead in global growth, thanks in
part to a domestic glut of natural gas, Larry Kantor, head of
research at Barclays in New York, wrote in a March 22 report.
Natural-gas futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  fell to
10-year lows last week, helping to blunt the impact of higher
 oil prices  on the economy.  U.S. manufacturers are benefiting, with the Institute for
Supply Management’s factory index climbing to  53.4 (NAPMPMI)  last month,
beating the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey, from
52.4 in February, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said yesterday.
Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Clearly Led  The recovery “has been an emerging-market -- really a
Chinese-led -- story, with the U.S. having lagged the cycle,”
Kantor said. “Now, however, the U.S. has reasserted its
traditional role, and the current pickup in growth is clearly
being led by the U.S.”  Americans are better positioned to spend because of the
progress they’ve made in repairing their balance sheets, helped
by record-low  interest rates  engineered by the  Federal Reserve ,
Carson said. The central bank cut the federal funds rate
commercial banks charge each other for overnight loans to  zero
to 0.25 percent  in December 2008 and has suggested it will hold
there until late 2014.  Household financial obligations -- everything from
mortgages and rents to property taxes and car-lease payments --
fell to a 28-year low in the fourth quarter, when measured
against disposable income, according to Fed data. That ratio
stood at 15.9 percent at the end of 2011, down from a record
18.9 percent in the third quarter of 2007, just before the start
of the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  Spending Capacity  The capacity of consumers to spend “has been greatly
enhanced now that financial obligations absorb a much smaller
share of overall income,” Carson wrote in a March 16 report. So
GDP growth this year could exceed 3 percent, he predicted.  Households also are finding it easier to borrow, as their
creditworthiness increases and banks become less stingy with
loans. Consumer credit rose $17.8 billion in January to $2.51
trillion, capping the biggest three-month gain in more than a
decade, Fed figures show.  Even as the outlook improves, potential pitfalls remain.
Increased tensions in the  Middle East  over  Iran’s nuclear
program  could drive oil prices higher, sapping Americans’
spending power. The U.S. also faces a potential budget crunch at
the end of the year, when some $450 billion worth of tax
increases and spending cuts are slated to kick in unless
Congress takes action to block them.  “I hope we don’t have an accident and dive off the fiscal
cliff and crash,” Sinai said.  Full Recovery  It is “far too early to declare victory” for the economy,
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week, according to a
transcript of an interview with ABC News anchor Diane Sawyer
provided by the network.  “We haven’t quite yet got to the
point where we can be completely confident that we’re on a track
to full recovery.”  Some private economists sound more upbeat.  “The American consumer is definitely coming back,” said
Bluford Putnam, chief economist at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange and a former official at the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York. He predicts expansion of as much as 4 percent this
year and no more Fed bond purchases after two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing totaling $2.3 trillion.  “We’re in great shape for the economy to do very well this
year,” he said. “Not a super-strong engine, but it will be a
positive factor on global growth, as opposed to being
sluggish.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  