-- U.S. Can Spur World Growth as Employment Recovers, Phelps Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-03T08:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-s-can-spur-world-growth-as-employment-recovers-phelps-says.html
The U.S. can be an engine for global
growth this year and unemployment in the world’s largest economy
will go back to its “natural” rate, said  Edmund Phelps , the
Nobel-prize winning economist and Columbia University professor.  “I’ve been saying for a long time that the U.S. downturn
overshot the mark and that we’ll be going back to the natural
 unemployment rate  with all deliberate speed,” Phelps, 78, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television today at the Boao
forum in Hainan,  China . “It’s been slower than I thought it
would be but I’m still confident.”  An improving job market and rising consumer confidence in
the U.S. are boosting scope for the country to re-emerge as a
main driver of global expansion as  Europe  slides into recession
and growth in  China (CNGDPYOY)  slows. Unemployment held at a three-year low
of 8.3 percent in March, according to a Bloomberg News survey
ahead of data due later this week, and a report yesterday showed
manufacturing expanded at a faster pace last month.  The country’s “natural” jobless rate today isn’t as good as
it was mid-1990s, Phelps said, without specifying a level.  The U.S. will need to put its fiscal house in order, even
as the prospects of achieving that are “not too bright,” said
Phelps, the McVickar Professor of Political Economy at Columbia
and winner of the 2006  Nobel prize  for economics.  The impasse among lawmakers over what to do about the
government’s $1.2 trillion deficit may continue for another four
years unless one party has enough of a majority to bring about
some legislation, he said.  In Europe, governments have “run out of fiscal fuel” as
they deal with a sovereign-debt crisis, excessive deficits and
low productivity growth since 1998 or 1999, Phelps said. The
region’s economies will have to “engage in serious structural
reform,” he said.  While China has lost some ground as exports faltered, it
remains “way too strong” to suffer significantly from a dip in
overseas sales, he said.  --Rina Chandran in Singapore and Stephen Engle in Hainan. With
assistance from Andy Clarke and Christine Hah. Editors:
Stephanie Phang, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Stephen Engle in Hainan at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Rina Chandran in  Singapore  at 
 rchandran12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  