-- U.S. Marines Arrive in Australia as Asia-Pacific Presence Raised
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-04-04T02:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-s-marines-arrive-in-australia-as-asia-pacific-presence-raised.html
U.S. Marines began arriving in
 Australia  after an agreement between President  Barack Obama  and
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to increase cooperation and allow a
greater regional presence for American forces.  The first 200 of as many as 2,500 Marines arrived in the
northern city of Darwin yesterday, Gillard said in a statement.
Obama first announced that the contingent would be based in
Australia during a visit in November to mark the 60th
anniversary of the alliance between the two nations.  “As part of the ongoing U.S. consideration of its global
force posture, this initiative will see U.S. Marine Corps
personnel deploying to northern Australia on a rotational basis
for around six months per year,” Gillard said.  The deployments are part of a U.S. push to increase its
military footprint in the Asia-Pacific region that include plans
to strengthen Philippines naval defenses. When Obama announced
the plans last year he said they sent a “clear message” of
U.S. commitment to the region and that the U.S. was not
attempting to contain  China .  Darwin is part of a growing energy hub where companies
including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  are planning to spend more than
A$150 billion ($156 billion) to develop offshore natural gas
fields. Australia needs to bolster the defense of its energy and
mining assets on its northwest coast, according to a review
commissioned by the government released in January.  “It makes sense from our national interest perspective, it
also makes sense for our region’s stability and security,”
Australian Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  said today, according
to an e-mailed transcript of his remarks.  The 2,500-member Marine Air Ground Task Force that will
deploy to Australia will include wheeled vehicles, artillery,
light-armored vehicles and aircraft, Gillard said. They will use
existing Australian facilities and no U.S. bases will be built
in Australia, she said.  The arrival of the Marines “supports Australia’s long-held
strategic interests in supporting U.S. engagement in our region
in a manner that promotes peace and stability,” according to
Gillard’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  