-- U.S. Regulators Approve Rule to Designate Non-Banks Systemic
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-03T22:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/u-s-regulators-approve-rule-to-designate-non-banks-systemic-1-.html
The U.S. Financial Stability
Oversight Council today approved a final rule to help the panel
determine which non-bank financial firms require Federal Reserve
scrutiny.  The council, headed by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , approved the criteria to identify which firms may be
systemically important and pose a potential risk to the
financial system. The final rule comes after two attempts by the
panel, commonly referred to as FSOC, to define systemic risk
designation standards.  “This interpretive guidance is an important tool provided
in Dodd-Frank for extending the parameter of transparency
oversight and prudential supervision over parts of the financial
system that can be a particularly important source of credit to
the economy and potentially important source of risk in
crisis,” Geithner said at today’s FSOC meeting.  Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin told Bloomberg
Television today that FSOC should begin making designations “by
year’s end or some time in that timeframe but we’ll have to let
the process play out to see how quickly the council can do their
work.”  Largely Unchanged  The final rule regulators approved is largely unchanged
from that proposed in October. Under the rule, regulators will
evaluate non-bank financial companies with more than $50 billion
in assets if they meet any one or more of the following
thresholds: A 15-to-1  leverage ratio ; $3.5 billion in
liabilities on derivatives contracts; $20 billion of outstanding
loans borrowed and bonds issued; $30 billion in gross notional
credit-default swaps outstanding; or a 10 percent ratio of
short-term debt to assets.  “Until an entity is actually designated it’s just
speculation about what the rule will do even if the rule is
final,” said Jerome Walker, a partner at SNR Denton in  New
York . “Once one non-bank sifi is named, then you can study that
and you can apply to other institutions. Until then, it means
continued uncertainty.” The acronym “sifi” refers to a a
systemically important financial institution whose failure could
pose a threat to financial stability.  Three-Step Process  Under a three-step process, the council will use additional
data, including size, interconnectedness and liquidity risk, to
identify a subset of non-bank financial companies. The council
will use publicly available figures to analyze the companies,
and then regulators will contact the firm in question to collect
more information.  The council retained a provision allowing it to designate
any financial company if it poses a threat to U.S. financial
stability regardless if it meets the metrics.  Firms designated as systemic will receive heightened
supervision from the central bank. The Fed could require firms
to raise capital and reduce risky practices. The companies also
would have to file “living wills” so they could be unwound in
an orderly way.  “U.S. financial stability -- as AIG did in 2008 -- will be
subject to Federal Reserve supervision and enhanced prudential
standards,” U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman
 Gary Gensler  said in a statement. “This rule helps protect
taxpayers from picking up the bill for such a financial entity’s
failure.”  Dodd-Frank, Banks  Under the Dodd-Frank act, banks with more than $50 billion
in assets were automatically deemed risky to the financial
system in the event of their failure.  The Fed is in the process of defining how it would regulate
both bank and non-bank systemic companies. Kenneth Bentsen, the
executive vice president of public policy and advocacy at the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, said non-
banks fear if designated they would face bank-like supervision.  “Some of it may not be completely applicable to firms that
pass the first threshold and what Federal Reserve supervision
will mean for non-bank entities is unclear,” Bentsen said.  By setting designation standards now, the U.S. is able to
frame debate on systemic risk globally. While the Financial
Stability Board has named globally systemic banks, it has yet to
publish rules for designating non-bank firms as systemic. The
FSB is a panel charged by Group of 20 nations’ leaders to
coordinate global financial reform and monitor progress.  “From a practical standpoint this allows the U.S. as they
go to the G-20 to say we have our process in place and that
helps the U.S. influence what” a globally systemic firm is,
Bentsen said.  Evaluate, Adjust  The council said in the rule that it will continue to
evaluate and adjust this framework and the thresholds, as
appropriate, as more data about firms and industries, such as
asset managers,  hedge funds , private equity firms, and swaps
entities, become available.  From the October rule, the Treasury made minor adjustments,
including confidentiality protections for information collected
and written notice and opportunities for firms to contest a
designation.  The council first attempted to define standards for
systemic risk designation in January 2011. Lawmakers and
industry executives quickly complained that the initial proposal
simply restated the Dodd-Frank act provision on designation.
FSOC responded in October with the proposal laying out the
quantitative metrics for designation.  “It may be to their advantage to name a few now and
revisit later because it sends a message to the market that they
are not asleep at the switch, that this is an ongoing process
that is never going away,” said  Brian Gardner , the senior vice
president for Washington research at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.
“The best way to keep both the regulators themselves and the
markets on their toes is for this list to be an evolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net  