-- UN Peacekeepers Syria-Bound as April 10 Deadline Nears
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-04-04T08:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/un-peacekeepers-syria-bound-as-april-10-deadline-nears.html
A  United Nations  team headed to
Damascus to discuss deploying unarmed peacekeepers after Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad agreed to an April 10 cease-fire that
Western nations say they doubt he will respect.  The planning team from the UN’s Department of Peacekeeping
Operations was going to the Syrian capital “to discuss the
modalities of the eventual deployment of a UN supervision and
monitoring mission,” UN spokesman Ahmad Fawzi said yesterday in
an e-mail.  After the first group of about six observers, the number
would eventually rise to about 250, provided that the cease-fire
takes effect, according to diplomats in  New York  briefed on the
UN contingency plans who discussed the arrangements on condition
of anonymity.  “All members think you cannot send monitors unarmed into a
hot situation,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice, the UN  Security
Council ’s president this month, told reporters yesterday. First
“we need cessation of violence and one that’s credible.”  Western nations and their Arab allies say they have seen
little sign of restraint from Syrian forces since the April 2
announcement of a cessation. At least 58 people died in violence
yesterday, the  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said in an e-
mailed statement today. This added to a death toll estimated by
the UN at 9,000.  Actions, Not Words  “We have been able to identify no withdrawal of mechanized
units” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
yesterday after remarks in Moscow by Syria’s foreign minister
that his country was complying with the plan offered by UN
special envoy  Kofi Annan . “We are going to judge this guy by
his actions, not by his words,” she said.  Annan told the Security Council on April 2 that Assad had
agreed by April 10 to halt advances by his troops, stop using
heavy weapons and withdraw forces from population centers.
Opposition groups say the fighting has continued unabated since
Syria accepted the plan in principle on March 27.  The council will weigh “further steps” if Assad fails to
respect the April 10 deadline, according to a draft statement
obtained yesterday. In the statement, the council demands that
the Syrian government “immediately implement its commitments”
and provide an update of steps taken. The council says “in
light of these reports” it will “consider further steps as
appropriate.”  Syria  buried 10 security personnel killed in fighting, the
state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  said today. The government
also accused “armed terrorist groups” of killing four women
and “a number of citizens” who were abducted,  SANA  said.  ‘Need to Respond’  “If the government uses this window to intensify the
violence, it would be most unfortunate,” Rice said. “Our view
is that the Security Council would need to respond to that
failure in a very urgent and serious way.”  The draft will be negotiated among council members through
today, before adoption, she said.  The presence of UN peacekeeping monitors would require
Assad’s permission and a Security Council resolution that
Russia, an Assad ally, has the power to veto. It has twice
blocked resolutions it considered biased toward the opposition.  Nuland said the U.S. has noticed greater cooperation from
 Russia . “We have been feeling convergence on the Security
Council for some two weeks now,” she said, citing the council’s
statement of support for Annan’s six-point plan.  The  Arab League , which imposed economic sanctions on Assad,
this year sent about 150 unarmed monitors on a monthlong mission
to Syria, which failed to stop the violence.  This time, ensuring unfettered access to trouble spots and
having weapons experts available could enhance the credibility
of a mission, according to Salman Shaikh, director of the
 Brookings Doha Center  in Qatar.  “There are lessons to be learned from the Arab League
observer mission where they were intimidated by the environment
and lacked experience,” Shaikh said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  