-- Turkish Bond Yields Slide After Inflation Lower Than Expected
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-04-03T14:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/turkish-yields-slide-after-inflation-lower-than-expected.html
Turkish  bond yields  declined after
the  inflation  rate in March was lower than economists
anticipated, staying unchanged from the previous month at 10.4
percent.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt fell four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 9.34 percent at 5:15 p.m. in
Istanbul. The lira was little changed at 1.7780 per dollar.  “This lower-than-expected inflation is positive,” Ali Cakiroglu, strategist at  HSBC Private Bank  in Istanbul, said in
an e-mailed report to clients. “The benchmark bond yield may
slide toward 9.2 percent and it looks possible that the lira
will advance to 1.77 today.”  Yields dropped 167 basis points this year, the biggest
decline in  emerging markets , on speculation the inflation rate
will slow toward the central bank’s year-end forecast of 6.5
percent from a three-year high of 10.6 percent in January. The
bank says it expects inflation to drop starting from May.  The inflation rate was forecast at 10.6 percent, according
to the  median estimate  of nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
The central bank’s preferred measure for  core inflation  fell to
an annual 7.9 percent from 8.1 percent in February, the
statistics office said on its website today.  “ Core inflation  is now moderating, following the script
laid down by the central bank,”  Tatha Ghose , emerging-market
economist at Commerzbank AG in  London , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Producer price trends are a positive
lead signal.”  Producer prices  fell to an annual 8.2 percent, the lowest
since April last year, from 9.2 percent in February.  The lira’s 18 percent drop last year, the most among major
currencies, had helped push prices up. The currency has pared
some of the depreciation this year, appreciating 6.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  