-- Uruguay’s Credit Rating Returned to Investment Grade by S&P
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 2012-04-04T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/uruguay-s-credit-ratings-returned-to-investment-grade-by-s-p-1-.html
Uruguay’s credit rating was raised
one level by  Standard & Poor’s , returning the Latin American
country to investment grade for the first time in a decade.  S&P yesterday lifted Uruguay’s rating to BBB-, the lowest
investment grade and in line with Colombia. The outlook is
stable.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service rate the
country one level below investment grade.  “The upgrade is based on Uruguay’s sound economic growth
prospects and improving external and fiscal indicators, as
foreign direct investment strengthens and improves economic
diversification,” Buenos Aires-based analyst Sebastian Briozzo
said in a statement. “Prudent economic policies in recent
years, backed by a broad political consensus, have allowed
Uruguay to grow rapidly and reduce its main credit
vulnerabilities.”  The country lost its investment grade rating in 2002 after
neighboring  Argentina  defaulted on $95 billion of debt, sparking
a run on bank deposits and a  currency devaluation  in Uruguay.
S&P rates Argentina B, five levels below investment grade.  Economy Minister Fernando Lorenzo said the investment grade
rating “will allow the country to better manage our
liabilities.”  “We will continue to reduce vulnerabilities and ensure
continuity of economic growth,” Lorenzo said in statements
broadcast yesterday on national television in Montevideo.  The Uruguayan peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 19.5017 per
 U.S. dollar  in trading yesterday. The currency has gained 2.3
percent against the dollar this year.  The yield on Uruguayan dollar bonds maturing in 2022 fell 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage points, to 3.67 percent. The
price of the securities rose 0.13 cent to 137.73 cents on the
dollar.  “From a financial standpoint, we don’t expect significant
changes as the market had already internalized this, as
reflected in the rates of Uruguayan debt,” Vice President
Danilo Astori said in a phone interview in Montevideo.  The upgrade was “long overdue” and will help Uruguay gain
exposure among international investors, Astori said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in  Buenos Aires  at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at  
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  