-- Venezuelan Carrier Conviasa Banned by EU in New Blacklist
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-04-03T20:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/venezuela-carrier-conviasa-banned-by-eu-in-new-blacklist-update.html
The European Union banned Venezuelan
airline Conviasa from flying in the 27-nation bloc under the
latest changes to a list of unsafe carriers.  The EU said “numerous safety concerns” resulting from
accidents and European ramp checks justified the prohibition on
 Venezuela ’s state airline.  “Safety comes first,” the European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, said in a  statement  today in Brussels. “We
cannot afford any compromise in this area.” The decision is due
to be published tomorrow.  This is the 19th update of a  blacklist  first drawn up by
the commission in March 2006 with more than 90 airlines, mainly
from  Africa . The ban already covers passenger and cargo carriers
from nations including the  Democratic Republic  of Congo,
 Equatorial Guinea , Gabon, Liberia,  Sudan  and the  Philippines .  Airline crashes in 2004 and 2005 that killed hundreds of
European travelers prompted EU governments to seek a uniform
approach to airline safety through a common blacklist. The list,
updated at least four times a year, is based on deficiencies
found during checks at European airports, the use of antiquated
aircraft by companies and shortcomings by non-EU airline
regulators.  In addition to imposing an operational ban in  Europe , the
blacklist can act as a guide for travelers worldwide and
influence safety policies in non-EU countries. Nations that are
home to carriers with poor safety records can ground them to
avoid being put on the EU list, while countries keen to keep out
unsafe foreign airlines can use the European list as a guide for
their own bans.  ‘Disproportionate’  Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez’s government said the
decision is “disproportionate” and that it may take similar
measures against European nations as part of “reciprocal
treatment,” the Foreign Ministry said in a  statement  sent today
by e-mail.  “Venezuela will take steps to protect our interests and
preserve the state airline’s prestige,” the ministry said.  In its statement today, the commission said it refrained
from adding Libyan-based airlines to the list because of
“strong measures” taken by the North African country itself.
These include a ban on Libyan carriers flying into the EU until
at least November this year, according to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Cancel at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  