-- WellCare to Pay $137.5 Million to Settle False Claims Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-03T21:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/wellcare-to-pay-137-5-million-to-settle-false-claims-case-1-.html
WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG)  agreed to
pay $137.5 million to the U.S. and nine states to resolve civil
claims that it overbilled the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
the U.S.  Justice Department  said.  WellCare, a Tampa, Florida-based insurer, paid $80 million
in 2009 to resolve a criminal investigation that led to a guilty
plea by a former analyst and charges against five other
executives, including ex-Chief Executive Officer Todd Farha,
according to a statement today from the office of U.S. Attorney
Robert E. O’Neill in Tampa.  The civil settlement resolves claims including that
WellCare inflated what it said it spent on medical care to avoid
returning money to Medicaid and that it knowingly retained
overpayments received from  Florida ’s Medicaid program, O’Neill
said in the statement. Medicaid is the government medical
assistance program for low-income patients.  “This settlement should serve as notice to those
defrauding state and federal health-care programs that, in
addition to appropriate criminal prosecutions, we will utilize
civil suits to root out their conduct and recover their ill-
gotten gains,” O’Neill said.  Denise Malacca, a WellCare spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the settlement beyond a company statement on March 23. It
announced then that a settlement had been reached, and it
wouldn’t have a material impact on the company’s finances this
year.  ‘Transformed Company’  “We are pleased that these matters are fully resolved,”
Chief Executive Officer Alec Cunningham said in a statement that
day. “WellCare is a transformed company that is focused on
providing quality, cost-effective health-care solutions.”  The company also said today that O’Neill’s office had
agreed to an early end to a three-year deferred-prosecution
agreement entered in May 2009.  Prosecutors, who will drop criminal charges within five
days, agreed to consider an early termination after reviewing
WellCare’s remedial actions and compliance with health-care
laws, as well as written reports from a monitor, the company
said.  The settlement resolves four lawsuits filed under the U.S.
False Claims Act, which lets whistle-blowers sue on behalf of
the government and share in any recovery. Three of those cases
were filed in the Middle District of Florida, and one was filed
in  Connecticut , according to O’Neill. The Justice Department
investigated the cases and joined them.  Financial Analyst  Sean Hellein, a former WellCare financial analyst whose
complaint initiated the probe, will get $20.75 million,
according to O’Neill. Three others -- Clark Bolton, SF United
Partners Inc. and Eugene Gonzalez -- will split $4.66 million,
O’Neill said.  The attorneys for SF United Partners, Bob Thomas and
Suzanne Durrell, said in a statement, “We are enormously
pleased for our clients, who took considerable personal risk in
coming forward to alert law enforcement of a variety of fraud
schemes perpetrated by WellCare.”  The company may be required to pay $35 million more if it’s
sold or has a change in control in the next three years,
according to O’Neill.  The states sharing in the settlement are Connecticut,
Florida,  Georgia , Hawaii,  Illinois , Indiana, Missouri,  New York 
and  Ohio , according to O’Neill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 