-- Yahoo Japan Falls as Goldman Sachs Reiterates Sell Rating
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-04-03T06:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/yahoo-japan-falls-as-goldman-sachs-reiterates-sell-rating.html
Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , operator of the
country’s most-visited web portal, fell the most in more than
six weeks in Tokyo trading after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
reiterated its sell  rating  on the shares.  Yahoo  Japan  declined 2.8 percent, the most since Feb. 15,
to 25,890 yen as of the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 0.6
percent.  The company’s dominance may wane as more consumers use
smartphones to surf the Internet instead of personal computers,
decreasing the importance of portal sites, Takayoshi Koike and
Masaru Sugiyama, Tokyo-based analysts at Goldman Sachs, said in
a report yesterday. Yahoo Japan also fell as  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
shareholder Third Point LLC unveiled a website that calls for
changes at the U.S. Internet company.  “The Goldman report triggered the drop today,”  Mitsuo
Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at Cosmo Securities Co., said by
phone today. “The dispute in the U.S. also discourages Yahoo
Japan investors as it may affect its disposal talks.”  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo is in talks to dispose of
its stake of about 34.7 percent in Yahoo Japan, a joint venture
with  Softbank Corp. (9984) , the companies have said.  Third Point, the owner of about 5.8 percent of Yahoo Inc.,
announced plans last month to seek shareholder votes on a
proposed slate of four Yahoo directors. The company has unveiled
a website that includes a blog, biographies of director nominees
and a critique of Yahoo’s past mistakes.  Yahoo Japan, whose profit has increased every fiscal year
since it was founded in 1996, plans to accelerate development of
mobile-device applications as the number of smartphone users
rises, Manabu Miyasaka, who became chief executive officer April
1, said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  