-- Yale Can Ensure Rights on Singapore Campus
-- B y   C l a r e   M a l o n e
-- 2012-04-03T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/yale-can-ensure-rights-on-singapore-campus.html
In fall 2013, when the eager  Yale 
freshmen converge on New Haven,  Connecticut , they will be joined
by  classmates  thousands of miles away on the school’s satellite
campus in Singapore.  A joint venture with the  National University of Singapore ,
Yale-NUS promises to “draw on the best elements of the American
liberal arts tradition, but re-shape and re-imagine the
curriculum and collegiate experience for  Asia .”  What this reshaping and reimagining actually means has been
a source of concern for many at Yale. Homosexuality is illegal
in Singapore, and its government has been criticized for
crackdowns on free speech, including the 2010 arrest of British
author  Alan Shadrake  after the publication of a book on the
death penalty in Singapore.  The  Yale faculty  introduced a resolution last month
demanding that the university  “respect, protect and further
the ideals of civil liberties for all minorities, the principles
of non-discrimination, and full political freedom both on the
Yale-NUS campus and in Singapore as a whole.”  Broad statements of mission such as this are well and good.
But as other American universities have learned -- New York
University in Abu Dhabi ,  Johns Hopkins  in Nanjing,  China , and
Cornell, Georgetown and Northwestern in Qatar --the allure of
adding an international outpost at little to no cost thanks to
generous foreign-government support is hard to resist.  Challenge in Qatar  A more productive exercise is to consider what the business
of liberal-arts education will look like in a country that
doesn’t quite live up to the standards of Jeffersonian
democracy.  I worked for two years at  Georgetown’s School of Foreign
Service  in Qatar doing student development, a job chiefly
concerned with all those intangibles that lead to the much-
sought-after “vibrant campus community” of college-brochure
fame.  The translation of the American college ethos was my job,
and when I first began, I understood this more or less to mean
mimicking activities and organizations found on the typical U.S.
campus.  The opening of minds and the entertainment of
“subversive” ideas are essential to the DNA of the American
university, but they are not qualities that came without
struggle. Opening a liberal-arts college in an illiberal place
is an audacious act that must be met with a dose of realism.
Establishing a campus culture that promotes critical thinking
requires administrators and professors who are willing to lead
by example in the classroom and in their daily lives, and to
grapple with uncomfortable issues.  By inviting American colleges in, governments such as
 Singapore ’s are flirting with the idea of liberalization, but
the personal convictions of those in power don’t always mesh
with those of the public.  It’s one thing to receive promises of uncensored book
shipments from high-up officials, and quite another to ensure
that a customs officer doesn’t take matters into his own hands
to decide what’s smut and what’s not. This kind of disconnect is
at once frustrating and clarifying for a university’s mission.
If the aim is to help open up a society, you’ve got to start
somewhere. Book shipments are as good a place as any.  Protect Privacy Networks  If there is one hard line to be taken, it is that students
should never be denied the free flow of information. The
ultimate equalizer of the modern age is the virtual privacy
network, which allows foreign students to gain access to any
information, database or article --Internet censors be damned. A
well-stocked library doesn’t hurt, either.  Ensuring an open information network in a closed society is
just one crucial part of creating that characteristic college
bubble in which students may act with certain freedom, away from
the constraints of the outside world. In  Qatar , the bubble meant
sitting with a member of the opposite sex on the same couch, for
example, and not causing a scandal. The maintenance of this safe
space in the university must be protected. School grounds should
be a place of sanctuary, where free speech extends from the
classroom to the halls and lounges.  This is not to say that elements of a restrictive society
won’t seep into the classroom or university. Professors and
administrators must be prepared for the inevitability of this.  In  Qatar , students often felt uncomfortable talking about
religion or issues of morality because of the country’s
immutable standards in these areas. Georgetown’s traditional
first-year theology course,  “The Problem of God”  -- an open-
to-interpretation title taught by Jesuit priests and secular
humanists alike -- caused quite a stir when brought to the Qatar
campus.  A student approached us about starting an on-campus
philosophical society based on atheistic belief -- an endeavor
we supported. Some classmates ostracized him.  Yale professors are right to push the university to
remember the most basic tenets of American higher education, but
they do so from the safety of  New Haven  where they teach
students who have grown up in a society that enshrines their
right to say what they please and worship and live as they want,
by and large. The foremost challenge that professors will face
abroad is teaching critical thinking in the classroom.
Challenging authority requires a shift for students who have
grown up in educational systems that value rote memorization
over the five-paragraph explorative essay.  Shock of Freedom  The good news for educators is that students experiencing a
free exchange of ideas for the first time are aware of the
importance of the act, which Americans might take for granted.
In a rule-bound society, the relentless questioning of the
status quo in the classroom can be shocking, sometimes painful,
but it is the university’s place to guarantee that this
continue, no matter what the geographical location.  In Doha, you could hardly sit through a dinner party, let
alone a faculty and staff town hall, without having the
questions that are being so hotly debated at Yale right now come
up time and again: How are we to preserve the liberal-arts
tradition when we are in a place that has institutionalized and
codified the most illiberal values imaginable?  The atmosphere often felt bleak in a country that had no
formal rights of free speech and worship, where homosexuality
was illegal, and where migrant workers were kept out of most
channels of Qatari life. It is not within any university’s
ability in any country to reform a society. Educators are not
imperialists, but they should be personifications of civic
conscience, pushing student after student to question the rules
of the world in which they live.  Acts of courage through critical thought are what U.S.
colleges should aspire to when they go abroad -- progress that
we can’t expect to be realized without some ugliness and
struggle.  (Clare Malone, a Washington-based writer, worked in student
development at the Qatar campus of Georgetown’s School of
Foreign Service. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  systemically important
financial entities  and sanctions as  tools of diplomacy ;  Peter
Orszag  on  student performance and food stamps ; William Pesek on
 Japan ’s  embrace of Herbert Hoover ; Clive Crook on  “Why Nations
Fail.”   To contact the writer of this story:
Clare Malone at  clarekmalone@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net  