-- YPF Tracks ADR Drop on Government Intevervention Concern
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-04-03T14:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-03/ypf-tracks-adr-drop-on-government-intevervention-concern.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest oil
producer, fell the most in a month in  Buenos Aires  trading after
Chubut province said it plans to revoke the company’s most
productive field.  The  stock  retreated 15 percent to 124.95 pesos at 11:48
a.m. in Buenos Aires, the biggest intraday decline since July 2,
2009. YPF’s American depositary receipts dropped as much as 16
percent yesterday when Argentine markets were closed.  YPF has lost 12 licenses to operate  oil fields  in five
Argentine provinces since March 14 after President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government demanded higher investment to
curb output declines and halt growing imports. The Manantiales
Behr field, which produced about 10 percent of Buenos Aires-
based YPF’s oil last year, is among four more licenses the
Patagonia province of Chubut plans to revoke.  “The sentiment is clearly moving toward stronger
government intervention in YPF,” Walter Chiarvesio, a Buenos
Aires-based analyst at Banco Santander SA, wrote in a research
note today.  Kirchner may send a bill to congress this week proposing
the government acquire a stake in YPF, Chiarvesio wrote.
 Argentina ’s Congress may take up legislation on YPF in coming
days, Buenos Aires newspaper La Nacion said, citing sources in
the legislature it didn’t identify.  YPF’s workers would reject the nationalization of the
company because the government doesn’t have the money to invest
in new fields, newspaper La Prensa de Neuquen said, citing union
leader Guillermo Pereyra.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  