-- ‘Fight Club’ Is Morphing Into Currency Club
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-02-20T17:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/-fight-club-is-morphing-into-currency-club.html
If life imitates art, so can the
workings of high finance. The foreign-exchange markets are a
timely case in point as policy makers and traders alike obsess
over a return to the “ Currency Wars ” that so bewildered markets
in 2010.  The official line on the Feb. 16 Group of 20 meeting is
that such conflict was avoided, and that the risks of clashing
exchange-rate ambitions are overblown. Yet bad blood in
currencyland hasn’t been averted. It’s merely gone underground.  Since the meeting, for example, Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Governor  Graeme Wheeler , whose nation is not in the G-20,
declared he’s ready to intervene in markets to prove “the kiwi
is not a one-way bet.” Currencies are a world of winks, nods and
secret handshakes, and this is what we call a pulled punch. It’s
a sign of stealth action to come, but action nonetheless.  “There seems to be a sense that the gloves are off in terms
of central-bank action in currency markets,”  Mitul Kotecha ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy in Hong Kong at Credit
Agricole SA, told Bloomberg News. “Wheeler’s comments are a
clear reflection of the G-20 stance, wherein the greenlight
appears to be given to any central bank that wants to intervene
in the currency as long as they don’t talk about particular
levels.”  It sure does sound like the financial version of “Fight
Club,” the 1996 Chuck Palahniuk novel turned into a 1999 film
starring  Edward Norton  and  Brad Pitt . The first rule of the
tale’s clandestine brawls is that no one speaks of them.
Likewise, the first rule about currency club is: You don’t talk
about currency club. Slap on capital controls, if you must.
Intervene if you have to. Just don’t talk about what you’re up,
when or where.  In other words, if you think the Japanese yen’s 13 percent
dive since Nov. 15 isn’t going to come to financial blows, you
are dreaming. Just because the warning is going underground does
mean it’s not going to bruise world markets.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 