-- ‘Military Keynesians’ and Other Economic Hypocrites
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-02-20T17:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/-military-keynesians-and-other-economic-hypocrites.html
It’s no surprise that economic
philosophies tend to divide along party lines. In the U.S.,
Democrats advocate government intervention in the economy and
align with the theories of  John Maynard Keynes . Republicans
extol the free market and  Friedrich Hayek , and think an economy
should be allowed to self-correct with as little government
intrusion as possible.  None of this is new. What’s changed is the level of
hypocrisy manifested by both sides. Consider some examples:  -- For over a decade, Democrats have disparaged the
reduction in marginal and capital gains tax rates enacted under
President  George W. Bush  as “tax cuts for the rich” -- at least
until they were about to expire. Then President  Barack Obama 
discovered that, lo and behold, the middle class had gotten tax
cuts, too.  -- Republicans want to reduce the deficit by cutting
spending. They disavow the Keynesian notion that cuts in
government spending have a contractionary effect on the labor
market -- except when it’s defense industries that are facing
cuts. Libertarians call them “ Military Keynesians ,” to highlight
the inconsistency in their positions.  -- The payroll tax cut in 2011 and 2012 posed a problem
for both parties. Republicans oppose temporary tax cuts because
empirical evidence suggests that they don’t have the desired
effect. That’s because individuals make spending decisions based
on their  expectations of income  over a lifetime. On the other
hand, the GOP doesn’t like to stand in the way of any tax cut.  Democrats supported the reduction in the payroll tax, which
is regressive, on the grounds that it would help the ailing
economy. That put them in a bind when they had to explain why
tax cuts for everyone wasn’t a good idea for the same reason.  The increase in the worker’s portion of the payroll tax at
the start of the year was almost a non-event. Many Republicans
have signed  Grover Norquist ’s  pledge  never to raise taxes, so
even if they opposed the cut they don’t want to be seen
supporting an increase. Democrats argued for raising taxes on
the rich to increase revenue, which made it hard to oppose the
tax increase. No wonder the payroll tax holiday went quietly
into the night without much fuss from either side.  Using economics to advance a political point of view has
become so commonplace that you almost don’t notice anymore.
That’s why it’s so enjoyable when you can catch the economic
hypocrites at their own game.  ( Caroline Baum  is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow her on
 Twitter .)
 