-- A Better Sequester Would Make Less of a Mess
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-02-20T23:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/a-better-sequester-would-make-less-of-a-mess.html
The once-delayed, long-dreaded $85
billion sequester is about to become reality.  How do I know? Because President  Barack Obama  is taking his
case, and scare tactics, to the people. Unless Congress acts to
avert this year’s across-the-board cuts largely to discretionary
spending, the  result  will be meat shortages, outbreaks of
foodborne illnesses, crazy people roaming the streets, a reduced
number of first-responders and border-patrol agents, longer
lines to pass through airport security, and even meteorite
strikes. (OK, I made up that last one.)  The sequester was designed to be a Sword of Damocles
hanging over Congress’s head. The 2011 negotiations to raise the
 debt ceiling  led to the creation of the so-called
supercommittee, charged with finding additional savings in the
budget on top of those agreed to by Congress. The  automatic $1.2
trillion of cuts  during the next nine years ($984 billion after
interest savings) are the reward for failure, as dictated by the
 Budget Control Act .  The problem isn’t the size of the cuts: $85 billion in a
$3.6 trillion budget isn’t going to sink the $16 trillion  U.S.
economy . The stock market has yet to experience a sequester
moment. And even with the automatic cuts, total federal outlays
will increase each and every year for the next decade, according
to the latest  Congressional Budget Office estimates .  Blunt Instrument  Nor is there much disagreement over the federal
government’s duplicative, overlapping programs in need of a
sharp budget knife. Heck, U.S. presidents have been trying to
root out  waste, fraud and abuse  in the federal government at
least since Teddy Roosevelt’s “Keep Commission” in 1905 --
without much success.  Rather, the problem is the blunt-instrument design of the
2013 sequester, intended to be so awful Congress would never,
ever let it happen.  “The grave error in the sequester is that it was done by
program, project and activity: Each one of those has to be cut
by the same amount,” said Steve Bell, senior director of
economic policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center in  Washington 
and a former chief of staff to the Senate Budget Committee.
“It’s the mechanics that make it so horrendous. It cuts the
meat and the fat indiscriminately.”  The second problem is the failure to address the main
driver of the  deficit , which is mandatory spending on Medicare,
Medicaid and Social Security. Discretionary spending, which is
subject to annual congressional appropriations, accounts for
only 36 percent of the  federal budget  today. Forty years ago,
defense spending alone consumed half the budget.  The 2011 budget law imposed caps on discretionary spending
that would save about $900 billion over 10 years. Sequestration
would lop an additional 5 percent off nondefense programs and 8
percent off defense this year, according to the White House
 Office of Management and Budget . Because the cuts are crammed
into the seven remaining months of fiscal 2013, the effective
reductions would be 9 percent and 13 percent, respectively.  Just to recap: Congress has adopted a take-no-prisoners
strategy that does nothing to alleviate the fiscal crisis
confronting the nation in coming decades. Terrific.  Last week,  Senate Democrats  introduced  an alternative  to
the sequester: a proposal to save $110 billion consisting of a
minimum tax on millionaires and selective spending cuts,
including the elimination of  farm subsidies . Republicans, faced
with a choice between the 100-percent-spending-cuts sequester
and a half-and-half measure, will take the first option. Obama
seized the moment to bash Republicans for their intransigence
and blame any prospective fallout on them.  Blame Game  Of course, back in 2011 when the supercommittee came up
empty-handed, the president  threatened to veto  any attempt to
get around the sequester. But who’s keeping score?  He is. So are both parties of Congress. Last week, as
background for this column, I read  Bob Woodward ’s “ The Price of
Politics .” The book is a blow-by-blow account of the effort by
Obama and leaders of Congress to reach a “grand bargain” in
July 2011 that would raise the debt ceiling, reduce the deficit,
reform the  tax code , and restructure entitlement programs. In
case you missed the final chapter, they failed.  What’s striking, and depressing, about Woodward’s recap of
events is the leaders’ singular focus on their own self-interest
above that of the nation. It’s all about who gets what, who
wins, who loses and who gets blamed.  Under the circumstances, maybe the sequester isn’t such a
bad idea. With a little finagling, it could turn into something
positive. Congress appropriates the money to fund government
operations, but nothing prevents lawmakers from giving the
various departments the flexibility to design the cuts
themselves. Households and businesses do it all the time, making
tough choices about what’s essential and what needs to go.  Shouldn’t the U.S government, with its vast resources of
policy experts, be able to do the same? The danger, as Woodward
makes clear, is that those who ostensibly work in the public
interest put their own interests first. After all, what
bureaucrat is going to willingly write himself out of a job?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  