-- AB InBev Files With U.S. to Suspend Modelo Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-02-21T20:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/ab-inbev-u-s-seek-delay-of-lawsuit-to-discuss-settlement-1-.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and the U.S.
said they are in talks to resolve the government’s lawsuit to
block the brewer’s purchase of Grupo Modelo SAB and asked to
suspend the litigation until March 19.  In a joint court filing, AB InBev and the Justice
Department said the government is looking at whether a revised
plan to sell control of all Modelo brands in the U.S., and a
brewery in  Mexico , to  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)  would allay
antitrust concerns. A break in the proceedings “would be
beneficial” for a potential resolution, according to the
request filed yesterday with a federal judge in Washington.  Evaluating the revised proposal “will require some market
testing,” said Bert Foer, president of the American Antitrust
Institute in  Washington , a group favoring vigorous enforcement
of antitrust laws. The government must determine whether
Constellation “has what it takes to transform itself from a
non-brewer into a brewer and provide at least as much
competition against a tough duopoly as the status quo.”  Yesterday’s filing comes the day before AB InBev was
required to respond to the government’s lawsuit. The parties
offered to update U.S. District Judge Richard Roberts by March
19 on efforts to settle the case. If the matter can’t be
resolved, they will propose a scheduling order for bringing the
case to trial, according to the filing.  AB InBev’s shares traded 0.8 percent lower to 69.30 euros
in Brussels. Modelo’s shares rose 1.1 percent to 114.75 pesos at
1:48 p.m. in Mexico City, the highest intraday level since Jan.
31. Constellation shares climbed 3.2 percent to $43.15 in  New
York  trading.  ‘Constructive Negotiation’  “We see this as positive,”  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at
UBS AG in  London , said today. “It feels like there’s
constructive negotiation going on between the DOJ and AB
InBev.”  The parties and the Justice Department are cooperating to
try to resolve the competitive concerns raised by the
transaction, three people familiar with the discussions said.
The companies are providing information, including access to
documents and executives, as the department conducts a full
review of the revised deal proposal, the people said.  While the tone of the discussions is positive for a
settlement, it’s still early in the process and the outcome
isn’t guaranteed, said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks aren’t public.  Revised Deal  The revised deal, submitted on Feb. 14, is aimed at
appeasing U.S. authorities, who sued to block AB InBev’s
proposed $20.1 billion purchase of the rest of Mexico City-based
Modelo, arguing the merger would hurt competition and lead to
higher prices. AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, controls
almost half the U.S. beer market, while Corona is the country’s
biggest imported brand.  Constellation, based in Victor, New York, issued a
statement saying it can’t be assured discussions with the
 Justice Department  will succeed in persuading the government to
clear the deal. AB InBev and Modelo issued similar comments.  Under the revised deal, Constellation will gain Modelo’s
brewery in Piedras Negras, near the Texas border in Mexico, and
perpetual rights for the Corona and Modelo brands in the U.S.  The sale to Constellation addresses “all of the concerns”
presented by the government, AB InBev said when announcing the
new proposal. AB InBev had earlier agreed to sell Modelo’s 50
percent stake in Crown Imports LLC to Constellation for $1.85
billion.  Monthlong Suspension  Constellation and Crown asked Roberts for permission to
intervene in the case arguing the department’s action
“fundamentally threatens Constellation’s future in the beer
business.” Roberts hasn’t ruled on that request and yesterday’s
filing says the two companies agreed to the monthlong suspension
of the case.  AB InBev agreed to buy the 50 percent of Modelo it didn’t
own in June 2012, seeking to increase its penetration of
 emerging markets . Beer sales are rising at a faster pace in
Mexico than in developed economies such as the U.S., the world’s
second-biggest beer market by volume after  China .  The Justice Department in its lawsuit said the original
transaction violates antitrust law because it would eliminate
the “substantial head-to-head competition” between AB InBev
and Modelo and “diminish ABI’s incentive to innovate.”  The Justice Department alleges the initial proposal for
Constellation to take full control of U.S. distribution of
Modelo brands was aimed at winning regulatory approval by
“creating a facade of competition” between AB InBev and its
importer.  The department said Constellation “has already shown
through its participation in the Crown joint venture that it
does not share Modelo’s incentive to thwart ABI’s price
leadership.”  The case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  