-- Abe Says No Need for Foreign Bond Buys Under New BOJ Chief
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-02-20T07:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/abe-says-need-for-japan-to-buy-foreign-bonds-has-decreased.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe 
said that buying foreign bonds will be unnecessary under a new
central bank chief, backing away from a policy proposal that may
be seen by other nations as an attempt to weaken the yen.  “We decided to consider this in November last year,” Abe
said in parliament today, referring to a ruling party proposal
to set up a fund to buy foreign bonds. “The need for this will
basically disappear once we get the new BOJ governor and
deputies in March.”  Avoiding foreign bond purchases would limit tension with
Group of 20 nations that pledged this week to refrain from
targeting exchange rates for competitive purposes. The yen is
swinging as investors assess the limits of the economic campaign
dubbed ‘Abenomics,’ with the prime minister preparing to choose
a new BOJ governor next week.  “This effectively removes foreign bond buying as a policy
option for Abe,” said  Norio Miyagawa , a senior economist at
Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting Co. in Tokyo. “The
G-20 statement suggests that aiming to guide the yen lower by
verbal intervention or other means such cannot be accepted.”  The yen rose 0.3 percent to 93.26 per dollar at 4:35 p.m.
today in Tokyo after earlier falling as much as 0.3 percent. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed 0.8 percent higher.  Finance Minister  Taro Aso  said in the same parliamentary
session today that the government has no intention to buy
foreign bonds.  Washington Visit  Abe will be accompanied by his top currency official when
he visits the U.S. to meet with President  Barack Obama ,
according to officials with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be named because of government policy.  G-20 finance chiefs signaled on Feb. 16 that Japan has
scope to keep stimulating its stagnant economy as long as policy
makers cease publicly advocating a sliding yen that’s helping
exporters from  Toyota Motor Corp.  to  Panasonic Corp .  Abe’s ruling Liberal Democratic Party of Japan last year
proposed a fund to buy foreign bonds that would include the Bank
of Japan, the Ministry of Finance and private investors.  The prime minister’s push for bolder monetary policy has
sent the yen about 13 percent lower against the dollar in the
past three months. Abe will decide his nominee for a successor
to BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  next week after his trip to
Washington, Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshihide Suga  told
reporters yesterday.  Shirakawa  and his deputies step down on
Mar. 19.  Inflation Target  Shirakawa and his board last month adopted a 2 percent
inflation target without a deadline and open-ended asset
purchases starting in 2014. Abe has said that changing the law
governing the BOJ remains an option if the central bank’s
policies don’t produce results.  BOJ board member  Yoshihisa Morimoto  told reporters today
that the central bank will decide whether additional measures
are needed after examining the results of its current 76
trillion yen asset purchase program.  “This year, we will be implementing unprecedentedly large
monetary easing,” Morimoto said during an earlier speech in
Kochi, southern Japan. Japan’s monetary base is the highest
among advanced countries at 27 percent of nominal gross domestic
product, he said.  “With this wording, Morimoto wants to show that the BOJ is
doing enough,” said  Mari Iwashita , a bond strategist at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  Kikuo Iwata , a professor of economics at Gakushuin
University in Tokyo and a potential candidate to replace
Shirakawa, said today that the BOJ isn’t doing enough to end
deflation and that it should buy government bonds with longer
maturities.  Iwata’s Doubts  “I have to doubt if they are really serious,” about
achieving the 2 percent price target, he said at a seminar in
Tokyo.  Iwata warned that Abe risks a reversal in the yen if his
nominee for BOJ governor disappoints the market.  The currency will be at 92 per dollar this quarter and 95
by the end of the year, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That may help to spur
economic growth after three quarters of contraction through
December, with a separate survey showing that gross domestic
product will probably rise 1.4 percent this quarter.  Still, Westpac Banking Corp., the most-accurate foreign-
exchange forecaster in the fourth quarter, is betting that the
yen will be at 80 per dollar by the end of this year as it sees
the central bank struggling to satisfy investors.  BOJ Candidates  Potential candidates for BOJ governor cited by analysts and
local media reflect a range of policy outcomes. Asian
Development Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda  and former BOJ Deputy
Governor  Kazumasa Iwata  have urged more expansive easing.
 Toshiro Muto  warned of the dangers of prolonged loose policy
when he was deputy governor five years ago even as he now says
his views have changed.  The Yomiuri newspaper reported today that Muto may be
removed from the government’s list of candidates, without saying
where it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  