-- Abril Pursues Record English-School Purchases: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-02-20T19:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/abril-pursues-record-english-school-purchases-corporate-brazil.html
Abril Educacao SA , a unit of
publisher Grupo Abril, is carrying out its biggest acquisition
spree as it vies with private-equity firm Actis LLP for stakes
in English language schools.  Abril agreed to pay 877 million reais ($448 million), or
about 10 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, for English school Wise Up on Feb. 8. The deal
came seven months after Abril spent 29.9 million reais, or 6.8
times Ebitda, for 51 percent of Grupo Red Balloon. Actis bought
a 40 percent stake in CNA as part of an investment of 135
million reais announced in September and plans to double the
number of campuses to 1,000 by 2018.  More Brazilians are learning English as entrants into a
swelling middle class seek better jobs and spend more money to
travel abroad, fueling 20 percent annual growth for CNA, said
Patrick Ledoux, partner and co-head of Actis for Latin America.
Only 2 percent to 4 percent of Brazilians can speak the
language, compared with at least 10 percent in Mexico and
developing economies in Asia, Abril said.  “English schools are in fashion now,” Ledoux said in an
interview at Actis’s Sao Paulo office. “We have the fever for
buying English schools, a segment that was completely unexplored
two years ago, as investors realize the growth potential.”  Share Sale  Abril  rose  65 percent through yesterday since July 20, when
it agreed to buy Red Balloon, compared with a 5.8 percent gain
for the benchmark Bovespa index. The Sao Paulo-based company has
made four acquisitions in the past year, including the two
English schools, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Abril is preparing to sell as much as 600 million reais of
new shares to finance the Wise Up purchase, Valor Economico
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  The stock fell 0.4 percent to 49.41 reais at 4:41 p.m. in
Sao Paulo trading. The company said today in a regulatory filing
in response to the newspaper’s report that it is constantly
looking at alternatives including share sales.  About 35 million people have joined Brazil’s middle class
in the past decade, according to Data Popular, a research firm
that specializes in the low-income market. The middle class
benefited as Brazil, the world’s biggest emerging market after
China, averaged annual  growth  of 3.8 percent from 2002 to 2011.  “The new middle class is realizing that a person who knows
English in Brazil can earn 15 to 40 percent more,” Beatriz
Amary, a director at Actis, said in an interview in Sao Paulo.
“People want to learn English even to travel abroad.”  World Cup  Unemployment fell to a  record low  4.6 percent in December,
while Brazilians journeying internationally drove the nation’s
travel account  deficit  to an all-time high of $15.6 billion in
2012.  Actis and Abril are also counting on demand for English
classes rising ahead of the World Cup soccer games next year,
followed by the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. About 6
million foreign tourists a year now visit Brazil, or a 10th of
the total who see the Eiffel Tower in Paris, Ledoux said.  “Abril is gaining exposure to a segment that still has
remarkable potential for both expansion and consolidation,”
 Thiago Macruz , an analyst at brokerage Itau Corretora de Valores
SA, wrote in a Feb. 13 note to clients. “This market is still
remarkably fragmented, which could be a potential source of
extra juice for a larger and more capitalized player.”  Abril, which started as a textbook publisher, is targeting
schools that teach English as a second language. Wise Up offers
classes in 89 cities in Brazil, and 21 locations in Argentina as
well as the U.S., Colombia, Mexico and China, according to the
company’s website. It also operates 36 classrooms on offshore
oil rigs.  Market Consolidation  “Brazil is going to double the number of people who speak
English in the next five years,” Abril Chief Executive Officer
 Manoel Amorim  said in a telephone interview. “This market is
undergoing consolidation. It’s positive to have fewer players.”  H.I.G. Capital LLC, a U.S. private-equity firm, bought the
English school Cel Lep in Brazil in September for an undisclosed
amount. Kinea, the private-equity and asset-management unit of
Itau Unibanco Holding SA, also acquired an undisclosed stake in
Grupo Multi, Brazil’s largest English school chain, in December
2010 for 200 million reais. A week later, Grupo Multi purchased
a chain of schools under the Yazigi brand for 100 million reais.  Investor Demand  The acquisition spree may be nearing an end because of the
lack of big English schools left to acquire, said Actis’s Amary.  “Some schools are growing too much and ended up buying
chains that compete with each other,” she said, adding that CNA
would buy only regional alternatives.  Carlyle Group LP last year gave up on efforts to buy Grupo
Multi after controlling shareholders valued the company at 2
billion reais, according to a person with direct knowledge of
the matter who asked not to be identified because negotiations
were private.  Carlyle and Grupo Multi declined to comment on the
negotiations, according to separate e-mailed statements. Grupo
Multi, which controls Wizard, Yazigi and Skill brands, said it
plans to hold an initial public offering, though the company
didn’t set a deadline for the sale, it said in the statement.  The market for English classes has been growing at
“double-digit” rates in recent years and should continue
growing at that rate in coming years, Abril’s Amorim said.  “We are still receiving a lot of investor demand for
English schools,” said  Marco Goncalves , head of mergers and
acquisitions at Grupo BTG Pactual, which advised Wise Up in the
transaction with Abril Educacao. “Their revenue can grow as
much as 25 percent a year. I still see a lot of room for
consolidation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in São Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  