-- AC Milan’s Defense Blunts Barcelona in 2-0 Champions League Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-20T23:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/ac-milan-beats-barcelona-in-champions-league-round-of-16-opener.html
AC Milan’s defensive effort carried
the Italian team to a surprise 2-0 victory against Barcelona in
their  Champions League  soccer round-of-16 opener.  Kevin-Prince Boateng and Sulley Muntari scored in the
second half at the San Siro stadium in Milan last night as the
home team ended a seven-match winless run against Barcelona in
European soccer’s elite club competition.  Barcelona, which leads  Spain ’s La Liga by 12 points and
entered the match as the bookmakers’ favorite to win its fourth
Champions League title in eight seasons, was limited to two
shots on target even though it had two-thirds of the possession.  “We played as we had to,” Milan captain Massimo Ambrosini
said on the website of tournament organizer UEFA. “Maybe
Barcelona played more football than us, but we didn’t give them
the space to strike. This victory is a real boost for us.”  Also last night, Jermaine Jones scored just before halftime
to give Schalke a 1-1 draw at Galatasaray, which went ahead
through Burak Yilmaz’s seventh goal of the competition. Schalke
and Barcelona host the return matches March 12, with the winners
of the two-game series advancing to the quarterfinals.  “We produced a focused performance,” Schalke midfielder
Julian Draxler, whose team had lost five of its past eight
matches, said on UEFA’s website. “We have experienced some
problems in the past few weeks, but with today’s performance we
can go into the return leg with some confidence.”  The round of 16 resumes March 5 with  Manchester United  and
Real  Madrid  tied 1-1 and Dortmund tied 2-2 with  Shakhtar
Donetsk . Juventus leads Celtic 3-0, Paris Saint-Germain has a
2-1 advantage against Valencia, Porto leads Malaga 1-0, and
Bayern Munich is 3-1 up on Arsenal in the other matchups, which
will be played March 6 and 13.  Five Shots  The first half in Milan produced a combined five shot
attempts, with Barcelona putting its only two on target. Milan’s
best chance came when Stephan El Shaaraway broke down the left
only to be let down by a heavy touch with  Carles Puyol  clearing
the ball.  Seven-time European champion Milan took the lead 12 minutes
into the second half as Riccardo Montolivo’s long shot hit a
Barcelona player and then appeared to strike Cristian Zapata’s
arm at the edge of the area. The ball fell to Boateng, who
turned and shot past  Victor Valdes  as Barcelona players appealed
for a handball.  Andres Iniesta shot wide for Barcelona in the 76th minute
before fellow midfielder  Xavi Hernandez  drove a free kick over
the crossbar moments later.  Milan clinched the victory with nine minutes left as
substitute M’Baye Niang passed in the area to El Shaaraway, who
teed up the onrushing Muntari to hit a volley past Valdes.  No Excuses  “It’s a really bad result,” Barcelona defender  Gerard Pique  said on UEFA’s website. “We played badly and can’t make
excuses. When they scored the first we lost control.”  The defeat was Barcelona’s first by more than one goal in
the Champions League since losing 3-1 to  Inter Milan  at the San
Siro in the 2010 semifinals, according to Infostrada Sports.  “When you’re not on your game this happens,” Iniesta
said. “It is a poor result. It will be a different story at our
stadium. From the very first minute at the Camp Nou we’ll be
going for it.”  Galatasaray took a 12th-minute lead in  Turkey  as Selcuk
Inan passed to Yilmaz, who flicked the ball over a defender and
fired a shot into the roof of the net to tie Real Madrid’s
Cristiano Ronaldo with a competition-leading seven goals.  Galatasaray’s Hamit Altintop hit the crossbar off the
rebound after Didier Drogba’s shot was saved by Timo Hildebrand
in the 18th minute.  Schalke then tied the score on the stroke of halftime when
Jefferson Farfan ran onto a pass from Klaas-Jan Huntelaar down
the right side and crossed for Jones to shoot past Fernando
Muslera from inside the area.  “The formula for victory is very simple, we need to score
and win,” Galatasaray midfielder Nordin Amrabat said of the
second match. “It won’t be an easy task.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 