-- Thai Central Bank Rebuffs Government Pressure as Rate Held
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-02-20T08:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/thai-central-bank-holds-rate-in-rebuff-of-government-pressure.html
Thailand’s central bank kept its
policy interest rate unchanged for a third straight meeting as
economic growth quickened, resisting the government’s calls for
monetary easing to cool the baht’s gains.  The Bank of Thailand held its  one-day bond repurchase rate 
at 2.75 percent, with the monetary policy committee voting six
to one to hold, it said in Bangkok today. Seventeen of 20
economists in a Bloomberg  survey  predicted the decision, while
three called for a quarter of a percentage point cut.  Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  earlier this month said he
was under no pressure to lower borrowing costs even after
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong renewed calls for further
cuts to discourage inflows that boosted the baht to a 17-month
high in January. A report this week showed the economy grew 18.9
percent last quarter from a year earlier, faster than estimated,
as the nation’s recovery from the floods of 2011 gathered pace.  “The strong economic data justifies the decision to hold
the interest rate to control inflation,” said  Sukit Udomsirikul ,
head of research at Maybank Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl,
the nation’s biggest stock brokerage. “The rate decision
indicates the central bank’s independence in implementing its
monetary policy. This bolsters investors’ confidence.”  The baht rose 0.2 percent to 29.82 per dollar as of 3:54
p.m. in Bangkok today. It is the biggest gainer this year among
11 widely-traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
benchmark  Stock Exchange of Thailand  index gained 0.8 percent,
hovering at its highest level since November 1994.  ‘Volatile’ Flows  One member of the monetary policy committee “viewed risks
stemming from volatile capital flows and fragile economic
momentum to warrant” a reduction of 25 basis points, the
central bank said in a statement. The monetary authority will
watch inflows closely and take action if needed, it said.  Thailand is an “attractive place for hot money” because
regulations are not as tight as in China,  Virabongsa Ramangkura ,
chairman of the central bank, said late yesterday. Money will
flow toward higher yields, he said, adding that while he is
concerned, he cannot think of measures that can be implemented.  Emerging-market policy makers are grappling with rising
inflows as interest rates near zero in developed nations lure
investors seeking higher returns. The Philippine governor has
said they are studying measures to counter their effect, while
the Thai central bank plans to remove limits on overseas
investments by small and medium enterprises and allow exporters
to keep deposits in U.S. dollars to help ease pressure on the
baht, Kittiratt said this week.  Higher Wages  “The central bank is monitoring financial stability and
capital flows closely,” Assistant Governor  Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  said at a briefing. Prices of some assets have
risen sharply and they will be alert to any signs of risk, he
said, adding that officials did not discuss future policy
direction today or government interference in today’s meeting.  Prime Minister  Yingluck Shinawatra  has raised minimum wages
and granted tax incentives for first-time car buyers to help
boost local demand as exports slipped. Car sales hit a record
1.44 million units last year, while bank loans grew 13.7 percent.  The economy grew at its fastest pace in at least 19 years
last quarter after a slump in the corresponding period in 2011
when the worst floods in almost 70 years disrupted output by
manufacturers from Western Digital Corp. to Honda Motor Co.
Expansion is forecast to be as much as 5.5 percent this year.  The central bank last month raised its 2013 GDP forecast to
4.9 percent from an earlier prediction of 4.6 percent, while
maintaining its projection for export growth at 9 percent.
 Overseas sales  increased for a fourth month in December, and the
manufacturing index climbed for a third straight month.  Inflationary Pressure  The economy is expected to grow “faster than previously
projected in the periods ahead, with domestic demand being a key
driver, together with a gradual recovery in exports,” the
central bank said today. Inflationary pressure “has risen
somewhat,” it said.  Price gains  may average 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this
year, according to the National Economic and Social Development
Board. The inflation rate eased to 3.39 percent in January.  “Economic conditions are very strong and there may be some
inflationary pressure going forward, making it hard to see a
rate cut,” said  Tohru Nishihama , an economist at Dai-ichi Life
Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo, who also covers Southeast Asia.
“The policy rate is probably not the only cause for inflows.
The central bank may take other actions to ease such pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  