-- Fernandes Lures Tata Into Air With Low Fares: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-02-21T11:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/airasia-says-it-plans-indian-airline-venture-with-tata-sons.html
Tata group , which started India’s
first airline in 1932, is set to return to the industry as new
Chairman Cyrus Mistry plans a budget carrier with  Tony Fernandes ’s AirAsia Bhd.  Southeast Asia’s biggest low-cost airline will own 49
percent of the venture. Tata Sons Ltd., the holding company of
India’s biggest business group, will control 30 percent, while
the balance will be owned by Arun Bhatia, whose son is married
to the daughter of billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal . Fernandes and
Mittal own Queens Park Rangers Football Club.  Partnering with the $100 billion conglomerate, which
controls Corus Plc and Jaguar Land Rover, will help AirAsia gain
a foothold in a market that’s set to triple to 159 million
passengers annually by 2021. The venture is the first to be
announced after the government allowed foreign carriers to buy
stakes in local airlines in September.  “We couldn’t have picked a better partner,”  AirAsia (AIRA)  Group
Chief Executive Officer Fernandes said in an interview from
London yesterday after the venture was announced. “We have a
product which will have extremely low costs, have extremely low
fares and will stimulate the market.”  AirAsia plans to invest as much as $60 million initially in
the venture, Fernandes said in a conference call today. The new
carrier will hire 300 people and may start operations by end of
the year, he said.  The airline will operate from  Chennai  in south India and
will provide services to smaller cities in the country, AirAsia
said in the statement. A carrier must complete five years of
domestic operations before it can start overseas flights,
according to Indian aviation rules.  ‘Smart Move’  “Partnering with Tata is a very smart move by AirAsia,”
said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with Fortune Equity Brokers
India Ltd. “India is poised to drive a lot of international
traffic and can be a hub in the future. That interests carriers
like AirAsia” and  Etihad Airways  PJSC, he said.  AirAsia India will compete with billionaire Kalanithi Maran’s budget carrier SpiceJet Ltd., IndiGo, Go Airlines India
Pvt. and Jet Airways (India) Ltd.’s JetKonnect. IndiGo, the low-
cost carrier that placed an order for 180 Airbus SAS A320
planes, has grown to become India’s biggest airline, with a 27.3
percent market share in November.  SpiceJet slumped 6.6 percent, the most in almost six
months, to 37.80 rupees at close of trading in Mumbai today. Jet
Airways fell 4.2 percent. AirAsia rose 1.9 percent to 2.65
ringgit in  Kuala Lumpur .  “Life will become very competitive for Indigo and
 SpiceJet (SJET) ,” said Sabarad.  Return to Aviation  Chairman Mistry, who took over from  Ratan Tata  in December,
returns the group to aviation after former Chairman J.R.D. Tata
started an airline that later became state-owned  Air India  Ltd.
In 1932, Tata Airlines began meeting Imperial Airways’ London-
to-Karachi flight and then continued to Madras, now called
Chennai, via Mumbai.  It used a de Havilland Puss Moth monoplane, which had a
cabin instead of an open cockpit. J.R.D. Tata piloted the
inaugural flight, which hauled mail.  More than a decade ago, Tata Group had teamed up with
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  to bid for a stake in Air India when the
then-government sought to sell shares in the state-owned
carrier. The plan was later dropped because of political
opposition.  Debt and Losses  The plan to allow foreign carriers to buy stakes in local
airlines was revived and implemented by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government to help an industry mired in debt and losses,
prompting Jet Airways to start discussions with the Middle
East’s Etihad Airways. Liquor baron Vijay Mallya’s  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  was forced to ground his carrier in October
because of widening losses and debt.  “This shows that confidence is somewhat back in the
sector,” India’s Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said in an
interview.  The deal will be Mistry’s first venture since taking the
helm at the company, which also has a partnership with  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX) , owns  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s  biggest 
company by market value, runs the nation’s biggest hotel
operator and also makes salt. AirAsia will operate the venture,
according to a statement from Tata Sons.  Mistry’s group and Bhatia’s Telestra Tradeplace Pvt. won’t
have an operating role, the companies said in separate
statements. The Indian partners will have five of the nine seats
on the airline’s board, Fernandes said today. AirAsia looked at
many Indian airlines to form a venture before deciding on Tata,
he said without naming any carriers.  Malaysian Roots  AirAsia is among the 50 low-fare airlines that started in
the Asia-Pacific region in the past decade to compete with full-
service carriers as first-time travel surges in India, Indonesia
and other developing economies. Singapore Airlines started Scoot
and Tiger Airways Ltd. while  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  started Jetstar
Airways Pty.  AirAsia has set up ventures in the Philippines, Japan,
Thailand and Indonesia as part of a strategy to expand in the
region from its Malaysian roots. In December, the carrier
ordered 100 Airbus SAS A320s valued at $9.4 billion, in addition
to the 200 it had agreed in 2011 to purchase.  The Malaysian carrier has applied to India’s  Foreign
Investment Promotion Board  for approval and will apply for an
air operators permit from the regulator, AirAsia said in the
statement.  “India was not ready for a true low-cost carrier,”
Fernandes said. “It is now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  