-- Akzo Pushes Effiency Drive After Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-02-20T14:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/akzo-accelerates-efficiency-drive-after-profit-misses-estimates.html
Akzo Nobel NV  Chief Executive
Officer  Ton Buechner  delivered his long-awaited strategy that
emphasizes fine tuning to simplify the chemical-and paint-maker
rather than big transformational change.  Buechner, a former engineer, will accelerate an efficiency
program initiated by his predecessor, bringing 500 million euros
($670 million) in added earnings a year ahead of schedule. Akzo
Nobel also abandoned a goal to lift revenue to 20 billion euros
by 2015, opting for quality over quantity.  Buechner is distancing himself from former CEO  Hans Wijers 
as he focuses more on performance, tying the pay packets of some
600 managers to results. The Dutch national has kept investors
waiting four months for his vision. Upon taking over in April,
he threw himself into the job with such zeal that he needed
leave for exhaustion. Coming from outside the company makes it
easier for Buechner to execute the existing plans, Chief
Financial Officer  Keith Nichols  said.  “We have done a lot of acquisitions in the past and with
that has come a certain level of complexity,” the CEO told
reporters in London. “We need to take that out.”  Buechner set new targets including a 9 percent operating
margin and a 14 percent return on investment by the end of 2015.
The new CEOs vision failed to appease analysts and investors who
foresaw greater change. The company had the potential to
increase the savings target to 600 million euros, according to
 Fabian Smeets , an analyst at  ING Groep NV .  Profit Misses  Akzo fell the most in four months in Amsterdam trading.
Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 3 percent from a year earlier to 363 million
euros. Profit was less than the 385 million-euro average of 10
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales increased 3
percent to 3.67 billion euros, Akzo said today.  “The new financial targets for 2015 clearly disappoint,”
in addition to earnings lagging behind estimates,  Markus Mayer ,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, said in a note to clients.  The stock  dropped  as much as 4.9 percent to 49.55 euros,
the steepest intraday decline since Oct. 18, and was trading
down 1.6 percent at 2:02 p.m. That pared the stock’s gain this
year to 3 percent, valuing the company at 12.3 billion euros.  Glidden’s Disposal  Buechner marked his return to work in December by
announcing the sale of the 137-year-old Glidden brand to  PPG
Industries Inc ., exiting the U.S. decorative-paint market that
had been a drag on Amsterdam-based Akzo’s earnings for years.  The CEO is focusing the company on the four segments of
buildings and infrastructure, transportation, manufacturing, and
consumer goods, allowing him to reduce the size of the executive
team. The 500 million-euro cost-savings plan, which involves
improving software systems and cutting back on the number of raw
materials, was introduced in 2011 by his Wijers and originally
scheduled to boost earnings by 2014.  “This is not about a large transformation, or large
portfolio changes, we’re not going to exit businesses, or plan
major acquisitions,” said Nichols in an interview about
Buechners blueprint for the future. The focus will be on
continuous improvement of actions and processes, by for instance
driving a global agenda for research spending, he said.  Since the announcement of the program, savings have
amounted to 250 million euros, Buechner said today. That
excludes 26 million euros contributed by the Decorative Paints
North America unit that’s being sold.  “Specifically our decorative paints operations in  Europe 
faced weaker demand, so we stepped up restructuring efforts in
the region in the fourth quarter,” Buechner said on a
conference call today. “These targets focus on the quality of
earnings and are better aligned with operations than previous
targets.”  Akzo wrote down 2.5 billion euros on its decorative-paint
operations last year, as the company overestimated market
growth, resulting in a net loss for the full year of 2.17
billion euros versus profit of 477 million euros in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  