-- Malaysia’s Economic Growth Accelerates to Fastest Since 2010
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2013-02-20T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/malaysia-s-economic-growth-accelerates-to-fastest-since-2010.html
Malaysia’s economy grew at the
fastest pace in 2 1/2 years last quarter as Prime Minister  Najib Razak  boosted spending ahead of an election that will test his
grip on power.  Gross domestic product  rose 6.4 percent in the three months
through December from a year earlier, after a revised 5.3
percent gain in the previous quarter, the Statistics Department
said in a statement in Kuala Lumpur today. That compares with
the median estimate of a 5.5 percent advance in a Bloomberg News
 survey  of 21 economists. The economy  grew  5.6 percent last year.  Asian nations from Indonesia to the Philippines have shown
resilience to the faltering global economy as local demand rises.
Najib has increased government expenditure ahead of elections
that must be held by late June, extending cash handouts to low-
income families and raising civil servants’ pensions as part of
a 251.6 billion ringgit ($81 billion) budget for this year.  “Domestic demand has been strong” led by investment and
consumption, Santitarn Sathirathai, an economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG based in Singapore, said before the report.
“Malaysia will be among the first central banks in Asia to
shift toward a more hawkish bias, perhaps after the general
election.”  Malaysia’s government forecasts the economy will expand 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent this year. Domestic demand is expected to
continue to expand, led by the private sector, the central bank
said last month, adding improving global demand will provide
additional support this year.  Campaign Planning  Najib, whose ruling coalition won the 2008 vote by its
narrowest margin in five decades, must dissolve parliament by
April 28 for polls to be held within 60 days. The general
election may be conducted in April as the prime minister still
needs “a week or two” to complete matters including campaign
manifestos and candidate lists before dissolving parliament, the
Star reported today, citing an unidentified party official.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  has fallen 4.8 percent
after hitting a record on Jan. 7 on concern that Najib’s
governing National Front alliance may lose seats in parliament.
The ringgit has fallen about 1.2 percent this year, among the
worst performers within a basket of 11 Asian currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The ringgit rose 0.4 percent against the U.S.
dollar to 3.0965 as of 5:28 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  Malaysia’s central bank joined neighbors including
Indonesia in maintaining interest rates this year as an
accelerating economy and the lowest inflation among Southeast
Asian major economies reduced the need for monetary policy
action. The Bank of Thailand kept its interest rate unchanged
for a third straight meeting today as economic growth quickened.  Price Gains  Consumer prices in Malaysia rose 1.3 percent in January,
after a 1.2 percent gain in December, the Statistics Department
said today. The central bank kept its benchmark overnight rate
unchanged at 3 percent for a 10th straight meeting on Jan. 31.  Services rose 6.3 percent in the September-to-December
period from a year earlier after climbing 7 percent in the third
quarter, today’s report showed. Construction gained 18.1 percent
last quarter, after an 18.3 percent pace the previous period.  Exports of goods and services slid 1.5 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, after falling 3 percent in
the third quarter in 2012, according to the report today.  Malaysia’s export-dependent economy remains vulnerable to
fluctuations in global demand as the U.S. debates spending cuts
and Europe continues to struggle with a debt crisis. Still, the
government expects overseas shipments to improve this year for
exporters of goods including automotive components, commodities
and semiconductors. Exports of goods may rise 2 percent to 4
percent in 2013, Trade Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  said Feb. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Munoz  in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 