-- Algebris’s Wager on Japan Abenomics Boosts Hedge Funds’ Returns
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2013-02-20T01:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/algebris-s-wager-on-japan-abenomics-boosts-hedge-funds-returns.html
Algebris Investments LLP , a U.K.
hedge fund with $1.2 billion in assets, has boosted investments
in Japanese financial stocks on bets that Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe will move more aggressively to end deflation.  Algebris Global Financials Master Fund and Algebris Long
Only Global Financials Fund returned 12 percent and 11 percent
respectively this year through Feb. 14, said  Ivan Vatchkov , the
chief investment officer of Algebris’s Asian unit. Japan
accounts for the biggest positions in the funds as they bought
shares of major  banks , insurers and real estate companies,
Vatchkov said without naming the companies.  Investors, including billionaire George Soros, are wagering
on Japan amid expectations that Abe’s administration will
accelerate efforts to end more than two decades of deflation and
boost the economy after he was elected in December. The
benchmark Topix stock index is among the best-performing major
indexes worldwide in the past three months as Abe announced
spending increases and pressured Japan’s central bank to boost
monetary easing.  “On the equity side, we are very aggressively positioned
on the ‘Abenomics’ story,” Vatchkov said in an interview in
Singapore yesterday. “We still see a lot of skepticism because
people who have invested with Japan in the past 10 to 15 years
have been disappointed so many times. But it seems to us, at
least, the Japanese political establishment is very serious this
time.”  The funds’ gains compare with the 2.2 percent increase in
the  Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index  in January.  Coco Fund  Algebris also is seeking to raise $1 billion over the next
year for its $1 billion Algebris Coco Credit  Fund , said Vatchkov.
The fund, which invests in contingent convertible bonds, or
CoCos, that regulators have earmarked as a vital part of bank
buffers against future losses, returned 56 percent in 2012,
making it the fourth-best performer globally among hedge funds
with more than $100 million in assets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Algebris last month hired  Richard Surrency , former
executive director and the head of transition management for
Asia Pacific at Morgan Stanley in Singapore, as part of its
fundraising efforts, said Vatchkov.  “A lot of the long-only and pension managers have to have
returns,” he said. “The push that we’re making for the credit
fund is to fund-raise from Asian investors who are faced with
matching their future liabilities with their assets as yield and
traditional bond asset classes have compressed to record lows.”  ‘Pendulum Swings’  The Algebris Global Financials Master Fund is a long-short
equity fund focused on banks, insurance, diversified financials
and real estate, while the long-only fund invests based on the
same strategy without taking short positions, or bets on falling
securities. The master fund returned about 13 percent in 2012,
while the long-only fund returned 34 percent, according to
letters to investors.  Financial stocks provide the best investment opportunities
this year as the “pendulum swings from credit to equities,”
Algebris said.  In Japan, mega banks will benefit from reflationary themes
such as higher loan margins and an increase in the value of
their stock holdings, Vatchkov said. Algebris also sees
opportunities in Europe, such as in Russian financials, he said.  Soros made almost $1 billion since November from bets that
the yen would tumble, and is wagering on an increase in Japanese
stocks, a person close to the billionaire’s $24 billion family
office said earlier this month. Money managers, including
 Jeffrey Gundlach  of DoubleLine Capital LP, have said Japanese
stocks are set to rise as the country takes steps to weaken its
currency, which helps exporters such as  Toyota Motor Corp.  by
boosting the value of overseas sales.  “It’s not going to move in a straight line,” Vatchkov
said. “But if Abe gets it right, the long-term implications for
Japanese banks are enormous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  