-- Lance Armstrong Won’t Participate in USADA Cycling Doping Probe
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-20T19:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/lance-armstrong-won-t-participate-in-usada-cycling-doping-probe.html
Lance Armstrong  won’t cooperate with
a probe into performance-enhancing drug use in cycling by the
 U.S. Anti-Doping Agency  because it’s too narrowly focused, his
attorney said in a statement.  Armstrong, who was stripped of his record seven Tour de
France championships in August and banned for life from Olympic-
level sports by Colorado Springs, Colorado-based USADA, had
until today to agree to testify before the organization in hopes
of having the length of his ban reduced.  “Lance will not participate in USADA’s efforts to
selectively conduct American prosecutions that only demonize
selected individuals while failing to address the 95% of the
sport over which USADA has no jurisdiction,” Armstrong’s
attorney  Tim Herman  said in an e-mailed statement.  USADA on Feb. 6 gave Armstrong an additional two weeks to
work on details that would allow his testimony.  Travis Tygart ,
the chief executive officer of USADA, said in a statement today
that the World Anti-Doping Agency told Armstrong that working
with the U.S. organization was the proper avenue for him.  “Lance is willing to cooperate fully and has been very
clear: He will be the first man through the door, and once
inside will answer every question, at an international tribunal
formed to comprehensively address pro cycling, an almost
exclusively European sport,” Herman’s statement said. “We
remain hopeful that an international effort will be mounted, and
we will do everything we can to facilitate that result.”  Armstrong said last month in an interview with  Oprah Winfrey  that he cheated during each of his Tour de France
victories from 1999-2005, calling his cycling career “one big
lie.”  Others’ Doping  Armstrong declined to speak about other people’s
involvement in his doping activities during his interview with
Winfrey. He and his U.S. Postal Service cycling team conducted
“the most sophisticated, professionalized and successful doping
program that sport has ever seen,” USADA said in October when
releasing a 1,000-page report detailing its finds.  Armstrong said in an interview with Cyclingnews published
Jan. 30 that he’s been made into a scapegoat for drug use and
that a truth-and-reconciliation panel is “the only way” to
move forward, and that it needs to be run by WADA.  Armstrong is the richest cheater to be stripped of a
championship or Olympic medal for doping, having made more than
$218 million during his cycling career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  