-- Manchester United CEO to Cede Power to Ex-JPMorgan Banker
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-02-20T14:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/manchester-united-ceo-david-gill-to-step-down-in-june-club-says.html
David Gill  will step down after 10
years as  Manchester United ’s chief executive officer on June 30
and former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker  Ed Woodward  will take his
responsibilities at the 19-time English soccer champion.  Gill, 55, who joined United as finance director in 1997,
will remain on the board, the team said today in an e-mailed
statement. Woodward, 40, the club’s executive vice president,
will take over his tasks that include working with coach  Alex Ferguson  on player transfers.  Gill has helped oversee four Premier League titles, one
Champions League trophy and a boom in sponsorship revenue. He
has “helped lay the foundations of the present Manchester
United,” Ferguson said in the statement. “I know David will
welcome Ed’s appointment as I do. He is a young man with energy
and drive.”  Ferguson, 71, has been United’s coach since 1986. Woodward
was a banker on  JPMorgan’s merger and acquisitions team  from
1999 to 2005 before joining United. He will keep his current job
title, United said in the statement.  “I am particularly humbled to have the chance to work
alongside the greatest manager in the history of the game,”
Woodward said in the statement.  At JPMorgan, Woodward helped the Glazer family secure a 790
million pound ($1.2 billion) leveraged buyout of United in 2005.
United co-chairman  Joel Glazer  said in the statement that
Woodward “truly understands the club’s culture and what makes
this club so treasured.”  In another change, commercial director  Richard Arnold  will
become group managing director. Woodward and Arnold, who has
worked for United since 2007, signed sponsorship deals with
companies including Malaysian snack-brand Mr. Potato and Chilean
winemaker Concha y Toro.  United’s sponsorship revenue rose 49 percent to 20.8
million pounds in the second quarter on agreements with China
Construction Bank Corp. among others and the current Premier
League leader has agreed on an eight-year deal for branding on
its practice uniform, the team said on Feb. 14.  United leads the Premier League by 12 points ahead of
defending champion Manchester City with 12 games left.
Ferguson’s team tied 1-1 at Real Madrid in the first of a two-
game Champions League round-of-16 contest. The deciding game in
the two-match meeting is March 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  