-- AngloGold Cuts Spending Plans as Profit Drops 29% on Strikes
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2013-02-20T15:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/anglogold-cuts-spending-plans-as-profit-drops-29-on-strikes-1-.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , the third-
biggest producer of the metal, will cut investment in projects
this year and may reduce output estimates should labor unrest
reawaken in South Africa following a spate of strikes in 2012.  Capital expenditure will decline to $2.1 billion from $2.2
billion in 2012, the company said today in a statement. Gold
output, down 17 percent to 859,000 ounces during the fourth
quarter because of strikes, may be as much as 950,000 ounces in
the three months to March depending on the labor situation.
Unrest cut production, reducing profit 29 percent last year.  “In terms of capital and spending disciplines, we
tightened up considerably,” said Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani , who is leaving the Johannesburg-based company to
replace  Cynthia Carroll  as CEO of Anglo American Plc on April 3.
“Capital numbers are being kept tight and we will continue to
trim where we don’t see real short-term uplift.”  Strikes that began at platinum operations in August spread
to gold, coal and chrome producers, cutting mining output by
10.1 billion rand ($1.1 billion), according to South Africa’s
National Treasury. AngloGold, which digs about a third of its
metal in the country, may split off the assets from other mines
should investors undervalue the business, Cutifani said Nov. 21.  Adjusted earnings excluding one-time items dropped to $924
million, or $2.39 a share, last year from $1.3 billion, or
$3.36, the company said today in a statement. That compares with
the $3.03  median estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stock Decreases  The  shares  declined 3.6 percent to 232.30 rand by the close
in Johannesburg, the lowest since December 2008. The  FTSE/JSE
Africa All Share index  retreated 0.8 percent.  AngloGold, whose largest overseas competitors are Barrick
Gold Corp. and Newmont Mining Corp., said output was 3.94
million ounces for the year, missing a target of 4.3 million to
4.4 million ounces. Total cash-costs per ounce rose 14 percent
to $1,009, it said.  The company cut its third-quarter dividend in half and
trimmed annual spending plans by $200 million after all of its
South African mines were halted by staff walkouts. AngloGold
will pay a dividend of 50 South African cents a share for the
fourth quarter, matching the payout in the previous three
months, it said.  Fourth-quarter adjusted headline earnings declined to 2
cents a share from 61 cents in the previous quarter as labor
strikes added to the company’s costs. That compares with the 47-
cent  median estimate  of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Gold analysts in South Africa compare quarters sequentially.  Spinoff Assets  Industrial unrest and above-inflation pay gains were partly
behind the decision by  Gold Fields Ltd.  to spin off some of its
South African assets.  Sibanye Gold Ltd.  was listed on Feb. 11.  “In terms of a broader portfolio conversation, the board
and the executive are continuing to go through options, looking
at possibilities,” Cutifani said today. “Obviously everybody’s
watching the Gold Fields performance and seeing how they’ve
gone. And so we’re in that process.”  AngloGold is reviewing costs and expansion projects and
plans to offload peripheral assets, with the Navachab mine in
Namibia earmarked for sale, according to Chief Financial Officer
 Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan , who will act as joint CEO with Vice
President of Business and Technical Development  Tony O’Neill 
until a replacement for Cutifani is found.  Group gold 2013 output is estimated at 4.1 million ounces
to 4.4 million ounces, with total cash costs of $815 to $845 an
ounce, the company said. While the company expects to produce as
much as 950,000 ounces at $900 to $910 an ounce this quarter, it
may revise the estimates down if there’s further labor unrest.  Labor Talks  Cutifani, also president of South Africa’s Chamber of
Mines, said Mineral Resources Minister  Susan Shabangu  met with
companies and unions to “work through the details” of a
“protocol agreed in principle” following Feb. 18 clashes at
Anglo American Platinum Ltd.’s Siphumelele mine in which 13
people were hurt. Shabangu met unions and companies yesterday.  “The conversations in South Africa from an industrial
point of view are going to be very important in the next few
months,” he said. “The fact that the minister engaged so
quickly when we saw a few problems emerge on the platinum side
is very encouraging and it demonstrates that lessons have been
learnt from some of the tough issues we saw last year.”  AngloGold yesterday signed a $750 million term facility
with a “small group of banks,” which it may use to redeem
convertible bonds due in May 2014, removing refinancing risk,
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations  Stewart Bailey  said
by phone today. The terms of the facilty are “broadly similar”
to the company’s $1 billion revolving facility, he said,
declining to provide further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  