-- Apple Falls After IPhone Builder Foxconn Halts Hiring
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-02-21T06:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/apple-declines-after-assembler-foxconn-stops-hiring.html
Foxconn Technology Group, the maker
of products including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, said it was freezing
hiring at factories in China, fueling concern about a slowdown
in consumer-electronics demand and prompting Apple to fall.  Foxconn halted recruitment until the end of March after
more workers returned from the Lunar New Year break than a year
earlier, Bruce Liu, a spokesman for the Taipei-based company,
said yesterday by phone. The decision wasn’t related to iPhone 5
production, he said, countering an earlier Financial Times
report. Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman in Cupertino,
 California , declined to comment.  Apple declined 2.4 percent in  New York  yesterday as the
Foxconn freeze underscored concerns about slowing smartphone
demand and rising competition from Samsung Electronics Co. The
hiring halt may also reflect how Foxconn’s  Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co. (2317)  has been hit by the introduction of a smaller iPad
and Apple’s move toward using more assemblers, said Fubon
Securities Co. analyst Arthur Liao.  “Hon Hai’s major product, the 9.7 inch iPad, is in
decline,” Liao said. “For the iPad Mini, Hon Hai has to
share.”  Pegatron Corp. (4938)  assembles about 40 percent of iPad Minis,
Liao said. Foxconn is the sole manufacturer of the original
iPad, which is losing market share to the new version, he said.  Hon Hai Precision, Foxconn’s flagship company, dropped 1.9
percent, the most since Jan. 24, to NT$83.20 at the close in
Taipei trading. Pegatron rose 0.1 percent to NT$40.55, the
highest since Oct. 22. Apple ended at $448.85 yesterday,
compared with its record close of $702.10.  Workers Return  The hiring freeze may also reflect a wider increase in
Chinese workers returning after the Lunar New Year break,
according to Amit Daryanani, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets
LLC. Close to 90 percent of workers have returned this year
compared with traditional levels below 80 percent, Daryanani
wrote in a note yesterday, citing company checks.  “We do understand why the hiring freeze may get construed
negatively,” he wrote. However, the timing of the freeze
suggests “it may have more to do with higher return rates of
employees versus what was expected.”  Foxconn has more than doubled wages and cut hours for
workers following protests from groups including  China  Labor
Watch and Students & Scholars Against Corporate Misbehavior. The
company is also giving workers greater representation in unions.
Many migrant workers in China make their only trip home during
the weeklong New Year break, which this year started Feb. 11.  Hewlett-Packard Orders  Foxconn may also have stopped hiring because of Hewlett-
Packard Co. ordering fewer personal computers, according to
Steve Milunovich, an analyst at UBS AG. Hewlett-Packard accounts
for about 8.1 percent of Hon Hai’s revenue, trailing only
Apple’s  33 percent  share, according to Bloomberg supply-chain
estimates.  “HP has a very diversified supplier strategy, unlike other
companies who are more dependent on a single vendor,” Michael Thacker, a spokesman for  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-
Packard, said in an e-mailed statement. The  company  fell 1.1
percent to $16.70 in New York trading, extending its decline in
the past year to 43 percent.  Hon Hai has also decided to postpone the expansion of
capacity at a plant in  Zhengzhou , China, where iPhones are
assembled, Nikkei reported today. The newswire reported last
month that orders for iPhone 5 parts had been cut by about 50
percent following lower-than-expected sales.  Apple will sell 38 million iPhone 5s this quarter, 20
percent less than the prior period, predicted  Alexander Peterc ,
an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  has cautioned
investors against reading too much into reports about activities
within its supply chain.  “Even if a particular data point were factual, it would be
impossible to accurately interpret the data point as to what it
meant for our overall business because the supply chain is very
complex,” Cook said on a conference call last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net :
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  