-- Arizona Cities May Sell Guns Under Anti-Destruction Bill
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-02-20T04:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/arizona-cities-may-sell-guns-under-anti-destruction-bill.html
In  Arizona , where guns are allowed
in bars and concealed weapons can be carried without a permit,
state lawmakers are moving to force police to sell -- not
destroy -- firearms they collect after  Tucson  scrapped more than
200 last month.  The city-sponsored event, in which residents exchanged guns
for $50 grocery gift cards, outraged gun-rights activists who
set up opposite police to buy weapons with cash. The “gun
buyback” was held on the anniversary of the 2011 mass shooting
in Tucson that gravely injured then-U.S. Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords  and left six others dead.  Arizona lawmakers are now advancing a  measure  to bar the
destruction of firearms surrendered in events like those that
have been held in cities from Newark, New Jersey, to Seattle,
Washington, since the shooting at a Connecticut elementary
school in December. The measure, sponsored by 16 Republicans and
one Democrat, strengthens existing state law that orders seized
and abandoned guns to be sold.  “Anything that diminishes the use and the utility of
firearms -- anything -- is gun control,” said Charles Heller, a
co-founder of the 8,500-member  Arizona Citizens Defense League 
that is among groups pushing the new legislation. “It wastes a
perfectly good gun and removes it from commerce.”  Tucson City Council member and Vice Mayor  Steve Kozachik ,
who organized the buyback, said he was surprised at the backlash
to the event, which he had viewed as a community service to help
people get rid of unwanted firearms.  “I thought this was benign from a Second Amendment
standpoint,” Kozachik said about the event he organized with
police and paid for with donations. “That object, to them, is a
holy relic.”  Party Change  After being inundated by opposition to the gun buyback and
panned on talk-radio shows, Kozachik said, he changed his party
affiliation to Democrat from Republican. The event cost the city
nothing beyond the time of staff who participated, said Sergeant
Chris Widmer, a spokesman for the Tucson police.  Several gun buybacks have been held across the country
after the Connecticut school shooting that killed 26 drew
attention to gun violence and spurred calls for restrictions,
including universal background checks and a ban on assault
weapons.  Tucson is not the only place where there’s been a backlash:
Activists and collectors have shown up at similar events in
Seattle, Dallas and elsewhere to outbid those organizing the
buyback and undermine efforts to collect and destroy weapons.  ‘Extreme Distrust’  “I suspect what you are seeing here is the confluence of
the extreme distrust of government and the extreme love of
guns,” said Jon Vernick, co-director of the  Johns Hopkins
Center for Gun Policy and Research  in Baltimore.  Vernick isn’t a fan of buybacks. There’s little evidence
they reduce street crime and they’re popular mainly because
they’re easier than passing meaningful gun legislation, he said.
Still, Vernick doesn’t think it’s good public policy to force
police to recirculate weapons, either.  “It seems to be odd to put cities into the role of gun
sellers -- to require cities to put more guns out on the street,
back out into households,” Vernick said. “The goal of criminal
law is to ultimately reduce crime. If you are going to then
force the city to pump those guns back into the community, it
does seem counterproductive.”  The movement to force police to sell or auction seized guns
got its start with legislation approved in Kentucky more than a
decade ago. The measure was championed by the National Rifle
Association, a gun lobby that says it has more than 4 million
individual members. It was adopted in 2011 as model legislation
by a task force of the American Legislative Exchange Council, a
Washington-based public policy organization that brings together
corporations and lawmakers to draft bills for states.  Similar Measures  Similar measures have adopted elsewhere, including
Tennessee and Alaska.  The Arizona bill that passed the House public safety
committee last week is an attempt to bolster existing laws aimed
at stopping the destruction of firearms by police.  An initial measure had ambiguous wording that allowed
cities to keep destroying guns, said Amanda Jacinto, a police
spokeswoman in Peoria, a suburb of Phoenix that continued
destroying guns until last year.  That’s when lawmakers strengthened the statute with a
second  measure  signed in April by Republican Governor  Jan Brewer . That law required guns to be sold after a court order.
Several police agencies, including those in Tucson and Phoenix,
continue to destroy guns not subject to a court order, according
to spokesmen.  Ordered to Sell  The latest measure takes out the court, directly ordering
agencies to sell the guns to a federally licensed firearms
dealer or trade them for law-enforcement equipment. And it takes
aim specifically at gun buybacks -- which advocates for the
programs have said weren’t covered by the earlier measures -- by
adding “surrendered” guns to the list of weapons that must be
sold.  “I have been receiving thousands of e-mails from people
complaining that this is not the proper role of government, that
a buyback program isn’t within the realm of government
responsibility,” Republican state Representative  Justin Pierce ,
chairman of the House Public Safety, Military and Regulatory
Affairs committee, said in a  hearing  last week.  Heller of the Arizona Citizens Defense League said it
doesn’t make sense for cash-strapped municipalities to destroy
valuable firearms.  ‘Flushing Money’  “They are begging for money and they are literally
flushing money down the toilet -- or down the metal cutter,”
Heller said.  Representative  Chad Campbell , a Phoenix Democrat who serves
as House minority leader, said it doesn’t make sense to mandate
what law-enforcement agencies do with the guns.  He introduced legislation to allow police to continue
destroying weapons. The measure hasn’t gotten a hearing and has
little chance of passing in the Republican-controlled
legislature.  “This has nothing to do with the Second Amendment or
anyone’s right to have a firearm,” Campbell said in an
interview. “This is symptomatic of the larger problem we have
in this state and country: there is a group of individuals who
are tying any kind of gun reform to an attack” on
constitutional rights.  Kozachik, 59, the Tucson councilman, felt the brunt of
opposition first-hand. After seeing opponents of his gun buyback
holding a counter-protest with signs reading “Cash for Guns,”
he proposed a resolution to block gun shows on city property
unless background checks are conducted for every firearm sold at
the event -- which led to more blowback.  “I understand now why people in political office don’t
want to take on this issue,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  