-- Armenian Presidential Runner-Up to Rally on Disputed Vote Result
-- B y   S a r a   K h o j o y a n
-- 2013-02-20T14:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/armenian-presidential-runner-up-to-rally-on-disputed-vote-result.html
The runner-up in this week’s
Armenian presidential election will hold a rally to dispute the
results and demand the winner, incumbent  Serzh Sargsyan ,
concedes defeat.  Raffi Hovhannisyan, who garnered 37 percent of the Feb. 18
vote to Sargsyan’s 59 percent, is planning a demonstration today
in the capital, Yerevan. He wants the president to recognize the
“people’s victory” and start negotiations with him.  Sargsyan is ready to meet Hovhannisyan at any time to
clarify his “incomprehensible” statements, his spokesman,
Armen Arzumanyan, told the panorama.am website.  Sargsyan’s victory for a second term solidifies his
standing after his Republican Party won a parliamentary ballot
last year in the landlocked country that borders Iran and Turkey
and fought a war with neighbor Azerbaijan over a disputed region
two decades ago. Presidential elections in 2008 triggered bloody
scenes as 10 people died amid clashes between opposition
protesters and police.  Armenia’s dram, which has lost 4.2 percent against the
dollar over the last year, was down 0.1 percent at 406.9501 at
6:15 p.m. in Yerevan, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While observers from the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe noted an improvement in the vote’s
conduct, Hovhannisyan said yesterday that the results don’t
“reflect the will of the people.”  Addressing about 2,000 people in Liberty Square in Yerevan,
Hovhannisyan, whose Heritage Party won 5.8 percent of votes in
parliamentary elections last May, accused the Central Electoral
Commission of making a “false calculation.”  In an e-mailed statement today, Heritage said it’s filed
reports detailing more than a hundred violations and complained
about a recount of ballots initiated without notification.  Hovhannisyan’s official showing was better than expected,
according to Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Caucasus
Institute. That support reflects anti-Sargsyan sentiment, he
told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Khojoyan in Moscow at 
 skhojoyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  