-- Marubeni’s Incoming CEO Kokubu Sets Profit Target Above Sumitomo
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-02-20T09:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/marubeni-s-incoming-ceo-kokubu-sets-profit-target-above-sumitomo.html
Marubeni Corp. ’s incoming Chief
Executive Officer  Fumiya Kokubu  said he’ll focus on power plants
and other infrastructure to curb volatility in earnings that he
expects to reach 300 billion yen ($3.22 billion) a year.  Kokubu, who will take over Japan’s biggest agricultural
commodities trader from  Teruo Asada  in April, wants Marubeni to
achieve a 50 percent increase in annual net income from the 200
billion yen targeted for this fiscal year, he said in Tokyo
yesterday, without specifying a timeframe. Asada will take the
post of chairman.  This year’s forecast profit would already be a record for
the company. A 50 percent jump would put Marubeni ahead of
 Sumitomo Corp. , whose 250.7 billion-yen in net income last year
placed it fourth among Japanese trading companies after
Mitsubishi Corp., Mitsui & Co. and  Itochu Corp . Marubeni and
Sumitomo are due to announce mid-term business plans from April.  “When I joined, it was the three Ms” that described
Japan’s biggest traders, Kokubu said, referring to  Mitsubishi 
and  Mitsui , as well as his own company. Marubeni, which Kokubu
joined in 1975 soon after graduating from Keio University, is
now Japan’s fifth-largest trader by profit and market value.  Marubeni owns the most power-generating capacity among the
trading companies. Electricity projects accounted for  12 percent 
of its 172 billion-yen net income last fiscal year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s financial year runs
through March.  The trading house also has water-treatment assets in
countries including Chile and the Philippines. It services the
water needs of about 6 million people globally, in proportion to
its equity stakes, and targets expansion to 10 million,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  