-- Aryzta to Buy Klemme for 280 Million Euros in German Move
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-02-20T09:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/aryzta-to-buy-klemme-for-280-million-euros-in-german-move.html
Aryzta AG  agreed to buy Klemme AG
for 280 million euros ($376 million) as the Swiss owner of
bakery brands including Delice de France and Otis Spunkmeyer
expands in Germany.  The deal includes a 10 million-euro deferred payment and
will be funded with existing resources, Zurich-based Aryzta said
today in a  statement . Klemme, which makes bread rolls, pastries
and doughnuts in seven bakeries, had revenue of 229 million
euros in 2012.  “The acquisition today does make some sense and it seems
like a reasonable price,” said  Liam Igoe , an analyst at
Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin, who has a buy recommendation on
the stock. “It gives them access to German supermarkets such as
Lidl and Aldi. So far they have very few supermarket chain
customers in continental Europe outside Switzerland.”  This is Aryzta’s biggest acquisition since it spent about
$1.4 billion purchasing California-based Fresh Start Bakeries
Holdings Inc. and a stake in the Canadian company Maidstone
Bakeries Co. in 2010.  Aryzta fell 0.6 percent to 53.65 Swiss francs as of 10:09
a.m. in Zurich trading, trimming the stock’s 12-month gain to 20
percent. That gave the company a market value of 4.9 billion
francs ($5.4 billion).  Earnings Boost  The company didn’t give a date for completion of the
purchase as it’s subject to approval from Germany’s antitrust
regulator. Aryzta said the acquisition should boost earnings by
15 euro cents on a full-year basis, and it will have a
“modest” effect on the current financial year, which runs
through July.  “Klemme is a very well-invested bakery asset,” Aryzta
Chief Executive Officer  Owen Killian  said in the statement.
“This acquisition will transform Aryzta’s capability in
Europe.”  Following the purchase, Aryzta said it plans to extend the
cost and duration of a 400 million-euro initiative earmarked for
integrating businesses and information technology systems that
began in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  