-- Glorious Property Mulls Dollar Bond as S&P Raises Sector Outlook
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-20T05:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/asia-pacific-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Glorious Property Holdings Ltd.  is
considering selling dollar-denominated debt after Standard &
Poor’s said the outlook for the Chinese real-estate sector had
improved. Asian bond risk fell.  The developer, founded by Chinese billionaire Zhang Zhi
Rong who resigned as chairman in November, plans to meet
investors in Hong Kong tomorrow and in Singapore on Feb. 22 to
discuss a possible note sale, according to a person familiar
with the matter. S&P revised its outlook on China’s residential
property market to stable from negative to reflect financing and
operating conditions for the next six to 12 months, the company
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Glorious Property would be the 24th developer from Hong
Kong and China to sell dollar debt this year after issuers
raised $9.2 billion in January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Beijing seems unlikely to introduce tougher measures to cool the
real-estate market even as it maintains controls, according to
S&P. A gauge of Asian bond risk is set for its lowest close in
more than three weeks, according to traders of credit default
swaps.  “Many of the new bond proceeds will be used for
refinancing,”  Bei Fu , a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at S&P,
said on a conference call today. “We are quite relieved to see
that many of the developers seem to be more realistic in terms
of their expectation of the market and of their balance-sheet
management.”  Asia Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan declined 1.5 basis points to 108.5 basis
points as of 8:12 a.m. in Hong Kong, according to Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices. The benchmark is set to
close at the lowest level since Jan. 28, according to data
provider CMA.  Standard & Poor’s assigned Glorious Property’s planned
bonds a B-  rating , according to a separate report today. Despite
a weak capital structure, the company’s sales, property delivery
and profit margin are likely to improve amid new project starts
and better market conditions, the report said.  Zhang, the company’s former chairman, quit about five weeks
after an investment firm he controlled agreed to pay $14 million
to resolve U.S. insider-trading claims. His decision had nothing
to do with the case, iPR Ogilvy in Hong Kong, which handled
Zhang’s public relations, said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg
News questions at the time.  CIFI Holdings Group Co., a developer of hotels and homes in
China, is due to complete investor meetings in London today, a
person familiar with the matter said last week.  Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell 2 basis points to 123
basis points as of 9:09 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The measure is set to drop 12 basis points this month,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index retreated 1.5 basis
points to 112.5 as of 11:06 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. prices. The gauge ranged from 111.6 to 127.5 this
year, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  