-- Asian Stocks Extend 18-Month High on Global Outlook
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-02-20T10:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/asia-stocks-rise-for-third-day-on-german-confidence-japan-trade.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a third day,
with the regional benchmark index extending an 18-month high,
amid signs the global economy is recovering.  South Korea’s Kospi Index led benchmark gauges higher after
Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said the world economic
outlook is improving.  Tokyo Electric Power Co.  led gains among
Japanese utilities. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest
mining company, fell 0.9 percent in Sydney after reporting a 58
percent drop in first-half profit.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. ,
Australia’s second-biggest producer of oil and gas, added 3.1
percent after full-year profit almost doubled.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  added 1 percent to 135.44 as of
7:44 p.m. in Tokyo after closing yesterday at the highest level
since August 2011. More than two stocks climbed for each that
fell. The gauge is headed for a third day of gains, the longest
winning streak since Jan. 4.  “In general, the big picture is much better than last
year,” said  Grace Tam , Hong Kong-based global market strategist
at JPMorgan Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about $1.3
trillion globally. “In the medium term, we are still pretty
positive on equities because monetary policies are pretty easy
around the world.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 9.9 percent from the
start of November through yesterday, led by Japanese shares as
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to beat deflation and pressed
the central bank to ease monetary policy. Asia’s benchmark
traded at 14.9 times estimated earnings as of yesterday compared
with 13.8 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500  and 12.5 for the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 0.8 percent even
after the government reported a record trade deficit in January.
South Korea’s  Kospi  Index added 2 percent as Kim said the
improving world economy boosts the odds of the nation exceeding
this year’s growth forecast.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.3 percent. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.7 percent as Fletcher Building
Ltd., the most heavily weighted stock on the gauge, dropped 4.8
percent to NZ$8.87 in Wellington after saying robust local
growth was being offset by a sluggish Australian building
market.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.7 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.6 percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex
Index  added 0.9 percent and Singapore’s Straits Times Index
climbed 0.4 percent.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed today. The gauge added 0.7 percent to close at the
highest level since 2007 in New York yesterday on optimism over
deal making and data showing rising investor confidence in
Germany.  U.S. office supply retailers Office Depot Inc. and
OfficeMax Inc. have discussed a merger and may announce a deal
as early as this week, a person familiar with the matter said.
German investor confidence jumped more than economists forecast
in February to the highest level in almost three years, the ZEW
Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said
yesterday.  “We will continue to rally until markets find something
that spooks them,” said  Donald Williams , Sydney-based chief
investment officer at Platypus Asset Management Ltd., which
manages about $1 billion. “Data in Europe -- even if you are
pessimistic -- you’d have to conceive that they are stabilizing
and there are points of improvement. There’s nothing you can
point to as negative.”  South Korea’s Kospi capped a six-day rally, the longest
since October 2011.  Samsung Electronics Co. , the nation’s
biggest exporter of consumer electronics and the most heavily
weighted stock on the measure, rose 3.6 percent to 1.545 million
won.  Japanese Utilities  Japanese power providers rallied after the Nikkei newspaper
reported Prime Minister Abe will inform U.S. President Barack
Obama during their Feb. 22 meeting that Japan will reconsider
the previous government’s commitment to abandon nuclear power.  Tokyo Electric gained 9.7 percent to 215 yen, the biggest
gain on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Shikoku Electric Power Co.,
which expects to restart a reactor at its nuclear plant in July,
surged 7.3 percent to 1,130 yen.  Of the 343 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
have reported quarterly earnings and for which Bloomberg has
estimates, 50 percent exceeded profit expectations.  BHP Chief  BHP Billiton slid 0.9 percent to A$38.65 after reporting a
58 percent decline in first-half profit. It named copper unit
head Andrew Mackenzie to succeed Chief Executive Officer Marius
Kloppers, who failed to deliver on about $200 billion of
potential takeovers.  Woodside Petroleum  added 3.1 percent to A$39.07 after
saying its net income rose to a record $2.98 billion in the 12
months ended Dec. 31 from $1.51 billion a year earlier. The
increase was driven by the A$15 billion ($15.5 billion) Pluto
liquefied natural gas project in Western Australia.  Among other stocks that gained, PetroChina Co. rose 2.9
percent to HK$10.74 in Hong Kong after UBS AG recommended buying
shares of Asia’s biggest oil producer.  Nippon Paper Group Inc.  paced gains among Japanese paper
companies as the sector’s rating was raised to overweight at
Mitsubishi UFJ-Morgan Stanley Securities Co. The stock jumped
8.3 percent to 1,461 yen. Oji Holdings Corp. added 5.6 percent
to 339 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  