-- Stocks, Oil Fall While Dollar Gains on Fed Easing Debate
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-02-20T21:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/asian-stocks-advance-for-third-day-on-economic-data-as-yen-drops.html
U.S. benchmark stock indexes tumbled
from five-year highs while oil, gold and silver led commodities
lower as Federal Reserve meeting minutes spurred speculation the
central bank was considering curtailing monetary stimulus.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.2 percent to
1,511.95 at 4 p.m. in New York, its  biggest plunge  since
November. The VIX, the benchmark gauge of U.S. equity options,
jumped the most since 2011 on growing demand for protection from
losses in stocks. Oil tumbled 2.3 percent to $94.46 a barrel,
the biggest drop in three months, while silver sank more than 3
percent and gold sank to an almost eight-month low.  The  Dollar Index , a gauge of the U.S. currency versus six
major peers, climbed 0.7 percent to a three-month high of 81.05
following the minutes. The minutes showed Fed officials
“emphasized that the committee should be prepared to vary the
pace of asset purchases, either in response to changes in the
economic outlook or as its evaluation of the efficacy and costs
of such purchases evolved.” Treasuries rose after the release.  “It doesn’t take a lot of imagination to think about where
the next potential source of weakness or worry is going to be,
and that’s going to be when the Fed steps back from their
quantitative easing program,”  Brian Barish,  president of
Denver, Colorado-based Cambiar Investors LLC, which manages
about $7 billion, said in a phone interview.  Policy Debate  The Fed minutes showed policy makers were divided about the
strategy behind Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s program of buying
bonds until there is “substantial” improvement in a U.S. labor
market burdened with 7.9 percent  unemployment , with some saying
an earlier end to purchases might be needed, and others warning
against a premature withdrawal of stimulus.  The S&P 500 climbed to the highest level since October 2007
yesterday and ended the session trading at  15.1 times  reported
earnings, the most-expensive level since July 2011.  The benchmark gauge of U.S. equities closed yesterday about
2.2 percent below its record high and was up 7.3 percent in
2013, almost double the gains in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index and
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  “The market has moved too far,”  Bruce McCain , chief
investment strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in
Cleveland, said in a phone interview. His firm oversees $20
billion. “We need to take a breather. Even good, solid economic
reports are probably not living up to the expectations.”  All 10 of the  main industry groups  in the S&P 500 declined,
led by losses of at least 1.5 percent in commodity, consumer and
technology shares. Caterpillar Inc., UnitedHealth Group Inc. and
Walt Disney Co. lost at least 2 percent to lead the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  down 108 points to 13,927.54.  Apple Slumps  Apple Inc. fell 2.4 percent after Foxconn Technology Group,
the biggest assembler of Apple products, froze hiring across
China, spurring concern demand is slowing.  Toll Brothers Inc. ,
the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, sank 9.1 percent after
earnings missed estimates. Caterpillar slid after saying global
retail machine sales dropped.  The  VIX , as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, jumped 19 percent to 14.68 for its biggest gain
on a closing basis since November 2011.  An S&P gauge of  homebuilders  tumbled 6.7 percent, the most
since June. Work began on 613,000 one-family houses at an annual
rate last month, the most since July 2008 and up 0.8 percent
from December’s 608,000, Commerce Department figures showed
today. Total housing starts dropped to a 890,000 rate, less than
forecast and restrained by a slump in construction of
multifamily units.  Einhorn’s Bets  Hedge-fund manager David Einhorn said he reduced bets that
stocks will rise as equities climbed to a five-year high while
U.S. economic growth halted. U.S. gross domestic product shrank
at a 0.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, the first
decline since 2009, as a plunge in defense spending swamped
gains for consumers.  “As the market continues to advance, even as the economy
doesn’t, we tend to become less enthusiastic,” Einhorn said on
a conference call today held by his Greenlight Capital Re Ltd.
reinsurer. “We took some gains in our long portfolio and added
to our shorts.”  Sixteen of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index
retreated, sending the gauge down 1.1 percent in its biggest
loss of the year. Gold futures sank 1.6 percent to $1,578 an
ounce, the lowest since June, and retreated for a fifth session
in the longest slump since December 2011.  Extending Losses  Metals and oil extended earlier losses triggered by
speculation a struggling hedge fund was selling off positions.  “There is a rumor that a fund is blowing up,” Stephen
Schork, president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview. Schork has spent 17
years in physical commodity and derivatives trading including
stints at Glencore Ltd. and Novarco Ltd., Marc Rich’s last
venture in the global energy trading, and his clients include
OPEC and major oil companies. “Metals are getting hit and it’s
spreading over to oil.”  Treasury 10-year note yields fell two basis points to 2.01
percent, retreating from near the highest level in 10 months.
Two-year rates lost one basis point to 0.26 percent. The dollar
was stronger against 14 of 16 major peers.  European Markets  About three shares gained for every two that fell in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index , even as the gauge retreated 0.3 percent.
Lafarge SA rallied 5.5 percent in Paris as earnings beat
estimates and the world’s biggest cement maker said it’ll meet
most of a cost-cutting goal one year early.   RSA Insurance Group Plc  sank 14 percent for the largest
drop since 2004 as the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by market
value cut its dividend by 33 percent. Deutsche Lufthansa AG
declined 6.2 percent as the German carrier suspended its
dividend for the first time since 2010.  Germany’s 10-year bunds declined for the first time in
three days, sending yields up three basis points to 1.65
percent, as demand fell at a 5 billion-euro ($6.69 billion)
auction of the euro-region’s benchmark securities. Portugal’s
debt rose, sending 10-year yields down two basis points to 6.19
percent, after the nation sold 1.5 billion euros of three- and
12-month bills.  New Zealand’s dollar depreciated 1.4 percent to 83.51 U.S.
cents as the central bank said it’s ready to influence the
currency’s exchange rate. The currency, known as the kiwi,
surged about 45 percent against the dollar since the end of
2008, the biggest advance after its Australian counterpart among
more than 150 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency
weakened at least 0.3 percent against all 16 major peers.  Kiwi Policy  New Zealand’s Reserve Bank Governor  Graeme Wheeler  said
today in Auckland that he’s “prepared to intervene to influence
the kiwi” and that the currency isn’t a one-way bet.  “It’s interesting that the RBNZ have upped the rhetoric
around the potential for intervention,” said Geoff Kendrick,
head of European currency strategy at Nomura International Plc
in London. “This is the first time Wheeler has laid his cards
on the table and talked the currency down.”  The pound slid 1.2 percent to $1.5238 as Bank of England
minutes showed a growing number of policy makers backed expanded
asset purchases.  The yen weakened against 13 of 16 major peers. Japan’s
Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  said in parliament today that the need
for a fund that buys foreign debt “is becoming a lot less.” In
last year’s election campaign, his Liberal Democratic Party
proposed a joint fund operated by the BOJ, the Ministry of
Finance and private investors that would buy foreign bonds as a
means to end deflation.  Currency Wars  While Group of 20 nation finance ministers vowed to avoid
targeting exchange rates, Japan’s leaders have pledged steps to
boost the economy that caused the yen to tumble. Policy makers
in South Korea and the Philippines are weighing curbs to capital
inflows while Brazil intervened this month to halt gains in the
real. New Zealand isn’t a member of the G-20.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.3 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi index jumped 2 percent, the most in five months,
and the won strengthened after central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said the improved global outlook raises the odds that South
Korea will beat growth targets. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong rose 1.4
percent. Brazil’s Bovespa sank 2 percent, the most since
November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  