-- ASX Profit Declines as Reduced Equity Trading Crimps Revenue
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-02-21T05:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/asx-first-half-profit-drops-as-less-equity-trading-hurts-revenue.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX) , operator of Australia’s
main stock exchange, reported first-half net income fell as
reduced stocks trading hurt revenue.  Group revenue fell 3.3 percent from a year earlier,
although performance between the first and second quarters
varied significantly, the Sydney-based company said in a
regulatory statement. Net income in the six months through Dec.
31 dropped 2.5 percent to A$171.1 million ($176 million) from a
year earlier, the company said. ASX was expected to report
profit of A$169.5 million, according to the average of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ASX is fighting to stave off competition in equity trading
from Chi-X Australia Pty and so-called dark-pool operators as
volumes decline around the world. ASX this month won its battle
to maintain its monopoly on the clearing and settlement of
equity trades after the government delayed opening up
competition for at least two years.  “The first half of the financial year remained challenging
as trading activity in equity markets continued to be near
cyclical lows and well below the levels of the previous year,”
said ASX Chief Executive Officer Elmer Funke Kupper.  ASX shares fell 3.4 percent to A$35.76 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney, the biggest drop since August.  Trading Decline  Revenue from the company’s cash-market activities slumped
18 percent to A$54.9 million as the average daily value traded
on ASX fell by 24.5 percent. That was more than the 19.9 percent
decline in the daily value of equities traded across all venues,
both on and off-market, according to ASX.  Traditional exchanges worldwide are losing market share to
dark pools and other alternative trading venues, such as Chi-X,
which in 2011 started operating as  Australia ’s sole competitor
to ASX.  Equity volume fell around the world last year, with the
average daily trading for companies listed on U.S. exchanges
dropping 18 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Australian
trading volume declined 7.8 percent.  While ASX’s first-quarter total revenue slipped 8.8
percent, growth in its non-cash market businesses helped bolster
sales in the second quarter, with growth of 2.8 percent,
according to today’s statement. Revenue from listings and issuer
services climbed 7.3 percent to A$73.6 million in the six-month
period, while technical services sales rose 8.8 percent to
A$24.6 million.  Monopoly Maintained  The company, which this month won its battle to maintain
its monopoly on the clearing and settlement of equity trades,
also said it’s committed to investing in such infrastructure and
that it would work with industry members and regulators to
establish a new code of practice within the next six months.  ASX CEO Funke Kupper and Chairman Rick Holliday-Smith
argued last year that competition may raise risks to market
stability and push transactions overseas out of the reach of
Australian regulators.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  accepted advice from the Council of
Financial Regulators to defer for two years any license
application from an equities clearing facility seeking to
compete in the Australian market, according to a statement on
Feb. 11. LCH.Clearnet Ltd.,  Europe ’s largest clearing house, has
applied for a license to operate services in Australia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  