-- Matt Lauria, Zosia Mamet Tangle in Crude ‘Really’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-02-20T16:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/matt-lauria-zosia-mamet-tangle-in-crude-really-review.html
Zosia Mamet and Matt Lauria meet
ugly in “ Really, Really ,” a new play about amoral college kids
that’s as nasty as the young men and women who populate it.  Paul Downs Colaizzo’s drama begins with two girls returning
home after a night of drinking and debauchery that has left
Leigh (Mamet, of the hit HBO series “Girls”) stumbling and
incoherent and Grace (Lauren Culpepper) with a bloody hand.  The morning after, Grace begs for the scintillating details
of Leigh’s night with Davis (Lauria, from “Friday Night
Lights”), the sensitive hunk she’s had a crush on for years.
Never mind that she’s in a committed relationship with Davis’s
friend Jimmy (Evan Jonigkeit), who believes she’s pregnant and
is ready to settle down.  In a crashing tempest of scenes, Leigh accuses Davis of
rape, which even Grace finds hard to swallow. An element of
revenge tragedy introduced in the final moments further muddies
our perception of Leigh’s motives.  But her pile-up of lies undermines her credibility at every
breathless turn of plot. And in their own way, the boys prove --
again and again -- what swine they are, in this portrait of a
generation with low expectations and no moral compass.  Was there anyone I enjoyed spending a few hours with? No.
Does that make “Really, Really” a really bad play, or merely
deeply discomfiting? The unrelieved vulgarity and the
manipulative plot twists have me leaning heavily toward the
former.  Darkening States  My sympathies were further stymied by director David
Cromer’s habit of deliberately frustrating the audience, as he
did recently in “Tribes.” Here, I spent much of the first act
staring at the back of a couch.  Still, the ensemble plays with all stops out, and Culpepper
is particularly compelling as a cheerleader for  Future Leaders
of America  -- despite the America growing darker and meaner all
around her.  Through March 10 at the Lucille Lortel Theatre, 121
Christopher St. Information: +1-212-352-3101;
 http://www.mcctheater.org . Rating: *1/2  ( Jeremy Gerard  is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and
Katya Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 