-- Australia Wage Gains Quickened Last Quarter on Higher Mining Pay
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-20T00:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/australia-wage-gains-quickened-last-quarter-on-higher-mining-pay.html
Australian  wages  rose at a faster
pace in the fourth quarter, spurred by higher salaries in the
mining industry and wholesale trade.  The wage price index, which measures hourly pay rates
excluding bonuses, advanced 0.8 percent from the previous three
months, when it rose 0.7 percent, the statistics bureau said
today in Sydney. That matched the median  estimate  in a Bloomberg
News  survey  of 22 economists.  The central bank cut interest rates by 1.75 percentage
points in the 14 months through December to match a half-century
low of 3 percent as it seeks to cushion an economy in which
resource investment is expected to peak this year. It kept the
benchmark rate unchanged this month in response to signs that
China’s economy is stabilizing and the global outlook improving.  “The result is a bounce back from a slower third
quarter,” Jo Heffernan, a senior economist at St. George Bank
Ltd. in Sydney, said before the release of the data. “This is
unlikely to be sustained over the coming year, though, as the
labor market is softening.”  The  wage price index  advanced 3.4 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, today’s report showed, matching the
median economist forecast.  Hourly rates of pay in the mining industry jumped 5.1
percent and advanced 4.5 percent in wholesale trade, the biggest
increases among the 18 industries surveyed by the statistics
bureau. Pay at retailers increased 2.4 percent from a year
earlier, and accommodation and food services rose 2.2 percent --
the weakest figures.  Pressure Eased  “Business surveys suggest that wage pressures eased
further in the December quarter,” the Reserve Bank of Australia
said in its quarterly policy statement released last week.
“Liaison with firms also indicates that there has been a pick-
up in the share of firms expecting no growth in average wages
over the year ahead, and that skills shortages and wage
pressures in the resources sector have eased.”  Australia’s economy is being driven by China, the nation’s
biggest trading partner, which is buying up iron ore, coal and
natural gas as millions of people in the world’s most populous
nation move to urban centers. That has helped spur the nation’s
currency above parity with the U.S. dollar and hurt industries
outside of resources.  Traders are pricing in a 33 percent chance the central bank
will lower borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage point to a
record 2.75 percent at its meeting next month, swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The local currency was little
changed after the data at $1.0348 at 11:42 a.m. in Sydney.  Australian employers added part-time jobs in January and
fewer people hunted for work, helping keep the unemployment rate
unchanged at 5.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  