-- Bacon Paintings Discovered; James Bond’s $4.6 Million DB5
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-02-20T13:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bacon-paintings-discovered-james-bond-s-4-6-million-db5.html
Francis Bacon  works discovered on
the backs of amateur paintings may sell for at least 100,000
pounds ($154,000) when they come up for auction next month.  The works, showing background and architectural elements
from what appear to be “Pope” paintings, will be sold by
 Ewbank’s  in Guildford, southern England, on March 20.  The Heffer Gallery of Cambridge supplied art materials to
both Bacon and a local painter, Lewis Todd.  “It is not known how Bacon’s used canvases came to be at
the gallery in the first place,” the auction house said. Bacon
favored painting on the unprimed reverse. Heffer provided
rejected examples to Todd, who cut them up and painted his own
impressionist compositions on the unused fronts, Ewbank’s said.  Todd, who died in 2006 at the age of 81, was a caricaturist
for the Cambridge Daily News. After World War II, he was
encouraged to paint by Heffer.  Six paintings by Todd -- each bearing the ghostly fragment
of a Bacon on the reverse -- have been entered for sale by
unnamed private individuals.  Five have been confirmed by the  Francis Bacon
Authentication Committee . Paint samples have been analyzed by
 Northumbria University  and conform to those used by the artist
in the 1950s and 1960s.  Pope Clothing  A 1958 still life by Todd with the leg of a chair and a
glimpse of ecclesiastical clothing on the reverse is one of two
paintings estimated at 25,000 pounds to 35,000 pounds. A sixth
canvas hasn’t yet been authenticated and has a lower estimate of
5,000 pounds to 10,000 pounds.  “I would have thought 5,000 pounds would have been
enough,” the London-based dealer  Richard Nagy  said in an
interview. “But people love celebrity and will pay a lot for
something that has a little of a famous person’s DNA on it.”  In 2007, Ewbank’s sold a group of rejected and damaged
Bacon paintings retrieved from a skip outside the artist’s
London studio by electrician Mac Robertson. Valued at about
50,000 pounds, the collection sold for 1.1 million pounds.  Goldfinger DB5  A gadget-packed Aston Martin that was used to promote the
James Bond films “Goldfinger” and “Thunderball” is being
sold by a U.K. car dealership, priced at 3 million pounds or
$4.6 million.  The mid-1960s silver coupe, one of just four original 007
Aston Martin DB5s, is in the showrooms of the Cobham, Surrey
dealer  R.S. Williams Ltd,  a specialist in the marque.  The company would not identify the Swiss seller. The car’s
chassis number matches that of the one owned by businessman
 Thomas Straumann , Bloomberg reported. He acquired the car in
2006 for 2.7 million Swiss francs ($2.9 million now) and had it
restored, according to a 2010  report  in Bilanz magazine.  In the 1964 movie “Goldfinger,” gadget-master “Q” tells
a disbelieving Bond to pay attention before introducing the
car’s “rather interesting modifications.”  These include an ejector seat, retractable machine guns,
rotating number plates, a bullet-proof rear window, electronic
tracking and an oil slick sprayer.  This Swiss-owned DB5, chassis number 2008, has been
restored and features many of the devices, activated by switches 
in the central armrest. The car had been acquired by its owner 
from the Smoky Mountain Museum in Tennessee, R.S. Williams said 
in its catalog.  “The Bond films made Aston Martin a famous marque,”
Richard Williams, the dealership’s managing director, said in an
interview. “Far fewer people would have heard of the cars if it
hadn’t been for 007.”  ‘Goldfinger’ Connery  Another version of the Bond DB5, driven by  Sean Connery  in
“Goldfinger,” was sold by RM Auctions in London for 2.9
million pounds with fees in October 2010.  Billed at the public sale as “the most famous car in the
world,” chassis number 1486 attracted little competition and
was bought in the saleroom by the Ohio-based collector Harry
Yeaggy. The presale low estimate had been 3.5 million pounds,
based on hammer prices.  The original prototype used in the filming of both
“Goldfinger” and “Thunderball” had its gadgets removed and
was stolen from a hangar in Florida. It has never been found.
The fourth car, also used for promotional purposes, is in Dutch
collector  Evert Louwman’s  motor museum.  This latest 007 DB5 has been on the market for three weeks.  “We’ve had one offer so far, from an English collector,
that was too low,” Williams said. “A person who collects
important things will eventually find us.”  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  and  Ryan Sutton  on
food and  Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 