-- Batista Said to Seek $5 Billion From Stakes Sale
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-20T21:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/batista-said-to-seek-5-billion-by-selling-energy-gold-stakes.html
Eike Batista , the Brazilian
billionaire whose estimated net worth has plunged 71 percent
since March, is seeking to raise more than $5 billion by selling
his AUX gold business and a controlling stake in  MPX Energia SA ,
a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  EON SE, Germany’s biggest utility, is in discussions to
boost its MPX stake to 37 percent from 12 percent and gain
effective control as the Brazilian development bank, known as
BNDES, increases its holding to 13 percent from 10 percent, said
the person, who requested anonymity because the talks are
private. Batista also would sell MPX shares to the public in the
 divestiture , which may raise $2 billion, the person said.  Batista, 56, sold part of holding company EBX Group Co.
last year, slowing an expansion into mining and energy in
Brazil, Colombia and Chile to focus on raising cash to boost
output at existing projects. His oil business, OGX Petroleo e
Gas Participacoes SA, cut production targets in June, fueling
additional declines at six publicly traded firms he owns. His
net worth has plunged to $9.9 billion today from $34.5 billion
on March 31, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “If the wind doesn’t turn, you have to adjust the sail,”
 Eric Conrads , who oversees $750 million in Latin American stocks
at ING Investment Management, said of Batista’s efforts to
liquidate assets. “Moving from exploration to production is not
an easy transition. There are a lot of bumps in the road.”  Shares Slide  BNDES would pay about 500 million reais ($255 million) for
the additional 3 percent of Rio de Janeiro-based MPX. Batista’s
holding, now exceeding 50 percent, would drop to as little as 5
percent, a person with knowledge of the talks said.  MPX has  dropped  24 percent in the past year, outpacing the
15 percent decline for the benchmark Bovespa index. The stock
 declined  6.4 percent to 9.99 reais at the close in Sao Paulo
today, the biggest fall since Jan. 30.  MPX posted a fourth-quarter net loss of 135.8 million reais
yesterday, missing analysts’ estimates. The company said its
total debt as of Dec. 31 rose to 6 billion reais, similar to
MPX’s current market value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Batista’s aim to sell all of AUX reflects a change from
last year, when he disclosed plans to divest a 49 percent stake
in the gold business, two people familiar with the matter said.
Vancouver-based Goldcorp Inc., the world’s second-biggest miner
of the precious metal by market value, entered the talks for AUX
after an agreement to negotiate exclusively with Qatar’s
government expired in October, the people said.  Gold Drops  The pace of negotiations for AUX has slowed and a deal may
not happen, one of the people said.  Gold has dropped 5.8 percent this year, underperforming a 6
percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of equities,
as signs of economic improvement curbed demand for the metal as
a protection of wealth. Gold futures for April delivery
retreated 1.6 percent to $1,578 an ounce on the Comex in New
York.  EBX, which holds most of Batista’s assets, declined to
comment, as did representatives of Dusseldorf-based EON,
Goldcorp, BNDES and Qatar Investment Authority, the Persian Gulf
nation’s sovereign-wealth fund.  Batista also had sought to sell shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA 
to Sete Brasil Participacoes SA in exchange for a stake in the
oil-rig contractor, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter. He eventually gave up on the idea,
Folha de S. Paulo reported in October, citing an interview with
Batista.  “Brazil is not really in favor these days,” said ING’s
Conrads. “People are not looking for exposure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  