-- Bell Council Corruption Charges to Be Decided by California Jury
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y
-- 2013-02-20T23:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bell-council-corruption-charges-to-be-decided-by-california-jury.html
Six former officials of Bell,
California, will have their fate decided by a jury as a trial
comes to an end over allegations they looted public funds from
the Latino, blue-collar suburb of  Los Angeles .  Los Angeles County Deputy District Attorney Edward Miller
said today in his closing argument that the former city council
members put themselves above the law by awarding themselves
lavish salaries for sitting on boards that either never or
hardly ever met.  “This was a city turned upside down by a culture of
corruption,” Miller told jurors in state court in  downtown Los
Angeles . “These defendants did not have the residents of Bell
at the top of their chart. The electorate was at the bottom.”  Oscar Hernandez, 65, Teresa Jacobo, 55, George Mirabal, 63,
Luis Artiga, 52, George Cole, 63, and Victor Bello, 54, are
accused of misappropriating about $1.2 million in public funds
by getting paid almost $8,000 a month for attending board
meetings that prosecutors said never took place or lasted only a
few minutes.  The trial doesn’t include former city manager Robert Rizzo,
who was charged with 53 counts of misappropriation and conflict
of interest and accused of giving about $1.9 million in
unauthorized loans to himself and others. Rizzo and former
assistant city manager Angela Spaccia will be tried in a
separate case.  ‘In Trouble’  “You know your city is in trouble when your city council
members have to look to  Robert Rizzo  for moral leadership,”
Miller said today.  All eight of the officials were arrested in September 2010
and accused of misappropriating more than $5.5 million. The Bell
scandal, with Rizzo receiving $800,000 a year to run a city of
38,000, has put the pay of municipal executives under scrutiny.
The median salary for California’s city managers in 2009 was
$187,728, according to the state controller’s office.  Prosecutors allege that the six former council members on
trial were paid for “phantom” committee meetings on four
boards, the Solid Waste Authority, Surplus Property Authority,
Public Finance Authority and Community Housing Authority, from
the start of 2006 through July 2010.  Lawyers for the six defendants have argued that their
clients were unaware that the compensation they received was
tied to specific boards rather than part of their overall salary
as council members.  Legal Authorization  Shepard Kopp, Jacobo’s lawyer, said in his closing argument
today that the prosecution failed to prove Jacobo knew the
payments she received weren’t legally authorized or that she
should have known they were legally unauthorized.  “There is no limit on what council members could be paid
for their service on the various authorities they worked on,”
Kopp told the jury. “There was affirmative legal authority that
allowed them to receive these payments.”  Kopp said Jacobo was a hard-working and caring person who
relied on the advice of Rizzo and city attorney Ed Lee, who both
told her the salary was legal. The vast majority of the council
members’ work was in the community and not in meetings, the
lawyer said.  “The government’s case is built on a fundamental
misunderstanding of how city council members work,” Kopp said.
“They have blinders on in this case and they’ve had them on
since the get-go.”  Bell, located about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southeast of
Los Angeles, has five council members who serve part-time and
select the city’s mayor from among themselves. The median
household income of the city’s residents is $37,121 and 93
percent of them are Hispanic, according to U.S. Census data.
Twenty-five percent live below the poverty line.  The jury is scheduled to start deliberations tomorrow.  The case is People v. Hernandez, BA376025,  California 
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net .
Maurice Possley at Los Angeles Superior Court at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 