-- Berlusconi Cheers TV Sale as Election Opponents Protest
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-20T09:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/berlusconi-cheers-tv-sale-as-election-opponents-protest.html
Silvio Berlusconi ’s media influence
was criticized by his political rivals as the billionaire ex-
premier seeks re-election amid a bid by a former associate to
buy one of Italy’s largest private television networks.  Italy needs stronger conflict of interest laws, Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said in a televised interview yesterday, a
day after Telecom Italia SpA said it was in exclusive talks to
sell its La7 network to a company led by  Urbano Cairo , a former
Berlusconi assistant.  Pier Luigi Bersani , Berlusconi’s chief
political opponent, said Italy must guarantee dominant positions
aren’t built in the media market.  Berlusconi told La7’s news director in an interview late
yesterday he was pleased the network might be sold and thought
he might get a political benefit.  “A wide majority of news anchors are critical of us and
me,” he said.  Berlusconi’s role as owner of the nation’s biggest private
media empire and leading politician has stoked controversy since
the 76-year-old tycoon entered politics two decades ago. He
revolutionized television in Italy in building his  Mediaset SpA 
and has used his networks to connect with voters.  Telecom Italia, led by Chief Executive Officer Franco
Bernabe, is retreating from television to focus on its main
telephone business and reduce borrowing. Cairo’s Cairo
Communication has grown from an advertising firm in the 1990s to
expand into magazine publishing.  Saturating Airwaves  Berlusconi narrowed the gap in opinion polls with Bersani
by saturating the airwaves with interviews over the last month
and a half. He faced friendly journalists on Milan-based
Mediaset stations, while sparring with reporters including La7’s
Michele Santoro in other televised appearances.  “The law on media plurality and conflict of interest must
be strengthened as must the powers of the regulators who oversee
these important areas,” Monti said in the interview yesterday
on La7.  Berlusconi had public support of 27.8 percent in a survey
published by SWG Institute on Feb. 8, a day before Italy’s two-
week poll blackout began. That was up 2.5 percentage points from
Jan. 9. Bersani, a former communist and labor union favorite,
fell 1.1 points to 33.8 percent over the same period, while
Monti slipped 0.4 point to 13.4 percent.  Berlusconi praised Cairo in the interview with La7’s Enrico
Mentana.  “Cairo is a very smart boy, though he’s not a boy anymore,
he’s a man,” Berlusconi said. “We ended our association on
excellent terms.”  Fininvest SpA, Berlusconi’s holding company, fired Cairo in
1995 even though he had obtained “excellent results,” Cairo
said in an interview with newspaper  Corriere della Sera 
published today. La7’s news shows should continue working “in
total autonomy” provided they perform well, he told Corriere.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  