-- Bersani Preaches Spread-the-Wealth Before Italian Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-21T09:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bersani-fends-off-grillo-in-sicily-with-senate-in-balance.html
Pier Luigi Bersani is traveling from
Palermo to Naples with a spread-the-wealth message to fend off
populist rival Beppe Grillo in two poor regions pollsters say
are vital to gaining control of  Italy ’s Senate.  With outright victory at stake in the Feb. 24-25
parliamentary election, Bersani, 61, is set to appear in Naples,
capital of the southern region of Campania, after speaking to
thousands in Sicily’s biggest city yesterday. He has covered the
length of the Italian peninsula this week to rally voters in the
three must-win regions of Lombardy, Sicily and Campania.  Victory in Campania and Sicily, two of Italy’s poorest
regions, is in doubt as former comic Grillo’s anti-austerity
message resonates with recession-scarred voters. Bersani drew
cheers from flag-waving supporters in Palermo’s Piazza Verdi
when he said he’d push to get more out of the wealthy. Still,
his base of union supporters may not be enough to stop Grillo
from carrying Sicily.  Victory by Grillo in Sicily is “a concrete possibility,”
said  Roberto D’Alimonte , a professor at Rome’s Luiss University
who does political analysis for Sole 24 Ore, Italy’s leading
business newspaper.  Bond Yields  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond was 4.475
percent at 10:24 a.m. in Rome, up five basis points. That
compares with a euro-era record of 7.261 percent on Nov. 25,
2011, when a market rout of Italian debt risked tearing apart
 Europe ’s single currency.  Bersani needs 158 senators to obtain a stand-alone majority
in the upper house, and must win Lombardy, Sicily and Campania
to reach that number, according to Eurasia Group calculations
based on a Tecne poll for SkyTG24 published Feb. 7. He needs a
sweep in those regions because he’s going up against three
rivals, including Grillo and former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi ,
who are each capable of picking up seats across the country.  Berlusconi, running second to Bersani in opinion surveys
when a polling blackout began 12 days ago, is projected to win
in Veneto, the fifth-largest region in terms of seat allocation.  Blaming Politicians  Bersani’s support has been sapped by Grillo, 64, as voters
blame established parties for an 18-month-long slump, Italy’s
fourth recession since 2001. Bersani and Berlusconi both backed
the fiscal-austerity program imposed last year by Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  that deepened the economic contraction. The two
politicians, resuming their rivalry for the campaign, are
selling different recipes to exit the crisis.  “There are very serious problems that can’t be solved by
waving a magic wand and pulling a rabbit out of a hat,” Bersani
said at the rally in  Palermo . “These problems are resolved in
just one way, with commitment and a communal effort in which he
who has more must accept giving more. There’s no other way.”  Bersani has proposed raising taxes on wealthy Italians to
finance breaks for lower income families, while Grillo and
Berlusconi have focused on providing stimulus by challenging the
rigor imposed by European Union budget rules.  Bersani is up against an experienced performer in Grillo,
whose four-decade career before politics spanned stand-up
comedy, yogurt advertisements and anti-corruption activism.
Grillo, who says Italy should renegotiate its debt with
bondholders, won renown in Sicily during a regional election
four months ago by staging euro-skeptic rallies and stunts such
as a 2.2-mile swim from the mainland to the island.  “Grillo continues to gain strength,” Ferdinando Pagnoncelli, president of polling company Ipsos, told daily La
Stampa Feb. 19. In Sicily, Grillo voters are “changing in
quantity and quality” and broadening his party’s constituency,
Pagnoncelli said.  Poll Results  Bersani had 33.8 percent support in an SWG Institute survey
published Feb. 8. That compares with 27.8 percent for
Berlusconi, 18.8 percent for Grillo and 13.4 percent for Monti.
In Italy, bonus seats are awarded to allow one party the chance
for a majority without winning 50 percent of the votes. In the
Chamber of Deputies, those seats are allocated in one parcel to
the winner of the national vote, while in the Senate they are
doled out in each region individually.  Up for grabs in Sicily are 25 seats, with 14 going to the
winner and the rest handed out on a proportional basis to other
candidates. Sicily was the third-poorest of the 21 regions
recognized by Italy’s statistics agency, with per-capita income
of about 17,189 euros ($23,000) in 2011. Campania, south of  Rome 
on Italy’s west coast, was the poorest at 16,601 euros.  Rich Region  Bersani was in Lombardy Feb. 17 for a rally in Milan, the
country’s business capital, near the base of the Alps and the
border with  Switzerland . Per-capita income in that region is
33,484 euros, more than twice the level in Campania.  Grillo has said Italy should consider exiting the euro and
defaulting on its 2 trillion-euro ($2.7 trillion) debt, which at
more than 120 percent of economic output is Europe’s second
biggest after  Greece . In May, his candidates were elected mayor
of Parma and other cities as voters punished the traditional
parties over tax increases, budget cuts and rising unemployment.  “For Sicily, it really depends on voter turnout,” Renato Mannheimer, head of polling company Ispo Ltd, said at a press
conference in Milan Feb. 14, citing the last surveys that gave
Grillo about 20 percent and 32 percent each for Bersani and
Berlusconi. “It doesn’t seem likely that” Grillo “can rise to
that level, even if it’s true that there are many undecided
voters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  