-- Bertelsmann Said to Hire Deutsche Bank for RTL Stake Sale
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-21T17:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bertelsmann-said-to-hire-deutsche-bank-for-rtl-stake-sale.html
Bertelsmann SE,  Europe ’s largest
media company, has selected six banks including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and Morgan Stanley to manage a 1.9 billion-euro ($2.5 billion)
share sale in broadcaster  RTL Group SA (RTL) , according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  The other banks include  Bank of America Corp. , Citigroup
Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
people said, declining to be named before an announcement. The
sale may happen by the second quarter, the people said.  Bertelsmann, which owns 92.3 percent of RTL’s  stock , said
on Jan. 31 that it would cut its stake to 75 percent. RTL’s
shares fell 0.74 percent to 68.60 euros in Brussels. They have
dropped 9.1 percent this year.  Christian Steinhof, a spokesman for Guetersloh, Germany-
based  Bertelsmann , declined to comment. Spokespeople at Bank of
America, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs in  London  declined to comment.  Bertelsmann and KKR  Paring back the stake in RTL would free Bertelsmann funds
for a larger acquisition, with potential targets including
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s online-classified business Scout24 Holding
GmbH, as well as Springer Science & Business Media, the German
academic publisher owned by EQT Partners AB, a person familiar
with the matter has said.  Bertelsmann is also in talks to buy the 51 percent of BMG’s
music-rights unit that it doesn’t already own from KKR & Co.,
according to two people familiar with the matter. An agreement
could be reached in the coming weeks, though talks remain fluid,
they said, asking not to be identified because negotiations are
private.  A deal could value the stake at as much as 500 million
euros, one of the people said. A KKR spokeswoman declined to
comment.  Companies in Europe, the Middle East and Africa have raised
more than $13 billion in share sales this year, compared with $8
billion in the same period a year earlier, the data show.
Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG, Germany’s biggest residential
landlord, chose JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to help
manage its initial public offering, two people with knowledge of
the decision said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  