-- BG Said to Work With Goldman Sachs on Sale of Australian Assets
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-02-20T05:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bg-said-to-work-with-goldman-sachs-on-sale-of-australian-assets.html
BG Group Plc , the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and natural gas producer, is working with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. as it considers selling pipelines and other
equipment at its Australian liquefied natural gas project, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  BG is studying the sale of assets around the plant on
 Curtis Island  in Queensland state, the people said, asking not
to be identified as the details are private. The infrastructure
around the project includes a 540-kilometer (336-mile) pipeline
to carry coal seam gas from Surat Basin to the processing plant.  The Reading, U.K.-based explorer is trying to balance
record capital spending on fields from Australia to Brazil with
lower-than-expected oil and gas production. The company this
month said it is targeting $8.1 billion of asset sales by the
end of 2013.  A spokesman at QGC, BG’s Brisbane-based unit, referred
questions to the company’s headquarters in London. Hayley
Morris, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in Sydney, declined to
comment.  BG plans to build two processing units at the plant near
Curtis Island, more than 300 kilometers north of Brisbane, with
a combined capacity of 8.5 million metric tons of LNG a year.
The facility is due to start fuel shipments next year, the
company has said.  BG said in May the cost for building the project, which
will convert coal-seam gas to LNG for shipment to overseas
markets, had jumped 36 percent to $20.4 billion because of gains
in the Australian dollar and rising labor expenses.  China National Offshore Oil Corp. in November agreed to pay
$1.93 billion to increase its stake in the LNG project to 50
percent from 10 percent. The deal also included a contract for
BG to supply the Chinese company with 5 million metric tons a
year of LNG for 20 years, starting in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  