-- Romanowski Barred by Court From Deducting Horse Costs
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-21T05:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bill-romanowski-barred-by-court-from-deducting-horse-costs-1-.html
Former National Football League
player Bill Romanowski can’t deduct costs of a horse-breeding
operation, the U.S. Tax Court ruled, upholding a $4.7 million
levy by the  Internal Revenue Service .  Romanowski and his wife, Julie, didn’t try to make a profit
on horse-breeding activities in 2003 and 2004, and as a result,
the expenses they incurred aren’t deductible, Judge Joseph Goeke
in Washington said in yesterday’s decision.  The couple’s involvement in a horse-breeding program “was
almost entirely motivated by tax benefits available to them
through such participation,” Goeke wrote.  Romanowski, 46, spent 16 seasons in the NFL as a linebacker
from 1988 to 2003 and won two Super Bowl titles with both the
 San Francisco 49ers  (1988-89) and  Denver Broncos  (1997-98). He
appeared in 240 straight regular-season games before concussions
ended his playing career.  The expenses incurred by the Romanowskis stemmed from an
investment in a Kentucky-based horse-breeding business conducted
by ClassicStar LLC, whose operators pleaded guilty in 2009 to
conspiring to defraud the U.S. by running an illegal  tax
shelter .  Tax Penalties  Goeke also found that the Romanowskis aren’t liable for
more than $940,000 in penalties related to inaccuracies in their
returns because they relied in good faith on their tax advisers.
Both the penalties and the back taxes accrued from 1998 through
2004, according to Goeke’s ruling.  Steve Katz, an attorney for the Romanowskis, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The Romanowskis learned of ClassicStar through Rodney Atherton, an attorney for Greenberg Traurig LLP, which
represented the horse breeder at the time on certain tax
matters, according to the tax court ruling.  The couple eventually retained the Greenberg firm and in
December 2003 wrote a $300,000 check to ClassicStar as a deposit
on what was planned as a $13 million investment in the breeding
program, Goeke said.  Atherton, who is no longer affiliated with Greenberg,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment about his
role in the investment.  Lourdes Brezo Martinez, a spokeswoman for Greenberg, said
in an e-mail that “neither the firm nor its attorneys were
involved in this tax proceeding.” She said the firm didn’t
“participate and were not found to have participated in any
wrongdoing in this situation. We have long-ago resolved any
claims between our firm and Mr. Romanowski.”  The Romanowskis leased mares owned by ClassicStar, which
provided boarding and care for the horses and bred them to
stallions. The couple “did not have significant interaction
with their mares or foals and delegated essentially all the
breeding work to ClassicStar,” Goeke wrote.  The Romanowskis “did not expect their (mostly
hypothetical) foals to appreciate in value to the point where
they would recognize a profit,” he said.  The case is  Romanowski v. IRS, 10-15562, U.S. Tax Court,
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  