-- Billionaire Sy’s SM Rises on Property Merger Plan: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-02-20T05:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/billionaire-sy-s-sm-rises-on-property-merger-plan-manila-mover.html
SM Investments Corp. , Philippine
billionaire Henry Sy’s holding company, climbed to a record
after it said it may merge its property units, which could
unseat  Ayala Land Inc.  as the nation’s largest developer.  SM Investments is studying a proposal to merge units
including SM Prime Holdings Inc., Vice Chairman Teresita Sy-
Coson said in a mobile-phone message response to queries. The
plan isn’t “finalized yet in terms of what companies will be
included,” she said.  Combining Sy’s property units will give the 88-year-old
tycoon a builder that’s ahead of Ayala Land in sales and market
value, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. A bigger
property unit will help Sy compete with Ayala Land, a developer
with investments from offices, malls to apartments.  “This move is a tacit admission that Ayala Land’s strategy
as diversified developer is better than SM’s approach of
fragmented units focusing on specific real estate segments,”
James Lago, head of research at PCCI Securities Corp. in Manila.  Shares of SM Prime rose 5 percent to 20.25 pesos at the
noon trading break in Manila, heading for a record close. SM
Investments climbed 0.8 percent to 1,008 pesos, also set for its
highest close.  Highlands Prime Inc.  surged 37 percent while SM
Development Corp. jumped 11 percent.  Control Clash  Ayala Land  and Sy’s group clashed for control over a
property company owned by the Ortigas family in the Philippines.
The two groups also fought over the development of a 7.7-hectare
(19-acre) state-owned property in Bacolod City in 2011.  “A diversified SM property builder will give  Ayala Land  a
stronger competitor,” Lago said. “Sy will have a developer
with stable earnings -- it will get a steady income stream from
the malls’ rental earnings and income from the development and
sale of property, which is subject to market cycles.”  Sy’s other publicly-listed property ventures also include
Belle Corp., and he also owns privately held SM Land Inc., which
developed offices for call centers, the 67-hectare Mall of Asia
complex in Manila and a 5,800-hectare tourism resort project in
Batangas, a province south of Manila.  Sy’s listed property companies are worth a total 501.9
billion pesos ($12 billion), leapfrogging Ayala Land’s 442.13
billion peso market value, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  SM Prime, the nation’s largest shopping mall operator, and
residential builder SM Development had 52.33 billion pesos in
combined sales in 2012, compared with Ayala Land’s 49.9 billion
revenue.  SM Prime  had 10.53 billion peso in profit last year
compared with Ayala Land’s 9.04 billion peso net income.  The Philippine Daily Inquirer and Philippine Star first
reported the plans to merger the property units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  