-- Blackstone Said to Favor SeaWorld IPO as It Weighs Takeover Bids
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-02-20T19:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/blackstone-said-to-favor-seaworld-ipo-as-it-weighs-takeover-bids.html
Blackstone Group LP is leaning
toward an initial public offering of  SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. 
after receiving bids from Apollo Global Management LLC and Onex
Corp. for the theme-park operator, said people familiar with the
matter.  SeaWorld also attracted interest from a team that included
Carlyle Group and Advent International Corp., which didn’t make
an offer, said one of the people, who asked not to be named
because the process is private. Blackstone expects an IPO to
yield better returns over time than a possible sale, said one
person.  SeaWorld generated more than $1.4 billion of revenue in the
12 months through Sept. 30 operating almost a dozen amusement
parks in states such as Florida, California and Texas.
Blackstone, the world’s biggest buyout firm, took control of the
company after agreeing in 2009 to buy  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s 
amusement-park business in a deal then valued at as much as $2.7
billion.  Representatives at Blackstone, Apollo, Carlyle and Advent
declined to comment on the process. Officials at SeaWorld and
Onex didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  SeaWorld competes with parks operated by  Walt Disney Co.  as
well as Six Flags Entertainment Corp., according to regulatory
filings. Today, Grand Prairie, Texas-based Six Flags reported
that 2012 revenue climbed about 6 percent to $1.07 billion,
bolstered by increasing admissions revenue. Six Flags’s stock
had climbed 35 percent in the year through yesterday.  Blackstone has already recouped some of its initial
investment  through a so-called dividend recapitalization. The
company took a $500 million loan last year to fund a payout to
its owners, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SeaWorld filed for a U.S. IPO in December. The company may
go public in early 2013 and raise at least $500 million, two
people familiar with the matter said in December. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are leading the offering,
according to regulatory filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  