-- Boeing Said to Propose 787 Battery Fixes to U.S. FAA
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-02-21T01:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/boeing-said-to-propose-787-battery-fixes-to-u-s-faa.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  officials are preparing
proposed fixes to ensure that the 787 Dreamliner’s battery won’t
damage the plane or emit smoke as they work to end the jet’s
grounding, people with knowledge of the talks said.  A Boeing team is scheduled to meet tomorrow in  Washington 
with the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration , said the people,
who weren’t authorized to discuss the session and asked not to
be identified. The plan includes a harder battery case and a
venting mechanism for fumes, one person said.  Any repairs would be subject to FAA approval, and agency
Administrator Michael Huerta is to participate in tomorrow’s
meeting, the person said. The FAA isn’t expected to act
immediately unless tests show the fixes can ensure safety, the
person said. Battery changes also would need the backing of U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, who has said the 787 won’t
fly again until the U.S. is “1,000 percent sure” it’s safe.  Ending the grounding is pivotal for Boeing and the airlines
that have taken delivery of the first 49 planes. Boeing wants to
be able to resume shipments of new 787s, and restarting flights
would let carriers end the aircraft shuffle used to replace
their Dreamliners since they were ordered parked on Jan. 16.  Marc Birtel , a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing, declined
yesterday to say whether a meeting has been scheduled with the
FAA.  “We have been in close communication with the regulatory
and investigative authorities since the 787 issue arose,” he
said. “Everyone is working to get to the answer as quickly as
possible and good progress is being made.”  Fire Resistance  Boeing’s proposal will include a more fire-resistant box
housing the eight lithium-ion cells in each of the 787’s two
batteries, said the person with knowledge of the matter. Boeing
engineers also want to create a tubing system to vent battery
fumes or smoke in case of an incident, the person said.  The measures are being proposed while Boeing works on a
redesign of the batteries, the person said. The batteries are
made by Kyoto-based  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)   The Boeing team is being led by Ray Conner, chief executive
officer of its commercial airplanes division, who will make the
presentation himself to the FAA tomorrow, one of the people
said.  Boeing technical workers have been assigned to build the
proposed containment vessels, a union official said. That effort
risks being delayed after the employees rejected a new contract
Feb. 19 and authorized the union to call a strike at any time
amid ongoing negotiations, said Ray Goforth, executive director
of the  Society of Professional Engineering Employees in
Aerospace .  More Electricity  Boeing rose 0.2 percent to $74.78 at the close yesterday in
 New York . That pared the shares’ decline to 0.8 percent this
year, compared with a 6 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. Shares of Yuasa  rose  as much as 8.6 percent in early
trading today in  Tokyo , the biggest gain since November 2011.  The 787, the only airliner equipped with large  lithium-ion
batteries , boosts efficiency by relying more heavily on
electricity for on-board systems than conventional jets. The
FAA’s grounding followed a fire on a 787 parked in  Boston  and a
battery fault that triggered an emergency landing in  Japan .  The regulator approved Boeing’s battery in 2007 under
“special conditions” prohibiting hazardous gas from
accumulating in the plane if a battery overheated or caught
fire. It also said a fire couldn’t damage critical equipment or
the aircraft’s structure.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board has concluded
a short-circuit in a battery cell on a  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  787 on
the ground in Boston led to the Jan. 7 fire, which spread to
other cells. The reason for the short hasn’t been identified,
NTSB Chairman Debbie Hersman said Jan. 24.  A battery aboard an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  787 on Jan. 16
smoldered and smoked, forcing pilots to make an emergency
landing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  