-- Boeing Averts Immediate Strike as Labor Peace Elusive
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-02-20T07:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/boeing-averts-immediate-strike-as-labor-peace-elusive.html
Boeing Co.  engineers and technical
workers split their votes over a new contract, potentially
avoiding a dispute that could have disrupted an investigation
into battery faults that have kept the global 787 fleet grounded.  Engineers approved a four-year contract while technical
workers, who act as their liaison with machinists, rejected the
deal and authorized a strike any time, according to voting
results announced by the  Society of Professional Engineering
Employees in Aerospace . The union said it will first resume
negotiations with the  planemaker .  The divided results show  labor peace  is still elusive, even
as Chicago-based  Boeing  counts on its workforce to help it
recover from the global grounding of the Dreamliner fleet since
Jan. 16 amid a plan to increase jet production to a record this
year. Union engineers are working to find the source of two
battery malfunctions and potential solutions to get the fleet of
49 787s back in the air and resume deliveries of 800 more.  “In an engineering company, what’s vital is good relations
with the engineers,”  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the
University of California at Berkeley, said in an interview
before the voting. “You want people inspired by what they’re
doing, not at odds with the company management.”  Boeing ’s offer was approved by 6,483 engineers, or 54
percent of votes, said the labor group. The union was granted
strike authorization by 6,727 engineers, or 56 percent of votes
in that tally, though it is a moot approval since the contract
passed. Of the technical workers, 3,203, or 53 percent, voted
against the contract and 3,903, or 64, percent gave strike
authorization.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  The 15,550 engineers and 7,400 technical  workers , mainly at
Boeing’s Seattle-area manufacturing and development hub, had
been working without a contract since November. About 18,000
workers voted in yesterday’s tally, Speea said.  Boeing is “deeply disappointed” that technical employees
rejected the company’s offer and authorized a strike, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  “The realities of the market require us to make changes so
we can invest in new products and keep winning in this
competitive environment,” said  Ray Conner , president and CEO of
Boeing’s commercial planes division.  The union had warned Boeing’s offer would cut retirement
benefits for new hires by about 40 percent, divide the workforce
and lead to the elimination of the pension entirely in favor of
a 401(k)-style plan that’s riskier for employees.  Battery Faults   Boeing  engineers and government agencies in the U.S. and
Japan are still investigating two battery faults last month that
led to a fire in one 787 and an emergency landing by another.  “The techs are constructing the containment vessel around
the battery that they’re trying to get the FAA to buy off on,”
said  Ray Goforth , Speea’s executive director, said in an
interview after the vote count. “If the techs go out on strike,
it would stop all production of commercial aircraft, so they
have a strong degree of leverage.”  Boeing  had delivered 49 of the jets since the model’s entry
into service in late 2011 and is still building five a month and
working toward doubling production by yearend to fill a backlog
of more than 800 orders. Deliveries halted after authorities
began grounding the planes Jan. 16.  Average Salary  “Once a fix is approved, then that’s our work, to
incorporate the changes into the existing airplanes as well as
the engineering and planning to incorporate the change in the
production airplanes,” Speea President Tom McCarty said in an
interview as votes were tallied. “That actually takes a lot
more than the 300 people who may now be investigating the
problem and how to correct it. We are the workforce that will do
that.”  Boeing has said the average engineer’s salary is about
$110,000 a year, and the average technical worker makes $81,000.  Boeing chief engineer  Mike Delaney  said Jan. 11 that in the
event of a strike, he could call on engineers in California. And
Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  said Jan. 30 that the
company would have enough other experts to work on the 787
battery issue if engineers walked out.  Negotiations had turned bitter in recent months. Chicago-
based Boeing said work will move to less expensive sites outside
its Seattle jet-manufacturing and development hub if labor costs
keep rising.  Speea, citing Boeing’s $12.6 billion in profits since 2009,
says engineers deserve to be rewarded. The company has returned
cash to shareholders with buybacks and a 15 percent dividend
boost in that time period and increased McNerney’s compensation
about one-fifth through 2011 to $22.96 million, the most recent
figure available.  The company’s initial offer was rejected by a vote of 96
percent on Oct. 1. Boeing sweetened its proposal on Jan. 17,
offering salary-increase pools of 5 percent a year over a four-
year contract, matching the raises in the last wage deal.  Boeing didn’t budge from its plan to switch new employees
to a 401(k)-style retirement plan from the pension workers get
now. The union called it a “big poison pill” in an otherwise
good contract offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 dufner@bloomberg.net  