-- Boeing Engineers Approve Deal as Strike by Others Planned
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-02-20T21:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/boeing-engineers-approve-deal-as-strike-by-others-planned.html
Boeing Co.  engineers and technical
workers split their votes over a new contract, potentially
averting a dispute that threatened to disrupt efforts to fix the
battery faults that grounded the global 787 Dreamliner fleet.  Engineers approved a four-year contract while technical
workers, who act as their liaison with machinists, rejected the
deal and authorized a strike any time, according to the  Society
of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace . The union
said it will first resume negotiations with the  planemaker .  The divided results show  labor peace  remains elusive even
as Chicago-based  Boeing  counts on its workforce to help get the
Dreamliner flying again. Boeing is working to find the source of
two battery malfunctions and make repairs to put the fleet of 49
787s back in the air and resume deliveries of new planes.  “In an engineering company, what’s vital is good relations
with the engineers,”  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the
University of California at Berkeley, said in an interview
before the voting. “You want people inspired by what they’re
doing, not at odds with the company management.”  Boeing ’s contract offer was ratified by engineers with 54
percent of the vote, the union said, while the accord was turned
down by 53 percent of the technical workers. Those employees
authorized a strike with 64 percent of the vote.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  The shares  rose 0.2 percent to $74.78 at the close in New
York. Boeing officials will meet with the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration on Feb. 22 to propose fixes to ensure that the
787’s battery won’t damage the plane or emit smoke, people with
knowledge of the talks said.  The 15,550 engineers and 7,400 technical  workers , mainly at
Boeing’s Seattle-area manufacturing and development hub, had
been working without a contract since November. They’re pivotal
to Boeing’s efforts to fix the 787 and boost jet production to a
record this year.  Boeing is “deeply disappointed” that technical employees
rejected the company’s offer and authorized a strike, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  “The realities of the market require us to make changes so
we can invest in new products and keep winning in this
competitive environment,” said  Ray Conner , chief executive
officer of Boeing’s commercial planes division.  The union had said Boeing’s offer would cut retirement
benefits for new hires by about 40 percent, divide the workforce
and lead to the elimination of the pension entirely in favor of
a 401(k)-style plan that’s riskier for employees.  Labor Strife  Voting by the engineers signaled the depth of the divide
between their union and management: 56 percent of the members
supported a strike authorization, a tally that was moot since
they also approved the new contract.   Boeing  engineers and government agencies in the U.S. and
Japan are still investigating two battery faults last month that
led to a fire in one 787 and an emergency landing by another.
The FAA ordered the planes grounded on Jan. 16 and was followed
by regulators worldwide.  “The techs are constructing the containment vessel around
the battery that they’re trying to get the FAA to buy off on,”
Speea Executive Director  Ray Goforth  said in an interview after
the voting. “If the techs go out on strike, it would stop all
production of commercial aircraft.”  Boeing  had delivered 49 Dreamliners since the model’s entry
into service in late 2011 and is still building five a month.
It’s working toward doubling output by year’s end to fill a
backlog of more than 800 orders. Deliveries halted after the
787s were ordered parked.  “Once a fix is approved, then that’s our work, to
incorporate the changes into the existing airplanes as well as
the engineering and planning to incorporate the change in the
production airplanes,” Speea President Tom McCarty said in an
interview. “That actually takes a lot more than the 300 people
who may now be investigating the problem and how to correct it.
We are the workforce that will do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  