-- Boeing Dreamliner Grounding Costs Ailing LOT $50,000 a Day
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-02-20T14:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/boeing-dreamliner-grounding-costs-ailing-lot-50-000-a-day-1-.html
 LOT Polish Airlines SA, the first
European carrier to receive  Boeing Co . 787 Dreamliners, said it
is losing $50,000 a day because of the jet’s grounding,
compounding an already precarious financial situation.  The 787’s operational suspension has cost the state-owned
carrier 7.7 million zloty ($2.5 million) in the last two weeks
of January, the treasury ministry said today in a statement to
Parliament. The airline’s loss last year totaled 157.1 million
zloty even as sales grew 4 percent to 3.31 billion zloty.  The struggling airline was looking to the 787 to help
propel a revamp as it seeks to attract a strategic investor.
That plan has faltered after the global Dreamliner fleet was
grounded on Jan. 16, shortly after LOT received its first jets.
One of the carrier’s two Dreamliners is stranded in Chicago,
where it had traveled on its inaugural trans-Atlantic flight.  “The original turnaround plan had to be modified because
of problems with the 787,” Deputy Treasury Minister Rafal
Baniak said in the statement. A revised strategy is due by March
20.  LOT has ditched the 787 from its summer plan and is seeking
gap-filler planes while saying it could restore them if Boeing
fixes them in time. The lease of three Boeing 767s will be
extended, as the Dreamliners will probably remain out of service
until October, LOT said this month.  Investor Search  All Nippon Airways Co., the first and largest 787 operator,
on Jan. 31 cut sales by 1.4 billion yen ($15.4 million) owing to
the grounding, while Japan Airlines Co. on Feb. 5 projected a
1.1-billion yen hit on sales because of the Dreamliner’s woes.  LOT Chief Executive Officer  Sebastian Mikosz  said the
carrier would consider seeking compensation from Boeing for the
extra costs incurred. Those negotiations would not start until
the 787s are flying again, he told Parliament today.  Mikosz said last week that unprofitable routes would be
eliminated, with a focus on trans-Atlantic long-haul flights and
European destinations with strong prospects for business
passengers.  “Current airline mergers in Europe show that the plan to
find a strategic partner for LOT is justified,” Baniak said.
“Only finding an investor will give LOT a chance to develop.”  To help draw interest, the government is considering
changes in foreign ownership rules to allow a buyer to gain a
controlling stake.  Turkish Airlines  last year considered buying
a LOT stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  