-- BOK Signals No Rate Cut Needed Now as Outlook Improves
-- B y   B r i a n   F o w l e r
-- 2013-02-20T07:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bok-s-kim-signals-no-rate-cut-needed-now-as-outlook-improves-1-.html
Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said an improved global outlook increases the odds of South
Korea exceeding this year’s growth forecast, signaling that
further monetary easing isn’t necessary for now.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy is likely to achieve 2.8
percent growth, Kim, 65, said in an interview in Seoul
yesterday. “I bet a little bit more on the upside than the
downside,” Kim said, adding that domestic liquidity is
“abundant.”  The won strengthened and the yield on the three-year
government bond rose from yesterday’s record low as Kim’s
comments damped investor expectations for policy makers to cut
rates. Economists are split on the outlook for borrowing costs,
with Barclays Plc expecting no rate change this year, while
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Feb. 12 research note that it
forecasts a reduction in April.  “Governor Kim’s comments add further conviction to our
view that the monetary easing cycle in Korea is over,” Ronald
Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an
e-mail. “Our call for the next move to be a hike, from as soon
as the third quarter of this year, remains intact.”  The won was up 0.3 percent to 1,078.30 per dollar in Seoul
as of 3 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
on 2.75 percent bonds due December 2015 rose two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.71 percent today.  Global Sentiment  Talking of global sentiment, Kim said he sensed at the G-20
gathering of central bankers and finance ministers that “the
whole mood is improving” even as officials await more evidence
of economic gains. The won climbed 23 percent against the yen in
the past six months, with South Korea expressing concern at
Japan’s economic policies before and after a Group of 20 nations
meeting in Moscow.  The BOK kept the benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  at
2.75 percent on Feb. 14 after 25-basis-point cuts in July and
October. For a second month, the decision wasn’t unanimous. In
January, BOK board member Ha Sung Keun called for a rate cut to
curb excessive appreciation of the won and support the weak
economy.  Asked to comment on investors expecting a rate cut after
the split votes by the monetary policy committee, Kim said, “I
represent the views of the committee. What matters is the
decision of the MPC.”  Low Pace  He added that while the low pace of inflation would in
theory allow room for monetary easing, the impact of such a move
would be muted because of the abundant liquidity in the market.  “There is no reason not to lower the rate, but there is no
reason to lower it,” he said.  Another board member,  Moon Woo Sik , said last month that he
saw no immediate need to alter benchmark interest rates and it’s
“too early” for any central-bank response to the won’s gain
against the yen.  A stronger won erodes the competitiveness of exporters such
as  Samsung Electronics Co. , which said last month that currency
gains could reduce its operating profit by 3 trillion won ($2.8
billion) this year. Kia Motors Corp. reported a 51 percent slump
in operating profit last month and said it expects a difficult
year.  Bank Target  Consumer prices rose 1.5 percent in January, below the
central bank’s target range of 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent,
while economic growth picked up to 0.4 percent in the fourth
quarter from 0.1 percent in the previous three months.  Japan’s “expansionary policy operations” and fiscal
tightening in advanced nations are among risks for a South
Korean economy that is showing signs of gradual improvement, the
central bank said on Feb. 14. The front-loading of government
spending in the first half of the year is already giving growth
a boost and Deutsche Bank AG says a supplementary budget may be
announced by President-elect  Park Geun Hye’s  administration in
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Fowler in Tokyo at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  