-- Bonus Cuts for 40% of Australian Bankers Outpace Asian Declines
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-20T03:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bonus-cuts-for-40-of-australian-bankers-outpace-asian-declines.html
Bonuses shrank for 40 percent of
Australian bankers last year, outpacing declines reported by
their counterparts in other Asia-Pacific financial centers, a
survey showed.  The percentage of finance professionals in Australia that
saw their bonuses fall in 2012 compares with 22 percent in Hong
Kong and 33 percent in Singapore, according to
eFinancialCareers, a recruitment website. Australian bankers
were also less likely to see their payout increase, with 28
percent of those surveyed reporting a bigger bonus, compared
with 39 percent for Hong Kong and 31 percent for Singapore.  Financial firms including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
and  UBS AG  are reducing bonuses and headcount worldwide as they
grapple with slower global growth and increased pressure from
regulators to raise more capital and trim compensation. The
Australian dollar’s 60 percent climb against the greenback in
the past four years has made it more expensive for offshore
firms to pay staff in a nation where dealmaking and share sale
revenues have dwindled.  “The trend is to move away from blanket bonuses and focus
more heavily on rewarding top talent,” said  George McFerran ,
Asia-Pacific managing director for eFinancialCareers, noting
that the average size of Australian bonuses rose 10 percent even
as more people had their payouts cut than increased. “It
suggests firms are becoming more acutely aware of the need to
retain their star performers.”  Job Cuts  Financial companies announced 108,733 job cuts last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank AG ’s
bonus pool for 2012 will be 11 percent smaller than the previous
year, it said last month.  Australian mergers and acquisitions fell 41 percent to
$85.5 billion in 2012, the least since 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The value of initial public offerings in the
nation last year fell to $1.2 billion, the lowest since 2001, as
concern about slowing economic growth in China and the debt
crisis in Europe hurt stocks and discouraged expansion by
companies.  EFinancialCareers this month surveyed 173 Australian
bankers who were eligible for a bonus, according to today’s
statement, which didn’t specify the number of people polled in
Hong Kong or Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  