-- Bovespa Futures Little Changed as Traders Weigh Earnings Reports
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-02-20T12:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bovespa-futures-little-changed-as-traders-weigh-earnings-reports.html
Bovespa-index futures were little
changed, after the equity gauge posted its longest losing streak
since October, as investors weighed a drop in commodities prices
and better-than-forecast earnings from Grupo BTG Pactual.  BTG, Brazil’s top generator of investment-banking fees in
2012, may be active after reporting fourth-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates. Exchange-operator  BM&F Bovespa SA  may
move after posting fourth-quarter results yesterday after the
market closed. MPX Energia SA may be active after a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said controller Eike Batista is
seeking to raise more than $5 billion by selling a controlling
stake in the company and his gold business.  Bovespa-index futures slipped less than 0.1 percent to
57,650 at 9:33 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real fell 0.1 percent to
1.9569 per dollar. The  S&P GSCI Spot Index  of raw materials
declined 0.2 percent, retreating for a third day.  Investors are waiting for the minutes of the last meeting
of the Federal Open Market Committee scheduled to be released
this afternoon, Bradesco analysis led by Octavio de Barros wrote
in a research note. “For Brazilian stocks, we expect a slight
decline” today, the analysts said.  The Bovespa has dropped 9.5 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern that accelerating inflation may curb
Brazil’s economic recovery and that the government’s
interventionist policies will hurt profits in industries
including utilities and energy.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 10.8 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.5 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.9 billion
reais yesterday, which compares with a daily average of 7.45
billion reais this year through Feb. 15, according to data
compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  