-- BP Wins Approval to Cut Potential Fine by $3.4 Billion
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-02-20T06:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bp-wins-approval-to-cut-potential-fine-by-3-4-billion.html
BP Plc  won approval of an agreement
for the U.S. government to not count 810,000 barrels of oil
captured before they became part of the 2010  Gulf of Mexico 
spill, reducing the potential maximum fine under the Clean Water
Act by $3.4 billion.  The collected oil “never came into contact with any
ambient seawater and was not released into the environment,”
U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans said in an order
yesterday, less than a week before trial over the spill begins.  “The U.S. and BP agree that the 810,000 barrels of
collected oil are not to be used in calculating the statutory
maximum penalty,” he said.  About 4.9 million  barrels  gushed from BP’s Macondo well off
the Louisiana coast, which blew out in April 2010, according to
the government. BP captured 810,000 barrels directly from the
broken wellhead, piped it to the surface and either shipped it
to shore or burned it off by flares, according to BP’s court
filing.  Under the U.S. Clean Water Act, polluters face a penalty
ranging from $1,100 to $4,300 for each barrel spilled, depending
on a variety of factors, including whether the polluter acted in
a grossly negligent or reckless manner in causing the spill.  Yesterday’s agreement reduces BP’s potential maximum civil
pollution fine from about $21 billion to about $17.6 billion,
depending on whether the company is found at the trial beginning
next week to have been grossly negligent.  Non-Jury Trial  Barbier has scheduled a non-jury trial to begin Feb. 25 to
determine liability for the spill. Barbier will hold a separate
non-jury trial, set to begin in August, to determine the volume
of the spill and evaluate the  company ’s efforts to stop it.  BP said yesterday in a statement that it will defend itself
at next week’s trial after failing to reach a settlement with
the U.S. and individual states.  “We have always been open to settlements on reasonable
terms,”  Rupert Bondy , group general counsel at BP, said in the
statement. “Faced with demands that are excessive and not based
on reality of the merits of the case, we are going to trial.”  BP said it won’t be found grossly negligent.  “Gross negligence is a very high bar that BP believes
cannot be met in this case,” Bondy said. “This was a tragic
accident, resulting from multiple causes and involving multiple
parties. We firmly believe we were not grossly negligent.”  The U.S. sued BP and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp ., as  co-owners 
of the blown-out well, and  Transocean Ltd ., owner of the
Deepwater Horizon rig that drilled the well, for civil pollution
fines, spill cleanup costs and natural resources damages.  Transocean’s Approval  Transocean  won court approval of its $1 billion settlement
with the U.S. of pollution claims stemming from the explosion
aboard the drilling rig that killed 11 workers and the
subsequent spill.  Transocean said last month that it would pay $1.4 billion,
including a $400 million criminal penalty, to settle federal
claims it violated the U.S. Clean Water Act. Barbier approved
the $1 billion civil portion yesterday.  Transocean also agreed to plead guilty to one misdemeanor
count of violating the Clean Water Act. U.S. District Judge  Jane Triche Milazzo  last week gave final approval to the plea at a
hearing in New Orleans.  In November, BP reached a settlement with the U.S. Justice
Department of all criminal charges stemming from the spill. That
plea deal included a $4 billion criminal penalty and a related
$525 million settlement with U.S. securities regulators over
BP’s misrepresentation of the size of the spill.  Captured Oil  BP and the U.S. decided to continue disagreeing about
whether the flaring of the captured oil resulted in any air
pollution.  Wyn Hornbuckle , a spokesman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment on yesterday’s order.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for London-based BP, didn’t
immediately respond yesterday to a request for comment on the
ruling.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  