-- BTG Pactual’s Net Beats Estimate on Asset Management Revenue
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-02-20T20:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/btg-pactual-s-net-beats-estimates-on-asset-management-revenue.html
Grupo BTG Pactual , Brazil’s top
generator of investment-banking fees in 2012, said fourth-
quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates on gains in asset
management, real estate and proprietary trading.  Adjusted net income, which excludes one-time items, dropped
to 854 million reais ($437 million), or 94 centavos a share,
from 1.05 billion reais, or 1.32 reais, a year earlier, the Sao
Paulo-based lender said yesterday in a filing. The  average 
estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 74 centavos.  BTG, led by Chief Executive Officer  Andre Esteves , 44,
increased revenue from asset management more than fourfold to
637 million reais in the period from a year earlier, according
to the filing. Principal investments, including the private-
equity division and real estate and proprietary trading, surged
to 512 million reais from 108 million reais. Annualized return
on shareholders’ equity, a measure of profitability, climbed to
25.1 percent in the fourth quarter from 24.2 percent a year
earlier.  “We expect to continue delivering significant return,
above 20 percent,” Esteves said today on a conference call with
analysts. “From time to time, we may post returns even more
significant than we had now.”  Asset Management  BTG  rose  0.5 percent to close at 36.25 reais in Sao Paulo,
up 16 percent from its initial public offering price of 31.25
reais in April. The firm and its shareholders  raised  3.66
billion reais in the IPO, the first time a stand-alone
investment bank in Brazil listed itself on a stock exchange.  “By far the main highlight was the asset management line’s
performance,” analysts at Banco Bradesco SA including  Carlos Firetti  wrote in a note to clients today.  Revenue from investment banking reached 121 million reais
in the fourth quarter, up from 46 million reais a year earlier,
according to the filing. BTG was the top adviser on share
offerings last year in Brazil, with 22 issues totaling $1.32
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank was
No. 7 advising on Brazilian mergers, arranging 59 deals
announced during the year totaling $16.4 billion, the data show.  BTG sees growth opportunities in Latin America, including
Chile, Colombia, Peru and Mexico, Chief Financial Officer
 Marcelo Kalim  said in a separate conference call. The bank plans
to start a brokerage unit in Mexico in the first half of this
year, he said.  “BTG will have a presence in Mexico to complete our
activities of equity sales up there,” Kalim said, adding that
Mexico operations might expand to include investment banking.
BTG still needs authorization from regulators in Mexico and
Brazil, he said.  The company ranked first in investment-banking fees in
Brazil in 2012, according to Dealogic, the London-based
information and consulting service. It earned $168 million with
syndicated loans, bonds and equity underwriting and mergers-and-
acquisitions advising, Dealogic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  