-- Bulgaria Regulator Holds Hearing on CEZ License April 16
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-20T13:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bulgaria-regulator-holds-hearing-on-cez-license-april-16.html
Bulgaria started a license
revocation procedure against  CEZ AS , the largest Czech utility
and gave it two months to fix violations as the government
resigned amid protests over high energy prices.  The State Energy and Water Regulation Commission found 21
violations including evasion of public procurement laws,
spokeswoman Ralitsa Stoyanova said by phone today in Sofia. CEZ
has seven days to comment on the regulator’s grounds for
starting the procedure and set a deadline to repair the
breaches, Stoyanova said. The regulator will inspect whether CEZ
has fixed the transgressions before its hearing on April 16.  CEZ denies any wrongdoing and said the government’s steps
were politically motivated. Czech Prime Minister  Petr Necas  said
in an e-mailed statement he will demand the Bulgarian government
explain the “unprecedented step.”  Bulgarian Prime Minister  Boyko Borissov , who submitted his
resignation to Parliament today amid violent protests, wanted to
cancel CEZ’s license to quell protesters’ demands for lower
utility bills. The protests since Feb. 9 initially targeted
energy utilities and escalated into anti-government marches on
Feb. 17.  The company’s local units supply electricity to the capital
Sofia and the northern city of Pleven, which together account
for 41 percent of Bulgaria’s power consumption. CEZ has invested
1.7 billion lev ($1.2 billion) in the Balkan country in the past
eight years to acquire, expand and improve the power-
distribution grid.  CEZ Investment  CEZ said the regulator has failed to prove any
“substantial mistake, and lacks reasons for the revocation.  ‘‘We have received about 20 comments from the Bulgarian
regulator, which however do not confirm any substantial mistake
by CEZ, and hence cannot be a reason for license revocation,’’
says Tomas Pleskac, head of the company’s power-distribution
unit, in a statement today before a Prague press conference on
the issue.  The revocation is the second in as many months. The
Albanian energy regulator revoked CEZ’s license last month
following disputes over tariffs and taxes.  Bulgaria’s State Financial Inspection Agency started a
probe into CEZ’s Bulgarian units last year and submitted a
report on Feb. 8, saying that CEZ ‘‘evaded requirements of the
Law for Public Tenders,” the Energy and Economy Ministry in
Sofia said on Feb. 18.  The ministry asked the authority to conduct a similar
investigation into the local units of Austria’s  EVN AG  and
Prague-based Energo-Pro, it said.  Bulgaria sold seven power distributors in 2005 to EON SE,
CEZ and EVN before joining the European Union. EON sold its
Bulgarian companies to Energo-Pro in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  