-- Bulgaria Heads to Early Poll as Premier Borissov Departs
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-21T15:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/bulgaria-s-premier-borissov-says-plans-to-resign-today.html
Bulgarian lawmakers approved the
resignation of Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, moving the nation
toward early elections after protests sparked street violence in
the European Union’s poorest member.  The motion passed by a vote of 209 to five, with one
abstention, four months before elections. The Cabinet and
Parliament will be dissolved and President Rosen Plevneliev will
call a new vote if the current parties in the assembly refuse to
form a new government. Talks with political leaders will start
tomorrow and Plevneliev said he will give Borissov’s Gerb party
the first chance to form a government on Feb. 25.  “The government is going, the problems are staying,”
Plevneliev told reporters in Sofia today. “If political forces
return the mandate to form a government, elections must be
scheduled at the earliest date possible.”  Borissov, an ex-bodyguard of Bulgarian leaders including
the former communist dictator Todor Zhivkov, fell victim to
anti-austerity movements that have shaken governments across
Europe from Spain to Greece. His focus since taking office in
2009 on budget cuts, which kept Bulgaria out of bailouts and
turbulent international bond markets, boosted unemployment to
the highest in eight years, cut incomes and angered voters.  Move Quickly  “Bulgaria must move quickly to form a caretaker government
and schedule early elections, which will probably be at the end
of April or beginning of May,” Daniel Smilov, a political
scientist at the Center for Liberal Strategies in Sofia, said by
phone today. “The financial situation is stable for the time
being. My concern is whether there’ll be a clear majority in the
next parliament.”  The benchmark  Sofix (SOFIX)  stock index gained 0.3 percent to
383.77 at 2:50 p.m. in Sofia, rebounding after it plunged 2.7
percent yesterday, its biggest drop since Oct. 30. The yield on
Eurobonds maturing in July 2017 fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 2.1717 percent by 2:54 p.m. in Sofia. The
yield rose 10 basis points yesterday to a 2013 high.  Borissov’s resignation is “mildly negative for bonds,
given that there is low tolerance for the prevailing fiscal
rectitude,” Barbara Nestor, an emerging-markets strategist at
Commerzbank AG in London, said by e-mail yesterday. “Panic
selling would not be rational as Bulgaria’s debt profile and
fiscal fundamentals are quite strong compared to peers.”  Higher electricity and heating bills caused by cold weather
combined with low wages and rising  joblessness  triggered
nationwide demonstrations against energy utilities on Feb. 9,
escalating into anti-government protests on Feb. 17.  Protests Continue  Dozens were injured and 25 people were detained as
protesters threw stones, paint and firecrackers against the
police, smashed windows and damaged cars on Feb. 19, Chief
Commissioner Valeri Yordanov said. Demonstrators a day earlier
pelted the Parliament building with stones. Marches against the
energy utilities continued yesterday throughout the country.  About 1,000 supporters of Borissov rallied outside
Parliament today, as lawmakers exchanged accusations of
instigating violence in the protests, more of which are planned
for today.  “Everyone who violates public order is no supporter of
mine, but a common hooligan,” Borissov told the rally after
Parliament accepted his resignation. “Please go home now and
express your support for us in the coming elections.”  Austerity Measures  Bulgaria’s austerity measures contributed to higher
unemployment and the bankruptcies of small businesses, according
to Parvan Simeonov, a political scientist at Gallup BBSS in
Sofia.  Gross domestic product  expanded 0.5 percent from a year
earlier in the three months through December, the consecutive
10th quarter of growth. Unemployment rose to 11.9 percent in
January, the highest since April 2005.  Government debt was 18.7 percent at the end of the third
quarter, the EU’s second lowest behind Estonia, compared with
the 27-nation bloc’s average of 85.1 percent, according to
Eurostat. The government wants to keep this year’s budget
deficit at 1.3 percent of GDP, the same level as last year.  Borissov fired Finance Minister Simeon Djankov, who had won
EU and International Monetary Fund plaudits for tight spending
controls, and pledged to revoke the license of power distributor
 CEZ AS (CEZ)  following violent street protests.  Limited Mandate  Plevneliev urged politicians to try and form a government
within the current Parliament, because an interim government’s
powers are limited as it works without a Parliament “and
everything that requires legislative initiative will be
postponed,” he said.  “Dissolving the Parliament means to delay the solution of
a great deal of the problems that took the Bulgarian people to
the streets,” Plevneliev said. “I’ll talk openly with party
leaders tomorrow about what needs to be done urgently in the
country and in Parliament before it’s dissolved, if it comes to
that. We’ll discuss whether confidence in this Parliament is
depleted.”  The cost of insuring the country’s debt with credit-default
swaps increased two basis points to 122 today, the highest
intraday level since Nov. 6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The swaps, which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness
worsen, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should an issuer fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Gerb Support  Borissov’s Gerb party, which has 117 lawmakers in the 240-
seat assembly, won’t participate in an interim Cabinet, he said.
The opposition Socialists control 40 seats and the ethnic Turks’
Movement for Rights and Freedoms, a former coalition partner of
the Socialists, has 35 seats. Borissov has previously relied on
the support of some of the 24 independent lawmakers.  Borissov was a communist-era special forces soldier and ran
a security company after the collapse of communism in 1990. He
guarded Zhivkov after his 1989 ouster as well as the former king
and ex-Prime Minister Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha before being
appointed as police chief by Simeon II’s coalition in 2001. He
was the mayor of Sofia from 2005 to 2009.  Gerb is tied with the Socialists at 22 percent each,
according to a Jan. 31-Feb. 7 survey of 1,004 people by the
polling company Gallup BBSS.  The ruling party had 24.5 percent support last month,
compared with 19.5 percent for the largest opposition group, a
Jan. 16-20 poll of 1,000 people by the National Center for
Public Opinion Research showed. Both surveys had an error margin
of 2.5 percentage points.  CEZ License  Borissov on Feb. 19 said he wants to revoke the power
distribution license of CEZ, the biggest Czech utility, after a
financial inspection found “evasion” of public procurement
laws. Bulgaria’s energy regulator started a license revocation
procedure and gave CEZ seven days to set a deadline to iron out
irregularities before the regulator’s next hearing on April 16.  The Czech government, the majority shareholder in CEZ,
pledged to take every legal step to secure its fair treatment.
CEZ dropped 2.9 percent to 588 koruna at 1:56 p.m., its lowest
in almost four months.  Borissov’s government improved the use of EU aid, part of
which was withheld under the previous government on allegations
of corruption, and sped up construction of highways and
modernization of railroads, Smilov said. The Cabinet delayed
efforts to modernize the inefficient pension and health-care
systems and cumbersome state energy utilities, which account for
high utility bills, he said.  “Whoever comes to power won’t be able to resolve these
problems with a magic wand,” Deputy Prime Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov said. “There are problems that were compounded by
years of inaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  