-- Cable-Cutters Will Rejoice at Aereo TV: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-02-20T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/cable-cutters-will-rejoice-at-aereo-tv-rich-jaroslovsky.html
It’s little wonder so many
television networks are suing  Aereo .  The upstart online service, which provides easy, low-cost
access to broadcast TV over the Internet, is more than just
nirvana for would-be cable-cutters. It may also be a huge step
toward a future when programming options come a la carte,
divorced from the expensive packages assembled by cable and
satellite carriers.  If, that is, it’s allowed to stay in business.  Aereo is currently available only in New York City, but the
company has announced plans to expand the service to  22 more
cities  this year, starting in the spring. San Francisco, where
I’m based, isn’t one of them, but the company set me up with a
temporary account allowing me to use the service as if I were in
New York.  I found it both powerful and easy to use, turning my tablet
and smartphone into go-anywhere TVs, complete with DVR features
to record shows for later viewing -- and, of course, skip over
the commercials.  The key to the service -- whose backers include
 IAC/Interactive Corp.  Chairman  Barry Diller  -- is a tiny, coin-
size antenna, deployed by the thousands at Aereo facilities.
When you sign in, you’re assigned two of them, which pull in
local over-the-air broadcast signals, just like the full-sized
aerials that still dot many rooftops.  Streaming Signal  Aereo takes the signal received by “your” antennas and
streams it over the Internet to you. The two antennas allow you
to record one program for later viewing while you’re watching
another live.  There’s no app or special software to download. You log
into Aereo through a standard Web browser and can authorize up
to five devices for viewing.  I tried it using  Apple ’s Safari browser on an iPhone and an
iPad;  Google ’s Chrome on the iPad,  Samsung ’s Galaxy S III phone
and a Windows PC; and Internet Explorer 10 on a  Microsoft 
Surface Pro PC-tablet.  All were successful except for the Galaxy; the company says
it’s still working on support for Android devices. (On the
Surface, I couldn’t use the Windows 8 “tile” version of IE,
but the desktop version let me in.)  The service can also be used on a television that’s
equipped with  Roku ’s streaming-media player or by using an Apple
TV box’s AirPlay feature.  To view your Aereo programs, you can choose low, medium or
high-quality streams, depending on the speed of your Internet
connection, or have Aereo automatically configure itself to your
signal.  Remarkably Good  The quality on both live and DVR’d content was remarkably
good over both Wi-Fi and 4G LTE, with little of the buffering
and stuttering that can sometimes make video over a wireless
connection a painful experience.  Video quality over 3G is lower; as with LTE, you also run
the risk of rapidly chewing through any data limits imposed by
your carrier.  As the service rolls out, customers will only be allowed to
subscribe to the channels available in their markets; you won’t
be able to watch Providence stations in Tampa, for instance. But
the biggest weakness of the service is the programming that’s
available -- or more precisely, the programming that isn’t.  Once I logged in to the service, I had access -- via the
over-the-air New York City stations -- to all four major
broadcast networks: NBC, CBS, ABC, and Fox. I could also get the
Public Broadcasting Service and its PBS Kids offshoot, the CW
network, retailer  HSN  and Spanish-language broadcasters
Telemundo and Univision -- 31 channels in all.  But almost all the big cable networks were missing. No
ESPN, no CNN, no Fox News, no HBO or Showtime. Many of their
corporate parents, including  Walt Disney Co. ,  Comcast Corp. ,
 News Corp.  and  CBS Corp. , are among those driving so-far
unsuccessful legal efforts to shut the service down.  Cable Names  The best-known cable network on the service may be
Bloomberg TV, which has signed an agreement with Aereo. (The
channel is owned by Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.)  While the choices are limited, the cost is too: Aereo is a
fraction of the typical cable or satellite bill.  For $8 a month, you get all the channels live, plus 20
hours’ worth of storage space for your recorded content; four
dollars more doubles the storage to 40 hours. There are also
options for an annual subscription -- $80 with 40 hours of
storage -- and a $1 day pass.  At those prices, and given the disruptive potential of the
service, many established players are reacting as if it poses a
major threat. CBS -- whose Chief Executive Officer  Les Moonves 
last year said Aereo was “not something I lose sleep over” --
has since gone to the  extraordinary length  of barring  CNET , the
technology-news website it owns, from reviewing the service.  I can’t speak to the legal issues involved. But in terms of
Aereo’s power, flexibility and quality of service, it’s a
winner.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jason Harper on  cars  and Greg Evans
on  TV .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .
On Twitter: www.twitter.com/richjaro.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 