-- California: A High-Revenue, Low-Services State
-- B y   D a v i d   C r a n e
-- 2013-02-20T23:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/california-a-high-revenue-low-services-state.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  has
received praise for proposing a balanced state budget for the
fiscal year starting July 1. The last time California proposed a
balanced budget was in 2007, when  Arnold Schwarzenegger  was
governor.  A recent  report  by California  Common Sense , a nonprofit
research group, describes how state finances changed over that
period. (Disclosure: I am on the organization’s board.)  State revenue is expected to be $139 billion in 2013-14, a
gain of $11 billion from 2007-08. This isn’t surprising, given
that California raised the top income-tax rate to 13.3 percent
from 10.3 percent, increased the sales-tax rate to 7.5 percent
from 7.25 percent and boosted regulatory and other fee
collections by 36 percent.  In light of the  growth  in revenue, one might expect
spending on public services to be back at the levels of six
years ago, if not higher. Recovery in this spending is important
because in the U.S. federal system, it is the states that do the
blocking and tackling. They “have the principal responsibility
for most domestic governmental functions including education,
safety, health, infrastructure, administration of justice and
implementation of the social safety net,” as  Paul Volcker , the
former Federal Reserve chairman, and  Richard Ravitch , the former
lieutenant governor of  New York , put it in their 2012 report on
state budget crises.  Yet in California, spending on many of those services will
be  lower  than six years ago. Social services, including welfare,
will receive $1.3 billion less. The state will contribute almost
$900 million less to the  University of California  and  California
State University . Even K-12 education will receive no more than
it did six years ago.  Tuition Doubles  To make up the difference, citizens are paying more.
 Tuition  doubled at California State University and more than
doubled at the University of California. State park fees and
court-filing fees cost 56 percent and 36 percent more,
respectively.  Where did the revenue increase go? In short, to health
care, employee compensation, retirement benefits and debt
service. State spending on health care, almost $28 billion, will
be 62 percent  higher  than in 2007-08. (Including federal funds,
the state will spend more than $60 billion on health care.)
Spending on salaries and retirement costs has been boosted by 18
percent to $23 billion a year (or more if university salaries
are included). Debt service is up by 23 percent to $5.8 billion
a year.  Spending on those categories is destined to keep growing
for five reasons:  First,  California  has opted to expand Medicaid eligibility
under the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, a
step that, according to the  RAND Corp. , will increase state
spending by as much as $4 billion a year starting in 2016, on
top of normal growth in health-care costs.  Second, even after the recovery of investment markets,
unfunded pension liabilities officially grew by $80 billion over
the six years because pension liabilities increased faster than
pension assets. (As measured by financial economists, pension
liabilities rose even more.) Public-pension funds must not only
make up for lost ground but also  grow  at a high rate or fall
even further behind. As a result, pension costs for governments
will keep rising.  Third, the California State Teachers’ Retirement System is
seeking a source for an extra $4.5 billion a year in pension
contributions (and more if it doesn’t achieve its unlikely
 earnings target ). To meet that need, the state faces a dilemma.
If school districts put up the money, $4.5 billion is more than
those districts will receive in total each year from the tax
increase passed by California voters in November, which means
that new  tax revenue  won’t make it to the classroom. If the
state puts up the money, $4.5 billion is more than the state’s
share of that tax increase, which means more crowding-out of
state services.  Unfunded Promises  Fourth, because the state doesn’t pre-fund health care for
retired government employees, it has officially built up an
additional $80 billion in unfunded promises. As more of the
aging workforce retires, pay-as-you-go health costs for retired
employees, which rose more than 60 percent over the six-year
period, will keep growing rapidly.  Fifth, the state has issued $28 billion of general-
obligation bonds since 2007, a 56 percent increase, and Governor
 Brown  has ambitious plans for California’s transportation and
water systems, subject to voter approval. (Unlike spending on
health care, employee salaries and retirement benefits, voter
approval is required for the issuance of bonded debt.)  California proves what Volcker and Ravitch concluded in
their report, which is that state revenue simply cannot keep up
with the rates at which health-care and employment costs are
growing. Failure to address those problems portends even more
tax and fee increases and the loss of public services.  To his credit, Brown has  called  for a special session on
state health-care spending. He knows those expenditures must be
addressed if other services are to be maintained. It remains to
be seen what he intends to do about compensation and benefits.  California’s 2007-08 balanced budget was followed by five
years of deficits, four tax increases and several fee boosts,
proving yet another point made by Volcker and Ravitch: State and
local governments must go beyond deceptive cash-basis budgeting
to provide open, detailed and honest accounting. Then, to truly
balance their books for the long haul, they must address root
causes of deficits.  ( David Crane , a former financial-services executive and a
Democrat, is a lecturer at  Stanford University  and president of
Govern for California, a nonpartisan government-reform group. He
was an economic adviser to California Governor Arnold
Schwarzenegger from 2004 to 2011. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Crane in  San Francisco  at  davidgcrane@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 