-- Cameron Says Amritsar Massacre ‘Shameful’ on India Trip
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-20T09:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/cameron-stops-short-of-apology-over-amritsar-massacre.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
described the killing by the British army of hundreds of unarmed
civilians in Amritsar in 1919 as “deeply shameful,” stopping
short of an apology for a massacre that galvanized India’s
independence movement.  Cameron went to the Golden Temple in the north Indian city,
the spiritual home to the world’s 20 million Sikhs, ending a
three-day visit to the South Asian nation primarily aimed at
boosting bilateral trade and investment. It’s the first time a
serving U.K. premier has visited the site of the killings,
Jallianwala Bagh.  “This is a deeply shameful event in British history, one
that  Winston Churchill  rightly described as monstrous,” said
Cameron, who also laid a wreath at the site today. “We must
never forget what happened here and in remembering, we must
ensure that the United Kingdom stands up for the rights of
peaceful protest around the world.”  The visit during Cameron’s second trip to India since
becoming prime minister in 2010 was aimed at winning backing
from Britain’s almost 400,000 Sikhs, some of whom live in swing
electoral districts such as Harrow and Hendon in north London,
which his Conservative Party needs to win if it is to retain
power at the 2015 election.  It failed to convince some with personal links to the
killings almost a century ago.  ‘Why Not?’  “If he is feeling shameful, then why not apologize?” said
Sunil Kapoor, 36, president of a freedom fighters’ association
in Amritsar, who said his great-grandfather was among those
killed in 1919 by the British. Kapoor said he was unhappy
Cameron didn’t meet descendants of the victims.  Churchill called the shooting “monstrous” when he was war
secretary in 1920.  “There is an enormous amount to be proud of in what the
British Empire did and was responsible for, but of course there
were good events and there were bad events, and the bad events
we should learn from and the good events we should celebrate,”
Cameron told reporters after his visit.  The prime minister arrived in Mumbai on Feb. 18 with
representatives from more than 100 U.K. companies, the biggest
ever business delegation to India, for three days of talks aimed
at increasing trade. The visit heralded the creation of a
network of government-sponsored trade offices throughout the
South Asian country by 2017.  Visa Rules  As an opening salvo, Cameron said the U.K. would relax visa
rules for business people, cutting the time it takes to clear
the paperwork to one day from about three days currently. He
also pledged help to develop towns on the road that runs from
Mumbai to Bangalore.  He flew to Delhi yesterday for talks with his Indian
counterpart,  Manmohan Singh , who sought British assistance in a
probe into allegations of payments of bribes in a deal to buy
helicopters from  Finmeccanica SpA ’s U.K. unit AgustaWestland.  Cameron also met Bollywood actor  Aamir Khan , who said there
was no need for the prime minister to say sorry over the
massacre.  “I don’t think that they owe us an apology for what
happened a century ago,” Khan told reporters during a visit
with Cameron to a women’s campus at Delhi University, referring
to the Amritsar killings. “I don’t think we can hold the
present generation of Britishers responsible for what happened
ages ago.”  Labour Apologies  The previous Labour administration in the U.K. apologized
for the Irish potato famine, deportations of children to
Australia, the treatment of Maoris in New Zealand and the slave
trade.  “I don’t think the right thing to do is to reach back into
history and to seek out things that you should apologize for,”
Cameron told reporters. “I think the right thing to do is to
have knowledge of what happened, to recall what happened and
show respect and understanding.”  On April 13, 1919, the day of a Sikh festival, British
troops commanded by General Reginald Dyer opened fire on
thousands of unarmed Indians protesting the extension of
emergency powers. The attack in Jallianwala Bagh, an enclosed
public garden, killed 379 Indians according to colonial
government estimates and at least 1,000 according to the Indian
Congress movement. Many more were injured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Amritsar, India, at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  