-- Cameroon President Orders All Measures to Find Kidnappers
-- B y   P i u s   L u k o n g
-- 2013-02-20T16:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/cameroon-president-orders-all-measures-taken-to-find-kidnappers.html
Cameroonian President  Paul Biya 
ordered “all measures” be taken to find the kidnappers of
seven French tourists, as an official said the French military
is helping hunt for the assailants.  The tourists, including four children, were seized
yesterday at the village of Dabanga, about 960 kilometers (597
miles) northeast of the capital, Yaounde, after visiting the
Waza National Park in the Far North Region that borders Nigeria
and Chad. They have been taken to Maiduguri in northern Nigeria,
Far North Region Governor Awah Fonka Augustine said in a phone
interview.  “A contingent of French military has already arrived in
Dabanga by air and is working in collaboration with Cameroonian
forces to track down the four assailants,” Augustine said
yesterday. Nigerian troops are on alert to intercept the gunmen
if they’re seen in the country’s territory, Sagir Musa, a
military spokesman, said today by phone from Maiduguri, Borno
state capital.  The kidnappings came a day after an Islamist group in
Nigeria claimed responsibility for taking seven foreigners
hostage at a construction site in the northern state of Bauchi.
The hostages, including three Lebanese, a Filipino, a U.K.
national, a Greek and an Italian, work for Setraco Nigeria Ltd.,
Hassan Mohammed, a police spokesman, said on Feb. 17 by phone
from Bauchi, the state capital.  Construction Workers  Jamaatu Ansarul Muslimina Fi Biladissudan, or “Vanguards
for the Protection of Muslims in the Land of the Blacks,” the
group that took the construction workers hostage, said in an e-
mailed statement on Feb. 18 that its action was in response to
“the transgressions and atrocities done to the religion of
Allah” by European nations in countries such as Mali and
Afghanistan.  France has about 4,000 troops in Mali, where it intervened
to fight Islamists and rebel forces to restore state control
over a nation that vies with Tanzania as Africa’s third-biggest
gold producer. Fighting between French special forces and
Islamist militants is now in the “final phase” and France will
start withdrawing troops in a few weeks, Defense Minister Jean-
Yves Le Drian said on France2 television. He wouldn’t say if the
attack in Cameroon is linked to French intervention in Mali.  GDF Suez SA , the French utility that’s building a liquid
natural gas project in southern Cameroon, said the kidnapped
tourists include one of its employees and family.  Guarantee Safety  “Nothing would be worse than conceding to the
terrorists,” French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said during
a parliamentary debate in Paris today.  French President  Francois Hollande  said yesterday security
was being stepped up in Africa for his country’s nationals.  “The Cameroon government remains in permanent contact with
the Nigerian and French governments,” Cameroon’s External
Relations Ministry said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday.
“All is being put in place to guarantee the security of
foreigners, notably tourists in Cameroon.”  Nigerian troops along the northeastern border with Cameroon
have been made aware of the attack on tourists, said military
spokesman Musa. “We’re not leaving anything to chance in our
quest to flush out the terrorists.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pius Lukong in Yaounde at 
 plukong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  