-- Casino Seeks Brazil Chairman Ouster as Feud Escalates
-- B y   J e s s i c a   B r i c e   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2013-02-20T18:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/casino-asks-pao-de-acucar-chairman-diniz-to-step-down.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA asked
 Abilio Diniz  to step down as chairman of its Brazilian unit,
Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar SA, after
the billionaire expressed interest in joining the board of one
of the retailers’s top suppliers.  In a letter presented at a meeting of  Pao de Acucar 
shareholders today in Sao Paulo, Casino said the posting would
cause an “obvious conflict of interest” and “distrust” among  board members. Diniz, 76, was in talks to become  chairman
 of processed-food maker BRF-Brasil Foods SA, three people
familiar with the matter said this month.  The move escalates a feud between Saint-Etienne, France-
based Casino and Diniz, whose father founded supermarket chain
Pao de Acucar as a bakery in 1948. The two sides have been
fighting publicly since Diniz unsuccessfully tried to undo an
agreement to cede control of Pao de Acucar, Brazil’s largest
retailer, to Casino by proposing instead a merger with Carrefour
SA local assets.  “Diniz’s behavior since Casino took over control in
mid-2012 has created turbulence, ignoring the interests of the
company,” according to the letter signed by Pao de Acucar’s
parent company, Wilkes Participacoes SA, which is controlled by
Casino. “Should he be named to BRF’s board or maintain an
interest or influential position in that company, Diniz should
immediately step down from his position as a board member at Pao
de Acucar.”  Client and Competitor  Pao de Acucar is one of  Brasil Foods’  largest clients, and
the two companies also produce some competing products.  Diniz in an e-mailed statement denied that there would be a
conflict of interest caused by the two appointments.  He said the same concerns can be raised about Casino Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Charles Naouri, who also sits on Pao de
Acucar’s board. Casino is a supplier of the Brazilian company.  “Casino intends to use my possible election to BRF’s board
as a pretext -- a ruse -- to try to remove me from Pao de
Acucar’s board,” Diniz said in the statement. “The
shareholders’ agreement states that I am entitled to the
lifetime post of chairman.”  Stake Sale  Diniz sold 1.5 billion reais ($764 million) of Pao de
Acucar shares on Jan. 11 and bought 1 billion reais of Brasil
Foods, said a person with direct knowledge who asked not to be
named because the numbers aren’t public.  Casino said in an e-mailed statement that Diniz is putting
his personal interests above Pao de Acucar’s. Pao de Acucar’s
press office in Sao Paulo declined to comment, as did Brasil
Foods.  Pao de Acucar rose 0.7 percent in Sao Paulo trading to
96.98 reais as of 2:48 p.m., bringing its gain in the past 12
months to 22 percent. Brasil Foods, based in Sao Paulo, rose 0.3
percent to 42.35 reais, putting the 12-month gain at 18 percent.
That compares with a 14 percent drop for Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  