-- Caterpillar Machine-Sales Drop Accelerates as Asia Slumps
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-02-20T21:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/caterpillar-says-machine-retail-sales-decline-4-.html
Caterpillar Inc. , the biggest maker
of construction and mining equipment, said the drop in its
global retail machine sales accelerated because of bigger
declines in Asia and North America.  Global sales fell 4 percent in the three months through
January from the year-earlier period, the Peoria, Illinois-based
company said today in a filing. That compares with a 1 percent
drop reported in the three months through December, which was
the first decline in more than 2 1/2 years.  “There is excess inventory in the supply chain to be
liquidated,”  Ann Duignan , a New York-based analyst for JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a report today. The bigger drop in North
American machinery sales is “suggesting that production cuts at
the company may extend further into 2013 than previously
expected,” said Duignan, who rates the shares neutral, the
equivalent of hold.  In the three months through January, Asia-Pacific sales
fell 12 percent and North American sales were down 11 percent,
Caterpillar said, citing numbers reported by dealers every
month. Latin America was up 3 percent, and the region that
encompasses Europe, Africa and the Middle East rose 1 percent.  The declining sales come as China, which made up about 3
percent of Caterpillar sales last year, recovers from seven
quarters of slower growth and the U.S. economy struggles to grow
with recent tax increases and possible government spending cuts
to reduce debt.  Caterpillar said on Jan. 28 that gains in its sales and
profit this year will come in the second half as the world
economy improves, forecasting 2013 earnings of $7 to $9 a share
on revenue of $60 billion to $68 billion.  Caterpillar  fell 2.5 percent to $93.22 at the close in New
York.  The shares  have increased 4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  