-- CEZ Endures Polish Wind Power-Price Slump, Rule Change, GDF Halt
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-02-20T14:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/cez-endures-polish-wind-power-price-slump-rule-change-gdf-halt.html
CEZ AS  is sticking with its plans to
build Polish wind farms after the nation proposed to cut support
and the value of certificates awarded for generation collapsed.  “We are maintaining our planned investments, counting on a
fast adoption of a new renewable-energy law,” Witold Pawlowski,
the general director of Warsaw-based unit CEZ Trade Polska, said
in an interview. “Energy investments require long-term
regulation stability and a predictable market model.”  So-called green certs declined to 100.48 zloty ($32.30) a
megawatt-hour Feb. 14, the lowest since trading began in 2006,
Polish power exchange figures on Bloomberg show. They slid 28
percent last month, adding to a 36 percent drop in 2012, as the
award of certificates for renewables generation outpaced demand
from power suppliers, who use them to meet green energy quotas.  “Depressed prices of green certificates and a discrepancy
between their supply and demand are among the main barriers to
developing renewable energy projects in Poland,” Pawlowski said
at the Polish unit of the Czech Republic’s largest utility.  Wind capacity grew 55 percent last year to 2.5 gigawatts
and biomass doubled, according to the energy market regulator.
In contrast, the state-set renewable-power target hasn’t changed
for the past three years, creating a surplus of certificates
equivalent to 3.87 terawatt-hours, the Economy Ministry says.  CEZ plans 760 megawatts of wind farms in Poland, with 167.5
megawatts built by next year, Pawlowski said. That’s after GDF
Suez halted work on 105 megawatts of projects until a “stable
and investment-friendly” law was passed, according to  Grzegorz Gorski , head of Polish operations, cited by the wnp.pl portal.  Reducing Clarity  Government delays in approving changes to its regime for
spurring green power also reduced clarity for the industry.  Economy Minister  Janusz Piechocinski  said on Feb. 11 the
cabinet would by the end of March approve draft proposals to
reduce support for renewables technology including wind power
first announced in 2011. It will then send them to parliament.
So far three drafts for the changes have been presented.  “Maybe support for renewable energy should be set by the
regulator in the form of a feed-in tariff as the current system
doesn’t provide stability,” Pawlowski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  