-- Chang Hwa Bank Dismisses Report on Takeover of Taishin
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-02-20T10:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/chang-hwa-bank-dismisses-takeover-report-as-taiwan-denies-plan.html
(Corrects entity being acquired in first paragraph.)  Chang Hwa Commercial Bank , a state-
backed lender in Taiwan, dismissed a report that it would
acquire Taishin International Bank as the government denied
initiating a plan to consolidate financial institutions.  Chang Hwa Commercial, based in Taichung, Taiwan, said in a
statement that its board didn’t discuss such a deal, reported by
Taipei-based Commercial Times today.  Taishin Financial Holding
Co. , the parent firm of Taishin International Bank, called the
report speculative in a statement. Taishin Financial’s largest
shareholder is TPG Newbridge according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The newspaper report comes more than four years after an
investigation into irregularities surrounding Taishin
Financial’s purchase of a stake in Chang Hwa. Former President
Chen Shui-bian, who left office in 2008, had encouraged mergers
among the island’s financial institutions to boost growth before
being convicted of taking bribes while in office and sentenced
to life in prison.  Taiwan’s finance ministry holds a 12 percent stake in Chang
Hwa. Deputy Finance Minister  Tseng Ming-chung  called a press
conference in Taipei today to deny that the government had
initiated a plan to consolidate Taiwan’s state-invested
financial institutions.  Taishin Financial’s  shares climbed 3.7 percent to the
highest since August 2011 at the close of trading in Taipei.
 Chang Hwa  rose 3.6 percent.  “We’re likely to see more consolidation activity in the
banking sector in the next one to two years,” said  Chuang Piyen , a Taipei-based analyst at Mega Securities Co. He cited
President Ma Ying-jeou’s second term as a chance to encourage
consolidation in what is a politically sensitive sector.  Private equity firms, whose lock-up clauses on their Taiwan
bank stakes are expiring, “might have started finding buyers,”
Chuang said by phone today.  Taiwan had 38 domestic banks as of last February, according
to the Financial Supervisory Commission’s Banking Bureau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  