-- Chavez’s Health Prevented Him From Seeing Ally Morales
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-02-20T22:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/chavez-s-health-prevented-him-from-seeing-ally-morales.html
Venezuelan President President  Hugo Chavez  has endured the “most difficult moments of his life,”
according to Bolivian President  Evo Morales , who didn’t get to
see his close ally during a visit to Caracas.  “I wasn’t able to meet him, I was only able to meet with
the head doctor and family, but my understanding is that they
are very encouraged,” Morales told reporters at the United
Nations headquarters in  New York .  Still, Morales had a bleaker assessment of his mentor’s
health following the Caracas stop yesterday en route to New
York.  “Sometimes diseases, illnesses are difficult to fight,”
he said. “You must understand that he’s gone through the most
difficult moments of his life.”  The return of Chavez to Caracas has done little to quell
speculation about whether he is fit enough to govern after two
months of cancer treatment in Cuba and will formally hand the
reins to Vice President  Nicolas Maduro .  Officials have been struggling to run affairs in  South
America ’s biggest oil exporter, plunging the nation into a
period of legal and political uncertainty.  Chavez “wants to be home when he officially gives up power
in order to bestow legitimacy upon the transition,” Moody’s
analysts Aaron Freedman and Maria Paula Carvajal said in an e-
mailed report.  Maduro had 50 percent support compared with 36 percent for
opposition Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski, according to a
survey by Caracas-based polling company Hinterlaces published
Feb. 18 on the front-page of state-run newspaper Correo del
Orinoco. The poll, whose margin of error is 2.9 percentage
points, was taken Jan. 30 to Feb. 9.  Before flying to Cuba, Chavez urged Venezuelans to vote for
Maduro, a 50-year-old former bus driver and union leader, should
he die or step down because of ill health. Maduro has been
running affairs in Chavez’s absence.  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  