-- Chesapeake Energy Clears CEO in Review of Gas-Well Loans
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-02-20T19:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/chesapeake-absolves-chief-in-internal-probe-of-gas-well-loans.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp . exonerated
co-founder and outgoing Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon 
for privately borrowing hundreds of millions of dollars from
some of the company’s biggest financiers.  The review found no intentional misconduct on the part of
McClendon, the Oklahoma City-based oil and natural gas explorer
said in a statement today. The findings, announced three weeks
after McClendon agreed to resign from the company he led for
almost a quarter century, was the culmination of a 10-month
probe by the board into the CEO’s use of minority stakes in
Chesapeake-owned wells as collateral for private loans.  The conclusion of the board’s inquiry clears a distraction
for management and investors that weighed on Chesapeake’s stock
price for most of the past year, said  Scott Hanold , an analyst
at RBC Capital Markets LLC in Minneapolis. Chesapeake may signal
newfound financial discipline by unveiling a scaled-back 2013
capital budget when fourth-quarter results are announced
tomorrow, he said.  “The board has been taking a more assertive approach to
fixing the company’s free cash flow deficit, so the market is
waiting to see if it will continue down that path,” Hanold said
in a telephone interview today.  The  investigation  by the board’s audit committee and the
Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell LLP law firm involved more than 50
interviews with executives from Chesapeake and other companies,
according to the statement. The transactions reviewed included
McClendon’s borrowings from EIG Global Energy Partners LLC, a
private-equity firm that bought preferred shares in two
Chesapeake subsidiaries in 2011 and 2012.  Financial Overlap  “The review of the financing arrangements did not reveal
any improper benefit to Mr. McClendon or increased cost to the
company as a result of the overlap in the financial
relationships,” the company said.  Separate probes are in progress at the Internal Revenue
Service and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The internal investigation also found no evidence of
antitrust violations during Chesapeake’s 2010 acquisitions of
drilling rights in a Michigan shale formation, the company said.
Chesapeake said it has been cooperating with federal and state
investigations of those transactions.  ‘Peace Pipe’  The U.S. Justice Department and Michigan’s attorney general
began inquiries last year into e-mailed communications between
Chesapeake and  Encana Corp . in the run-up to a 2010 auction of
state-owned leases. The e-mails included discussions of divvying
up Michigan counties for bidding by each company.  McClendon said in one e-mail that the company needed to
“smoke a peace pipe” with Calgary-based Encana to prevent the
rivals from “bidding each other up,” Reuters said in a June
report. Encana said in September that its separate internal
inquiry concluded the company hadn’t colluded with Chesapeake to
fix lease prices.  Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette is continuing to
investigate, Joy Yearout, his spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
message.  “The importance of independent -- rather than internal --
investigations cannot be emphasized enough in a case involving
antitrust bid-rigging allegations,” she said. “Our thorough,
independent investigation into these serious allegations will
continue.”  Chesapeake has been  selling  oilfields, cutting jobs,
reducing drilling and postponing debt reduction to plug a cash-
flow shortfall triggered by a plunge in the price of natural
gas, which accounts for 80 percent of the company’s output.
Chesapeake lost as much as  43 percent  of its market value last
year as the gas slump was compounded by collapsing investor
confidence in McClendon’s leadership.  April Retirement  McClendon, 53, agreed on Jan. 29 to resign effective April
1, citing “philosophical differences” with the board that he
didn’t detail. His grip on power at what was once the pre-
eminent U.S. gas producer began to slip last year when the board
inquiry commenced in April and he was deposed as chairman in
June.  The board telegraphed its verdict in the Jan. 29 statement
on McClendon’s imminent departure, noting that as of that date,
the audit had found no evidence of improper conduct.  Chesapeake rose 0.3 percent to $20.43 at 12:20 p.m. in New
York. The company’s 6.775 percent notes maturing in March 2019
rose 0.5 cent to 101.75 cents on the dollar, for a yield of
6.421 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The company is expected to report tomorrow that fourth-
quarter profit tumbled because of hedging contracts that linked
about three-fourths of its gas output to below-market prices.  Energy Pioneer  McClendon led Chesapeake from its 1989 inception, amassing
U.S. gas and oil fields that cover an area equivalent in size to
half of New York state. As one of the first explorers to embrace
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, McClendon helped
usher in a revival of U.S. gas and oil production with
discoveries such as the Haynesville Shale in Louisiana and Utica
Shale in Ohio.  Chesapeake sold about $11 billion in fields, pipelines and
gas-processing plants last year, short of McClendon’s full-year
goal of $13 billion to $14 billion. The company is targeting
billions more in asset sales this year to close a funding gap
that Senior Vice President of Investor Relations  Jeffrey Mobley 
estimated at $3.5 billion during a presentation at a Credit
Suisse Group AG conference in Feb. 5.  Brian Gibbons , a debt analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New
York, estimated Chesapeake needs to raise $8 billion to $9
billion through asset sales this year to close the funding gap
and adhere to the company’s plan to reduce net debt to $9.5
billion.  Debt-Reduction  Abandoning that debt-reduction target would lower the
amount needed from asset sales to $6 billion, though it would
alarm debt holders and trigger a decline in the company’s notes,
Gibbons said.  Under an executive perk designed to align McClendon’s
personal interests with those of the company, McClendon acquired
stakes as large as 2.5 percent in almost every well Chesapeake
drilled during the past 24 years. McClendon took out loans
backed by his well stakes to fund his portion of costs. As of
Dec. 31, 2011, he owed $846 million on those loans, the company
reported on April 26.  Some of the loans came from companies that were involved in
separate financial transactions with the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  