-- China’s Foreign Direct Investment Declines for Eighth Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-20T04:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/china-s-foreign-direct-investment-declines-for-eighth-month-1-.html
China’s foreign direct investment
fell for an eighth month in January, a sign that the recovery in
the world’s second-largest economy has yet to revive confidence
among overseas companies.  Inbound  investment  dropped 7.3 percent from a year earlier
to $9.27 billion, the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement
today in Beijing. Non-financial outbound investment rose 12.3
percent to $4.91 billion, the ministry data showed. China’s
economic data in the first two months are distorted by the
timing of the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday, which fell in
January last year and February this year.  Rising employee and land costs have diminished China’s
attractiveness as a destination for foreign investors, with
labor-intensive manufacturers leaving for other Asian countries,
HSBC Holdings Plc said in a report last month. Inbound
investment dropped 3.7 percent last year as economic  expansion 
was the weakest since 1999.  “Foreign enterprises are saying, ‘OK, China’s not growing
as fast as in the past, maybe we should pull back a little
bit,’”  Dariusz Kowalczyk , senior economist and strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “The big picture is that Chinese growth potential is
being lowered by less appetite by foreign businesses to move
their operations into China.”  At the same time, inflows are likely to rebound by 4.5
percent this year as businesses realize growth is improving and
the nation won’t have a “hard landing,” Kowalczyk said.  ‘Quite Worrying’  The drop, the 14th in 15 months, extends the longest streak
since the global financial crisis in 2008-09 and is the largest
since July. “The January data is quite worrying because we’ve
had a string of declines,” Kowalczyk said.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.1 percent as of the
11:30 a.m. local-time break, poised for its first three-day drop
since November.  FDI will be stable this year while the broader situation
stays relatively grim,  Shen Danyang , a Commerce Ministry
spokesman, said at a press briefing today.  Japanese investment in China fell 20 percent in January to
$640 million, while U.S. spending dropped 20 percent to $270
million, the ministry said. Property-related FDI was down 14
percent.  China’s economy expanded 7.9 percent in the final three
months of 2012 from a year earlier, halting a seven-quarter
slowdown. The full-year expansion of 7.8 percent last year was
the slowest since 7.6 percent 13 years ago.  Growth Forecast  Growth may recover to 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
according the median estimate of 30 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News last month.  “A wide range of indicators showed that growth in the
Chinese economy had stabilized, underpinned by public spending
and somewhat stimulatory financial policies,” the Reserve Bank
of Australia said in minutes of its Feb. 5 meeting released
yesterday.  Metro AG, Germany’s biggest retailer, said Jan. 16 that its
Media-Saturn consumer electronics unit, which has seven stores
in China’s Shanghai area, will exit the country. That will
eliminate about 40 million euros ($53 million) of losses for
2013, according to John Kershaw, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  -- Zheng Lifei , with assistance from  Kevin Hamlin  and  Nicholas Wadhams  in Beijing and  Rishaad Salamat  in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Scott Lanman ,  Sunil Jagtiani   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  