-- China Swaps Rise for First Time in Two Weeks After Funds Drained
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-02-20T04:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/china-swaps-rise-for-first-time-in-two-weeks-after-funds-drained.html
China’s one-year interest-rate swaps
rose for the first time in almost two weeks on speculation the
central bank’s draining of funds from the financial system
yesterday signaled it won’t loosen monetary policy.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 30 billion yuan ($4.8
billion) of 28-day repurchase agreements yesterday and didn’t
offer any reverse contracts that add cash to the market, the
first withdrawal in eight months. The central bank gauged demand
today for a sale of 28- and 91-day repos tomorrow, according to
a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “The PBOC did the repo operation to drain liquidity
yesterday, which sent a signal that it does not want to ease
further,” said  Chen Qi , a Shanghai-based strategist at UBS
Securities Co. “Still, overall liquidity conditions are not
bad.”  The one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.14 percent as of 11:45 a.m. in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In a report on Feb. 6, the PBOC signaled inflation and the
housing market remain concerns and said it will maintain a
prudent monetary policy. The central bank last sold repurchase
agreements on June 21.  Bond Auction  China’s finance ministry sold 26 billion yuan of 10-year
bonds at a yield of 3.565 percent today, according to a trader
at a finance company that participates in government debt
auctions. The rate was the same as the median estimate of six
finance companies surveyed by Bloomberg. The sale attracted bids
for 2.86 times the amount on offer, the strongest bid-to-cover
ratio since 2005, according to data from China International
Capital Corp.  “Demand is strong because the financial system is flooded
with cash as capital inflows rise,” said  Chen Jianheng , a bond
analyst at China International Capital in Beijing.  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, gained four basis points to 2.95 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The yield on the 3.15 percent
government bonds due January 2018 fell two basis points to 3.26
percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  