-- China to Impose Limits on Six Industries to Tackle Air Pollution
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-20T05:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/china-to-impose-limits-on-six-industries-to-tackle-air-pollution.html
China will impose emission limits on
six polluting industries including coal-fired power plants and
steel and petrochemical factories as soon as March 1 to improve
air quality in major cities.  China “must strictly impose” the limits to improve air
quality, according to a statement posted on the Ministry of
Environmental Protection  website  today that cited a meeting
headed by Minister  Zhou Shengxian . Existing plants and new
thermal power, steel, oil, cement, metal and chemical projects
in 47 cities will have to adhere to the new emission standards,
according to the statement.  China, which the World Bank estimates has 16 of the world’s
20 most-polluted cities, is the largest emitter of greenhouse
gases. The burning of coal is the main source of pollution,
accounting for 19 percent, while vehicle emissions contribute 6
percent, according to a study by Greenpeace and Peking
University’s School of Public Health published Dec. 18.  Pollution in Beijing rose to a record on Jan. 12 sparking
criticism of the government’s handling of the environment.  Li Keqiang , set to become China’s next premier, called for patience
as authorities work to reduce emissions.  Beijing has proposed rules that would scrap old vehicles,
ban new cement and steel factories and impose fines on roadside
vendors barbecuing food on smoggy days.  Steelmaker  Shougang Corp. , identified by the government as
Beijing’s largest industrial polluter, closed its main facility
in Beijing for the Olympic Games in 2008 and built a 67.7
billion yuan ($10.8 billion) plant in the bordering Hebei
province.  Coke production is a major source of pollution from steel
production, releasing coke oven gas, naphthalene and ammonium
compounds into the air, according to the University of Illinois
 website .  Shanghai, the world’s busiest container port and home to
the larger of China’s two stock exchanges, twice issued a haze
warning this year after pollution levels climbed. The air
quality index rose to “heavily polluted” in four of the 10
days through Feb. 1, according to the Shanghai Environmental
Monitoring Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  