-- China Drugmakers Rise to 19-Month High on Report: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-20T08:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/china-drugmakers-rise-to-18-month-high-on-reform-shanghai-mover.html
China’s health-care stocks rose to
the highest level since July 2011 after the official People’s
Daily reported that the government plans to reduce the number of
drug wholesalers.  A measure of drugmakers rallied 4.7 percent at the close,
the most among 10 industry groups in the CSI 300 Index, which
added 0.6 percent.  China Resources Double-Crane Pharmaceutical
Co.  jumped by the 10 percent daily limit in Shenzhen. China
Resources Sanjiu Medical & Pharmaceutical Co. rose 9.7 percent.  China aims to cut the number of drug wholesalers by 10,000
from the current 13,000, by raising entry barriers under newly
revised guidelines, the People’s Daily cited Li Guoqing, an
official of the State Food and Drug Administration, as saying.  “The move signals streamlining of the health-care industry
and we’ll see more action from the government to reform the
industry,” said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund manager at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.  The CSI 300 gauge of health-care stocks has advanced 21
percent this year, the biggest gain among the 10 sub-indexes.
Health-care spending in China will almost triple to $1 trillion
annually by 2020, driven by an aging population and government
efforts to broaden insurance coverage, a McKinsey & Co. report
said in August.  With disposable incomes rising, “people are getting more
rich and more health-conscious,” said Jason Siu, analyst at OSK
Investment Bank Bhd. “The health-care A-share market will
continue to perform well.”  Reducing the number of wholesalers may boost industry
profits. The new guidelines will take effect June 1, the
administration said in a statement on its website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  