-- CIB Jumps Most in Two Weeks as State Debt Holdings Spur Profit
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-02-20T11:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/cib-jumps-most-in-two-weeks-as-state-debt-holdings-spur-profit.html
Commercial International Bank Egypt
SAE  rose the most in two weeks after high-yielding government
debt boosted 2012 profit of the country’s biggest publicly
traded lender.  Shares  of the bank, known as CIB, increased 1.9 percent,
the largest intraday advance since Feb. 4, to 34.71 Egyptian
pounds as of 1 p.m. in Cairo, on volume of 73 percent the three-
month daily average. The stock was the biggest gainer on the
benchmark  EGX 30 Index , which fell less than 0.1 percent.  The Cairo-based lender raised its exposure to government
debt by about 41 percent to 37 billion Egyptian pounds ($5.5
billion) in 2012, according to its financial statement. That
helped drive the 38 percent increase in annual profit to 2.23
billion pounds even as loan growth slowed to a 10-year low.
Egypt has relied on local banks to buy its debt, which offers
the Middle East’s highest yields, since an uprising two years
led foreign investors to exit their holdings.  The bank achieved “a significant re-balancing of the
balance sheet toward higher-yielding local currency products,”
Chairman  Hisham Ezz Al-Arab  said in the statement.  The lender was among five Egyptian banks whose credit
ratings were lowered by Moody’s Investors Service last week due
to this exposure. CIB’s rating was cut one level to B3, six
levels below investment grade and on par with the sovereign.  Loans and advances rose 2.6 percent in 2012, the slowest
pace of growth since 2002, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The loan book expanded 29 percent in 2010, the year
prior to the revolt that ousted the government of President
Hosni Mubarak, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CIB will hold a shareholder meeting on March 14 to seek
approval to raise as much as 5 billion pounds of debt, it said
in a filing to the Egypt Excchange today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  