-- Clegg Says U.K. ‘Mansion Tax’ Could Be Paid After Death
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-02-20T10:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/clegg-says-u-k-mansion-tax-could-be-paid-after-death.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said he’d consider opt-outs from a proposed tax on houses
valued at more than 2 million pounds ($3.1 million) for long-
term residents, suggesting the levy could be paid after death.  Clegg’s Liberal Democrats, the junior partners in Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition, have advocated such a
“mansion tax” as a key policy, arguing it would help
discourage investment in property and raise money from the
wealthy. He’s seeking to convince Cameron’s Conservatives, who
oppose more property taxes, to back the measure.  The deputy premier was challenged on his weekly LBC radio
phone-in show by a north London resident who said his property
had rocketed in value over the past 20 years to 5 million pounds
and he would have to sell his home to pay any future tax.
Replying, Clegg said he would look at opt-outs from the plan to
charge a 1 percent annual tax on the value of the home above 2
million pounds.  “Of course you could make an exception for those people
who have lived in those properties for long periods of time,
have retired, and obviously aren’t in a position to pay that
kind of levy every year,” Clegg said. “You could pay when it’s
part of your estate, for instance.”  Clegg said this month he had been unable to convince his
Conservative coalition partners to adopt his proposal. Critics
argue it would displace families and that stamp duty, the tax on
house purchases, already acts as a revenue-gatherer on high-end
properties.  ‘Pure Profit’  “Obviously I am not urging you on radio to sell your home,
but if you do decide to sell your home you would be millions of
pounds better off, because you have a small mortgage from 20
years ago and that in a sense is pure profit,” Clegg told the
caller.  “Of course we can make sure that people who are income-
poor but asset-rich are not clobbered by a mansion tax,” the
deputy prime minister said.  Last week, the main opposition Labour Party said that if
elected it would adopt the Liberal Democrat policy on the
mansion tax and use it to pay for the restoration of a 10
percent income-tax band for low earners that the previous Labour
government abolished.  The Liberal Democrats are a possible coalition partner for
Labour after the next election in 2015.  Clegg called the move “blatant plagiarism” today.  Labour has said it wants to force a vote on the mansion tax
in Parliament and may seek to amend the finance bill setting out
the measures Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will
announce in his March 20 budget to do so.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  