-- Copper Falls to Four-Week Low as China Orders Limits on Housing
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-02-20T15:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/copper-declines-on-concern-demand-is-slow-as-inventories-expand.html
Copper fell to a four-week low in
New York as China, the world’s biggest consumer, moved to cool
property purchases and as inventories expanded.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao called for local authorities to
“decisively” curb real-estate speculation. Cities that have
witnessed “excessively fast” price gains should promptly
impose home-purchase restrictions, the central government said
in a statement.  Stockpiles  monitored by the London Metal
Exchange reached the highest since November 2011.  “China is going to take steps to cool their housing
market, and there’s nothing promoting growth at this point,”
 Harry Denny , a broker at Hoboken, New Jersey-based PVM Futures
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The market is going to
continue to be under pressure unless we start to see depletion
of the warehouse stocks.”  Copper futures for May delivery declined 1 percent to
$3.631 a pound at 10:37 a.m. on the Comex in New York. The metal
earlier touched $3.6275, the lowest since Jan. 17.  The construction industry accounts for about 9.4 percent of
China’s demand for the metal, according to data from Bloomberg
Industries.  LME-monitored inventories climbed for a fifth session to
412,950 metric tons on deliveries in Johor, Malaysia, daily
exchange figures showed.  Orders  to withdraw the metal are at the
lowest since July.  Signs of a continued housing recovery in the U.S., the
second-biggest copper user, helped limit price declines.
Builders broke ground in January on the most single-family homes
in more than four years, and permits for future construction
rose, a government report showed.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months slumped 0.9
percent to $7,976.75 a metric ton ($3.62 a pound).  Nickel, aluminum, tin and zinc also fell in London, while
lead was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  