-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Rise as Fed Minutes Show Policy Debate
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-20T20:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/corporate-credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-hold-before-housing-data.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk climbed after minutes from the Federal Open Market
Committee’s meeting showed policy makers said the central bank
should be ready to vary the pace of asset purchases.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
2.2 basis points to a mid-price of 87.6 basis points at 3:33
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The minutes released by the Federal Reserve for the Jan.
29-30 meetings showed policy makers were divided about the
strategy behind Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s program of buying
bonds until there is “substantial” improvement in the labor
market, with some saying an earlier end to purchases might be
needed, and others warning against a premature withdrawal of
stimulus.  “The quantitative easing may not be as aggressive as some
have hoped and the market has been pricing in $85 billion a
month of Fed purchases,”  Peter Tchir , founder of New York-based
TF Market Advisors, said in an e-mailed note. This is “not a
good sign” for credit investors, as it signals purchasing could
be cut sooner, Tchir said.  Timing Key  The officials “emphasized that the committee should be
prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases, either in response
to changes in the economic outlook or as its evaluation of the
efficacy and costs of such purchases evolved,” according to the
minutes.  “Timing the pace of quantitative easing will be key to
balance out economic growth and avoiding asset bubbles,”  Dorian Garay , a New York-based money manager for an investment-grade
debt fund at ING Investment Management, said in an e-mail. “If
they unwind too fast, the economic recovery can stall.”  The FOMC at its January meeting decided to continue buying
$45 billion a month of Treasuries and $40 billion in mortgage-
debt without setting a limit on the duration or total size of
the purchases. Policy makers also decided to keep interest rates
unchanged unless unemployment remained above 6.5 percent and
inflation was projected to be no more than 2.5 percent.  The risk premium on the  Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index  increased 10 basis points to 440.4 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Liquidity Stress  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Speculative-grade borrowers are taking advantage of
accessible credit markets and low interest rates improving
liquidity in the market, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
Feb. 19 report.  The ratings company’s Liquidity-Stress Index, which
typically falls when corporations’ ability to manage cash needs
improves, dropped to a record low of 3 percent in January,
analysts led by  John Puchalla  wrote in the report.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade or junk-
rated debt widened 0.7 basis point to 499 basis points,
according to Bloomberg data.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  