-- Desperate Art Galleries Give Up as Chelsea Rents Double
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-02-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/desperate-art-galleries-give-up-as-chelsea-rents-double.html
Fifteen years after Magdalena Sawon
moved her  Postmasters Gallery  to Manhattan’s Chelsea district
from SoHo, the art dealer is heading back downtown because her
rent is about to double.  “This is my last season here. I am unwilling to pay
$30,000 a month,” said Sawon, whose 3,800-square-foot gallery
occupies a ground-floor space on West 19th Street.  The midsize art galleries that helped transform western
Chelsea from a dead area adjoining the West Side Highway into
New York’s major art hub are being squeezed out of the
neighborhood by booming real-estate development and rising
rents.  “The mid-range galleries are going to just vanish from
Chelsea,” said Sawon, who expects that “anything radical or
experimental” will become rarer as dealers seek to cover
expenses by staging more-predictable shows that do well
commercially.  Anchored by the elevated High Line walkway and park, the
area between 10th and 11th avenues is attracting technology and
fashion companies that present tough rivals to contemporary-art
galleries.  “Every developer in the city wants to be in West
Chelsea,” said Stuart Siegel, senior vice president at CBRE,
who has worked with many galleries as a commercial broker in
western Chelsea since 1993. “The galleries that don’t own their
spaces will be under pressure.”  Cold Castle  Several fashion boutiques, a CVS store and a yoga studio
have moved into the area recently.  Hewlett-Packard Co.  has
leased the building formerly occupied by the  Chelsea Art Museum .  A building known as Cold Castle, where dozens of artists
had studios, will be razed to make room for a 19-story
residential tower.  Landlords are asking from $80 to as much as $120 a square
foot for ground-floor space between 10th and 11th avenues,
compared with a range of $55 to $75 in 2010, Siegel said.  Shroeder Romero recently closed its space on West 26th
Street. Partners Lisa Schroeder and Sara Jo Romero said they
will experiment with other models of operation, including pop-up
shows and online sales.  “Like a lot of our middle-tier colleagues, we were feeling
overlooked,” Romero said. “We can’t compete with  David Zwirner 
and we are not a fresh new space anymore.”  No Deals  Larissa Goldston had to leave a ground-floor space on West
21st Street just nine months after relocating her gallery there
from West 25th Street. Since October she has been managing the
careers of her 17 artists from a small office in Chelsea.  “I am desperately looking for a space I can afford,” said
Goldston. “But there are no deals to be had.”  A West 29th Street building that housed the Sean Kelly and
Peter Blum galleries before they moved has been purchased by the
development company Black House, which plans to construct a 13-
floor luxury condo tower on the site, according to Sean Ludwick,
a principal at Black House.  Christopher D’Amelio closed his gallery on West 22nd Street
after 17 years to join David Zwirner’s growing empire as a
partner.  “If you are a midsize gallery and want to survive, you
have to keep growing,” said D’Amelio. “Otherwise you would
shrivel and disappear.”  The pressure on midsize galleries comes as the big players
keep getting bigger. Zwirner, with headquarters on West 19th
Street, doubled his presence in Chelsea by adding a 30,000-
square-foot, five-story building on West 20th Street.  ‘Priced Out’  Hauser & Wirth  gallery opened a branch in the former Roxy
disco club on West 18th Street. Many established galleries,
including  Larry Gagosian , Pace and Barbara Gladstone, own their
spaces in Chelsea and are expanding globally.  “You won’t find much experimentation if the rents continue
to escalate, because those kinds of galleries won’t be here,”
said Chelsea gallerist Casey Kaplan. “They’ll be priced out.”  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining .  To contact the reporters of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 