-- Dish Profit Misses Estimates on Costs of Gaining Customers
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-02-20T21:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/dish-profit-misses-estimates-on-costs-of-attracting-customers.html
Dish Network Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, reported fourth-
quarter profit that trailed estimates after the cost of
acquiring customers rose.  Net income fell to $209 million from $313 million a year
earlier, the Englewood, Colorado-based company said today in a
statement. That missed the average analyst estimate of $240.4
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 1.1
percent to $3.59 billion, higher than the $3.56 billion average
analyst estimate.  In 2012, Dish had “higher subscriber-related expenses
driven by programming costs, increased subscriber acquisition
costs from higher gross additions, as well as certain one-time
items,” including litigation-settlement expenses, the company
said in the statement. The outlook for 2013 also is unclear
because Dish has said it may begin offering a wireless service,
potentially through a partnership, said  Todd Mitchell , an
analyst at Brean Capital LLC.  “There’s not a lot to get excited about on the operating
side,” said Mitchell, who rates the shares a buy. “The
financial results are coming in negative year over year due to
higher costs and investments in future initiatives, and we don’t
really have any clarity as to what the plans are for wireless.”  Dish shares  fell 0.2 percent today to close at $36.03 in
New York. The stock has dropped 1 percent this year.  Wireless Plan  The satellite operator is considering moving into the
wireless industry so that it can bundle mobile service with its
TV product. Dish has offered to buy the outstanding shares of
Clearwire Corp. for $3.30 a share and is waiting for the
company’s decision on the bid. Clearwire had already agreed to
be acquired by Sprint Nextel Corp. when Dish made the
counteroffer.  If Dish can complete a deal with Clearwire, the company
would still probably make a partnership with Sprint to offer
service, Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said today on a conference call.  Dish wants to pair its wireless spectrum assets with an
existing network so that it can offer a new service to its
customers. If a deal with Clearwire doesn’t occur, Ergen said he
has other options to get into the wireless business that he’d
consider before selling his spectrum.  “We don’t think Clearwire is the only alternative for
us,” Ergen said. “We just think given the lay of the land
today that it’s the best option for us today.”  Dish added about 14,000 net new pay-TV subscribers in the
fourth quarter, below the average analyst estimate of 48,000.
The company has said it will raise prices in 2013, with most of
its TV packages increasing about $5 a month.  After losing subscribers in the second and third quarters
of 2012, Dish unveiled the latest version of its Hopper set-top
box at the Consumer Electronics Show last month in a bid to lure
new customers. The device won the show’s top prize.  Dish had 183,000 satellite broadband subscribers at the end
of the quarter, contributing $95 million in revenue in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  