-- Dow Chemical Loses $400 Million Price-Fixing Jury Verdict
-- B y   D a n   M a r g o l i e s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/dow-chemical-loses-400-million-price-fixing-jury-verdict.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  conspired with
other companies to fix urethane product prices and must pay
buyers of those products more than $400 million in damages, a
federal jury said.  The plaintiffs in the case, buyers of urethane-derived
products, asked for $1.125 billion in damages. The jury’s award
was $400,049,039.  The jury of five women and two men in  Kansas  City, Kansas,
returned the verdict yesterday after deliberating for parts of
two days. The trial before U.S. District Judge John W. Lungstrum
began on Jan. 23.  “The people of Kansas have administered justice based on
the evidence,” plaintiffs’ lawyer Joseph Goldberg told
reporters after the verdict was read.  The case started in 2005 with allegations that Dow plotted
with  BASF SE (BAS) , Huntsman International LLC and Lyondell Chemical
Co. in violation of federal law. Only Midland, Michigan-based
Dow didn’t settle.  Claims from before November 2000 were rejected by the jury.  “After a four-week trial, the jury in this eight-year-old
case has found liability against Dow but awarded plaintiffs $400
million --- less than the $1.125 Billion damages they sought,”
Rebecca Bentley, a Dow spokeswoman, said by e-mail. “While Dow
is disappointed that the jury found pricing fixing conduct
during part of the time frame -- an allegation which Dow
continues to deny -- we are pleased that the jury recognized
that the class claim was not proven.  Evaluating Options  Dow is ‘‘evaluating all of our options, including appeal,’’
Bentley said.  At the heart of the suit were urethane-based products used
in the automotive, construction, appliance and furniture
industries.  Citing jurors’ rejection of the purchasers’ request for
damages from 1999, the first of the five alleged years the
conspiracy was active, Dow defense lawyer David Bernick asked
Lungstrum to dissolve the buyers’ group status.  The judge didn’t rule on that request.  ‘‘They charged conspiracy for a five year period of time
and the jury didn’t find that five-year conspiracy existed,”
the attorney said in a post-trial interview.  Dow, BASF, Huntsman and Lyondell were first sued in federal
court in  New Jersey . The case was transferred to a multidistrict
docket in Kansas City as part of litigation involving more than
60 plaintiffs, some of whom later opted out of the group
litigation.  Legitimate Reasons  Dow denied the price-fixing allegations, maintaining there
were legitimate business reasons for the evidence the plaintiffs
cited as proof of their claims.  “What Dow did was wrong,” Goldberg told the jury Feb. 19
in his closing arguments. “It colluded with its competitors and
entered into a price-fixing conspiracy.”  Bernick disputed that claim in his own summation.  “What kind of cartel is it where everybody is doing
exactly what they would be doing otherwise?” the Dow lawyer
asked jurors.  “There’s a difference between a conversation and an
agreement, this is key,” he said, denying his client ever made
a price-fixing pact.  Bernick told the jurors in his closing that product
purchasers included industrial companies.  “When they don’t want to raise prices and we want to raise
prices, they tell us to pound sand,” he said, reiterating his
client’s stance that no conspiracy existed.  ‘Empty’ Case  The purchasers’ case was “empty of truth, empty of facts
and empty of fairness,” said Bernick, a partner in  New York- 
based Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP.  “An agreement can be just a wink and a nod,” Goldberg
told the jury. He said such schemes aren’t agreed upon in
corporate board rooms. They’re hatched in back rooms, on golf
courses and over cocktails, he said.  “If it quacks like a duck and it walks like a duck, it can
be a duck, even if you don’t see it,” the lawyer said. He
called the evidence of a price-fixing conspiracy
“overwhelming.”  Goldberg  is a member  of  Albuquerque , New Mexico-based
 Freedman Boyd Hollander Goldberg Urias & Ward PA .  The case is In re Urethane Antitrust Litigation, 04-
md-1616, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas ( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Margolies in the federal courthouse in Kansas City, Kansas,
at   margolies@hotmail.com ;
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 