-- DSM Deepens Savings Drive to Stay Within Reach of Profit Goal
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-02-20T08:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/dsm-fourth-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-caprolactam-woes.html
Royal DSM NV,  the world’s largest
maker of vitamins, reported lower-than-estimated quarterly
profit and said it would deepen a savings program as it seeks to
stay within reach of its 2013 profit goal.  Earnings before before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization dropped 17 percent to 243 million euros ($326
million), the Heerlen, Netherlands-based company said. Analysts
in a Bloomberg survey estimated 264 million euros. DSM fell 2
percent to 46 euros at the open of trading in Amsterdam.  Chief Executive Officer  Feike Sijbesma  said today he’s
exploring ways to reduce DSM’s exposure to the merchant
caprolactam market after weaker prices for the material used in
nylon weighed on earnings. DSM has spent about 2.8 billion euros
on acquisitions, mostly to build a nutrition unit where results
fell short of analysts’ estimates in the fourth quarter.  “Numbers should weigh on DSM’s share price today,” said
Markus Mayer, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who
recommends that investors “step in” to take advantage of any
share weakness. “The reiteration of the 2013 guidance and the
improvement of performance materials already shows that there
should be a recovery at DSM’s cyclical parts.”  Sijbesma outlined a target to get 50 million euros to 100
million euros in added improvements by 2015 and reiterated the
company will be “moving toward” its 2013 Ebitda target for
about 1.4 billion euros. He declined to be more specific on the
outlook on a call with journalists.  Switch in Focus  Quarterly sales increased 1.9 percent to 2.27 billion
euros. The nutrition division reported 1 percent growth in
revenue, stripping out the effect of acquisitions.  The CEO has steered the company away from lower-margin,
commodity-based businesses and has made acquisitions to expand
in food-ingredients, infant nutrition, dietary supplements and
animal nutrition. DSM is among the global leaders in
caprolactam, the raw material for polyamide 6, also knows as
Nylon-6, used in electronics and automotive products, textiles,
carpets and industrial fibers.  The Dutch company already announced plans to cut 1,000 jobs
across European operations making plastics and other products
that are suffering from higher raw-material prices and subdued
demand as well as competition from Asian rivals. No major
additional headcount reduction will result from the extension in
the savings program.  DSM gained 28 percent in 2012 in Amsterdam trading, while
Amsterdam’s benchmark AEX index added 9.7 percent. The company
has a market value of 8.8 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  