-- The Marrow Serves $33 Wagyu Steak in West Village: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-02-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/the-marrow-serves-33-wagyu-steak-in-west-village-review.html
The Marrow has just one steak on its
menu. It doesn’t cost $58. And it isn’t an a la carte affair
with mashed potatoes running an extra ten bucks.  In a world where mediocre Manhattan spots like Bill’s and
Arlington Club command top dollar for shoddy bovine products,
The Marrow’s Wagyu culotte is perhaps most important for what
it’s not: a rip-off.  Never mind the fancy appellation. What you get for $33 is
a few slices of very good rare meat with a clean, Sunday-style
roast beast flavor. Every bite is salted. And on the side
there’s a crock of cauliflower gratin.  The dish harkens back to an era of bistro beef, a forgotten
time where you could get a human portioned cut of meat for a
reasonable price.  The Marrow is a half-German, half-Italian meatery where the
sauerbraten is even better than the steak. Though I should point
out the typically beef dish ($13) is actually lamb ribs that
have been pickled, braised and fried.  Chef Harold Dieterle prefers a hat tip to tradition rather
than a kowtow. That explains why his German coleslaw is striated
with a julienne of hot pastrami. And why his Italian risotto is
made with Chinese-style rice whose grains are a conduit not for
truffles but rather a puree of sharp, oniony leeks.  Top Chef  Dieterle is the Long Island guy who won the first season of
Bravo’s “Top Chef” back in 2005. He then gave us Perilla, a
fine seasonal American spot, followed by  Kin Shop , an even
better French-American love letter to Thai food.  Now we have his West Village paean to the culinary heritage
of his Italian mother and German father. It’s his best effort
yet.  Giant windows overlook the quiet corner of Bank and
Greenwich. If only they’d actually open up, as The Marrow gets
pretty warm (and noisy), even in the dead of winter. Ask for a
table near the kitchen where things are quieter. Relief from the
heat comes in the form of beer and Riesling.  The Weihenstephan Hefe Weiss brew ($6) emits a hint of
banana amid all the fizzy bubbles; it’s just enough sweetness to
offset your airy foie gras mousse, a tiny $8 shot of duck liver
and gooseberry.  Restaurants serving $40 foie take note: this is the proper
portion size.  Nice Gnudi  Others will test drive the Weinhof Sankt Anna Erdener
Spatlese ($12) -- green apple juice for adults -- to cleanse the
palate of salty pretzel bread (free) and briny langoustines
($17), expertly cooked to a creamy finesse.  Bacala gnudi ($14) are fortified with bacala and bathed in
hot cherry peppers and butter. This is key, because any Long
Islander raised on fish shacks and clams casino knows the
importance of drenching seafood in butter. And Dieterle doesn’t
disappoint, tossing cuttlefish into a virtual fondue of
guanciale, white wine and butter ($14). Garlic bread for dipping
is required.  Dieterle has a thing for bone marrow. He lays it underneath
a generous swath of Maine sea urchin. The marrow is hot, the uni
cold and the textures, magically identical. The dish ($16) is
perfect.  No bland veal schnitzel here; crispy batter covers a thick
slab of duck breast. Throw in stewed wolfberries and crispy
spaetzle and there’s your Michelin star. If there’s a better
fried red meat in town I don’t know of it.  Pork coppa, wrapped in speck, is uncured ham steak, with
sweet beans subbing out for the traditional maple syrup glaze.
And then there’s the braised lamb neck, a fragrant slab of meat
that instantly ranks with  Keens ’s mutton chop as one of the
city’s best sheep dishes ($23).  Berliner Donuts  Equally game-changing are the maitake mushrooms, which The
Marrow elevates from side dish to main course. A whole head of
funghi ($26) is cooked like a vegetarian steak, with a crispy,
earthy exterior and a soft, neutral interior. It packs more
flavor than most of the lousy New York strips around town.  Dessert is simple: Ask for Berliner donuts stuffed with
Goldschlager cream, or apple hand pie with sour quark ice cream.  Dieterle tells me he sometimes serves a $120 cote de boeuf
(sides included) as an off-menu special, and I’m sure he does a
fine job of it. But ordering that giant cut would mean you’d
have to skip the other great courses.  The big beef may not be in retreat. But The Marrow fires a
brilliant shot across the bow.  Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Nearly all dishes are $33 or under.  Sound Level: Sometimes over 80 decibels in the front room.  Date Place: Yes.  Special Feature: Servers present bite-size apricot streusel
with the check.  Inside Tip: Excellent veal breast, sliced razor thin and
served with pepperoncini and marinara oil ($12).  Back on My Own Dime: For the lamb and duck.  The Marrow is at 99 Bank Street. Information: +1-212-428-
6000 or  http://www.themarrownyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater andKatya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 