-- Leaking Nuclear Sludge Could Threaten Columbia River
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-02-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/leaking-nuclear-sludge-could-threaten-columbia-river.html
News that a storage tank at a
shuttered federal nuclear facility in Washington state is
leaking radioactive sludge has raised fears that the toxic stew
could reach the Columbia River as a U.S. cleanup effort drags
on.  “The great concern is these tanks have the most dangerous
waste of all,” said Brett VandenHeuvel, executive director of
Columbia Riverkeeper, an environmental group based in Hood
River, Oregon. “They were constantly reassuring us that there
is no leaking. This announcement is alarming.”  VandenHeuvel’s group was formed to protect the Columbia, a
major transportation artery, salmon habitat and drinking water
source that runs alongside the U.S. Energy Department’s  Hanford 
nuclear reservation for about 50 miles and forms much of the
border between Washington and Oregon.  The Energy Department announced last week that as much as
300 gallons of radioactive sludge a year was leaking from a
storage tank that is more than six decades old.  The leaky tank is one of 177 stored underground that
collectively hold about 56 million gallons of waste, enough to
fill a football field to a depth of 150 feet, according to the
Government Accountability Office. The GAO, Congress’s
investigative arm, issued a December report warning of more
delays and cost increases in the project to develop a waste
reprocessing facility on site.  Seven Miles  The tanks lie as close as seven miles from the river,
according to the Oregon Department of Energy. It would take
years and even decades for groundwater to reach the river from
the area where the tanks are located, the department said.  The U.S. Energy Department has said radiation levels in the
soil at Hanford haven’t gone up since a decline in liquid levels
within the tank was discovered.  Washington Governor  Jay Inslee  said in a statement last
week that the leak posed no immediate health risks. Still, he
said the leaking of the hazardous sludge left him “deeply
concerned.”  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, toured the site
yesterday. “This should represent an unacceptable threat to the
Pacific Northwest for everybody,” Wyden said after touring the
facility, according to the Associated Press.  The leak raises concerns that other single-shell storage
tanks built in the 1940s will leak, VandenHeuvel said in an
interview.  Temporary Storage  Columbia Riverkeeper wants the U.S. Energy Department to
build temporary storage facilities so the waste can be
transferred from single-shell tanks. Inslee, a Democrat, also
called for the U.S. to pay for interim storage as a waste-
processing facility is built.  Doing so could cost millions of dollars when money is
scarce. Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  said in a Feb. 1 letter to
Congress that mandatory budget cuts set to take effect on March
1 could delay remediation work at Hanford and other nuclear-
waste sites in the U.S.  The leak is the latest setback in a decades-long effort to
clean up radioactive and chemical waste from more than 40 years
of production of plutonium for the U.S. nuclear weapons program
now stored at the 586-square mile facility located in Southeast
 Washington state , about 170 miles southeast of Seattle.  Nine nuclear reactors operated at Hanford, including the
first developed as part of the Manhattan Project, until it
closed in the late 1980s.  Bechtel Contract  The leaking tank is one of 149 constructed with a single
shell. Built in the early 1940s, it was thought to have been
stabilized in 1997 when all pumpable liquids were removed as
part of a cleanup effort, the Energy Department said in a Feb.
15 statement announcing the discovery of the new leak.  Washington River Protection Services in Richland,
Washington, is transferring waste to more secure storage. So far
waste from 10 of the 149 single-shelled tanks has been removed,
Rob Roxburgh, a spokesman for the group, said.  Technical challenges in handling the highly radioactive
waste means the process won’t be completed for decades, he said.  Jaime Smith, a spokesman for Inslee, said the construction
of new storage tanks would accelerate the transfer from the
single-shell tanks at Hanford.  Bechtel National Inc., meanwhile, won a contract in 2000
from the U.S. Energy Department to build a processing facility
to clean up the remaining waste.  The project has been beset by delays and cost increases,
according to the GAO. The estimated price tag of $13.4 billion
is about three times the original projected cost. Initially set
to open in 2011, the start date is now 2019.  Bechtel began building the processing terminal after
several earlier missteps.  “It’s truly a one-of-a-kind scientific challenge when you
look at processing the waste at Hanford,” Jason Bohne, a
spokesman for Bechtel National, said in an interview. “This not
something that has been done before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  