-- Edelman, Rubenstein Chill at Nordic Cool Fest: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-20T16:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/edelman-rubenstein-chill-at-nordic-cool-fest-d-c-scene.html
Outside the Kennedy Center in
Washington last night a riot of blue lasers reminiscent of the
northern lights beamed from the building’s walls.  Inside, at the opening of Nordic Cool 2013 festival, White
House senior adviser for Internet policy David Edelman and
Carlyle Group co-founder David Rubenstein tried to get in to
touch with their inner Vikings.  Rubenstein recalled a fishing trip to Iceland with then-
President  George H.W. Bush .  “It took me three days to catch one fish,” Rubenstein
said.  The festival, which runs through March 17, celebrates the
cultures of Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Norway and Iceland through
live performances, films, panels, along with art, fashion and
design exhibitions at the Kennedy Center.  Patrick Ryan, the founder of  Aon Plc , and his wife,  Shirley Ryan , a Kennedy Center trustee, admired a modern wedding dress
by Iceland’s  Steinunn . There was also a red kayak and a lamp
with a horse head.  Swedish meatballs -- presumably without horsemeat -- and
herring fritters were served during the cocktail reception.
Swedish Ambassador  Jonas Hafstrom  said he was feeling homesick
and looking forward to returning in June.  The evening was modeled after the Nobel Prize gala dinners
held in Oslo and Stockholm.  White tie and tails were requested. Rubenstein was one of
the few who followed the dress code.  Red Gown  Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth , Sweden’s minister for culture and
sports, said her red gown was a repeat performance from her
attendance at the 2008 Nobel dinner.  The Royal Stockholm Philharmonic, the Nobel’s official
orchestra, played symphonies from a variety of Nordic composers,
including Carl Nielsen.  Inside the heated tent for dinner, poppies sprouted from
the tables thanks to Gunnar Kaj, the Nobel florist who recreated
his centerpieces for last night’s event.  Norwegian chef Morten Sohlberg, who owns a cluster of New
York restaurants, oversaw the menu. Norwegian crab, Icelandic
lamb with wild Nordic mushrooms and spun maple sugar for dessert
were served, while traditional and classical musicians
performed.  The Nobel bona fides of the evening were enhanced by the
presence of two laureates:  Dale Mortensen  and  Roger Myerson .  A 2007 laureate for economics, Myerson said the evening was
as close to the real thing as you can get.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining , Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 