-- Lee Kai-Fu, Followed by 30 Million, Resumes Sina Blog After Ban
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-20T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/lee-kai-fu-followed-by-30-million-resumes-sina-blog-after-ban.html
Lee Kai-fu , the former head of
 Google Inc .’s China division, returned to posting on Sina
Corp.’s Weibo microblog service after the end of a three-day ban
on one of the site’s most popular voices.  “I’m back,” Lee said in his first post to his more than
30 million followers on Weibo yesterday.  Lee’s return comes after Sina said Weibo had more than 500
million users for the first time. Lee, who has used Weibo to
complain about China’s Internet controls, was banned from Weibo
and a similar site run by  Tencent Holdings Ltd.  starting Feb. 17
after speaking out on topics ranging from Beijing’s air
pollution, to a censorship battle at a Chinese newspaper last
month, to presidential politics in Taiwan.  China, the world’s largest Internet market by users,
censors comments critical of the ruling Communist Party.  Lee, former head of Google’s China division and now
chairman and chief executive officer of Innovation Works, a
Beijing-based technology-business incubator, said he holds no
grudges.  Sina  Weibo “has become the media of choice that people
flock to find or share information, and to voice or hear
opinions,” Lee told his more than 500 connections on  LinkedIn
Corp .’s professional networking site on Feb. 19.  “While the controls are tighter, one must realize that
social media is infinitely more open than other media in China,
and Sina has built a solid product integrating images, video,
structured dialog, and longer tweets,” Lee said via LinkedIn.
“I am confident that China is building up a significant
population of socially responsible netizens, who will make a
difference to the future of China.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  