-- World’s Biggest Wheat Buyer Steps Down From Egypt Authority
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l ,   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-02-20T12:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/egypt-s-nomani-nomani-says-he-s-leaving-state-run-grain-buyer.html
Nomani Nomani  stepped down as vice
chairman of Egypt’s state grain buyer after spending more than
three years overseeing tenders for the world’s biggest importer
of wheat.  Nomani, 58, said by phone today he will become an adviser
to Supply Minister Bassem Oda. Mamdouh Abdel Fattah will succeed
him at the General Authority for Supply Commodities, Nomani said.  The authority buys about 5 million metric tons of wheat a
year to help provide subsidized bread in a country where 25
percent of the population lived below the poverty line in 2011,
according to state figures. Nomani’s decisions on buying grain
moved futures markets from Paris to Chicago,  Arkady Zlochevsky ,
president of Russia’s Grain Union, said by telephone on Feb. 6.  “He’s a familiar name,”  Shawn McCambridge , a senior grain
analyst for Jefferies Bache Commodities LLC in Chicago, said by
phone on Feb. 5. “In an unstable region, he’s a stable factor,
and that’s what the market likes to see.”  Nomani used more than 30 years of experience and the
support of a 12-member team to decide when and how much grain to
buy based on available domestic supplies, financing and the
outlook for future needs. The authority’s annual purchases
account for about half of total national imports estimated by
the U.S. Department of Agriculture at 9.5 million tons.  Budget Gap  Egypt, struggling to stabilize after the 2011 uprising that
ousted President Hosni Mubarak, is facing a budget deficit that
may exceed 200 billion Egyptian pounds ($29.7 billion) and is
still waiting for a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund
loan. The country relies on tourism, fees for passing along the
 Suez Canal  and overseas investors for foreign currency.  The government’s worsening financial situation will be
“the primary restraint” for state wheat purchases, the USDA’s
Foreign Agricultural Service unit said in an April 2 report. The
$2.5 billion subsidized bread program each year provides 80
billion round loaves at less than one U.S. cent apiece, a daily
average of about three per person, the FAS estimates.  Wheat consumption in Egypt surged 39 percent in the past 10
years, outpacing a 32 percent increase in production and leaving
the country reliant on imports for half its use, the USDA
estimates. The country’s population expanded 18 percent between
2006 and the 2012 census, government figures show.  Egypt is the Arab world’s most populous nation, with almost
87 million people, statistics compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  