-- Egypt’s Wheat Buyer Nomani Replaced After Stable Years
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-02-21T16:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/egypt-wheat-buyer-replaced-as-nomani-heralded-for-food-stability.html
Egypt’s ouster of Nomani Nomani as
buyer of more than 5 million metric tons of wheat a year on
world markets put a spotlight on a role that brought stability
to the task of feeding the nation’s 80 million people.  Nomani, 58, who worked at the  General Authority  for Supply
Commodities since 1979 and took over as vice chairman under the
government of former President  Hosni Mubarak , said in an
interview yesterday he became an adviser to Supply Minister
Bassem Oda on the planning and purchase of commodities. Mamdouh
Abdel Fattah, 57, a colleague at GASC who joined the authority
in 1981, replaced him.  “What this person does is critical to the Egyptian
political stability,” Hani Sabra, an analyst at Eurasia Group,
a political risk and research company, said by telephone from
 New York  yesterday. “You have tens of millions of Egyptians
dependent on subsidized  bread.  The country will collapse
politically if there is no access to bread.”  The government that came to power after the 2011 uprising
against Mubarak is making changes at key ministerial posts as it
contends with a growing budget deficit and negotiations to
secure International Monetary Fund financing. The authority
helps provide subsidized bread in a country where 25 percent of
the population lived below the poverty line in 2011, according
to state figures.  Bread Program  The $2.5 billion a year program provides 80 billion round
loaves at less than one U.S. cent apiece, a daily average of
about three per person, the Department of Agriculture in
 Washington  estimates.  The challenge for the authority is to keep buying even when
prices are high and the country’s currency is at a record low.
The Egyptian pound slumped 10 percent in the past 12 months to a
record-low against the  U.S. dollar  as  Chicago  wheat prices
advanced 14 percent over the same period. The central bank’s
reserves are down more than 60 percent since the 2011 uprising.  GASC may import between 3.8 million and 3.9 million tons in
the 12 months starting July 1, Nomani said in an interview Jan.
12. Egypt’s total wheat imports will fall to 9.5 million tons in
the 12 months ending in June from a record 11.7 million tons a
year earlier, the USDA estimates.  The country has 3.11 million tons of wheat, enough to meet
consumption for 126 days, the government said yesterday. GASC,
which seeks to maintain a five month supply of strategic stocks,
counts not only the wheat in the country, but also the amounts
purchased that are en route to Egypt, according to the USDA’s
Foreign Agricultural Service unit.  Market Mover  Nomani’s decisions on buying grain moved  futures markets 
from Paris to Chicago, according to Arkady Zlochevsky, president
of  Russia ’s Grain Union in Moscow. When he bought 400,000 tons
of wheat from the U.S.,  France  and  Romania  on Dec. 1, GASC’s
first purchase from the U.S. in the season that started July 1,
Chicago futures rose as much as 1.6 percent and Paris-traded
wheat jumped 1.8 percent on Dec. 3. Wheat futures fell 2.6
percent in Chicago today.  “Regardless of who’s in power, Egypt relies on its
subsidized bread program,” Zlochevsky said by phone on Feb. 6.
“Any government that dares to give up this system will be swept
away by the anger of the Egyptian people. And that’s why every
government will continue to fund wheat tenders no matter the
cost.”  12-Member Team  Nomani, who became vice chairman of GASC almost four years
ago, ran a 12-member team that helped him decide when and how
much wheat to buy based on available domestic supplies,
financing and the outlook for future needs, he said during an
interview in Cairo last month.  He picked the combination of factors that would benefit
 Egypt  most and played time and origin spreads as well as
competition between suppliers, Zlochevsky said. His one-time
purchases could be big enough to meet  Ghana ’s wheat requirements
for a year.  “The government saw it fit in the present time to allow me
to become the adviser to the minister and allow someone else to
take my position,” Nomani said in an interview yesterday at his
new office at the ministry. “I will be keeping an eye on the
international commodity markets in my new job, but not as
frequently as I did in my former post.”  Nasser Farash, a spokesman for the Ministry of Supply,
didn’t reply to a text message or answer the phone when called
by Bloomberg seeking comment about the appointments.  Russian Wheat  Nomani usually bought wheat from Russia and its neighbors
on the  Black Sea , where traders aggressively undercut offers
from other sellers, early in the season when the new crop
started to flood the market.  As the grain from the region dwindled later in the season,
he purchased French wheat. As those supplies started to run out,
he switched to the U.S., often prompting a rally in Chicago
wheat futures.  Prices jumped when he snapped up 280,000 tons of U.S. wheat
on Dec. 1. U.S. suppliers winning the following three tenders
lifted the futures each time.  Chicago traders watch Egypt from the moment the authority
announces a request to buy until the results are known the next
day. Top wheat suppliers are vying for this market, and offers
in the tender signal availability across the main grain-
producing countries,  Shawn McCambridge , a senior grain analyst
for Jefferies Bache Commodities LLC in Chicago, said by
telephone Feb. 5.  Market ‘Perspective’  “Egypt gives you a snapshot right now, value-wise, of what
the market is thinking,” McCambridge said. “It gives us
perspective on price and perspective on who’s active in the
trade and perspective on what’s going on in the world market.
They’re very open as far as what’s been offered, when nobody
else is very transparent.”  If traders aren’t offering wheat from Russia or another
country in a GASC tender, it usually means that the country may
have reached its maximum shipment capacity for the season,
McCambridge said. In the last purchase he ran on Feb. 2, Nomani
picked Egypt’s biggest private trader Venus International to
supply 60,000 tons of U.S. wheat, from a total of seven offers
including multinational traders from  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) 
and Cargill Inc.  The tender was dominated by the soft red winter wheat, the
variety traded on the Chicago Board of Trade, with only one
offer of French grain. A request on Jan. 10 drew 14 offers,
including three French and one Canadian. In the tender
yesterday, managed by Fattah, all the wheat came from the U.S.  Consumption Surges  Egypt’s wheat consumption has surged 39 percent in the past
10 years, outpacing a 32 percent increase in output and making
the country rely on imports for half of its use, the USDA data
show. Egypt’s population grew 18 percent between 2006 and 2012
census, government data show.  When Nomani first took the job at GASC in July 2009, he
began importing higher quality wheat from more suppliers. Adding
Romania and re-including Ukraine on GASC’s list of approved
wheat sources helped Egypt by increasing competition between
suppliers, according to Zlochevsky.  The government’s worsening financial situation will be
“the primary restraint” for GASC’s wheat purchases, the USDA’s
Foreign Agricultural Service unit said in an April 2 report.
Egypt received a $1.2 billion credit facility with the
International Islamic Trade Finance Corp. to help fund purchase
of fuel and wheat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  