-- Leighton in Talks to Sell Data Unit to Ontario Teachers
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-02-20T06:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/leighton-in-talks-to-sell-data-unit-to-ontario-teachers.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest builder, is in exclusive talks to sell 70 percent of its
telecommunications assets to Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan.  The sale, which values the unit called NextGen at A$885
million ($917 million), is subject to the completion of due
diligence, documentation and consent of other counter parties,
Sydney-based Leighton said in a statement today. The deal is led
by Ontario Teachers’ long-term equities group.  Leighton, which is controlled by  Actividades de
Construccion y Servicios SA , is selling the data network to pay
debt following “unsolicited” interest in the business, it said
in September. In addition to an Australian long-haul fiber optic
network, NextGen includes cloud storage unit Infoplex and data
center provider Metronode. Madrid-based ACS controls Leighton
through its German unit  Hochtief AG .  NextGen’s customers include Australian companies, Internet
service providers and government agencies, according to its 
website . Metronode operates data center facilities in Australian
cities including Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth while
Infoplex hosts so-called cloud computing services.  Leighton  rose  3.6 percent to A$24.29 at the close in
Sydney, its highest since March 8.  TPG Telecom Ltd . fell 9.4
percent to A$2.51, the biggest drop since Sept. 2010. TPG
Telecom was also a bidder for NextGen, Reuters said Jan. 28,
citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.  Ontario Teachers’, Canada’s third-biggest retirement-fund
manager with assets of C$117 billion ($116 billion) at the end
of 2011, in May won a 50-year lease for an Australian
desalination plant with Hastings Funds Management Ltd. for A$2.3
billion.  The Canadian asset manager is also among bidders for leases
valued at about A$2 billion for two Australian ports, people
with knowledge of the matter said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  