-- Heinz, Directors Sued by Investors Over Berkshire Deal
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-02-20T20:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/heinz-directors-sued-by-investors-over-berkshire-deal.html
H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ)  and its directors
were sued by investors who contend they will be shortchanged in
the ketchup maker’s proposed $23 billion acquisition by
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and 3G Capital Inc.  Heinz, based in Pittsburgh, said Feb. 14 that Berkshire and
3G will pay $72.50 a share, a 20 percent premium at the time and
the largest-ever food industry transaction.  The buyout stems from “an unfair process” and allows the
board and management to cash in more than 5.6 million shares of
otherwise “illiquid holdings” for more than $400 million,
James Clem, a Heinz shareholder, said in one of two complaints
filed Feb. 15 in federal court in Pittsburgh.  Investors’ lawyers ask for a jury trial and an order to
stop the buyout under its present terms.  Michael Mullen, a spokesman for Heinz, declined to comment
on the complaints.  After the deal was announced, the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation said it is working with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in a criminal probe of trading “anomalies”
before the news became public.  ‘Iconic Brands’  Plaintiffs’ lawyers said in court papers that Heinz is
“the most global of all U.S.-based food companies, famous for
its iconic brands” in 200 countries on six continents. Heinz,
“synonymous with ketchup,” sells 650 million bottles of the
condiment annually, along with about “two single-serve packets
of ketchup for every man, woman and child on the planet.”  Its brands include Heinz Ketchup, Ore-Ida potato products
and Weight Watchers Smart Ones entrees.  Heinz, with $11.6 billion in sales last fiscal year, fell 8
cents to $72.12 at 3:38 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Clem contends the planned sale “significantly undervalues
Heinz” due to strong growth including an 8.8 percent growth in
sales compared with fiscal 2011.  The case is Clem v. H.J. Heinz Co., 13-cv-252, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  