-- Temasek Hires ST Engineering’s Seah to Seek LNG Investments
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-02-20T09:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/temasek-hires-st-engineering-s-seah-as-it-seeks-lng-investments.html
Temasek Holdings Pte , Singapore’s
state-owned investment company, hired  Seah Moon Ming  to lead its
efforts to set up a new department for liquefied natural gas
investments.  Seah will join Temasek on March 1 as senior managing
director for special projects, according to the investment
company’s  website . He was the deputy chief executive officer at
 Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd. , a Temasek unit that’s
Southeast Asia’s biggest defense company.  “Moon Ming will be leading an initiative to establish a
new business entity focusing on opportunities in the LNG sector
which is expected to grow in Asia,” Tan Yong Meng, a Temasek
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. The initiative “may
include partnerships with experienced international players.”  LNG demand is set to increase as Japan, the world’s biggest
consumer, moves away from nuclear energy following the Fukushima
disaster almost two years ago. Global trade o3f the fuel will
almost double to about 450 million metric tons by 2025 compared
with last year, according to an estimate by BG Group Plc.
Temasek, which managed S$198 billion ($160 billion) of assets as
of March 2012, doubled its energy holdings to 6 percent of its
assets for the year.  The initiative comes under Temasek’s enterprise development
group, headed by  Dilhan Pillay Sandrasegara , according to
Temasek’s website. Tan declined to elaborate on plans for the
new LNG department.  Temasek said earlier this month Chia Song Hwee replaced Tan
Chong Lee as head of the investment unit as it reshuffles senior
management positions. Chia became the head of the investment
group in a change of title, while Tan, who was chief investment
officer, assumes the role of head of portfolio and strategy
group as well as head of portfolio management and head of
strategy, according to changes on Temasek’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  