-- Emeli Sande, Mumford & Sons Lead Winners at Brit Awards
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-02-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/emeli-sande-mumford-sons-lead-winners-at-brit-awards.html
Emeli Sande and Mumford & Sons led
winners at the Brit music awards in  London  last night.  Sande won both the best British album prize and best
British female title, while folk-rock band Mumford followed its
recent Grammy success by being named top British group. U.S. duo
the Black Keys also built on Grammy triumphs by being picked as
best international group.  “I’m a very unlikely pop star,” former medical student
Sande, 25, told the audience after winning the biggest prize for
her CD “Our Version of Events.” “This is an album I wrote
because I didn’t have the confidence to go and say these things
in person. There are so many personal connections to this album.
It doesn’t make me feel as lonely.”  An award may add as much as 5 million pounds ($7.6 million)
to an artist’s sales, a certain boon for record-company bosses
at the O2 event. Winners also receive a Brit statuette, this
year designed by  Damien Hirst  and covered in the artist’s
trademark spots.  Sande’s album bested rapper Plan B and pop-soul singer
Paloma Faith, as well as “An Awesome Wave” by Alt-J, winner of
the Mercury Prize, and “Babel” by Mumford & Sons, which captured
the best-album Grammy earlier this month.  In the year since Sande won the Critics’ Choice Brit award,
she has sung at the opening and closing ceremonies of the London
Olympics, got married, and toured in support of the U.K.’s best-
selling CD of 2012. The singer told reporters that she now plans
a short break.  Oscar Rehearsal  Adele took the best single prize for her James Bond theme
“Skyfall.” She sent a video message of thanks from  Los Angeles ,
where she is rehearsing for the Oscars on Sunday. In a reference
to last year’s Brits ceremony -- where the television broadcast
ran out of time and she was cut off abruptly after just a few
sentences -- the singer said she would be brief to give enough
time for others to speak.  Coldplay was named best British live act, beating the
 Rolling Stones , the veteran group first nominated for a Brit
award 35 years ago.  Frank Ocean, whose acclaimed debut album followed a series
of mixtapes, was best international male solo artist. He told
reporters that it was “a long way from working fast food” in  New
Orleans .  Lana Del Rey was best international female solo artist,
following her international breakthrough prize victory at the
Brits last year.  Phonographic Awards  The  Brits  are the  British Phonographic Industry’s  annual
pop-music awards and presented in one form or another since
1977. They have been sponsored by  Mastercard Inc. (MA)  for the last
14 years.  Many of the Brit awards are chosen by a panel of more than 
1,000 record industry figures, musicians and critics. A few are
decided by public vote, such as the British breakthrough act
Brit. Ed Sheeran won that poll of BBC radio listeners last year
and this time it was the turn of another acoustic troubadour, 
Ben Howard, who bested the folk-influenced singer Jack Bugg.  Record executives have been putting on a brave face as
industry sources worry about illegal downloads and the failure
of record retailers. HMV Group Plc, Britain’s biggest seller of
CDs and DVDs, is in administration and announced the closure of
more stores yesterday.  The Brits show, hosted by comedian  James Corden  for a third
year, was opened by rock trio Muse, backed by a 60-piece
orchestra and a pyrotechnic show with lasers.  Sande,  Taylor Swift ,  Justin Timberlake  and  Robbie Williams 
also gave live performances. Boy band One Direction sang the new
Comic Relief charity song, a medley of “One Way or Another” and
“Teenage Kicks.”  (Mark Beech writes for  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture and
 Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 