-- Emerging Stocks Rise as Korea Outlook Lifts Tech Equities
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-20T22:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/emerging-stocks-rise-most-in-three-weeks-technology-stocks-jump.html
Emerging-market stocks rallied the
most in a week, with technology shares reaching their highest
level since 2000, as South Korea’s central bank said the
improving global economy is boosting domestic growth.  LG Display Co.  climbed the most in more than three months
in Seoul after Samsung Securities Co. raised its recommendation
for the stock. OAO Rostelecom rose in Moscow on a report of a
stake sale.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  sank to a December 2008 low
as the third-biggest producer of the metal said it will cut
investment and may reduce output estimates. Brazil’s Bovespa
index dropped a sixth day, the longest stretch since May.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,068.46 in New York. The measure pared a gain of as much as 0.9
percent as minutes from the U.S. central bank’s last meeting
showed a debate over the risks and benefits of further stimulus
action. Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said yesterday
that better prospects for the world economy boosts the odds of
South Korea topping this year’s growth forecast.  “The global outlook shows sustainable growth recovery,”
 Tan Lip Kwang , who helps manage the equivalent of $1 billion at
K&N Kenanga Holdings Bhd., said by phone in Kuala Lumpur. “When
the global economy recovers, demand for certain goods will pick
up, like electronic goods. Korea is highly dependent on exports,
so the global economic recovery is helping exporters there.”  Equities pared gains after the release of the U.S. Federal
Open Market Committee’s Jan. 29-30 meeting today. Several
Federal Reserve policy makers said the central bank should be
ready to vary the pace of their $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.2 percent.  ‘Removing Liquidity’  “People may think the tide will be turning,”  Pablo Goldberg , global head of emerging market research at HSBC
Securities Inc., said by phone from New York. “If you start
removing liquidity without having the growth rate, you lack a
little bit of a driver.”  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, which tracks developing-nation shares, slid 0.9 percent to
43.69. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 9.8 percent to 16.47.  West Texas Intermediate crude tumbled 2.3 percent, the
most in three months following declines in metals on speculation
that a commodity fund is selling positions. The  S&P GSCI Index 
dropped 1.1 percent to the lowest level since Jan. 28.  Technology Shares  A gauge of technology stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index jumped 2.1 percent, the most among 10  industry  groups,
while commodity and utility companies declined. The broader
measure has risen 1.3 percent this year, trailing a 5.3 percent
gain in the  MSCI World Index  of developed-country stocks. The
emerging-markets index trades at 10.6 times estimated 12-month
profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.8 times, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Mexican  IPC  index dropped 0.8 percent, led by Urbi
Desarrollos Urbanos SAB, which lost 3.7 percent. Brazil’s
 Bovespa  declined 2 percent, reversing earlier gains, as a
central bank report that showed Brazil’s economic activity
slowed. Mining company Vale SA fell 3.6 percent, the most since
August 14, following commodities prices lower.  Bulgaria’s benchmark  Sofix Index  slid 2.7 percent, falling
for a fifth day in its longest losing streak since April. Prime
Minister Boyko Borissov submitted his resignation to Parliament
after more than a week of anti-government protests sparked
street violence in the European Union’s poorest nation.  Selling Stake  Russia’s Micex Index fell 0.7 percent, its first decline in
three days.  OAO Aeroflot , the nation’s biggest airline, slipped
2.8 percent, its steepest loss in three weeks. Rostelecom
climbed 1.9 percent, the most since Jan. 18. Investor Konstantin
Malofeev is in talks with Mikhail Prokhorov’s Onexim Group on
selling his stake in the company, Vedomosti reported, citing
people it didn’t identify.  The WIG20 Index in Warsaw lost 1.4 percent, snapping a
three-day rally. The zloty gained for a third day versus the
euro, up 0.3 percent to 4.158. Central banker Anna Zielinska-
Glebocka said she supports another interest rate cut in March,
after which further moves will depend on the central bank’s new
inflation and economic growth forecasts to be released next
month, PAP newswire reported today.  PGE SA, Poland’s largest utility, dropped 6 percent to its
lowest level since at least December 2009 on speculation the
state-controlled company will reduce its dividend after an asset
writedown.  Missing Estimates  The Czech PX Index added 0.3 percent, snapping a two-day
decline. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index added 0.8 percent in a
second day of gains.  Eregli Demir & Celik Fabrikalari AS , a
Turkish steelmaker, retreated 1.7 percent to the lowest since
Nov. 30 after 2012 net income missed analysts’ estimates.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index had the biggest loss
since Nov. 28 as commodity companies retreated. AngloGold
Ashanti said capital expenditure will decline to $2.1 billion
from $2.2 billion in 2012, according to a statement today. Labor
unrest cut production, reducing profit 29 percent last year.
Data showed the nation’s inflation slowed to a five-month low in
January.  Indian stocks held at a two-week high as some investors
avoided taking fresh bets before next week’s budget. Reliance
Industries Ltd. rallied the most in a month, while Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. surged to a record.  Won Gains  The won strengthened for a second day against the dollar,
climbing 0.3 percent, as the central bank chief signaled further
monetary easing isn’t needed for now. The ringgit advanced after
Malaysia’s economy grew at the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years in
the fourth quarter as Prime Minister Najib Razak boosted
spending ahead of an election that will test his grip on power.  South Korea’s Kospi Index surged 2 percent, leading gains
among Asian benchmark gauges. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong jumped 1.4
percent. The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.6 percent as a
gauge of health-care stocks rallied the most in more than two
years on speculation the government is seeking to bolster the
industry. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  added 0.4 percent
to a record, while the  Jakarta Composite Index  gained 0.7
percent, climbing to a record.  Trading volume for the Jakarta Composite was 82 percent
above its 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Volume was 34 percent higher for Taiwan’s Taiex.  LG Display  LG Display , the world’s second-largest maker of flat
panels, surged 5.1 percent, the most since Oct. 29. The stock
was raised to buy at Samsung Securities, which said the
company’s earnings will recover from the second quarter.  Samsung Electronics Co. , the world’s largest television
maker, advanced 3.6 percent, the most since Jan. 2. Expectations
for higher prices of memory chips and potential investments in
organic light-emitting diodes panels drove Samsung and other
technology stocks higher,  Seo Won Seok , an analyst at Korea
Investment & Securities Co., said by phone.  LG Innotek Co. rallied 6.2 percent in Seoul, the biggest
gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Information Technology Index.  The  CSI 300 Financials Index  dropped 0.3 percent, in its
steepest five-day drop since September 2011. China’s government
may increase borrowing costs and downpayment requirements for
some home buyers, the Shanghai Daily reported, citing an
unidentified banking official. The Shanghai Securities News said
the Beijing municipal government will meet with developers
tomorrow to discuss possible tightening policies. The paper
cited an unidentified person from the local housing commission.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 272, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  