-- Enron-Era Ruling Signals $1.6 Billion California Refunds
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-21T00:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/enron-era-ruling-signals-1-6-billion-california-refunds.html
California  energy regulators said
that a preliminary ruling by a U.S. agency may bring as much as
$1.6 billion in refunds for consumers harmed during the state’s
electricity crisis more than a decade ago.  An administrative law judge at the U.S. Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission on Feb. 15 determined that companies
including Powerex Corp. and a unit of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
violated market rules in 2000, when California’s electricity
prices reached their peak.  The ruling in the case brought by the state’s Public
Utilities Commission and two electricity providers follows more
than a decade of legal wrangling after trading by Enron Corp.
workers led to price increases and blackouts in California
affecting millions of customers in 2000 and 2001.  “It took a lot of tenacity to achieve this victory before
FERC, on behalf of California consumers,”  Michael Peevey ,
president of the state’s Public Utilities Commission, said
yesterday in a statement.  Congress in 2005 gave FERC additional powers to police
energy markets, in response to Enron’s collapse, and the agency
has announced since January 2011 at least 13 separate
investigations of market manipulation, including probes of
energy-trading units at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Last week’s ruling by FERC Judge Philip Baten stems from a
case that was remanded to the agency by a federal court. In his
decision, Baten sided with California and units of  PG&E Corp. (PCG) 
and  Edison International (EIX) , which joined in the complaint.  Case Respondents  If the five-member FERC adopts the judge’s decision,
California consumers may eventually be paid almost $1 billion in
refunds and an additional $600 million in interest, according to
the statement from the state energy regulator. It didn’t say
which companies would be responsible for payment.  Respondents in the case include Powerex, a unit of British
Columbia Hydro & Power Authority in  Canada ; Shell Energy North
America US LP of Houston; and Calgary-based  TransAlta Corp. (TA)  The
Western Area Power Administration, which provides power in 15
central and western states, and the Bonneville Power
Administration, which serves eight West Coast and Rocky Mountain
states -- both units of the U.S. Energy Department -- were also
named among entities accused of violating market rules.  “We are still digesting the initial decision but are
disappointed with the outcome,”  Michael Hansen , a spokesman for
 Portland , Oregon-based Bonneville, said in an e-mail.  Shell Response  Shell plans to file “exceptions” to the judge’s
recommendation, Kimberly Windon, a company spokeswoman in
Houston, said by e-mail. The company doesn’t believe Coral
Power, Shell Energy North America’s predecessor, violated market
rules at the time, she said.  The company’s exceptions “will demonstrate that evidence
does not support the findings made by the Administrative Law
Judge, and in fact, shows that Coral Power’s actions were
consistent with relevant regulations and tariffs,” she said.  Lisa Meiman, spokeswoman for the Lakewood, Colorado-based
Western Power administration, declined to comment. “The matter
is still in litigation,” she said by telephone.  FERC spokesman Craig Cano said the agency didn’t have a
comment on the judge’s ruling because it was an initial
decision. The parties involved have 30 days to seek requests for
a rehearing and the five-member commission can review the
decision.  Should FERC uphold the judge’s recommendation, refunds to
ratepayers would be set in a separate phase of the case,
according to Windon.  Spokesmen for Vancouver-based Powerex and TransAlta didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  