-- Merkel Says Euro Between $1.30 and $1.40 Shows ‘Normality’
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2013-02-20T15:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/merkel-says-euro-between-1-30-and-1-40-shows-normality-.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
dismissed attempts to manipulate exchange rates, saying the
present value of the euro against the dollar is within the
currency’s normal range.  Merkel, speaking in Berlin today, acknowledged concerns
over the euro’s strength in southern European countries that
have been “at pains to lower their labor unit costs in a fixed
exchange rate regime” only to see the gains “melt away like
the snow in the sun under certain conditions.”  “On the other hand, we have to say that euro exchange
rates between $1.30 and $1.40 are part of the normality of the
history of the euro,” she told an event marking 50 years of the
German government’s council of economic advisers. The euro
bought $1.3375 as of 3:55 p.m. in Berlin.  Merkel’s comments follow concerns she expressed on Jan. 24
over Japanese moves toward monetary easing. Officials from the
Group of 20 nations meeting in Moscow last week pledged not “to
target our exchange rates for competitive purposes,” without
singling out Japan for allowing the yen to decline.  The chancellor wasn’t attempting to set an upper limit to
the euro’s exchange rate,  Steffen Seibert , her chief spokesman,
said by text message. What she meant is that “the euro’s
current exchange rate is nothing out of the ordinary,” he said.  G-20 Signal  Merkel said that the G-20 finance ministers had sent an
“important signal” at their Moscow meeting, and that the full
G-20 summit in September will assess progress in adhering to the
statement.  “We want exchange rates to be set freely, but also
advocate that all respect that,” Merkel said. “We have time
until September when there is the meeting of the heads of
government and state to see whether everyone has held his
promise.”  The 17-nation euro has appreciated almost 11 percent since
July 24, when developments in the debt crisis centered on Greece
drove the single currency down to a two-year low against the
dollar and the lowest against the yen in more than 11 years.  The euro’s fluctuations have an impact in particular on
exporting nations such as Germany, where about one in every
three jobs relies on foreign sales, according to the BGA
association of exporters. German exports rose 3.4 percent in
2012 to a record 1.1 trillion euros ($1.5 trillion), the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said Feb. 8.  While the euro has “often” been in the range of $1.30 to
$1.40 or stronger in recent years, “the German economy could
more or less deal with this,” Dirk Schlotboeller, an economist
at the DIHK trade and industry chambers in Berlin, said by
telephone today. German exports “are less price-sensitive than
those of a lot of other European competitors,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph de Weck  in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Moscow via at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  