-- Merkel Leaves Door Open to Fracking as Shale Gains Appeal
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-02-21T10:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/merkel-leaves-door-open-to-fracking-as-shale-gas-gains-appeal.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  left the
door open to tapping shale gas in Germany, saying her government
will consult with companies and the public to build consensus on
exploiting the potential energy source.  “There are a variety of environmental impacts to be
observed and Germany is a very densely populated country, so
these things weigh even more heavily,” Merkel told reporters in
Oslo yesterday after talks with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg.
“We’re now in the middle of a discussion process. I believe
nothing will become law which is not accepted across parties.”  Hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, is politically and
environmentally contentious in Germany as federal elections loom
on Sept. 22. The main opposition Social Democrats have called
for a temporary ban on the practice while their Green Party
allies want to outlaw it altogether. Merkel’s coalition wants to
set rules for fracking that assuage environmental concerns.  Merkel’s environment minister, Peter Altmaier, “wants to
allow fracking in Germany on a large scale,” Oliver Krischer,
the Green Party’s energy policy spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. Germany has “limited” shale gas resources, should
drop the “risky” practice of fracking and instead push
renewable energies such as solar and wind, Krischer said.  Speaking in Oslo, the chancellor declined to echo
opposition calls for a ban. She instead said that there is “a
great consensus that fracking will not be our preferred type of
energy exploitation.”  Public Opposition  Merkel’s government is keen to develop domestic energy
sources as it closes nuclear plants by 2022 and shifts to
renewable power. While a successful drilling campaign would
redraw the energy map across  Europe  -- a continent reliant on
 Russia  for about a quarter of its gas -- little headway has been
made on fracking in Germany largely due to public opposition on
environmental grounds.  “With this technology it’s very likely that we could
develop a new source of gas in Germany,” Merkel said in an
interview published in the German newspapers Straubinger
Tagblatt and Landshuter Zeitung yesterday. “What’s most
important for me is that it cannot present a danger to people or
to the environment.”  Peter Altmaier “wants upfront legislation to prevent this
form of gas extraction in water conservancy areas,” Merkel
said. “As with the energy overhaul as a whole, we aim to
approach the topic in a dialogue between politicians, companies
and those citizens who may be affected.”  High-Pressure Mix  Fracking involves drilling hundreds of wells and cracking
shale rocks with a high-pressure mixture of water, sand and
chemicals, to unlock gas or oil from impermeable stone, and has
been used on conventional reserves in  Germany  since the 1960s.  The practice has risen up the agenda as industry is forced
to pay rising energy costs as a result of Merkel’s nuclear exit.
Gas prices in Germany are now four times those of the U.S.
because of the latter’s support for shale gas, Ulrich Grillo,
president of Germany’s BDI industry association, was cited as
saying in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung on Jan. 28.  “Affordable energy is a must for Germany as an industrial
hub,” the chancellor said in a speech on Feb. 18. “If I look
at what the gas prices in the U.S. are, the oil prices are, due
to the new discoveries in the shale area, then this changes the
situation on global markets and makes the question of how we get
affordable energy a central question.”  Potential Reserves  Germany sits on as much as 2.3 billion cubic meters of
shale gas, enough to boost the current output of natural gas
100-fold,  according to  Volker Steinbach, head of the natural
resources department of the Federal Institute for Geosciences
and Natural Resources.  Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  have drilled test
wells into unconventional natural gas reservoirs in Germany in
an attempt to emulate the U.S. shale-gas boom. Fracking has been
used at least 275 times at conventional gas and oil wells in
Lower Saxony state, according to a study presented by the
 Environment Ministry  in September.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union lost control of Lower
Saxony to the opposition SPD and Greens at a state election on
Jan. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Oslo via 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 