-- Ternium Posts Unexpected Loss on Usiminas’s Brazil Sales
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-20T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/ternium-posts-unexpected-loss-on-usiminas-s-slowing-brazil-sales.html
Ternium SA, the Luxembourg-based
steelmaker, reported an unexpected fourth-quarter  loss  after a
writedown on the company’s investment in  Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA .  A net loss of $253.8 million, or $1.29 per American
depositary share, compared with a profit of $104.7 million, or
$0.53, in the year-earlier period, the steelmaker said in a
statement distributed by Marketwire today. Banco Itau BBA SA
analyst Marcos Assumpcao estimated a $75 million profit in a
Feb. 17 report. Ternium’s ADRs tumbled in trading today.  Waning growth in Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy,
led Ternium to write down its investment in Usiminas, as the
Belo Horizonte, Brazil-based company is known, by $275.3
million. Its parent Techint, owned by Italy’s billionaire Rocca
family, last year joined Usiminas’ controlling group after
acquiring a 27.7 percent voting stake through Ternium and steel-
pipe maker Tenaris SA.  Brazil still offers “great opportunities” for Usiminas,
Chief Executive Officer Daniel Novegil said on a call with
analysts today. Brazilian government measures to stimulate the
economy will succeed and Usiminas will become a “very efficient
and profitable company” after some time, he said.  The ADRs fell 5.6 percent to $21.34 at 12:30 p.m. in New
York today, bringing the decline so far this year to 9.3
percent.  Ternium’s fourth-quarter steel shipments rose 1 percent
from a year ago to 2.17 million metric tons. They fell 4 percent
from the previous quarter.  Latin American steel demand in 2013 will be higher than the
previous two years, Novegil said, without providing figures. The
company is on time and budget to add a new unit in Mexico after
steel demand grew there by 9 percent in 2012, he said.  ThyssenKrupp Plant  Ternium is evaluating the purchase of ThyssenKrupp AG’s
plant in Brazil, Novegil said. Studying the option to buy the
unit “makes sense” because Ternium is one of the world’s
largest buyers of steel slabs such as the ones produced at the
plant in Rio de Janeiro state, he added.  Ternium will consider purchasing the unit without partners
and is not looking to buy ThyssenKrupp’s Alabama plant, Novegil
said. ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, is selling its
plants in Brazil and the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  