-- Estonian Air State Aid Probed by EU Antitrust Regulator
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-02-20T11:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/estonian-air-state-aid-probed-by-eu-antitrust-regulator-1-.html
AS Estonian Air faces an in-depth
probe by the European Union executive over concerns state aid
for the Baltic country’s national carrier wasn’t in line with
the bloc’s rules.  The European Commission will examine about 65.5 million
euros ($88 million) in capital increases given to the carrier by
the Estonian government since 2009, it said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The commission started similar probes of Slovenia’s Adria
Airways d.d. and Latvia’s AirBaltic AS last November as EU rules
restrict amounts of aid nations can give to prop up carriers
weighed down by the bloc’s sovereign debt crisis and high oil
prices. Malev, Hungary’s unprofitable state-owned airline,
folded last year after the EU ordered it to repay state loans
and guarantees.  While Estonia notified the Commission last December of a
plan to grant an 8.3 million-euro rescue loan to the carrier, it
has also made three capital injections earlier without notifying
the regulator, the EU executive said. The sale in 2009 of
Estonian Air’s groundhandling business to the state-owned
Tallinn Airport may also have involved state aid to the carrier,
it added.  Estonia considers that its support for the airline is in
line with EU state aid rules, Ahti Kuningas, the deputy
secretary general at the Economy Ministry, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The government has thoroughly considered capital
injections after acquiring the majority stake in Estonian Air.
‘‘The owner’s activities have been underpinned by the
understanding that on one hand, the Estonian state needs flight
connections, and on the other hand, that the company can be
restructured into a sustainable and profitable air carrier.  Estonian Air spokeswoman Ilona Eskelinen didn’t immediately
reply to calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Chapman in Brussels at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  