-- Estonian Loan Costs for Renewables May Increase: Swedbank
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-02-20T11:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/estonian-loan-costs-for-renewables-may-increase-swedbank.html
Estonian renewable-energy projects
will face higher bank-financing costs if Parliament approves
retroactive changes to subsidies they receive, said Priit
Perens, the head of  Swedbank AB ’s local unit.  With government financing included in cash-flow
calculations made by banks to assess the viability and cost of
such projects, changes to subsidies will create greater
uncertainty for investment in renewable energy, Perens, also the
chairman of the Estonian Banking Association, said in an
interview in the capital, Tallinn, yesterday.  The subsidies, financed by consumers through their energy
bills, will be linked to the  market price  of electricity and
will decline 15 percent to 20 percent, affecting both new and
existing projects, according to legislation under consideration
in Parliament. Lawmakers will discuss the bill, which also
requires clearance for state aid from the European Commission,
in the second of three readings on Feb. 27.  “This is about making retroactive changes and how this
affects investment,” Perens said. “We have so far viewed
agreements with the state as virtually risk-free. We will be
forced to review this if such amendments are approved.”  Producers of renewable energy may lose as much as 43
million euros ($58 million) in revenue if legal changes are
made, according to the  Estonian Renewable Energy Association .
Renewable-energy companies “are forced to consider options to
protect their investments, including a legal challenge in regard
to the amendments to the existing support scheme,” it said in
an e-mail on Feb. 5.  Honoring Promises  Estonia will honor its commitments to investors, Prime
Minister  Andrus Ansip  told Bloomberg on Jan. 31, when asked
about renewable-energy legislation. Estonia’s investment
environment isn’t worsened by the amendments, which take into
account the liberalization of the country’s electricity market
this January and reduce the burden on consumers, Economy
Minister  Juhan Parts  said in an interview last month.  An increase in subsidies in 2007 led to new investment by
companies such as  Fortum Oyj , the second-largest Nordic utility,
and Nelja Energia OU, majority owned by Norway’s Vardar AS.  “As a result of the discussions on the renewable energy
subsidies, several investments have been canceled,” Perens
said. “Sure, projects are still being considered, but there’s
more of a wait-and-see attitude. As a bank, we’re certainly more
cautious now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  