-- EU Basel, Israeli-Bank Clients, Ponzi Raid: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-20T13:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/eu-basel-israeli-bank-clients-ponzi-raid-compliance.html
The European Union failed to seal a
deal on Basel bank rules after disagreeing on bonuses, capital
requirements for big lenders and powers available to the
European Banking Authority at talks in Brussels yesterday.  Lawmakers from the European Parliament and diplomats agreed
to reconvene on Feb. 27 after their negotiations ended without a
deal on how to implement components of Basel bank regulations in
the  bloc .  The EU has struggled to agree on legislation to apply the
international standards on capital, known as Basel III, which
were published in 2010 as part of efforts to prevent any repeat
of the financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  EU lawmakers have insisted that the EU legislation to
implement Basel III include curbs on variable pay as part of a
quest to reshape lenders as utilities rather than money-making
machines.  Members of the assembly’s economic and monetary affairs
committee called last year for an outright ban on bonuses that
exceed fixed pay.  Governments sought to reopen a draft deal reached in
December by the assembly and Cyprus, which then held the EU
presidency, to cap banker bonuses at twice fixed pay. Under that
proposal, bonuses exceeding fixed salary would be allowed only
if the majority of a bank’s shareholders voted in favor.  Several nations, including the U.K., opposed that plan at a
meeting last week. The British proposal included retaining
existing EU rules that require some portion of bonus awards to
be deferred and ensuring that payouts can be clawed back,
according to officials.  Compliance Action  Estonian Air State Aid Probed by EU Antitrust Regulator  AS Estonian Air faces an in-depth probe by the European
Union executive over concerns state aid for the Baltic country’s
national carrier wasn’t in line with the bloc’s rules.  The  European Commission  will examine about 65.5 million
euros ($88 million) in capital increases given to the carrier by
the Estonian government since 2009, it said in an e-mailed
statement today.  While Estonia notified the Commission last December of a
plan to grant an 8.3 million-euro rescue loan to the carrier, it
also made three capital injections earlier without notifying the
regulator, the EU executive said. The sale in 2009 of Estonian
Air’s groundhandling business to the state-owned Tallinn Airport
may also have involved state aid to the carrier, it added.  Estonia considers that its support for the airline is in
line with EU state aid rules, Ahti Kuningas, the deputy
secretary general at the Economy Ministry, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Estonian Air spokeswoman Ilona Eskelinen didn’t immediately
reply to calls seeking comment.  European Banks to See ‘Significant Consolidation,’ KPMG Says  The European banking industry is likely to consolidate as
medium-sized lenders shrink and focus on their home markets,
according to a study by accounting firm KPMG International.  The potential change will come as banks are “pulled in
many directions at once” by capital and liquidity regulations
and corporate governance and compensation rules, KPMG said in
the report today.  European banks are already selling assets to prepare for
tougher capital rules under Basel III international standards
and slower revenue amid the sovereign debt crisis.  Rabobank
Groep , the Dutch lender, agreed yesterday to sell a controlling
stake in its asset-management unit for 1.94 billion euros ($2.59
billion) as it sheds units to help strengthen its finances amid
slowing asset growth and competition for deposits in the
Netherlands.  “Even the regulators are now worried about the volume of
regulation,” KPMG said in its report.  Bank Leumi, Mizrahi Clients Said to Aid U.S. Tax Probe  Dozens of U.S. citizens who used offshore accounts to avoid
taxes have helped the federal government in a criminal
investigation of two Israeli banks,  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. 
and  Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd. , two people familiar with the
matter said.  Leumi and Mizrahi set up accounts in Israel that U.S.
clients didn’t declare to the Internal Revenue Service, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the probe. Those accounts
served as collateral on loans from U.S. branches that gave
clients access to their money in Israel, according to the people
and tax lawyers for the banks’ clients.  Zvi Sperling, a Los Angeles businessman born in Israel who
took such back-to-back loans from both Tel Aviv banks, was the
first person charged by the Justice Department. Sperling agreed
to admit he conspired with Leumi and Mizrahi bankers, according
to a plea agreement filed Feb. 14 in Los Angeles federal court.
The filing refers to the banks as Bank A and Bank B. Mizrahi is
Bank A and Bank B is Leumi, the people said. Other clients will
be charged in the coming weeks, the people and tax lawyers said.  “Those two banks are under investigation for making loans
to permit their depositors to repatriate undeclared, offshore
assets to the U.S.,” said Robert Fink, a tax attorney at
Kostelanetz & Fink LLP in New York who represents clients who
have come forward. “The focus is on undeclared foreign bank
accounts on which income has been earned that has not been
reported to the IRS.”  The probe, which the people said involves a U.S. grand
jury, comes amid a U.S. crackdown on offshore tax evasion that
has widened since  UBS AG , the largest Swiss bank, avoided
prosecution in February 2009.  Orit Reuveni, a spokeswoman for Leumi, said in an e-mail
that the bank is “within the scope of a U.S. inquiry into tax
matters involving U.S. customers,” and that it is cooperating
with the probe. Calls and e-mails seeking comment from a
spokesman for Mizrahi weren’t returned. Benny Shoukron, a
spokesman for Mizrahi, said by phone last week that the bank is
looking into the Sperling matter.  Sperling “recognizes the serious mistakes that he has
made, and he accepts full responsibility for his conduct,” his
attorney, Steven Toscher, said in an interview.  Charles Miller, a spokesman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Sperling, 13-cr-108, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  Frankfurt Prosecutors Arrest Six in Investment Ponzi Scheme  Frankfurt prosecutors conducted about 130 raids in Germany
that resulted in six arrests as part of a probe into a Ponzi
scheme they say resulted in losses for about 1,000 investors.  About 1,200 officers raided locations in seven German
states yesterday and more than 100 million euros ($134 million)
was frozen, prosecution spokeswoman Doris Moeller-Scheu said in
an e-mailed statement. The case centers on real-estate
investment company  Deutsche S&K Sachwert AG , she added, without
identifying any of the approximately 50 suspects.  Losses may total in the hundreds of millions of euros as
investors “sought a new profitable and safe investment
possibility in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis,” Moeller-
Scheu said.  Efforts to reach S+K by phone were unsuccessful and the
company didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Cohen SAC Deposition Seen Hurting Bid to Avoid SEC Insider Suit  U.S. investigators have subpoenaed a 2011 deposition of SAC
Capital Advisors LP founder Steven Cohen, whose sworn statements
on insider-trading compliance may hurt him as he tries to
persuade regulators not to file a lawsuit with the potential to
shut his $14 billion firm.  The SEC told the hedge fund Nov. 20 that it planned to sue
SAC for securities fraud and so-called control-person liability
for failing to supervise employees. The same day, the agency
accused an ex-SAC portfolio manager and his hedge-fund unit of
insider trading for persuading Cohen, 56, to make $700 million
in illegal trades. Prosecutors also indicted the manager.  Cohen’s testimony, reviewed by Bloomberg News, establishes
his personal control over the unit, CR Intrinsic, and records
his unfamiliarity with his firm’s compliance and ethics policies
on insider trading.  Also of interest was a statement that no employee had ever
been punished for violating the firm’s compliance policy. In a
six-year investigation of insider trading by Wall Street firms,
federal prosecutors or the SEC have accused the former portfolio
manager, Matthew Martoma, and six other SAC employees of trading
on illegal tips while at SAC.  Cohen’s deposition answers helped Stamford, Connecticut-
based SAC win its dismissal from the underlying lawsuit, filed
by Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. over short-sale damages. In
new light, they provide fodder for regulators seeking to
establish he was a negligent manager.  The threatened SEC suit may prove the gravest threat Cohen
and his firm face from the U.S. government, which is also
investigating whether he and SAC violated criminal laws.  Martoma’s indictment and the SEC complaint against him and
his SAC unit contain no allegations of wrongdoing by Cohen.
Martoma pleaded not guilty and isn’t cooperating with federal
prosecutors in their investigation of SAC.  In a control-person liability suit, however, the SEC
doesn’t have to prove Cohen engaged in insider trading -- it
need only show that he failed to properly supervise Martoma or
the other accused SAC employees by turning a blind eye to what
they did, or by being grossly negligent in not catching them.  SAC declined to comment on the deposition. A spokesman,
Jonathan Gasthalter, has said that Cohen acted appropriately and
that SAC maintains rigorous compliance standards.  For more, click here.  Finra Fines ING Firms for E-Mail Retention, Review Violations  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said it fined
five affiliates of ING Groep NV $1.2 million for failing to
retain or review millions of e-mails for periods ranging from
two months to more than six years.  The firms are Directed Services LLC, ING America Equities
Inc., ING Financial Advisers LLC, ING Financial Partners Inc.
and ING Investment Advisors LLC, Finra said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We are pleased that this matter has been resolved with
Finra,” Joseph Loparco, an ING Groep spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “It did not impact our clients, and
it did not result from any customer issue.”  “The five broker-dealers communicated this information to
Finra in a series of self-reports that began in October 2010,”
Loparco said. “The broker-dealers also undertook an extensive
internal review of their policies, procedures and systems and
have cooperated fully with Finra’s investigation.”  Courts  Two Ex-Xinhua Finance Board Members Admit to U.S. Tax Crime  Two former board members of Xinhua Finance Ltd. pleaded
guilty to a charge of conspiring to obstruct the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service as part of a deal with prosecutors to drop
insider-trading allegations.  Shelly Singhal, 45, admitted yesterday in federal court in
Washington that he conspired to hide about $3.5 million in
forgiven debt from the IRS for Dennis Pelino, a fellow board
member, and Loretta Fredy Bush, the company’s former chief
executive officer.  Pelino, 65, pleaded guilty to the same conspiracy charge on
Feb. 15 as Bush did two days earlier. All three face as much as
five years in prison when sentenced April 29.  Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed on the
Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products focused on
Chinese and international financial markets.  The three defendants were indicted on May 10, 2011, for
allegedly using various entities to disguise the sale of shares
in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the Securities and
Exchange Commission and investors, and to engage in insider
trading. They were also accused of manipulating the company’s
balance sheet to avoid taking so-called impairment charges.  Under the indictment, all three defendants faced four
charges of mail fraud. In 2011, the three pleaded not guilty to
the charges.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Interviews/Speeches  Walter Seeks SEC Rule Requiring Exchanges to Test Technology  Exchanges and clearing firms would have to routinely test
their technology for stability and security under a rule being
drafted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  SEC Chairman Elisse B. Walter told an audience at American
University’s Washington College of Law yesterday that the agency
has accelerated a proposal for a mandatory technology-review
program. It would require market participants, including
exchanges, clearing firms and other trading platforms, to test
how their systems respond to outages and notify the agency about
any disruptions.  The rule would convert a voluntary program, known as
Automation Review Policy, that was created after the Oct. 16,
1987, market crash known as “Black Monday.” Under that
program, exchanges voluntarily follow SEC guidance and submit to
periodic SEC inspections of their systems.  “A voluntary standard is no substitute for a mandate and a
requirement that you must follow,” Walter told reporters after
the speech. She declined to say when the SEC might release a
rule proposal for public comment.  Walter’s speech surveyed the SEC’s efforts to improve its
technology in an era of high-frequency traders and electronic
market makers. The commission’s Midas database and planned
consolidated audit trail are key to that effort, she said.  The consolidated audit trail will trace how orders are
routed through the equity market’s complex plumbing. Midas will
allow the commission to view all orders, order cancellations and
trade executions on U.S. exchanges.  For more, click here.  Levitt Refuses to Support SEC in Turf Battle With FSOC  Arthur Levitt, who was the longest-serving Securities and
Exchange Commission chairman, said he is supporting the
 Financial Stability Oversight Council  in a dispute with the SEC
over jurisdiction.  The SEC “abdicated responsibility on money market mutual
funds” and “without the threat of FSOC action I don’t believe
the commission will act,” Levitt said yesterday in the
interview. He talked with Bloomberg’s Michael McKee and Carol
Massar on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here and for more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  