-- EU Should Phase Out Support for Land-Based Biofuels, Lobbies Say
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-20T14:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/eu-should-phase-out-support-for-land-based-biofuels-lobbies-say.html
The European Union should phase out
support for land-based biofuels that displace food production
and indirectly boost emissions, eight lobbies said in a letter
to the bloc’s energy ministers.  The groups, including Transport and Environment, Greenpeace
and Oxfam, urged the ministers to improve draft legislation on
biofuels at their next meeting on Feb. 22, according to the
letter published today. The proposal to limit crop-based biofuel
production, put forward by the European Commission last year,
failed to address the “problematic link” between food and
fuel, the lobbies said.  “Few deny that industrial biofuels are not the silver
bullet they were once believed to be,” said the groups, which
also include ActionAid. “This legislation could stop the EU
incentivizing technologies that undermine global food security
and climate change mitigation, and could start to set our
transport sector on a more sustainable pathway.”  The commission, the 27-nations EU’s regulatory arm in
Brussels, proposed in October that first-generation
unsustainable biofuels made from crops such as sugar, starch or
vegetable oils provide 5 percent of the EU target for transport
fuel. The current EU requirement is that at least 10 percent of
energy for road and rail transport in 2020 come from renewable
sources in all member nations.  The draft legislation needs approval by EU national
governments and the European Parliament to enter into force.
Biofuels including ethanol and biodiesel are the main renewable
energy for transport and offer the prospect of reducing the use
of fossil fuels blamed for climate change.  ‘Absolute Limit’  The eight lobbies urged governments to amend the
commission’s proposal by endorsing “an absolute limit on the
consumption of land-based biofuels in transport.” Additionally,
the EU should require accounting of emissions linked to indirect
land-use change, according to the groups, which also include
BirdLife Europe, Friends of the Earth Europe, CIDSE and the
European Environmental Bureau.  Ministers should ensure that clear definitions of
sustainable waste streams, by-products and residues for biofuels
are developed, according to the letter. The groups also called
on governments to implement policies to reduce energy use,
increase efficiency and accelerate the “renewable-
electrification” of the transport system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  