-- EU Spot Carbon Trade Surges as Factories Seek Futures Contracts
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-02-20T15:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/eu-spot-carbon-trade-surges-as-factories-seek-futures-contracts.html
Trade in European Union carbon
permits for prompt delivery rose yesterday to the most in more
than three years as factories swapped spot allowances for
futures to guarantee their eligibility after April.  ICE Europe Futures yesterday handled more than  7 million
Phase 2 permits  for day-ahead delivery, according to exchange
data. That may include permits that changed hands in the over-
the-counter market and were cleared by ICE. That’s the most
since July 28, 2009, when 7.4 million spot contracts were
handled by ICE Futures and NYSE Euronext’s Bluenext exchange,
which stopped trading on Dec. 5.  Factories and power stations in the EU’s emissions-trading
system have until April 30 to surrender allowances matching
their carbon-dioxide output for 2012, the last year of the
market’s second phase. The European Commission, the bloc’s
regulator, will swap the permits for Phase 3 allowances after
that date. Some emitters may be selling allowances from their
accounts and buying Phase 3 futures to avoid the exchange,
according to  Jan Fousek , head of trading at Virtuse Energy
s.r.o. in Prague.  “Companies may be selling spot permits and buying futures
to avoid the bureaucracy associated with the shift from Phase 2
to Phase 3,” he said by e-mail today. They may also be selling
spot permits to generate cash rather than borrow at commercial
interest rates, he said.  Spot Phase 2 permits declined 8.6 percent yesterday to 4.56
euros ($6.10) a metric ton on ICE Futures, after earlier falling
as much as 17 percent. December futures dropped 8.6 percent to
4.68 euros yesterday. Aggregate open interest in all futures
grew by more than 16 million tons, some of which was due to the
so-called spot-futures roll, Fousek said.  “We may see more such rolling as the deadline for 2012
compliance nears and the eligibility of Phase 2 permits runs
out,” he said. “Industrial clients usually wake up when an
opportunity is about to disappear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  