-- Euro-Area Debt Pooling Abandoned by EU Parliament in Budget Law
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-02-20T09:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/euro-area-debt-pooling-abandoned-by-eu-parliament-in-budget-law.html
European Parliament negotiators
abandoned a demand for a fast-track move toward debt pooling by
euro governments at the insistence of a German-led group of
nations opposed to such an anti-crisis step.  As part of an accord with European Union governments on
stricter budget-oversight rules, representatives of the EU
Parliament discarded its appeal for a fund to pool and help
repay the debts of nations using the euro. Last June, the
assembly voted to create a  “European redemption fund”  in a bid
to link a policy opposed by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to
draft deficit-control legislation she has championed.  The climbdown today in Brussels clears the way for the EU
to gain the power to screen the budgets of nations earlier and
monitor more closely countries where rising borrowing costs
threaten financial stability. The EU will also tighten fiscal
surveillance of nations such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal
after they exit rescue programs.  The two pieces of draft legislation complement 2011 laws
that granted the EU stronger powers to sanction spendthrift
euro-area countries. The latest rules, dubbed the two-pack, also
follow a new European treaty aimed at limiting budget deficits.  Seeking to contain the three-year-old debt crisis, Europe
is wrapping up decisions on closer fiscal surveillance while
examining ways to kick-start  economic growth  weakened by the
budget-austerity drive. Last year, EU governments discussed the
scope for growth-boosting initiatives within the deficit-cutting
context and gave nations such as Greece more time to meet
targets for narrowing budget shortfalls.  Treaty Change  The EU Parliament said Europe must go further through euro-
area debt pooling, which Germany, other nations and the European
Commission say is premature and requires a European treaty
change. The Parliament’s amendment that is being dropped called
for countries to transfer debt exceeding the EU threshold of 60
percent of gross domestic product into a redemption fund and
repay this money over 25 years, while cutting budgets and taking
steps to promote economic growth.  In a sign of the strength of political opposition to such a
step in AAA rated euro countries such as Germany and the
Netherlands, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  in December deleted
earlier calls for the “mutualization” of debt in a roadmap for
revamping management of the European single currency.  Cyprus in June became the fifth euro-area nation to ask for
a financial rescue since Greece triggered the European debt
crisis in late 2009. Greece received an initial aid package in
2010 and a second rescue a year ago. The other three countries
are Ireland, Portugal and Spain.  Bond-Buying Program  Cyprus’s request, still being negotiated, follows 486
billion euros ($652 billion) in European and International
Monetary Fund commitments for Greece, Ireland, Portugal and
Spain’s banking system since 2010. It also follows a European
Central Bank announcement in September of a bond-buying program
for euro nations willing to sign up to austerity conditions.  The new package of more-intrusive EU fiscal surveillance of
countries would let the commission examine their draft budgets
before approval by national parliaments. Annual spending plans
would have to be submitted to the Brussels-based commission, the
EU’s regulatory arm, by Oct. 15 the previous year.  In addition, the commission would gain the right to closer
oversight of euro nations facing growing financial difficulties
through “regular review missions.” Such a step would
institutionalize an informal practice under which, for example,
the EU in 2011 dispatched experts to Rome to monitor Italian
budget progress.  Surveillance System  Furthermore, euro-area countries emerging from aid programs
would be subject to a new surveillance system under the draft
legislation.  The commission proposed the law in November 2011, when its
president,  Jose Barroso , said that “without stronger governance
in the euro area, it will be difficult if not impossible to
sustain a common currency.”  Today’s negotiated accord still needs the approval of the
full EU Parliament on the one hand and of national finance
ministers collectively on the other. That’s usually a formality
after negotiators for the assembly and governments strike deals.  In addition to dropping their provision on a debt-
redemption fund, the Parliament representatives abandoned an
amendment from June to establish a European procedure for legal
protection for a country at risk of defaulting -- a proposal
that followed euro-area policy zigzags over Greece that ended
with the country carrying out the world’s biggest writedown of
privately held debt in early 2012.  Under this amendment, which governments opposed, a decision
to place a nation under legal protection would have rendered
standard default practices inoperative, frozen loan interest
rates and given creditors two months to make themselves known to
the commission or forfeit their claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  