-- Ex-Cop Probed by Watchdog on Intervening in Savile Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-20T12:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/ex-cop-probed-by-watchdog-on-intervening-in-savile-probe.html
The U.K. watchdog reviewing police
failures to uncover sexual abuse by  Jimmy Savile  before he died
said an ex-cop may have intervened on behalf of the British
Broadcasting Corp. television star in a 2009 probe.  A former police inspector in West Yorkshire, England, may
have contacted counterparts in Surrey, near London, before they
interviewed the TV host, the Independent Police Complaints
Commission said in a statement today on its website, without
giving a name.  “All the forces that may have had intelligence concerning
the late Jimmy Savile should now go back and consider all the
relevant information and materials they possess,” Rachel
Cerfontyne, the IPCC’s commissioner, said in the statement. The
details will be used to determine whether former police officers
should be investigated, the agency said.  The BBC was plunged into crisis after competitor  ITV Plc 
aired a story in October alleging Savile abused young girls
decades ago.  George Entwistle , then director general of the BBC,
stepped down the next month after revelations the publicly-
funded broadcaster had dropped its own probe into Savile’s abuse
by the BBC news division. Instead it aired tributes following
his death in October 2011, at the age of 84. Savile was known
for hosting the BBC’s “Top of the Pops” program and for his
charity work with children.  Savile wasn’t prosecuted while he was alive, even after
four women made reports to Surrey Police and another department
in 2007 and 2008, in which they described abuse when they were
children. Criminal charges against Savile could have been filed
if the cases had been handled properly, the Crown Prosecution
Service said in a report last month.  West Yorkshire police referred the former officer to the
IPCC after the regulator asked seven departments for information
about past probes into Savile, the watchdog said.  U.K. police said in a separate report last month that
Savile committed more than 200 criminal offenses at BBC
premises, in schools and in more than a dozen hospitals, mental
homes and a hospice. Other offenses are still being
investigated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  