-- Ex-Vitesse Executives’ Second Trial Ends With No Verdict
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-20T21:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/ex-vitesse-executives-second-trial-ends-with-no-verdict-1-.html
The prosecution of two former
 Vitesse Semiconductor Corp . executives ended with a mistrial for
the second time when a jury deadlocked on charges that they
conspired to misstate earnings at the chipmaker.  U.S. District Judge  Paul Crotty  in Manhattan declared a
mistrial today, after a little more than two days of
deliberations, in the case of  Louis Tomasetta , a co-founder and
former chief executive officer of Vitesse, and former chief
financial officer  Eugene Hovanec .  “We believe that the proper thing to do right now would be
for the charges to be dismissed,”  Gary Lincenberg , a lawyer for
Hovanec, said in a phone interview. “I want my client to be
able to move on with his life.”  The two men were charged with a scheme to meet financial
targets by backdating stock options and falsely inflating sales
at the Camarillo, California-based maker of integrated circuits.  In the first trial, Crotty in April declared a mistrial on
the fourth day of deliberations after jurors said they couldn’t
reach a unanimous decision on any of the seven criminal counts
against the two men.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara 
filed a new indictment in December, dropping most of the counts
and charging each of the men with a single count of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud, which carries a maximum of five
years in prison. The retrial began Jan. 22.  ‘Seven Years’  “After seven years of investigation, civil lawsuits
settled many years ago, and now a second lengthy criminal trial
that ended in a mistrial after another jury deadlocked, it is my
hope that the government will now close its case,”  Dan Marmalefsky , a lawyer for Tomasetta, said in an e-mail.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to
comment on the mistrial and whether the office would seek to try
the case again.  Jurors said in a note to the court yesterday afternoon that
they found themselves “hopelessly deadlocked at 6 vs. 6 over
the issue of whether the government has proved or not their
case.”  At 11:37 a.m. today they submitted another note saying
“we remain deadlocked.”  ‘Overarching Scheme’  Throughout their deliberations, they raised questions on
issues such as venue, statute of limitations, and the phrase
“overarching scheme” used in the judge’s instructions,
according to their notes to the court.  In a letter to the court yesterday regarding the jury’s
request for further clarification, prosecutors said the
government has “consistently objected to the single overarching
conspiracy language.”  “It incorrectly defines the scope of the conspiracy
charged in the indictment, is unnecessary, and is confusing,”
prosecutors said.  Prosecutors claimed the former executives shipped millions
of dollars’ worth of products to a distributor, Nu Horizons
Electronics Corp., near the end of financial quarters and
fraudulently recorded the shipments as revenue.  Vitesse and Nu Horizons had a side agreement, kept secret
from the company’s investors, auditors and directors, that let
the distributor make unlimited returns of the products to
Vitesse, the government claimed. The practice allowed Vitesse to
meet its quarterly revenue targets when sales slumped beginning
in 2001, prosecutors said.  Outside Investigation  Tomasetta and Hovanec were both fired in May 2006 amid an
outside investigation into the company’s options grants.  Tomasetta and Hovanec argued they weren’t responsible for
the accounting errors, instead blaming them on lower-level
employees. They denied the government’s accusation that they
backdated options grants to give employees in-the-money options
while avoiding the necessity of recording a compensation
expense.  Vitesse agreed in 2007 to pay $8.75 million to settle
shareholder suits related to the alleged accounting fraud and in
2010 settled claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for $3 million.  The case is U.S. v. Tomasetta, 10-1205, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net 
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  