-- Mexico Peso Falls as Fed Minutes Indicate Debate Over Stimulus
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-20T23:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/mexico-peso-swings-drop-as-investors-weigh-rate-cut-possibility.html
Mexico’s peso dropped the most among
major Latin America currencies after Federal Reserve minutes
indicated a debate over further stimulus for the biggest market
for the Latin American country’s exports.  The peso fell 0.7 percent to 12.7253 per  U.S. dollar  at 4
p.m. in Mexico City, the biggest decline since Feb. 4. The
currency has advanced 1 percent this year.  “I see it all related to the Fed,”  Ramon Cordova , a
currency trader at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza Garcia,
Mexico, said in a telephone interview. Speculation the Mexican
central bank will reduce benchmark borrowing costs “is a bit of
a limitation” to peso appreciation.  Minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Jan. 29-30
meeting published today showed policy makers were divided about
the strategy behind Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s program of buying
bonds until there is “substantial” improvement in the U.S.
labor market. Mexico sends about 80 percent of its exports to
its northern neighbor.  After markets closed yesterday, Citigroup Inc.’s local
Banamex unit joined banks including Barclays Plc and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in projecting that Mexico’s  central bank  will
probably reduce borrowing costs in the first half of this year.  Nineteen out of 20 economists forecast Mexico’s central
bank will cut  interest rates  this year, according to a survey by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. The median estimate was for the
central bank to cut rates 50 basis points in April, the survey
e-mailed today showed.  Banco de Mexico  reiterated on Feb. 13 that it may cut its
 target rate  after consumer prices rose 3.25 percent in January
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since October 2011. They
have kept the benchmark at 4.5 percent for 32 straight meetings.
Policy makers are scheduled to announce their next interest-rate
decision on March 8.  Yields on government peso bonds due in 2022 rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.06 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.14 centavo to
110.65 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  