-- ExxonMobil Challenges New Hampshire Witness Over MTBE
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-20T23:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/exxonmobil-challenges-new-hampshire-witness-over-mtbe.html
ExxonMobil Corp. challenged  New
Hampshire ’s assertion that it sold about 30 percent of the
gasoline containing an additive that contaminated the state’s
drinking water, a jury was told.  Justine Hastings, an economics professor at  Brown
University , testified for the state today in New Hampshire that
she used tax records and company reports to the government to
determine how much gasoline ExxonMobil sold there from 1988 to
2005. The state expects to use market share information in
seeking damages if the company is found liable.  New Hampshire said it could cost about $818 million to
test, monitor and clean up its groundwater. Based on its market
share estimate of 30 percent for ExxonMobil, it might ask the
jury for an award of $245 million.  Cross-examining Hastings, ExxonMobil lawyer Deborah Barnard
said she should have used refinery data for the market share
estimate instead of the methods she used. Barnard reminded her
that when questioned by lawyers before the trial she had said
refinery information was a possible method of calculation.  Hastings said in court she provided a refinery-data
estimate of 6.9 percent for the jury to look at, then rejected
that figure because it didn’t accurately represent market share.  “Gasoline is co-mingled, and it can’t be traced from a
refinery to an endpoint,” Hastings said. “If you tried to
measure how many molecules come from a refinery to an endpoint,
there’s no data to base that measurement on.”  Federal Regulations  ExxonMobil has argued in court that it isn’t liable for
damage because it added methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, to
gasoline to comply with federal regulations, which pre-empt
state law.  Oil companies  added MTBE to make gasoline burn more
thoroughly in order to reduce air pollution, as required under
the 1990  Clean Air Act .  In testimony for the state yesterday, Duane Bordvick, who
worked at oil refiner Tosco Corp., said his company made MTBE-
free gasoline in  California  that met  Clean Air Act  requirements
as early as 1999. Tosco is now a unit of  ConocoPhillips (COP)  Co.  Bruce Burke, an oil refinery expert, testified that ethanol
could have been used in place of MTBE.  “Refiners could have used ethanol instead of MTBE back in
the 80s when decisions were being made,” Burke, a senior vice
president of consulting for Nexant Inc., said.  Engine Damage  ExxonMobil lawyer William Stack said ethanol wasn’t a good
choice as a gasoline additive because at that time it wasn’t in
adequate enough supply and also because it caused damage to
engines.  The company has also argued that the state was aware of the
risks of MTBE when it agreed to participate in a federal clean-
air program.  MTBE, which New Hampshire banned as of January 2007,
is highly soluble in water and can be carried great distances
from where it leaked. It leaked from gas stations, vehicle
junkyards, underground  storage tanks  and pipe fittings, the
state said.  ExxonMobil is the last defendant in the state’s case. Citgo
Petroleum Corp. filed a $16 million settlement agreement with
the state on Feb. 15.  New Hampshire had received more than $100 million in
settlements from defendants before Citgo settled, according to
court papers.  Suits Consolidated  Besides ExxonMobil and Citgo, New Hampshire also sued Shell
Oil Co., Sunoco Inc., ConocoPhillips, Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA
and Hess Corp. All settled before the trial began except
ExxonMobil and Citgo.  This is one of scores of cases involving MTBE filed since
2000 against oil refiners, fuel distributors and chemical
makers. MTBE lawsuits have been consolidated in federal court in
 New York  for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions.  In 2009, a federal jury ordered ExxonMobil to pay  New York
City  $104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells
in the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  The New Hampshire trial began Jan. 14. The state said it
expects to rest its case tomorrow. ExxonMobil would then present
its case.  The case is New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  