-- Fairfax Profit Surges After Selling Stake in Trade Me
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-02-21T05:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/fairfax-profit-surges-after-selling-stake-in-trade-me-1-.html
Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) ,  Australia ’s
second-largest newspaper publisher, said first-half profit rose
fourfold after a gain from selling its stake in auction website
 Trade Me Ltd. (TME)   Net income in the six months ended December rose to A$386.3
million ($395 million), most of it generated by asset sales,
from A$97 million a year earlier, Sydney-based Fairfax said in a
statement today. Excluding such gains, profit fell 39 percent to
A$83 million.  Fairfax sold Trade Me to cut debt and focus on its
publishing business, which will next month convert the Sydney
Morning Herald and Age broadsheets to tabloids. The company will
start charging online readers to offset what it has called a
“structural decline” in newspapers.  “The economic environment continues to be stressed,”
Fairfax said in today’s statement. “A sustained improvement in
consumer sentiment is required in order to see an uplift in a
number of our key advertising categories.”  Fairfax shares fell 2.8 percent to 53 Australian cents at
the close in Sydney, trimming this year’s advance to 3.9
percent. The S&P/ASX 200 Index has risen 7.1 percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer Greg Hywood last year wrote down
the value of mastheads by A$2.8 billion and started firing 1,800
workers and closing print sites to end losses. Fairfax today
posted a one-time profit of A$283.5 million on the sale of its
remaining 51 percent stake in Trade Me for A$616 million.  Group sales fell 7.1 percent to A$1.1 billion in the six-
month period, Fairfax said. Revenue at Metro Media, which
includes the Sydney Morning Herald, fell 7.4 percent, while
sales at the publisher’s regional unit declined 5.8 percent.  Largest Shareholder  The company’s ability to cut costs and set up pay barriers
for the digital versions of its newspapers will be “key share
price drivers”, Samantha Carleton, an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Sydney, said in a Feb. 4 note to clients.  The company also publishes the Australian Financial Review.  Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman, is Fairfax’s biggest
shareholder, owning a 15 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. She failed in June to get a seat on the
board for herself after disagreeing on conditions including
signing Fairfax’s  Charter of Editorial Independence .  News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ,
is Australia’s biggest newspaper publisher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  