-- Fed to Test Using Smaller Broker-Dealers as Counterparties
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-02-20T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/fed-to-test-allowing-smaller-broker-dealers-as-counterparties.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York
said it will test allowing “small broker-dealers” to act as
counterparties in sales and purchases of Treasuries for the
central bank’s portfolio.  The New York Fed will conduct a one-year pilot program that
will let as many as five companies participate, the regional
reserve bank said in a statement today. Firms will only be able
to partake in permanent open-market  operations  for Treasuries.  “The Treasury Operations Counterparty Pilot Program is
being launched as a way for the New York Fed to continue to
explore the effectiveness and feasibility of expanding
operations to a broader range of counterparties,” the  statement 
said. “The length of the program should not be viewed as
providing any information about the stance of monetary policy.”  Firms eligible for the program announced today would have
to possess net regulatory capital of $1 million to $50 million,
and a minimum total owners’ equity of $1 million, according to
the Fed statement. The dealers selected will be listed on the
New York Fed’s website.  “In theory there is nothing wrong with it,” said  Jim Bianco , president of Bianco Research in Chicago. “The positives
are more liquidity and a deeper pool to deal with in the
Treasury market.”  Open-Market Operations  The Fed has bought more than $2.3 trillion of debt since
2008 through several rounds of quantitative easing aimed at
keeping long-term interest rates low to stimulate the economy.
Currently, in what has been dubbed QE3, the central bank is
buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt a month. The
Fed holds more than $1.7 trillion in  Treasuries  in its System
Open Market Account.  Firms in the pilot program won’t be guaranteed
participation in permanent open-market operations, which the
purchases of Treasuries through its QE3 are considered a part
of, according to the statement. At this time, only primary
dealers are offering Treasuries to the Fed during its regular
debt purchases. The Fed is expected by analysts at some point to
sell securities, which would be though a permanent open market
operation, as a way to reduce the size of its balance sheet.  Minutes from the Fed’s January policy meeting released
today showed several policy makers said the central bank should
be ready to vary the pace of monthly bond purchases amid a
debate over the risks and benefits of further QE.  Fed Unwind  Even with the continued monetary expansion, Fed policy
makers led by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have also been
considering how to withdraw the unprecedented amounts of cash
they have pumped into the financial system to combat the deepest
recession since the 1930s. Along with raising their benchmark 
overnight bank lending rate , Fed officials have said they may
use tools including reverse repos and increasing the interest
rates it pays on banks’ excess reserves, and debt sales to
eventually withdraw or neutralize cash in the banking system.  The Fed has since 2010 been expanding its tri-party reverse
repo counterparties, to shore up its ability to drain liquidity
from the banking sector when it reverses course on monetary
easing. The Fed’s tri-party reverse repo counterparties, which
historically were solely primary dealers, now includes firms
such as money market mutual funds, government sponsored
agencies, banks and savings institutions. Reverse repos are
considered temporary open-market operations.  The Fed’s debt purchases since 2008 triggered a surge in
the excess bank reserves held by the central bank to  $1.58
trillion  from $2.4 billion at the end of 2007. The Fed pays
banks 0.25 percent interest on these excess reserves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas Gage  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  