-- Fletcher Falls as Weak Australia Offsets N.Z.: Wellington Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-02-20T01:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/fletcher-falls-as-weak-australia-offsets-n-z-wellington-mover.html
Fletcher Building Ltd ., New
Zealand’s biggest maker of construction products, fell the most
in 16 months after saying that robust local growth was being
offset by a sluggish Australian building market.  House-building in Auckland and earthquake-damaged
Christchurch helped boost New Zealand operating earnings by 31
percent in the first half, Fletcher said in a statement today.
Its equivalent Australian earnings dropped 12 percent, with
overall net income rising 1 percent. Fletcher shares fell as
much as 6.7 percent in Wellington, heading for their biggest
daily loss since Oct. 18, 2011.  “It was a little bit soft and the market’s been pricing in
a strong recovery,” said Nathan Zaia, an analyst at  Morningstar
Inc.  in Sydney. “They’ve still got a massive exposure in
Australia, which is pretty weak.”  Auckland-based Fletcher’s shares have  risen  36 percent over
the past year as investors bet on growth fueled by the
rebuilding of Christchurch, New Zealand’s third-largest city,
which was struck by a series of devastating earthquakes starting
in September 2010. Building volumes in Australia were likely to
remain weak with no improvement foreseen in the second half, the
company said.  Fletcher’s shares fell 47 cents, or 5.3 percent, to NZ$8.85
at 1:43 p.m. in Wellington.  Operating earnings for Crane Group, the Australian company
that Fletcher bought in 2011 for A$797 million ($825 million),
fell 26 percent in the first half. That was driven by lower
earnings in the Australian distribution units, according to the
statement. Crane’s New Zealand revenue rose by 27 percent.  “In recent years, Australia has had an unprecedented
economic boom,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Adamson  said on a
conference call with reporters. “It is unique, certainly in the
20 years I can track back to, that the New Zealand economy is
more favorable than the Australia economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  