-- Scott Backs Obama Medicaid Expansion in Florida Reversal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/florida-s-scott-said-to-agree-to-medicaid-expansion-in-reversal.html
Florida Governor  Rick Scott  supports
expanding Medicaid in his state under President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law, at least while the federal government pays for
it, a reversal of the Republican’s previous position.  Scott said yesterday in Tallahassee that he’ll ask state
lawmakers to back the expansion. After the U.S. Supreme Court
upheld the law in June, Scott said he wouldn’t expand Medicaid,
the health-care program for the poor, in Florida. Once Obama won
re-election in November, Scott said he was open to it.  He joins six other Republican governors who have agreed to
expand Medicaid in their states, according to a tally by the
Advisory Board Co., a research and consulting company in
 Washington . Scott and four party colleagues who are backing the
expansion --  John Kasich  of  Ohio ,  Susana Martinez  of  New Mexico ,
Brian Sandoval of  Nevada  and  Rick Snyder  of  Michigan  -- are up
for re-election in 2014.  Expanding Medicaid under the federal law would add 1.28
million Floridians to the program during the next 10 years,
according to a November 2012 report from the Kaiser Commission
on Medicaid and the Uninsured, a nonprofit research group.  Scott said he supports a “limited” expansion that would
last for three years, while the U.S. pays for the added cost.
That’s a reasonable time to judge the expansion and “a
compassionate, common-sense step forward,” he said.  No Surrender  “It is not a white flag of surrender to government-run
health care,” Scott said. The states split Medicaid costs with
the federal government.  Until 2017, the state won’t pay any of the cost of covering
people made newly eligible for the program. Thereafter, states
don’t have to pay more than 10 percent of the extra cost. The
Congressional Budget Office estimates the federal government’s
bill for the expansion will be about $638 billion through 2023.
The states will pay about $63 billion, according to the CBO.  In the minutes before Scott’s announcement, Tea Party
organizers urged activists to call and e-mail the governor’s
office asking him to oppose expanding Medicaid.  “He’s worried about his re-election,” Slade O’Brien,
 Florida  director for the Arlington, Virginia-based American’s
for Prosperity, said by e-mail. “We can’t let Governor Scott
put personal political ambition ahead of principled conservatism
and what’s right for Florida taxpayers.”  Scott, a former hospital industry executive, started his
political career by opposing Obama’s health law with a Tea Party
group, Conservatives for Patients Rights. He won the governor’s
office in November 2010 and is up for re-election next year.  ‘Studying It’  An estimated 3.35 million of Florida’s 19.1 million
residents already receive Medicaid, according to the state
legislature’s Office of Economic and Demographic Research.  To expand the program in Florida, state lawmakers must
agree to do it. State Senate President Don Gaetz of Niceville
and Speaker Will Weatherford of the state House of
Representatives, both Republicans, said in interviews that
they’re undecided.  “We’re looking at it and we’re studying it, but there’s a
lot of skepticism,” said Weatherford, of Wesley Chapel.  Obama’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which
passed Congress in early 2010 without a single Republican vote,
may extend insurance over the next decade to about 27 million
people who don’t have it. The  Congressional Budget Office 
estimates that 8 million more people will be covered by Medicaid
next year because of the expansion, which raises income limits
for eligibility.  Expansion in Florida would cost the federal government an
estimated $66.1 billion during the next 10 years, according to
the Kaiser report. The state’s cost during that time would be
about $5.36 billion, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 