-- Former Fortis Managers Charged With Misleading Investors
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2013-02-20T13:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/former-fortis-managers-charged-with-misleading-investors-1-.html
Seven former managers of Fortis were
charged in Belgium with misleading investors during the
financial crisis in 2007 and 2008, potentially opening the gates
to civil claims for damages against the executives.  The Brussels prosecutor’s office referred the seven
individuals, who were not named, to the criminal court because
they failed to inform investors of potential subprime losses
starting from the bank’s 13.4 billion-euro ($17.9 billion)
rights offer in September 2007 to fund its part in the purchase
of ABN Amro Holding NV.  “According to the law, they had to inform the investors
about the fact that Fortis Bank was very exposed to the subprime
crisis and they didn’t,” Jean-Marc Meilleur, a spokesman for
the prosecutor’s office, said today in Brussels.  Today’s charges are another legal triumph for Fortis
shareholders who suffered losses following the collapse of what
was once Belgium’s largest financial-services company. A Dutch
court last April ruled that the management failed to respond in
a timely way to worsening market conditions and didn’t properly
inform investors about potential losses.  Fortis, now known as  Ageas , and Fortis Bank, now  BNP
Paribas Fortis , haven’t been charged in the case as Fortis’s
management was more to blame for misleading investors than the
company itself, Meilleur said. Under Belgian law, either a
company or its management may be charged, not both.  Criminal Court  The case will now go to a criminal court in Brussels, which
will decide whether to pursue the charges as laid out by the
prosecutor’s office. The court also will determine if the seven
charged should stand trial.  Ageas committed to cover  any damages  its former top
executives are found liable for, according to their 2008
termination agreements. Ageas is contesting those commitments in
a lawsuit filed in the Utrecht district court in the
Netherlands.  “Some of  these executives  will argue that they’re entitled
by Belgian law to be held harmless by the company,” Ageas Chief
Risk Officer  Kurt De Schepper  told reporters in Brussels today.
“The indemnity clauses cover legal expenses and some financial
expenses, but we contest the validity of the arrangements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Clapham  in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  