-- Fortescue Posts Lower Profit on Ore Prices, Scraps Dividend
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-20T06:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/fortescue-first-half-profit-declines-after-iron-ore-prices-drop.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. ,
Australia’s third-biggest iron ore producer, reported a 40
percent plunge in first-half profit because of lower commodity
prices and said it won’t pay a dividend. The shares fell.  Net income  slipped to $478 million in the six months to
Dec. 31 from $801 million a year earlier, the Perth-based
company said today in a statement. While no dividend will be
paid for the period, Fortescue will consider a full-year payout,
it said. The earnings compare with the median estimate of $476
million from three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and a
 Bloomberg forecast  of 4 cents a share interim payout.  Fortescue, which raised $5 billion in new loans four months
ago, slashed spending, sold assets and cut jobs in September
after iron ore prices dropped to a three-year low of $86.70 a
metric ton. Prices have since recovered to $158 yesterday on
signs of economic recovery in China, the biggest consumer of
industrial metals.  Fortescue  dropped 5 percent, its biggest decline in five
months, to A$4.92 at the close of trading in Sydney. The stock
trimmed its gain for the year to 5.8 percent.  “The result doesn’t look good on a short-term view,” Evan
Lucas, a strategist at IG Markets Ltd., said by phone from
Melbourne. “Last year iron ore prices were pretty low and
that’s really taken a big chunk of their profit.”  The decision to scrap the dividend will “disappoint
shareholders -- there’s no doubt about that,” he said.  Dividend Outlook  Any full-year dividend will depend on the strength of iron
ore prices, production and proceeds from any asset sales,
Fortescue said today. Over time, the company will aim to pay 30
percent to 40 percent of profits as dividend, it said.  Iron ore prices  averaged 27 percent lower during the six
months to Dec. 31 at about $116 a ton, compared with the
previous year, data from The Steel Index Ltd. shows. Iron ore
may fall 35 percent by the year-end after advancing to $170 a
metric ton in the first half as mines in China boost production,
cutting import demand in the world’s largest buyer, according to
Westpac Banking Corp.  “Earnings were significantly impacted by a decrease in the
global iron ore price,” Fortescue said in today’s statement.
“Despite challenging market conditions during the half, we have
delivered record operational performance.”  Prices will stay above $120 a ton over the longer term amid
sustained demand from China and a constrained supply from
countries such as India, Chief Executive Officer  Neville Power 
said on a conference call after the result.  Capacity Boost  Fortescue shipped 35.7 million tons of ore in the half-
year. The company is on schedule to boost annual output capacity
to 155 million tons by the end of 2013, Power said.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest iron ore
exporter, said last week it sees the positive momentum that
developed in the fourth quarter last year being sustained into
2013. Rio reported full-year underlying earnings of $9.3 billion
that beat analyst expectations.  BHP Billiton Ltd., which today named copper unit head
Andrew Mackenzie as chief executive officer to succeed Marius
Kloppers, reported a 58 percent decline in first-half profit to
$4.2 billion, missing the $5.6 billion median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fortescue is seeking to sell a minority stake in its rail
and port operations in Western Australia, valued at as much as
$4 billion, according to CIMB Securities (Australia) Ltd. The
company has started the sale process and received “strong
interest” from a number of strategic and financial investors,
Fortescue said, adding that a deal could be concluded by the end
of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  