-- France Telecom Profit Falls on $2.5 Billion Impairment Costs
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-02-20T15:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/france-telecom-profit-plunges-on-2-5-billion-impairment-charges.html
France Telecom SA , the former French
phone monopoly fighting discounters at home, said a 1.84
billion-euro ($2.5 billion) writedown on units in Poland, Egypt
and Romania dragged down its 2012 profit.  Full-year net income fell to 820 million euros on the
impairment of assets, compared with 3.9 billion euros a year
earlier, and sales fell 3.9 percent to 43.5 billion euros, the
Paris-based carrier said today in a statement.  “We don’t expect 2013 to be particularly easy,” Chief
Executive Officer  Stephane Richard  said at a press conference.
“Our ambition is to create value with new services and speedier
transfers -- those are some of the ways to exit the low cost
spiral that we’ve been thrown into in France and some other
markets for more than a year.”  Iliad SA’s Free and Vivendi SA’s SFR unit have slashed
prices to win French customers while France Telecom has bet on
speedier mobile-phone packages to charge more. Such a strategy
has so far proved fruitful for U.S. carriers by boosting phone
bills. The carrier stabilized its market share in France in the
fourth quarter, at 37.3 percent of the mobile market, despite
aggressive price cuts by its rivals.  France Telecom shares fell 2.3 percent to 7.55 euros at
3:32 p.m. in Paris after rising as much as 3.5 percent.  France Telecom confirmed operating cash flow -- earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization restated
for some items, minus capital expenditures -- will be more than
7 billion euros this year, down from 8 billion euros in 2012.
The company will stick to its plan to save cash with an 80-cent
dividend for 2012 and 2013 to help maintain its  debt profile .  Price Wars  “We’re less optimistic than we were a few months ago about
seeing price wars end in France,” Chief Financial Officer
 Gervais Pellissier  said during a conference call today. “We’re
confirming our operating cash flow will stabilize or rebound in
2014 on the back of better revenue outside of France and cost
cuts in France.”  France Telecom, which has said it will look at what assets
it can sell to finance any acquisition opportunities, reached an
agreement this month to sell its 20 percent stake in Portuguese
unit Sonaecom SGPS SA to its holding company. The sale should
bring in 100 million euros in cash, Pellissier said today.
TeliaSonera AB’s Yoigo unit in Spain is among the assets France
Telecom has said it’s interested in buying.  EE IPO  France Telecom and partner Deutsche Telekom AG are weighing
an initial public offering of a minority stake in their EE
wireless venture in the U.K., Pellissier has said.  “We’re looking at putting a small part of EE, maybe 15 or
20 percent, on the market at the end of 2013 or beginning of
next year,” Pellissier said. “Depending on British market
conditions as well as EE’s first-half earnings, we’ll judge
whether an IPO is fit.”  EE, the first operator to introduce speedier 4G mobile
service in the U.K., last month cut its prices ahead of an
auction that will make the technology available to competitors.
The unit yesterday said its mobile service revenue fell 3.9
percent in the fourth quarter.  Pellissier said in December France Telecom’s market
valuation, of about 20 billion euros, is excessively low and
doesn’t accurately reflect either its earnings projections or
its ability to generate cash.  Poland  The Paris-based company’s 889 million-euro Poland
impairment accounted for the bulk of the cost. France Telecom-
controlled  Telekomunikacja Polska SA , Poland’s largest carrier,
cut its dividend plan this month for the second time in four
months after fourth-quarter profit and revenue slumped.  France Telecom isn’t alone among European phone companies
struggling with wireless rivalries and fewer fixed-line
customers. Teleco SpA wrote down its stake in Telecom Italia SpA
by about 900 million euros, according to a person familiar with
the matter yesterday, the fourth reduction in four years for
Italy’s biggest phone company. In November, Deutsche Telekom AG
reported a 7.4 billion-euro writedown on its T-Mobile USA unit.
That same month, Vodafone Group Plc took a 5.9 billion-pound
writedown on assets in Italy and Spain.  Shares of France Telecom, the worst performer on France’s
CAC 40 Index last year, fell 32.4 percent during the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  