-- French Factory Confidence Climbs on Outlook for Global Recovery
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-02-20T07:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/french-factory-confidence-climbs-on-outlook-for-global-recovery.html
French industrial confidence climbed
in February as executives looked to improving global demand to
lift orders in the months ahead.  Sentiment  among factory executives rose to 90 from 87 in
January, national statistics office Insee said today in a
statement from Paris. Economists had expected a reading of 87,
the median of 19 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  The increase suggests conditions may be improving for
businesses after the French economy dipped into  recession  last
year and shrank more in the fourth quarter than in any other
since 2009. Even so, the industrial confidence index remains
below the average reading of 96 set over the past six years as
President  Francois Hollande  struggles to cut the budget deficit
and revive growth in the wake of Europe’s financial crisis.  “We expect France to continue to stagnate in 2013,” said
 Pierre-Olivier Beffy , chief economist at Exane BNP Paribas in
London. “The euro zone should improve gradually from the second
quarter” though “domestic demand will be hampered by fiscal
austerity, which will remove 0.8 percent of household purchasing
power for the whole year.”  Hollande told journalists yesterday in Athens that France
will set new 2013 growth and deficit forecasts next month after
the European Commission publishes its own estimates on Feb. 22.
Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said the government is looking
for extra spending cuts to help trim the deficit to close to 3
percent of gross domestic product from 4.5 percent in 2012.  The lackluster outlook contrasts with neighboring Germany,
whose export-oriented economy is reaping the full benefits of an
upsurge in demand from the U.S. and Asia.  German investor
confidence  jumped more than economists forecast in February to
the highest in almost three years, the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  