-- French Coal Gas Could Meet Demand for a Decade, Montebourg Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-20T13:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/french-coal-gas-could-meet-demand-for-a-decade-montebourg-says.html
Coal-gas reserves in northern France
may be sufficient to meet domestic demand for as long as 10
years, boosting the competitiveness of the country’s factories,
according to Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg .  “It’s accessible gas,” Montebourg said at a parliamentary
hearing in Paris. “Initial estimates indicate there are between
five and 10 years of our national natural-gas consumption.”  Commercial production of coal gas, which is methane that
can be used for energy, may help buoy French fuel output at a
time when shale drilling remains banned. Montebourg, a long-time
proponent of domestic oil and gas production, has advocated
pumping methane from defunct coal mines and sees coal-gas
development as one way of keeping a lid on energy price gains.  “This isn’t anecdotal; it’s worth looking into,”
Montebourg told lawmakers yesterday. “We have to ask ourselves
questions about our ability to remain attractive on energy
prices for big industrial users. Coal gas would help to finance
our industrial competitiveness.”  European Gas Ltd., an Australian explorer holding permits
in northeastern France, said last May it conducted a successful
gas flow test in Lorraine, a former coal-mining region. The
results indicate “commerciality,” it said.  Other energy companies have been less enthusiastic, saying
coal-gas production may not be economically viable.  Not Commercial  “It’s not a macroeconomic subject” for France,  Total SA 
Chief Executive Officer  Christophe de Margerie  said last week.
France’s coal-gas potential is “not on the same scale” as
shale gas, according to the CEO, who said Total “looked at it a
few times and decided that it was not worth the effort.”  Coal gas can be released by drilling vertical wells with
multiple horizontal branches, according to European Gas. Flow
rates depend on the natural fractures present in the coal, it
said.  It may be possible to extract more than 10 billion cubic
meters of methane from the northern coal beds, French energy
think-tank IFP Energies Nouvelles said in a  report  last month.
Even so, proven reserves are only about 865 million cubic meters
so far, the report shows. Annual French natural-gas consumption
is about 50 billion cubic meters.  “It hasn’t yet been shown whether coal gas in Lorraine can
be commercially developed,” said  Jean-Louis Schilansky , the
head of French oil and gas lobby  Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres . “A lot of drilling is required and it only works
in places where conditions are just right. It’s not profitable
everywhere.”  Northern France’s coal gas could alleviate reliance on
imports, according to Montebourg, who also supported a reversal
of the ban on shale drilling before President  Francois Hollande 
decided to keep the moratorium in September. “I prefer to
produce it than import it,” Montebourg said. “It’s ‘Made in
France’ gas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  