-- Gardner Denver Sale Said to Falter Amid Management Reluctance
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/gardner-denver-sale-said-to-falter-amid-management-reluctance.html
Two bidders have walked away from
 Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  because the company was slow to assist them
with due diligence as they pursued the industrial-equipment
maker, said people with knowledge of the situation.  A joint offer by  Onex Corp. (OCX)  and TPG Capital and a separate
bid from Advent International Corp. were withdrawn in part
because the firms wanted more information and more time to study
the company than management would allow, said one of the people,
who asked not to be named because the process is private.  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  meanwhile hasn’t decided if it will make a bid by today’s
deadline, another person said.  Gardner Denver said in October it had hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to help it find a buyer and invited interest from
buyout firms after talks with rival SPX Corp. collapsed in
December. While SPX planned to offer about $85 a share, early
bids from private-equity firms were for about $73 to $75 a
share, people familiar with the situation have said. Wayne,
Pennsylvania-based Gardner Denver has sought bids from private-
equity firms for about $78, people have said.  Vikram Kini, a spokesman for Gardner Denver, and Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, didn’t return calls
seeking comment. Caroline Luz, a spokeswoman for TPG at Owen
Blicksilver Public Relations, and Emma Thompson, a spokeswoman
for Onex, didn’t return calls seeking comment. A representative
for Advent didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Compressors, Pumps  Gardner Denver fell 3.5 percent to $66.58 yesterday in  New
York , for a market capitalization of about $3.3 billion. The
company makes compressors, pumps and other products for
industries including manufacturing and energy exploration.  While some of the private-equity firms wanted to hire
consultants to look at Gardner Denver before proceeding, they
were also wary of making that investment only to learn that
management wanted more than they were willing to pay, said the
people familiar with the matter.  Larsen was named permanent CEO in November. He was given
the job on an interim basis in July after former CEO Barry Pennypacker left the company.  Pennypacker’s departure was one of the reasons cited by San
Francisco-based activist investment fund ValueAct Capital
Management LLC when it encouraged the board to sell the company
in July. ValueAct is the  third-largest shareholder  in Gardner
Denver with 5.1 percent of the stock as of Dec. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  