-- Geek Park Lures Google’s Schmidt in China App Hunt: Tech
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-20T22:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/geek-park-lures-google-s-schmidt-in-china-app-hunt-tech.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
picked a Beijing gathering of 3,000 “geeks” for his first
public appearance in  China  in three years as he tries to reach
out to the nation’s top applications developers.  The billionaire’s talk, given after last month’s visit to
 North Korea , highlighted how forums known as  Geek Park  have
become the epicenter of China’s Internet sector, attracting
companies, developers and investors looking for a piece of the
world’s biggest online market. The two-day event, similar to
“TED Talks,” also included executives from startups,  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. (QIHU) , Baidu Inc. and Sohu.com Inc.  “This is the place to go,” said Xiong Weiming, a partner
at Beijing-based venture capital fund China Growth Capital, who
attended Schmidt’s talk. “It’s the quickest way to understand
who to meet and what to ask.”  Google closed its mainland China search engine in 2010
because of a censorship dispute and began redirecting users to a
Hong Kong-based site. The  Mountain View , California-based
company also shut a Chinese shopping service in December, three
months after announcing the closure of the local version of
Google Music Search.  The company does have a large presence in China through its
Android operating system, which runs two-thirds of the
smartphones sold there annually.  Sharing Ideas  Geek Park has held about 40 forums since 2010, when founder
Zhang Peng decided China needed events to help developers share
ideas, find funding and create products for the nation’s online
market. China has about 564 million  Internet users , or more than
the combined population of the U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico .  “We wanted to create something that would encourage more
people to innovate, to feel proud about it, and that would be a
platform for communication,” said Zhang, who was previously a
reporter for a local technology magazine. “There used to be a
lot of copycats in China and not enough innovators.”  Geek Park events are usually held in a convention center in
east Beijing’s  Chaoyang Park . The organizer, Beijing Wen De Zhi
 Yuan  Culture Communication Co., also publishes magazines and
does industry research.  The free forums are targeted at product managers,
developers and investors. Presenters are encouraged to talk
about the inspiration for their products and how they developed
them, rather than just explaining what the application does,
said Jason Ng, the events’ director of operations.  Mystery Speaker  “We want to ensure the people who come to our forums are
professionals who will shape the industry,” Ng said. “It’s not
uncommon to have people sitting and lying on the floor, even
standing outside the conference room to hear the speeches.”  The talks, which are open to the public and posted online,
have also included subjects such as the challenges for startups
and how social media is transforming the  music industry .  “I really appreciate Geek Park,” said Zhou Hongyi,
chairman of Qihoo, a Beijing-based antivirus company listed in
 New York . “China needs such a forum to gather together many
little geeks, product managers and early startups to discuss and
share their experiences.”  Geek Park billed Schmidt as a “mystery speaker from a
global  Internet company ” before his appearance. At the  event ,
he spoke for about an hour, mainly about Google’s Android
operating system as he tried to persuade developers to write
applications for the platform.  Wearing a dark jacket and tie, Schmidt also answered
questions about Google’s mobile strategy, how to deal with
copycats and users’ frustrations with the slow speed of Gmail in
China.  “The Geek Park event offered a great forum for Eric to
connect with some of China’s incredibly talented developers and
entrepreneurs, which are communities he is passionate about,”
said Taj Meadows, a spokesman for Google in  Tokyo .  Surging Growth  China is luring Internet investors as surging economic
growth boosts online spending. The nation’s online-retail
transactions are projected to more than double to 2.57 trillion
yuan ($411 billion) by 2015 from an expected 1.22 trillion yuan
last year, according to Analysys International, a Beijing-based
researcher.  U.S. e-commerce spending rose 15 percent last year to
$186.2 billion, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   The government has strengthened assistance for startups,
and set a goal of boosting the number of technology incubator
companies to 1,500 by 2015 from 896 in 2010, according to a
 statement .  Mentorship, Funds  Microsoft Corp. plans to incubate 100 companies a year in
China, Zhang Ya-qin, chairman of the Redmond, Washington-based
company’s Asia-Pacific R&D Group said at a conference in
 Singapore  yesterday.  “We actually provide the space, the technology,
mentorship, access to funds,” Zhang said. “In Beijing, we
tried that about six months ago, we hosted 10 companies. When
the talent graduated, we brought in another 20.”  China’s vocational schools and universities recruited 1.6
million information-technology students in 2010, according to
the latest numbers available on the Ministry of Education’s
 website .  While China’s technology workforce has shown innovation,
the country has fallen short in execution and in creating
methods for turning ideas into profit, according to Garry Wang,
the founder of local online video-site Tudou.com.  “The ecosystem is definitely not as strong as Silicon
Valley,” he said at the conference in Singapore. “We don’t
have as robust a financing system in place -- we don’t have a
good way of bringing companies public and getting mergers
done.”  Investor Link  Geek Park has eased this process by creating a link between
developers and investors, said  Zhu Feng , co-founder of  JooMe ,
who gave a presentation on the second day of the January forum.
His startup company encourages users to share wireless Internet
connections in return for incentives.  “It used to be quite hard for startups and investors to
meet,” said Zhu, 34. “Geek Park is much more transparent and
efficient.”  Zhu’s  presentation  attracted the interest of China Growth’s
Xiong, and his fund is now in the final stage of talks about
investing in the Tianjin-based startup.  More advanced companies also speak at Geek Park, which
makes it useful for mid-to-late phase investors, said Xiong, who
has friends in  Taiwan  who fly in especially for the events.
China Growth’s previous investments include goumin.com, the
nation’s biggest social network for dog owners, and micro-lender
CreditEase, according to the fund’s  website .  Geek Park “is a really good opportunity to communicate,”
Xiong said. “People in this circle all want to know what the
trends in China’s tech industry are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  