-- Ginga Explorer Hedge Fund Bets on Japanese Builders on Abe Hopes
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2013-02-20T00:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/ginga-explorer-hedge-fund-bets-on-japanese-builders-on-abe-hopes.html
Ginga Explorer Fund , a Japan-focused
hedge fund run by Stats Investment Management Co., is focusing
on  construction  stocks on expectations new stimulus measures
will revive the domestic economy and boost demand.  Ginga returned 9.3 percent in January after a 23 percent
gain in 2012, said  Masamitsu Ohki , who manages the fund. The
performance helped lure 1 billion yen ($11 million) in new
allocations from investors this month, helping bring back the
assets to 2.1 billion yen after Tokyo-based Stats was punished
over negligent management of a pension fund in October, he said.  The nation’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has
advanced to the highest  level  since September 2008 this month as
investors became more optimistic that new Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  will accelerate efforts to fight deflation. The government’s
plan to boost public works as part of 10.3 trillion stimulus
package will benefit firms that pave roads and lend construction
equipment, Ohki said.  “It’s possible the market is at its peak now,” Ohki, a
former financial analyst at firms including Deutsche Bank AG for
11 years through 2009, said in an interview in Tokyo on Feb. 15.
“I should pick stocks that are less vulnerable to the yen’s
swings.”  Ginga’s returns compare with the Eurekahedge Japan Index’s
5.2 percent increase last month and a 6.4 percent gain in 2012.  Ohki is betting that Abe’s Cabinet will maintain its
support for the economy at least until the middle of this year
when upper-house elections will be held.  The Nikkei jumped 7.2 percent in January, led by exporters
including  Sony Corp . and  Mazda Motor Corp ., as the yen touched
the weakest since May 2010 against the dollar, helping boost the
value of their overseas earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  