-- Gleacher Sees Revenue Crimped as Credit Unit Loses 20 People
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-02-20T15:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/gleacher-sees-revenue-crimped-as-credit-unit-loses-20-people-2-.html
Gleacher & Co. , the unprofitable
investment bank suffering defections after it decided not to
seek a merger, said 20 people left its credit-products division
and that revenue will probably fall as it seeks replacements.  “While these departures are likely to have, at least in
the short term, an adverse impact on the company’s revenues, the
magnitude and duration of this impact cannot be estimated at
this time,” the New York-based firm said today in a regulatory
filing.  The division provides analysis, sales and trading on high-
yield and investment-grade credit securities, among other
services, according to the filing. Gleacher will seek to replace
departed employees from the unit’s 73 remaining members and
through recruiting, it said.  Led by Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Hughes , Gleacher has
slid 27 percent to 69 cents at 9:35 a.m. after announcing Feb.
15 that it won’t seek to sell itself or merge with another
company. A junk-bond sales team including five brokers and two
analysts defected as the decision was made public, with members
of the group telling colleagues they’re joining Milwaukee-based
Robert W. Baird & Co., people with knowledge of the matter said
at the time.  ClearPoint Unit  Gleacher, which had been exploring a possible acquisition
since last year, had a 2012 loss of $78 million from continuing
operations. The firm will sell its ClearPoint mortgage unit to
Ocwen Financial Corp. after ruling out a merger or sale of the
whole company.  Gleacher bolstered its credit-brokering business in 2008
and 2009 as souring mortgages forced the biggest banks to lower
inventories and curb the amount of money they devoted to
facilitate debt trading.  Hughes became CEO in May 2011, taking over a firm that had
posted losses in four of the previous five years and had
expanded by 65 percent to 348 employees in the three years ended
2010.  Hughes joined after spending more than two decades on Wall
Street, heading mortgage-backed securities trading at Merrill
Lynch & Co. starting in 1997 before going on to Deutsche Asset
Management, where he was CEO, according to an April 21 release
from Gleacher.  ‘Client Relationships’  He brought in  John Griff , who worked with him at Merrill
Lynch, in 2011 to be chief operating officer. In January 2012,
he hired  Geoffrey Coley , a former co-head of fixed-income
trading at Citigroup Inc., to “expand the firm’s current and
prospective client relationships,” Gleacher said in a statement
at the time.  “We actually are attempting to grow our business and
again, build-off of our strengths,” Hughes said in a Feb. 9,
2012, call with investors. “We continue to recruit aggressively
against our investment banking, fixed income and the other
important divisions.”  Later that month,  Joseph Mannello  departed as head of
corporate credit and Coley took over the role, according to a
statement from the firm at the time. Mannello had joined
Gleacher in 2008 along with a high-yield bond team from BNY
Capital Markets Inc., Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
records show.  Net Losses  Coley was CEO of Chapdelaine Credit Partners until that
firm’s credit arm collapsed in January 2011. He then headed
fixed income at Citadel LLC’s securities unit before it
shuttered its equity-research group and investment bank later
that year.  In April, Rob Fine, head of the firm’s mortgage backed
securities and rates group, and  Robert Tirschwell , who had
headed that unit’s trading, departed.  The number of employees has declined 28 percent to 250
people since the end of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and confirmed by Gleacher last week in a conference
call. The company has posted combined net losses of $180.4
million in the three years ended December, the  data  show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  