-- Gold Posts Longest Slump in 13 Months; Silver Tumbles
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-02-20T20:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/gold-trades-near-six-month-low-on-signs-of-economic-improvement.html
Gold fell, capping the longest slump
since December 2011, as economic concerns eased in the U.S.,
eroding demand for the metal as an investment hedge. Silver
tumbled to a six-month low.  U.S. housing-starts data today signaled that construction
may add to an economic rebound this year. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of equities has gained 6.9 percent this year, while
gold has dropped 5.8 percent. Billionaire investor George Soros
cuts his stake in exchange-traded products backed by the metal,
government filings showed last week. Bullion extended declines
after minutes from a Federal Reserve policy meeting showed some
officials said the central bank should vary its asset purchases.  “The gold bugs have been obliterated,”  James Dailey , who
manages $215 million at TEAM Financial Asset Management LLC in
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview. “The
perception about the global economy has changed, and people are
moving to riskier assets.”  Gold futures for April delivery fell 1.6 percent to settle
at $1,578 an ounce at 1:44 p.m. on the Comex in New York. The
price dropped for the fifth straight session, the longest slump
since Dec. 29, 2011.  In after-hours electronic trading, prices reached
$1,558.10, the lowest for a most-active contract since July 12.  Fed officials “emphasized that the committee should be
prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases, either in response
to changes in the economic outlook or as its evaluation of the
efficacy and costs of such purchases evolved,” according to the
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Jan. 29-30
meeting released today in Washington. The FOMC at its January
meeting decided to continue buying $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases.  ‘Easy Money’  “The implication is that they are planning to step back,
and that is not good news for gold as easy money will not be
available,”  Michael Gayed , the chief investment strategist at
New York-based Pension Partners LLC, which advises on $190
million in assets, said in a telephone interview.  The S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities slumped as much
as 1.6 percent today amid speculation that a hedge fund was
selling raw materials.  “There is unfounded speculation about a U.K.-based broker
or hedge fund under duress forced to close out commodities
positions,”  Edward Lashinski , director of global strategy and
trading at RBC Capital Markets in New York, said in a report.  Builders broke ground in January on the most U.S. single-
family homes in more than four years and permits for future
construction rose, Commerce Department figures showed today.  Stimulus ‘Pressure’  “The economic data is telling us that the economy is
definitely showing signs of improvement,”  Vedant Mimani,  a
portfolio manager at Atyant Capital Management Ltd. in Miami,
said in a telephone interview. “A lot of sellers came in after
gold broke below the psychological $1,600 mark, and concern
about the end of stimulus is adding further pressure,”  Soros Fund Management LLC reduced its investment in the
SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest fund backed by the metal, by 55
percent in the fourth quarter from the third, government filings
showed on Feb. 14. Louis Moore Bacon’s Moore Capital Management
LP sold its entire stake and trimmed holdings in the Sprott
Physical Gold Trust.  Silver futures for March delivery tumbled 2.7 percent to
$28.622 an ounce on the Comex. Earlier, the price touched
$28.415, the lowest since Aug. 20.  Platinum futures for April delivery declined 3 percent to
$1,647.10 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
biggest drop since May 23.  Palladium futures for March delivery slumped 3.6 percent to
$736.40 an ounce, the biggest drop since Oct. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  