-- Grand Central Owner Opposes IPO of Empire State Building
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-02-21T20:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/grand-central-owner-opposes-ipo-of-empire-state-building.html
The owner of  Manhattan ’s Grand
Central Terminal is part of a legal battle against the
supervisors of the Empire State Building, teaming with investors
opposed to an initial public offering of the landmark tower.  Andrew Penson, who controls a company that bought the
terminal in 2006, filed two affidavits in support of a group of
Empire State Building investors trying to block a settlement of
a class-action lawsuit against Malkin Holdings LLC, which is
seeking to include the skyscraper in a real estate investment
trust that will go public. In the filings, Penson said the IPO
would inflict “vast harm” on the about 2,800 co-investors in
the Midtown tower whose votes the Malkins are soliciting.  Penson is among higher-profile investors in a dispute
between Malkin Holdings and a number of the unitholders in
Empire State Building Associates LLC, which owns the building.
The dissidents say disadvantages to a  REIT (BBREIT)  include the potential
loss of a reliable income stream that should rise as renovations
are finished, while the Malkins have said their proposal would
give investors liquidity and greater growth opportunities.  “You’ve got an awful lot of litigative real estate owners
in New York,” Lawrence Longua, an associate professor at New
York University’s Schack Institute of Real Estate, said in a
phone interview. “But they’re usually litigative with respect
to their tenants and brokers. To see this happening at this
level, if you will, I would use the word extraordinary,” he
said of Penson and Malkin.  Court Today  The plaintiffs in the class-action case on Jan. 18 asked
for preliminary approval of the settlement. The Penson group
filed a request on Jan. 28 asking for permission to intervene in
the case and to file a separate complaint. The next day, the
group objected to preliminary approval of the settlement.  A New York judge granted preliminary approval today, and
denied the motion by the investor group to intervene in the
case. He allowed them to argue a claim that a provision allowing
the buyout of investors who vote against the proposal for a
fraction of the value of their investment violates the state’s
limited liability company law.  Penson is a member of a limited liability company that owns
about 10 Empire State Building Associates units, he said in an
affidavit filed two days ago in the New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan. In that statement, he claimed Malkin Holdings
President Anthony Malkin listened in on a conference call with
about 450 investors and an attorney in the case, even after the
call’s coordinator requested that any representatives of the
family disconnect.  Listening In  “After the call concluded, Anthony Malkin called me,”
Penson said in the affidavit. “Among other things, he told me
he had listened in on the call.”  Penson declined to comment for this story.  Malkin didn’t listen to the call, nor did he “represent”
that he did, Hugh Burns, an outside spokesman for Malkin
Holdings with Sard Verbinnen & Co., said in an e-mailed
statement.  “However, Malkin Holdings is a large ESBA investor itself
and members of its management team act as agents for all ESBA
investors,” Burns said. “Therefore it is entirely appropriate
for representatives from Malkin Holdings to listen to ESBA
investor calls such as the one held Feb. 7, and they intend to
do so in the future.”  Penson, in an affidavit filed Jan. 28, called the proposed
class-action settlement “grossly unfair to participants of ESBA
such as myself.”  ‘Disgruntled Investors’  In an answer filed with the court and dated Feb. 8,
attorneys for Malkin said the motion by “six disgruntled
investors, including the sophisticated owner/operator Andrew
Penson” is “a publicity stunt, engineered by a handful of
investors who have campaigned against the transaction using
half-truths and outright lies. Apparently realizing that they
are likely to lose the current ongoing vote, they seek to
confuse the investors, delay the process and thwart an obviously
beneficial settlement.”  The unitholders in Empire State Building Associates hold
3,300 shares worth $323,803 or $358,670 each, depending on
certain conditions, according to the prospectus for the
transaction. The Malkins, in the prospectus, have asked them to
vote to approve the REIT by March 25. Voters representing 80
percent of the units must approve the plan for the IPO to
proceed.  Grand Central  A Penson-controlled company, Midtown Trackage Ventures LLC,
bought Grand Central Terminal in 2006 from companies holding the
assets of the bankrupt Penn Central Railroad. The terminal is
leased to New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority.  Penson’s investment firm, Argent Ventures LLC, controls
about 1.3 million square feet of transferable development
rights, which may become more valuable if a plan to allow for
taller skyscrapers in the Grand Central area becomes law. Argent
also owns Hollywood,  California ’s landmark Capitol Records
building and once owned a stake in New York’s Chrysler Building,
according to the company’s website.  The case is Meyers v.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) 
650607/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  