-- Grand Jury Probing Foreign Bank Accounts, U.S. Judge Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-20T05:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/grand-jury-investigating-foreign-bank-accounts-u-s-judge-says.html
A U.S. judge ordered five
unidentified taxpayers to turn over information about their
foreign bank accounts to a federal grand jury, rejecting
arguments they are shielded by the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act or a
constitutional right against self-incrimination.  U.S. District Judge  William Pauley  in Manhattan said
yesterday that a federal grand jury in 2010 began investigating
“whether each of the five subjects had a financial interest in
foreign bank accounts that they failed to disclose to the
Internal Revenue Service.”  In a victory for the government, Pauley said individuals
can’t assert a constitutional right against self-incrimination
and refuse to disclose bank records to a U.S grand jury.  “The subjects contend that these records are not
customarily kept by foreign bank account holders who wish their
accounts to remain secret,” Pauley said in his ruling. “But
they cite no authority for this proposition.”  “It is equally unacceptable for an American taxpayer to
profit from American markets, refuse to report that profit as
taxable income, and then claim that he cannot be held
accountable because he engineered his offshore account to be
secret,” Pauley said. “This court declines to credit such
sophistry.”  ‘All Records’  A preliminary investigation revealed that each of the five
had a financial interest in, or signature over, a foreign bank
account, Pauley said. The subpoenas seek “any and all records”
of bank or foreign accounts “in any foreign country” which
exceeded $10,000, he said.  The records sought include the name in which each account
is maintained, number of others tied to the account, the address
of the bank, and the maximum value of each such account, Pauley
said.  The judge yesterday directed that all responses filed by
the government and defense lawyers in the case, which began in
November, be filed under seal.  U.S. courts in three other jurisdictions have ruled that a
Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, or FBAR, is
governed by the U.S. “Required Records Doctrine” and a
taxpayer can’t assert a Fifth Amendment right against self-
incrimination.  Bank Secrecy  The Bank Secrecy Act, passed by Congress in 1970 to combat
money-laundering in the U.S., requires businesses to keep
records and file reports that are deemed to have a “high degree
of usefulness in criminal, tax and regulatory matters.”  Since 2009, at least 83 people have been charged with
evading taxes by the U.S., including two dozen offshore bankers,
lawyers and advisers. More than 38,000 Americans avoided
prosecution by entering an IRS amnesty program in which they
paid back taxes and penalties while disclosing the banks and
bankers who helped them hide offshore accounts.  The case is In Re Various Grand Jury Subpoenas, 12-
MISC-381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  