-- Great-West Joins Insurance Rally With Deal
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-02-20T22:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/great-west-joins-insurance-rally-with-deal-corporate-canada.html
Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO) ’s C$1.75
billion ($1.72 billion) agreement to buy Irish Life Group Ltd.
signals a return to growth for the Canadian insurance industry
that has spent years since the financial crisis seeking to
contain damage from plunging stock prices.  The acquisition is the biggest takeover by a Canadian
insurer since February 2007, bolstered by a stock rally that has
seen insurance shares outperform banks over the past year.  “There’s no question the markets appear to be viewing
Canadian lifecos much more favorably,” Great-West Chief
Executive Officer Allen Loney said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “The rally in our stock is not why we’re doing the
transaction, but it’s been very helpful, obviously.”  Great-West, based in Winnipeg, Manitoba, is among the six-
company  S&P/TSX Life and Health Insurance Index  that rallied 23
percent in the 12 months through yesterday,  outpacing  both the
benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index and an  index  of Canadian
financial firms. Shares of the company, controlled by Montreal’s
Desmarais family, have risen 18 percent in that period and
closed at the highest in  almost  two years yesterday. The shares
fell 0.8 percent to C$27.20 at the close in Toronto.  Canada ’s second-largest insurer abandoned a previous
attempt to buy Irish Life from the Irish government in 2011 amid
concerns about “the macro-economic situation,” Loney said.  Europe Confidence  “An acquisition in Ireland lends some confidence to the
fact that people and investors are getting more comfortable with
the issues in Europe and see the potential for positive change
over time,” Anish Chopra, managing director and fund manager
with TD Asset Management Inc., which manages about C$204
billion, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Great-West said the acquisition will add about C$215
million, or 10 percent, to the company’s 2014 earnings. The
insurer is expected to earn adjusted profit of C$2.12 billion in
2013, according to the average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Great-West profit has moved largely in line with stock
markets in the last five years, rising to C$2.12 billion in
2011, after falling as low as C$1.45 billion in 2008 from C$2.11
billion in 2007, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Jump Start’  “We believe that an insurance acquisition provides
precisely the right vehicle for GWO to jump start flat-lining
earnings,”  Mario Mendonca , an analyst with Canaccord Genuity
said in a note the day before the transaction was announced.  The transaction will be the  biggest  for the Canadian
insurance industry since Great-West bought Boston-based Putnam
Investments for $3.9 billion in August, 2007. The deal will be
funded by about C$1.25 billion of subscription receipts to
Desmarais family-owned companies  Power Financial Corp. (PWF)  and IGM
Financial Inc.  Paul Desmarais Sr., 86, has a net worth of C$5.1 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires index .  “From a strategic point of view, it was an opportunity to
go from a relatively modest market position to being a market-
leading position in the Irish market,” said Loney, who added
that Great-West may participate in further consolidation in
 Europe .  “We are on the lookout for acquisitions in Europe and in
the United States,” he said. “They have to be absorbed
efficiently, and we’re just starting that process in Ireland,
and they have to be financed.”  Manulife, Sun Life  Insurance companies globally have been sensitive to equity
markets and interest rate movements since the credit crisis that
began in the third quarter of 2007. Companies including Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. and  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  have
retreated from sales of variable annuities, in which obligations
to clients can increase when stock markets fall.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Canada’s largest insurer,
increased its hedging program in 2010 to reduce market
sensitivity, while  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  agreed in December to
sell its U.S. annuity business to a firm owned by Guggenheim
Partners LLC.  “There seems to be an admission that, while some of the
circumstances for life insurance companies have not been too
positive in the past, the insurance companies are very adaptable
and will come through this period in good shape,” Loney said.  Sun Life Financial, Canada’s third-largest insurer,
announced a deal in January with Khazanah Nasional Bhd to buy 98
percent of Aviva Plc and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd’s Malaysian
insurance joint venture for 1.8 billion Malaysian ringgit ($580
million).  Constrained Valuations  Still, the prospects for Canadian insurers trading at a
premium multiple to their U.S. peers “will become increasingly
difficult” on a lackluster 2013 profit outlook, John Aiken, an
analysts with the investment banking unit of  Barclays Plc.  “We think the valuations are going to be constrained,”
Aiken said in a telephone interview. “When you look at where
their valuations are trading at in terms of their history, we’re
still not in the great environment that we were back in day. We
definitely think that’s going to be a bit of a restriction.”  The S&P/TSX Life and Health Insurance index is trading at
about a 55 percent premium to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Life &
Health Insurance Index based on a forward price-earnings ratio
basis, a valuation measure that compares share price to expected
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Ian Nakamoto , director of research with MacDougall
MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$4
billion in assets for clients, including shares of Great-West
Life, said the insurer may be getting a good deal in Ireland.  “The government is a motivated seller,” Nakamoto said in
a phone interview yesterday. It may also be easier to do a deal
in Europe than Asia, he said. “When you go into Asia the price
of acquisition is still quite high. You have many more bidders,
prices wouldn’t be as attractive.”  Great-West sounds like its “more committed to Europe than
ever,” Nakamoto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  