-- Miami Athletics Accused of Lack of Control by NCAA, ESPN Reports
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-20T15:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/miami-athletics-accused-of-lack-of-control-by-ncaa-espn-reports.html
The University of Miami has been
accused by the National Collegiate Athletic Association of
failing to control its athletic department,  ESPN reported ,
citing an unidentified person familiar with the situation.  Miami released a  statement  last night in which it said many
of the allegations included in the notice from college sports’
governing body were unsubstantiated.  ESPN said the lack-of-institutional-control charge is
because Miami failed to properly monitor  Nevin Shapiro , a
Hurricanes booster who has said he provided cash and benefits,
such as cars and yacht rides, to at least 72 Miami athletes
between 2002 and 2010. The charge is among the most serious the
NCAA can bring after an investigation into rules violations.  NCAA officials have declined to comment on the notice of
allegations, which was delivered one day after the Indianapolis-
based body fired its head of enforcement because a review found
internal rules were violated during the probe into Miami’s
athletic program. While the review found the NCAA didn’t do
anything illegal, staff members disregarded legal advice while
using Shapiro’s criminal defense attorney and a federal
bankruptcy process to obtain information.  NCAA President  Mark Emmert  said two days ago that any
information obtained through those “embarrassing” actions
would be expunged from its investigation of Miami.  Miami President  Donna Shalala  said last night that many of
the charges in the NCAA’s notice are “based on the word of a
man who made a fortune by lying.” She said the NCAA failed to
interview “essential witnesses,” including former Athletic
Director  Paul Dee .  ‘Sensationalized Accounts’  “Most of the sensationalized media accounts of Shapiro’s
claims are found nowhere in the notice of allegations,” Shalala
said. “Despite their efforts over 2 1/2 years, the NCAA
enforcement staff could not find evidence of prostitution,
expensive cars for players, expensive dinners paid for by
boosters, player bounty payments, rampant alcohol and drug use,
or the alleged hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash and
gifts given to student-athletes, as reported in the media. The
fabricated story played well -- the facts did not.”  Miami said it will submit an official response to the
NCAA’s committee on infractions within the required 90-day
period. Shalala said the school has improved its compliance
oversight and that self-imposed sanctions, including a two-year
bowl ban for the football team, are sufficient.  “For any rule violation -- substantiated and proven with
facts -- that the university, its employees, or student-athletes
committed, we have been and should be held accountable,”
Shalala said. “We deeply regret any violations, but we have
suffered enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  