-- Lichtenstein Widow Recalls Macro Diet, Love for Jazz
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-02-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/lichtenstein-widow-recalls-macro-diet-love-for-jazz.html
Roy Lichtenstein ’s widow Dorothy
sits on the sunlit top floor of Tate Modern remembering the
three decades she spent living with the pioneering pop artist.  Lichtenstein is in London to inaugurate a retrospective of
his dotty canvases -- the cartoon strips, the household items,
the tributes to Picasso and Matisse. She wears an orange
turtleneck and ankle boots, her blond hair tied in a ponytail.  The couple met in 1964, when she was a New York gallery
assistant and he a separated father of two. They married in
1968; he died in 1997.  For Lichtenstein, being at Tate without him is
“bittersweet.” What pains her especially is “looking at one
of the last works he did and realizing what there was still to
be done by him.”  Dorothy heads the 14-year-old Roy Lichtenstein Foundation,
which preserves and documents his legacy. She owns many works
herself -- including several marked “private collection” in
the show.  I ask what it was like living with a man whose art was
“the opposite of macho.” The question arises because, moments
earlier at Tate, I bump into the British artist  Grayson Perry ,
who tells me how refreshing he finds Lichtenstein’s output
compared to the “great big ejaculations” of his male
contemporaries.  Masculinity Parade  “I actually think that if one were to come and look at the
images in his painting, he would come across as very macho,”
replies Dorothy. Certainly, Tate’s “War and Romance” room --
full of cartoonish depictions of virile fighter pilots and teary
blondes -- does put masculinity on parade.  “He himself was a bit on the reticent side,” she notes,
“really serious about his artwork, dedicated to a certain
amount of perfection, and really more involved in making the
paintings than being a personality.”  “He didn’t think it was his job as an artist to put his
own existential angst, which was limited, admittedly,” says
Dorothy with a hint of sarcasm. “He was trying to remove the
look of the artist’s hand from his work.”  He was happy toiling in the studio by day and going out at
night. In New York, the couple’s favorite “haunt” was Florent
(now closed), where they often went with the studio staff.  That routine “was also advantageous to me,” says Dorothy.
“I loved to travel, so I got to take a couple of really
adventurous trips to Africa. That was really fine with him.”  Macrobiotic Diet  At home, Lichtenstein was a careful eater.  “I think he had a really visceral idea that eating clotted
cream was going immediately to his arteries,” she recalls.
Breakfast was fresh juice, raisin bran and coffee. Dorothy, even
more of a health fiend, would serve up a macrobiotic diet.  Lichtenstein loved jazz --  Charlie Parker ,  Miles Davis  and
 John Coltrane . Though he had no more than a few childhood
clarinet lessons, “he had a natural talent for being able to
listen to a piece of music and just kind of automatically replay
it.”  When he turned 70, Dorothy bought him a saxophone.  “He took it very seriously,” she says. “He brought the
same kind of attention to detail and discipline that he brought
to his art.”  I ask what she thinks of his prices in the art market,
where a 1964 Lichtenstein, “Sleeping Girl,” was auctioned for
a record $44.9 million last May.  “Oh, I don’t think they’re expensive enough!” she jokes.
“It’s not just art that is suffering from exorbitant prices:
real estate, house rentals, automobiles … Art’s just one of the
things in the mix that the world seems, or maybe one or two
people in the world seem, to pay ridiculous prices for.”  The Lichtensteins in her collection must make her one very
rich woman, I point out.  “Not the ones I still own,” she replies. “Roy did a lot
of different work that just sells for a reasonable price.”  “Lichtenstein: A Retrospective,” sponsored by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, is at Tate Modern, London, through May
27, 2013. It then transfers to the Pompidou Center in Paris
(July 3 - Nov. 4). The exhibition opened in 2012 at the Art
Institute of Chicago. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk/modern .  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include:  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Richard Vines  and  Ryan Sutton  on food and  Jeremy Gerard  on New
York theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London at  Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 