-- IMF Must Build On Image That’s Improved in Crisis, Audit Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-02-20T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/imf-must-build-on-image-that-s-improved-in-crisis-audit-says.html
The International Monetary Fund has
improved its image since the global financial crisis and should
address member countries’ long-standing criticism to build on
the regained trust, according to an internal audit.  With a call for temporary fiscal stimulus to avoid a
collapse of the world economy in 2008-2009, the Washington-based
IMF was seen as breaking away from a tradition of austerity,
according to the report by the Independent Evaluation Office.  “The global crisis was a watershed event for the fund,”
which is now perceived “as more flexible and responsive,”
according to the report dated Jan. 17 and released today. “The
true test for the fund will be in periods of calm, when a
trusted advisor role is even more critical for traction.”  With loans in 47 countries including Greece and resources
that were increased twice in the past four years, the IMF
regained the global relevance it had lost in the years leading
to the crisis. Still, the auditor urged the fund to respond to
distrust that lingers in Asia and Latin America in an effort to
secure global cooperation in preventing future crises.  The internal auditor two years ago lambasted the IMF for
failing to see the signs of the global financial crisis, saying
the Washington-based fund was sometimes “in awe of” government
officials’ reputation and expertise in nations such as the U.S.
and the U.K.  Largest Shareholders  Today’s report described a perception in some countries
that the fund is still dominated by its largest shareholders
with conditions attached to recent loans in Europe being seen as
“soft” compared with bailouts in the past.  “Reversing the lingering adverse effects of legacy and
stigma in an important share of member countries is,
undoubtedly, a challenge for the fund, with no quick or easy
solution,” according to the report, called “The Role of the
IMF as Trusted Advisor.”  The report made several recommendations, some of which were
rejected by IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  in a
separate response as not being “practical or advisable.”  They include sharing with country officials some
information on policy advice before visiting to assess their
economies, crafting medium-term policy strategic plans for each
country and incorporating the views of all countries when
preparing major policy decisions.  “I agree that we have more to do to ensure that the entire
membership sees the Fund as an honest, even-handed, and
intellectually rigorous partner,” Lagarde wrote. “We will need
to reconsider whether there are better ways to achieve the
objectives set out in the report” than the proposed ideas.  “In particular, I do not believe that sharing all the
elements of a policy note, as opposed to agreeing on the
important topics, with the authorities ahead of a mission would
facilitate a better dialogue,” she wrote. “Nor do I think that
introducing more bureaucratic processes such as drawing up
medium-term strategic plans would do much to enhance the
relevance of our work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  