-- Limited Mortgage Finance Role for U.S. Government Gains Support
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-02-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/limited-mortgage-finance-role-for-u-s-government-gains-support.html
A bipartisan panel including former
secretaries of the  Department of Housing and Urban Development 
and retired U.S. senators is preparing to release a proposal for
scaling back the government role in mortgage finance that would
put taxpayer dollars at risk primarily under catastrophic
circumstances.  The blueprint, which the Washington-based  Bipartisan Policy
Center  is scheduled to release Feb. 25, is an attempt to jump-
start the stalled debate over shrinking the government role in
the $9.5 trillion mortgage market, according to three people
familiar with the plan. The document was drafted over the past
16 months by a 21-member commission including industry
representatives, consumer advocates, and former policy makers.  The panel will recommend that the U.S. replace  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , which package loans into securities with
guaranteed interest and principal payments, with mortgage-bond
guarantees that kick in only after private firms take the
initial losses, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the report isn’t yet published.  The commission is hoping the plan will “elevate housing to
the top of the national policy agenda and provide a foundation
for action in 2013,” according to the website of the
organization, which was founded in 2007 by a group of retired
senators.  Top Ex-Officials  The panel is lead by  Mel Martinez , who was HUD secretary
under President  George W. Bush , and  Henry G. Cisneros , HUD
secretary under President  Bill Clinton , as well as former
Democratic Senator  George J. Mitchell  and former Republican
Senator  Christopher “Kit” Bond .  Ashley Berrang, a spokeswoman for the commission, declined
to comment on the contents of its report before its release.  The report will suggest government guarantees could come
from a new entity similar to Ginnie Mae, the U.S.-owned
corporation that currently backs bonds with loans insured by
U.S. agencies including the Federal Housing Administration, the
people said.  That entity could replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which
were publicly traded companies with no explicit government
backing before they were seized in 2008 after investments in
risky loans pushed them to the brink of insolvency. The two
companies have since drawn about $190 billion in taxpayer aid
and paid Treasury $50 billion in dividends.  Parties Divided  The proposal comes as housing-finance reform has failed to
gain traction in Washington, in part because Democrats and
Republicans remain divided over alternatives, and as Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac have returned to profitability, sapping momentum
for change. At the same time, taxpayers continue to bear the
risk on about 90 percent of new home loans through agencies
including FHA, the Department of Veterans Affairs and the two
government-sponsored enterprises.  President  Barack Obama , who has called for Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac to be wound down and replaced, has yet to release a
detailed plan. Likewise, Congress has yet to move forward with
comprehensive legislation.  The Obama administration’s most significant contribution to
the debate was a 2011 Treasury  report  that laid out three
options, ranging from almost total privatization to a new and
more limited government role as a catastrophic reinsurer. The
BPC commission’s proposal offers further indication that
consensus may be building around the reinsurance option.  The commission’s recommendations will echo plans put
forward by the  Mortgage Bankers Association , the  Housing Policy
Council , researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and
 Jim Millstein , who helped oversee the U.S. bailouts of firms
including insurer American International Group Inc.  No Exit  The idea stops short of a dramatic government exit, and the
details would be crucial to gauging the potential impact on
various housing industry sectors, the relative effect on large
and small lenders, the cost of credit for home buyers and the
risk borne by taxpayers.  The approach has critics. The government would still need
to correctly price risks and taxpayers could be exposed to
losses from borrowers who don’t need the backstop, said  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at Graham Fisher & Co. and co-author of
“Reckless Endangerment,” a book which focused on Fannie Mae’s
role in the housing crisis.  Like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the new arrangement could
also pass government subsidies through private firms that may
abuse the system to maximize profits, Rosner said.  “Proponents of the idea are basically saying, ‘Let’s sweep
all that under the rug, claim a victory and go home,’” he said.  FHFA Actions  Absent other action, the Federal Housing Finance Agency,
the overseer of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is proceeding with
its own plans for shrinking their footprint.  The firms last year almost doubled the fees they charge to
guarantee mortgage securities, making other lending more
competitive, and began to work on deals in which they would
share the risk of initial losses on some of their portfolio with
private capital. Broad use of that approach could transform the
companies along the lines of some reform proposals.  The housing market’s continued dependence on government
makes change difficult,  Robert Bostrom , who served as general
counsel for Freddie Mac for five years through 2011, said last
month at a securitization conference.  “It’s kind of like having a heroin addict with a needle in
his arm,” he said. “If you take it out, he dies. If you leave
it in, he dies. What are you supposed to do?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ; or
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  