-- India Promotes Local Arms Makers After Finmeccanica Fraud Probe
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-20T12:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/india-promotes-local-arms-makers-after-finmeccanica-fraud-probe.html
India Defense Minister  A.K. Antony 
said he’s doing more to strengthen local arms makers and reduce
reliance on foreign suppliers following fraud allegations
against  Finmeccanica SpA  over a helicopter deal.  “Imports should be the last resort,” Antony said at an
arms seminar, according to a statement from the New Delhi-based
defense ministry. Procurement processes and production policies
will be reviewed to bolster the prospects for local companies,
he said.  The Indian market is increasingly important for U.S. and
European defense companies as they seek to offset reduced demand
at home.  Boeing Co . has sold C-17 airlifters and P-8I maritime
surveillance planes to India and is in talks to sell attack
helicopters, European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. is in
talks over the sale of Airbus A330-based refueling planes, and
 BAE Systems Plc  has exported Hawk training jets.  Antony called on India’s private-sector defense companies
and large state-owned enterprises to cooperate to quickly
achieve the “maximum for indiginization,” the ministry said.  India has already changed terms for offset deals,
agreements in which outside entities selling to India commit to
sourcing part of the total contract in the country, to aid local
suppliers. “I would urge the industry to come forward and take
advantage of this policy,” Antony told domestic weapons makers.  The Indian government, which has barred several companies
from bidding for contracts to stem corruption, is investigating
whether Rome-based Finmeccanica’s AgustaWestland was involved in
making illegal payments to secure a $753 million deal for 12
AW101 helicopters. The contract could be scrapped if wrongdoing
is found.  The helicopter deal led to the arrest this month of
Finmeccanica Chief Executive Officer and Chairman  Giuseppe Orsi 
on corruption and tax fraud charges in Italy. Orsi was stripped
of the CEO title and resigned as chairman. He led AgustaWestland
at the time the deal was struck and denies wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  