-- Minneapolis Fed Ex-Chief Stern Doesn’t See Inflation Disaster
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-20T20:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/minneapolis-fed-ex-chief-stern-doesn-t-see-inflation-disaster.html
Gary Stern , former president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, said he doesn’t see an
impending “inflationary disaster” as the central bank pumps
money into the economy in an effort to stimulate growth.  “The benefits are not great, but the costs are not
great,” Stern said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “It’s not a game changer.”  The minutes of the Federal Reserve’s last policy makers’
meeting, released today, showed that several members said the
central bank should be ready to vary the pace of its $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases.  “I think people are too negative when they say ‘well, look
at all that’s been done, we’re heading for some type of
inflationary disaster or some other kind of disaster,’” Stern
said. “I don’t believe that’s correct. I think the jury is
still out on that.”  Central bankers “do occasionally get it right” Stern
said, and he is “not willing to bet the ranch” on the notion
that Fed policy makers will “get it wrong” with their efforts.  When the Fed begins to taper off on its asset purchases
will depend on the economy, he said.  “My own guess would be that there are going to be some
surprises on the upside, some positive surprises,” Stern said,
referring to gross domestic product, employment and consumer
spending.  “I would say late this year, early next year, we will
probably see more than talk,” Stern said. “We’ll see action
along those lines.”  Stern was president of the Minneapolis Fed from March 1985
through August, 2009, the longest-serving president in the
bank’s history, according to the bank’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  