-- Minnesota Republican May Be First to Sponsor Gay Marriage
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-02-21T21:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/minnesota-republican-may-be-first-to-sponsor-gay-marriage-bill.html
A Republican senator in  Minnesota ’s
legislature is poised to co-sponsor a bill legalizing same-sex
marriage, joining a growing number of state lawmakers from his
party to do so.  Branden Petersen will co-sponsor the bill by Senator Scott Dibble of the Democratic-Farmer-Labor party if certain
conditions are met, said Petersen’s legislative aide, Alex
Kharam. Religious leaders could choose not to participate in gay
ceremonies and children of homosexual married couples would be
guaranteed the same financial protections as those of
heterosexual married couples, Kharam said.  “I strongly believe that true freedom means freedom for
everyone,” Petersen said in an e-mailed statement. “Continuing
to exclude certain people from marriage simply because of who
they are is not in the best interest of the future of
Minnesota.”  Republicans have voted to grant homosexuals the right to
wed in the past, such as four New York state senators did in
2011. Now, some are taking their support a step further by co-
sponsoring the bills, which are at odds with the national
party’s platform. Senator Chris Ottiano in Rhode Island and four
state representatives in  Wyoming  have done so this year.  The latest draft of the Minnesota bill includes the
conditions Petersen has asked for and could be introduced as
soon as Feb. 25, Dibble said in an interview. Democrats control
the legislature and the governor’s office.  Voter Rejection  Petersen, 27, was a  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  sales manager living in the
Minneapolis suburb of Andover when he was elected to the state
House in 2010. He joined his Republican colleagues in putting on
the ballot a constitutional amendment to define marriage as
between a man and a woman, which voters rejected last year. He
is also the son-in-law of a man who’s been in a gay relationship
for the past 20 years, the Minneapolis Star Tribune reported.  On the federal level, three Republicans have signed on as
co-sponsors to the Respect for Marriage Act, which would repeal
a federal law that blocks gays from claiming the same federal
tax breaks and other marriage benefits that opposite-sex spouses
receive.  Same-sex couples can now marry in nine states and the
District of Columbia. Minnesota is one of six states -- along
with  Delaware ,  Hawaii ,  Illinois , New Jersey and Rhode Island --
where lawmakers are considering or revisiting the issue this
year, according to Freedom to Marry, a New York-based group that
helps and funds local gay-rights organizations. All except
Minnesota already allow civil unions, and none let voters
overturn legislation through referendums.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  