-- InterContinental Plans London Park Lane Hotel Sale
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-02-20T23:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/intercontinental-plans-london-park-lane-hotel-sale-correct-.html
(Corrects number of ownership stakes in fourth paragraph
of story published Feb. 19.)  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
owner of the Holiday Inn, Crowne Plaza and Hotel Indigo brands,
plans to sell its London Park Lane hotel for about $380 million
“early this year,” according to Kirk Kinsell, the company’s
president for the Americas.  InterContinental (IHG)  is in talks with about five potential
buyers for the U.K. property and the Denham, England-based
hotelier also plans to sell its Intercontinental New York
Barclay hotel in the U.S., Kinsell said.  “We have made progress regarding the sale of our Park Lane
asset,” he said in a telephone interview. “We’re in talks with
a handful of serious owners capable of closing.”  InterContinental is selling its remaining real estate
holdings to become a pure hotel and brand manager. The company
owns stakes in 10 hotels out of the 4,602 properties worldwide
that carried its brand name at the end of last year.  “Our strategy has been asset light,” Kinsell said.  The company first put the Intercontinental New York Barclay
on the market in February 2011 for an undisclosed price. The
 Manhattan  property built in 1926 will need at least $100 million
of refurbishment, including a “complete renovation of the guest
rooms,” Kinsell said. It will continue  to carry the
InterContinental brand under the new ownership, he said.  “We’re looking at the overall competitiveness and at
refreshing the asset,” Kinsell said. “We are looking at plans,
and architectural renderings. Some buyers are very intrigued by
the idea of adding value and some buyers want a clean, easy
purchase.”  InterContinental is expanding across the U.S., including
urban markets such as New York. Current projects include a first
Even Hotels property in midtown Manhattan, Kinsell said. The
brand, started by InterContinental last year, is focused on
wellness through its food and fitness offerings.  The company earlier today reported a 10 percent profit
increase for 2012 helped by demand in the Americas, its biggest
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  