-- J.C. Penney Wanted Stewart to Break Contract With Macy’s
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/j-c-penney-wanted-stewart-to-break-contract-with-macy-s.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  tried to persuade
 Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  to break its contract with
Macy’s Inc., an attorney for the second-largest U.S. department-
store chain told a judge.  J.C. Penney Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson wanted to
replace Macy’s as an exclusive seller of Martha Stewart-branded
products in categories such as bedding and cookware, Theodore M. Grossman, an attorney with Jones Day representing Macy’s, told
 New York  state Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in
 Manhattan  at the start of a trial yesterday.  “We weren’t coerced,” Grossman said. “We’re here to
protect our rights. Rights that we paid for, rights that we
worked for, rights that we took tremendous risks for.”  Macy’s sued New York-based Martha Stewart Living in January
2012 to stop it from proceeding with an agreement announced with
J.C. Penney the previous month. Macy’s sued J.C. Penney in the
same court eight months later, seeking to block it from
proceeding with the Martha Stewart pact.  The cases have been combined and opening arguments began
yesterday in a non-jury trial before Oing that is scheduled to
last through March 8. Stewart, Johnson and Macy’s Chairman Terry Lundgren are expected to testify next week.  Contract Breach  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, said in court filings that it
contracted with Martha Stewart Living at a time when the brand
was associated with the “significantly downscale” Kmart and
she was just being released from prison, and took losses before
moving the brand “upscale.”  Macy’s has argued that J.C. Penney and Martha Stewart
Living “made a conscious business decision” not to disclose
their talks to Macy’s until the contract was signed to avoid the
risk of a court order that would bar the agreement.  “Macy’s was kept completely in the dark,” Grossman said.
Stewart’s “agenda was to market to both stores. Mr. Johnson had
a different agenda. He wanted to supplant Macy’s.”  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with
Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of
contract and saying the retailer stocked and priced Martha
Stewart products in a manner that favors private-label brands.
Martha Stewart Living also said Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a
five-year renewal option on the agreement because of the breach.  17 Percent  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the U.S. department-
store chain seeks to revive sales with new mini-stores dedicated
to Martha Stewart and other brands.  Martha Stewart Living in July said J.C. Penney agreed to
pay at least $282.9 million in sales commission over a 10-year
period under an amended agreement, a $110.5 million increase
from the terms disclosed in December. The amended pact also adds
new products.  Martha Stewart Living has argued that its original 2006
contract with Macy’s allows it to design and sell products
within the exclusive categories as long as they are sold through
the Internet, television or at any retail store branded with the
Martha Stewart name that’s operated by the company or its
affiliates or “prominently” features the brand.  J.C. Penney has the right to sell products designed by
Martha Stewart outside of the exclusive product categories, such
as shades and blinds, carpet tiles and food and wine items, Mark
Epstein, an attorney with Munger Tolles & Olson LLP representing
J.C. Penney, said in court yesterday.  ‘Everyday’ Brand  The dispute is over goods designed by Martha Stewart Living
that will be sold without her name but with J.C. Penney’s
“everyday” brand, which is allowed in the contract with Macy’s
as long as they don’t carry Stewart’s name or likeness, Epstein
said.  “There’s nothing in there that says she can’t design
products for entities other than Macy’s,” Epstein said. “There
are no other provisions in the contract that limit the right to
design.”  Grossman said consumers will connect the products with the
“Martha Stewart Everyday” line of goods that were sold at
Kmart -- and pointed to a “double home” logo that will be used
on the new products that he said is essentially a stylized
“M.”  Epstein argued that Macy’s has known about the “double
home” logo for six months and that J.C. Penney has been using
the “Everyday” brand since before Johnson took over in
November 2011.  ‘Home Run’  “It is certainly not her likeness and it is certainly not
her name,” Epstein said. “They’re hoping to hit the home run
and turn the boat around and go back to  China  so there will be
no goods on the shelves.”  Eric Seiler, an attorney with Friedman Kaplan Seiler &
Adelman LLP representing Martha Stewart Living, argued that
Macy’s taking credit for building the brand is like “taking
credit for Thanksgiving because they sponsor the parade every
year.”  Martha Stewart-branded products are available through
numerous channels, such as crafts sold at Michaels Stores Inc.
and groceries sold at  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and there is “no
suggestion” in the Macy’s contract that Martha Stewart Living
can’t design non-branded products in the exclusive categories,
Seiler said.  “We own all the trademarks,” Seiler said. “They get to
use the trademarks. They’re licensees. There’s no question that
we can design and” J.C. Penney “can sell non-branded goods.”  Preliminary Injunction  In July, Oing granted Macy’s a preliminary injunction
blocking Martha Stewart Living from taking any steps with J.C.
Penney on branded products in the exclusive categories.  Oing denied Macy’s request for a preliminary injunction in
its suit against J.C. Penney, saying that the company hadn’t
proved it was likely to succeed on claims that J.C. Penney had
engaged in tortious interference and unfair competition.  For Martha Stewart Living, selling its goods to multiple
retailers is important to reversing declining sales. The
company, which also publishes magazines, has posted losses and
decreasing revenue for four straight years, hurt by a drop in
advertising demand, and analysts estimate the same for 2012. Its
stock  lost  44 percent of its value last year. The New York-based
company announced in November that it was cutting publishing
jobs as it focuses on the Web.  For Martha Stewart Living, the J.C. Penney pact gives
“very high visibility” for its brand while allowing it to
market products like those sold at Macy’s to different
customers, Stephen Greyser, a Harvard Business School marketing
professor, said in a Bloomberg Television interview Feb. 19.  Exclusive Merchandise  Macy’s Lundgren has revived the department store partly by
adding more exclusive merchandise including Martha Stewart’s
cookware, kitchen utensils and bed and bath items.  The Martha Stewart home and lifestyle shop-in-shops that
J.C. Penney plans to open this spring are central to Johnson’s
plans for reinventing that department store as a location of 100
such concepts.  J.C. Penney’s revenue fell 24 percent in the fourth
quarter, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimate on average.
That would be the fourth consecutive quarter of revenue declines
of 20 percent or greater, as it sought to reduce discounting and
change the store’s layout.  “The key word for Macy’s is exclusivity,” Geyser said.
“They obviously want the product lines and merchandise that
consumers will see that they can find only at Macy’s and not
anywhere else. It’s key for Macy’s and for J.C. Penney it’s all
about co-branding because their strategy as it’s been sketched
out is working to try to energize their stores and one of the
ways they can do it is with minishops and boutiques that have
their own brand within the J.C. Penney stores. Clearly Martha
Stewart is one of the brand names that would be appealing to
many of J.C. Penney’s customers.”  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  