-- J&J Hip Recipient Says He Feared Surgery Would Kill Him
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-20T02:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/j-j-hip-recipient-says-he-feared-surgery-would-kill-him.html
A Montana man suing  Johnson &
Johnson ’s DePuy unit over his metal-on-metal hip implant told a
Los Angeles jury he feared that a follow-up surgery to replace
his failed device would kill him.  Loren Kransky, 65, testified that he dreaded the so-called
revision surgery he had last February to remove his ASR hip
implanted in December 2007. Kransky, a retired prison guard,
said he was in constant pain, couldn’t walk and believed debris
from the chromium and cobalt device was poisoning him.  “I didn’t want to have the hip done because I had 25
surgical procedures done prior to that,” Kransky told a state
court jury. “I thought that surgery was going to kill me. I
thought I was going to die.”  Kransky testified during the first of 10,000 lawsuits to go
to trial over the ASR device. J&J, the world’s biggest seller of
health-care products, recalled 93,000 ASR hips in August 2010
after saying at least 12 percent failed. Since then, the failure
rate has climbed, reaching 40 percent in Australia. Analysts say
it could cost J&J billions of dollars to resolve the lawsuits.  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, denies Kransky’s
claims that it defectively designed the device and failed to
warn of the risks. J&J attorney  Alexander Calfo  says Kransky’s
claim of elevated metal levels in his body can be traced to
conditions including diabetes, high blood pressure and
cholesterol, strokes and kidney cancer.  Diseased Vessels  Kransky, Calfo said, is a vasculopath, which means he has
diseased blood vessels throughout his entire body. Jurors heard
Kransky say he had no choice but to get the revision.  “I came to believe that I was going to have to do it
because I was told that something in my body was poisoning me,”
Kransky said. “I was told it could be the hip. I thought, ‘I’m
going to die either way.’ One way would be slow and one would be
fast. I took the lesser of two evils.”  Before then, he said, he experienced “a kind of stabbing
type of pain. It was debilitating. I couldn’t do anything,
couldn’t walk long distances.”  Kransky said he couldn’t rehabilitate properly after a
stroke, couldn’t use the bathroom freely, and couldn’t sleep at
night. He needed a wheelchair, which was “humiliating.”  ‘Always Independent’  “I didn’t want anybody to see me in a wheelchair,”
Kransky said. “I was always independent and strong. Here I am
in a wheelchair.”  On cross-examination, J&J attorney  Michael Zellers  showed
jurors medical records from Kransky’s personal physician, Thomas
Trotsky. When Kransky first complained of pain in his hip in
2008, Trotsky diagnosed it as bursitis.  Zellers also suggested that Kransky fell before having the
ASR implanted and that the falls resulted from balance problems
caused by his other health conditions.  Jurors also heard from Paul Arnott, DePuy’s complaint and
vigilance manager since 2003. He testified that while all
reports of ASR revisions were supposed to go to his department,
many didn’t. Instead, he said, many went to a University of
Hamburg professor, Michael Morlock, a consultant to the company.
Jurors heard from another witness that surgeons sent explanted
hips to Morlock.  Professor Morlock  “DePuy sales people were informing surgeons to send all
revisions to Professor Morlock and not report to the complaint
department,” Arnott testified.  Morlock, he said, considered his work to be independent
research and not part of DePuy’s complaints process.  “We would want all revisions reported to us,” Arnott
said. “He said it was not his job to decide what information
should be passed on to surgeons, but that if it helped surgeons
do their work better, it should be.”  Arnott said that he prepared a recall letter in January
2010, or eight months before J&J recalled the hips. The
company’s Health Hazard Evaluation committee rejected a recall,
he said, and sent a so-called field safety notice.  “The HHE committee, based on all the available data that
they reviewed, didn’t feel that it warranted a return of medical
device to the manufacturer,” he said.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles Superior Court at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  