-- Abe Will Ask Obama for Shale Exports as Japan’s Gas Bill Soars
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-02-20T17:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/japan-s-abe-plans-to-ask-obama-to-approve-shale-gas-exports.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe 
will ask U.S. President  Barack Obama  to allow shale gas exports
as the world’s third-largest economy grapples with soaring
energy costs after 2011’s nuclear disaster closed reactors.  The request will be made at a meeting tomorrow between Abe
and Obama in Washington, said three Japanese officials, who
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.
The bill for importing liquefied natural gas, combined with a
weaker yen, prompted Japan to post a record trade deficit in
January of 1.63 trillion yen ($17.4 billion), the Finance
Ministry said yesterday.  The switch from nuclear to gas-fired generation after the
accident at Fukushima forced Japan to increase LNG imports 11
percent last year. Abe wants Obama to share the benefit of
surging output from shale fields, which has depressed the cost
of U.S. gas to about 20 percent of Asian prices, by approving
export terminals. Some U.S. politicians oppose shipments
overseas because the lower energy costs are making manufacturers
more competitive, helping to create factory jobs.  “Since Fukushima, Japan has dramatically increased its
energy imports,” said  Mark Lewis , a Paris-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. “They are desperately looking for cheaper
imported sources of energy supply.”  Japan is the world’s largest importer of LNG, gas cooled to
to a liquid for shipment by tankers, and cargoes from North
America would allow it to diversify from suppliers in Asia and
the Middle East.  Tokyo Electric Power Co ., Japan’s largest
utility,  Chubu Electric Power Co . and trading company  Sumitomo
Corp . all have agreements to buy LNG from proposed export plants
that have yet to win government approval.  Sabine Pass  The U.S. has only approved one export plant for shipments
to countries without a free-trade agreement. Cheniere Energy
Inc.’s plant at Sabine Pass is due to begin exports in 2015. The
U.S. may ship about 50 million tons of LNG by the end of the
decade,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said last month. That compares with 77 million tons a year
from Qatar, currently the world’s top exporter.  Japan paid an average of 67,210 yen a metric ton for LNG in
December, according to data from the country’s Ministry of
Finance. That’s equivalent to $15.79 per million British thermal
units. U.S. gas futures traded in New York hit a 10-year low in
April of less than $2 per million Btus. The gas price rose 0.2
percent to $3.3 per million Btus today.  Importing U.S. gas would boost Japanese utilities’
bargaining power in negotiations with suppliers who benchmark
their prices against more-expensive oil, said  Reiji Ogino , an
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.
Utilities have sought government approval to raise electricity
prices and pass on the burden of higher fuel bills to consumers.  Nuclear Test  The agenda for Abe’s talks with Obama also include North
Korea’s recent nuclear test and Japan’s participation in the
proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade pact, the
officials said.  The use of hydraulic fracturing, a process that injects a
pressurized mix of water, sand and chemicals into wells to open
cracks in shale rock and allow gas to flow out, started to
reverse a decline in U.S. production about 7 years ago. Since
the start of 2006, gas output has grown 33 percent, according to
the Department of Energy.  Opponents to U.S. exports include Representative  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts and Senator  Ron Wyden  of Oregon, who say
U.S. consumers and manufacturers will be forced to pay higher
energy prices.  LNG exports would have “net economic benefits” for the
U.S., according to a study conducted by NERA Economic Consulting
on behalf of the U.S. Department of Energy.  Crippled Plant  Tokyo Electric, the owner of the crippled Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant, plans to buy 800,000 tons of LNG from the
Cameron project in Louisiana for 20 years starting in 2017, it
said earlier this month.  Chubu Electric, Japan’s third-largest power company, and
 Osaka Gas Co . announced 20-year contracts in July with Houston-
based Freeport LNG Development LP to export 4.4 million ton of
LNG from the proposed facility in Texas starting in 2017.  Sumitomo, Japan’s third-biggest trading company, and  Tokyo
Gas Co . agreed in April to buy 2.3 million tons of LNG for 20
years from Dominion Resources Inc.’s planned Cove Point terminal
in Maryland, due to start in 2017.  “How we can buy LNG is an important factor for Japan’s
government to tackle with the private sector,”  Yukio Edano ,
then trade minister, said on Sept. 18. “Procuring the fuel at
low cost, has become a key challenge for us.”  Japan’s LNG imports rose to a record in 2012 as the country
increased its dependence on gas-fired power plants to make up
for lost nuclear generation. The country’s LNG imports rose 11
percent to 87.3 million metric tons last year, the Ministry of
Finance said Jan. 24.  Japan’s NHK television reported Feb. 19 that Abe would ask
Obama to clear shale gas exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  