-- JPMorgan Said to Seek First Sale of Mortgage Bonds Since Crisis
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-02-20T19:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/jpmorgan-said-to-seek-first-sale-of-mortgage-bonds-since-crisis.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is seeking to
sell securities tied to new U.S. home loans without government
backing in its first offering since the financial crisis that
the debt helped trigger.  The deal may close this month, according to a person
familiar with the discussions. Servicers of the underlying loans
may include the New York-based lender, First Republic Bank and
Johnson Bank, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  The market for so-called non-agency mortgage securities is
reviving as the Federal Reserve’s $85 billion a month of  bond
purchases  help push investors to seek potentially higher
returns. As deals accelerate, Pacific Investment Management Co.
is questioning the prices paid. At the same time, a weakening of
contract clauses that offer protection to investors if the loans
don’t match their promised quality is stoking debate, said Kroll
Bond Rating Agency analyst  Glenn Costello .  “There’s a pretty heavy dialogue going on right now
between all participants in the market about what makes sense,”
Costello, who is based in New York, said last week in a
telephone interview.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the bank’s potential transaction.  Redwood Offerings  Redwood Trust Inc.  and Credit Suisse Group AG, the only
non-agency issuers since the market collapsed in 2008, have also
been working on deals this month. Redwood created $1.1 billion
of the debt in January, after issuance tied to new loans totaled
$3.5 billion in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with less than $1 billion in all of 2010 and 2011.  The bonds have been backed by so-called prime jumbo loans,
which are larger than allowed in government-supported programs.
For Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for
borrowers using 20 percent down payments, limits range from
$417,000 to $625,500 in high-cost areas.  JPMorgan is telling investors its deal’s terms may allow
some of the so-called representations and warranties about the
mortgages from originators or itself to expire after 36 months
to 60 months, the person said. Such contract clauses, which can
be used to force loan repurchases, have led to billions of
dollars of costs for banks on debt made during the housing boom.  After Credit Suisse included so-called sunsets of 36 months
on certain buyback promises in a November deal, Standard &
Poor’s, the only grader to rate the bonds, said in a statement
that the move didn’t affect its view of the debt’s risks. The
ratings firm cited the “exceptionally high credit quality” of
the loans and that all of them had been reviewed by third-party
firms before being packaged into the securities.  Skeptical View  Rivals including Fitch Ratings, which publicly called S&P’s
grades too high, are taking a more skeptical view. Changes such
as sunset provisions and clauses that void loan-quality
warranties if borrowers default after events such as job losses
or illness generally should require greater so-called credit
enhancement, said  Rui Pereira , a managing director at Fitch.  Credit enhancement can include some bonds taking losses
before others, cash reserves or payments from the underlying
assets that exceed coupons on the securities created.  “Less investor-friendly provisions are something we need
to take into account,” Pereira said last week in a telephone
interview.  ‘Gold Standard’  Issuers are seeking to move past a framework for
representations and warranties provided by Redwood that
represented a “gold standard,”  Kathryn Kelbaugh , a senior
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said last month during a
panel discussion at a securitization conference in Las Vegas.  In Redwood’s latest deal, it may sell a top-rated class as
large as $561.2 million with a 2.5 percent coupon at about 102
cents on the dollar, a person familiar with that offering said
today, asking not to be named because terms aren’t set.  That compares with current prices of about 99 cents on the
dollar for Fannie Mae-guaranteed 2.5 percent securities,
according to Bloomberg data. Bonds issued in recent months by
Redwood have been “insanely expensive” by comparison with
Fannie Mae debt, Pimco’s  Scott Simon  said in an interview
yesterday.  “I can’t believe someone would pay anywhere near where
they have sold them,” said Simon, the mortgage-bond head at
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, manager of the world’s
largest  mutual fund .  The higher prices being discussed may signal bond buyers
are gambling that the larger loans will remain outstanding for
shorter periods if  mortgage rates  continue to rise, and also
suggest that investors are looking past the potentially greater
default risks of Redwood’s securities.  Moving Costs  Wealthier homeowners may find it relatively easy to absorb
the costs of moving amid higher borrowing costs, said  David Land , a mortgage-bond manager at Advantus Capital Management
Inc., who said he’s not investing in the deal because he sees
too many of the loans as having risky features. By paying
premiums more than face value, bondholders would also risk being
damaged by homeowner  refinancing  if rates drop.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  