-- JPMorgan Asks Judge to Toss Credit Union Regulator Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-20T23:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/jpmorgan-unit-asks-court-to-toss-credit-union-regulator-s-suit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Bear Stearns
unit asked a federal judge to throw out a regulator’s lawsuit
that claims it used misleading documents to sell $3.6 billion in
mortgage-backed securities to  credit unions  that later failed.  Bear Stearns, in papers filed yesterday with the U.S. court
in  Kansas  City, Kansas, contends that the National Credit Union
Administration board is unfairly blaming the bank because the
credit unions took widely known risks that eventually
“backfired.”  “Despite warnings from the offering documents, the news
media and even the board itself, the credit unions made the
informed decision to plunge the majority of their assets into
residential mortgage-backed securities at the height of the
housing bubble,” Bear Stearns said in court papers.  “Ignoring its own assessment of what actually happened,
the board now seeks to blame defendants for the credit union’s
losses,” the company argued.  NCUA, an Alexandria, Virginia-based independent federal
agency, is responsible for recovering losses to minimize the
costs to its industry-paid stabilization fund.  John Fairbanks, an NCUA spokesman, declined to comment on
the Bear Stearns filing, saying the agency doesn’t comment on
pending litigation.  Regulator’s Suit  The agency sued the JPMorgan Chase unit in December, acting
as liquidator of the U.S. Central Federal Credit Union and the
Western Corporate Federal Credit Union, each of which were
placed into conservatorship in 2009 and into involuntary
liquidation a year later, as well as the Southwest Corporate
Federal Credit Union and Members United Corporate Federal Credit
Union, which were placed in conservatorship, then liquidation,
in 2010.  Bear Stearns’s offering documents said originators of the
underlying mortgages had adhered to underwriting guidelines that
had, in reality, been “systematically abandoned,” making the
investments riskier than represented, NCUA said in its
complaint.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  acquired Bear Stearns in 2008. The
regulator separately sued the New York-based bank as successor
in interest to Washington Mutual Bank and has eight other cases
pending against defendants including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
and investment banking units of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  Barclays Capital Inc. in November asked the court to
dismiss the claims it faced, claiming they were filed too late.
RBS Securities Inc. is appealing an adverse ruling last year by
a federal judge in Topeka, Kansas.  Bear Stearns, arguing a federal appeals court ruling in the
RBS case could address issues in the suit it faces, asked U.S.
District Judge J. Thomas Marten to consider suspending the case
until the Denver-based court rules.  The case is National Credit Union Administration Board v.
Bear Stearns & Co., 12-cv-2781, U.S. District Court, District of
Kansas ( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  