-- Kenya’s Chief Justice Gets Death Threat Over Kenyatta ICC Case
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-02-20T16:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/kenya-s-chief-justice-gets-death-threat-over-kenyatta-icc-case.html
Kenyan Chief Justice  Willy Mutunga 
said he received a letter threatening his life if he ruled
Deputy Prime Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  was ineligible to run for
president because of International Criminal Court charges.  The letter “makes all manner of threats against the
judges, ambassadors and my person,” he said today in an e-
mailed statement. An immigration officer also made an
“illegal” attempt to stop Mutunga from flying to Tanzania last
week, saying the judge lacked permission from Head of Public
Service  Francis Kimemia .  “These incidents evidence a pattern of emerging harassment
against my person, the Office of the Chief Justice, and the
judiciary,” Mutunga said. “No fewer than five judges have been
attacked in the recent past.”  A five-judge High Court panel on Feb. 15 ruled it had no
authority to decide whether Kenyatta and running mate  William Ruto  are eligible to stand in the March 4 election because of
the ICC cases. Both men have said they are innocent of charges
of crimes against humanity in which they’re accused of
instigating violence after the previous national vote in 2007.  Ballot-fixing allegations led to two months of ethnic and
political clashes that killed more than 1,100 people, forced
350,000 more from their homes and brought economic growth to 1.5
percent in 2008 from 7.5 percent the previous year.  ‘Mischief-Makers’  Kenyatta and Ruto’s Jubilee Coalition condemned the threats
to Mutunga and urged police to boost his security while
investigating who wrote the letter, according to an e-mailed
statement from Jubilee Legal Affairs Secretary Jasper Mbiuki.  “We wish to emphatically deny that the chief justice has
been threatened by supporters of Uhuru Kenyatta or William
Ruto,” he said. “It is very easy for some mischief-makers to
write a letter and say that they are Jubilee supporters when in
fact they are not.”  The Mungiki Veterans Group/Kenya Sovereignty Defence Squad
signed the letter, Mutunga said without elaborating.  Mungiki broadly refers to an outlawed criminal gang made up
mostly of members of the Kikuyu ethnic majority. Kenyatta is
Kikuyu and is accused by the ICC of using the Mungiki to carry
out violence. Kenyatta’s “steadfast refusal to give in to their
criminal demands has resulted in Mungiki members fabricating
evidence against him” at the ICC, Mbiuki said.  Former Mungiki leader Maina Njenga created a political
party which joined the Cord alliance of Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , Kenyatta’s main opponent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  