-- Kenya Shilling Fluctuates on Coffee Inflows, High Dollar Demand
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-02-20T13:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/kenya-shilling-fluctuates-on-coffee-inflows-high-dollar-demand.html
Kenya’s shilling swung between gains
and losses against the dollar as increased dollar inflows from
coffee sales countered growing demand for the U.S. currency
before next month’s elections.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy strengthened
0.1 percent to 87.49 per dollar by 4:15 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital, after retreating as much as 0.2 percent earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya’s coffee prices rose 3.3 percent, with sales at the
auction nearly doubling to $2.07 million from $1.05 million last
week, the Nairobi Coffee Exchange said yesterday by e-mail.
Kenya is Africa’s fifth-biggest exporter of the beans.  “The dollar inflows from the sale of coffee have supported
the shilling,” John Muli, a dealer at Nairobi-based African
Banking Corp., said by phone. “There is growing demand for
dollars in the market putting pressure on the shilling, a
situation that may see it weakened going forward.”  Kenya will hold its presidential vote on March 4, the first
since a disputed 2007 ballot sparked two months of violence in
which more than 1,100 people died. The currency may decline to
89 a dollar by voting day, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of analysts and traders last month.  “Demand for dollar is building up with businesses
preferring to hold more dollars as we head to the elections,”
 Duncan Kinuthia , head of trading at Commercial Bank of Africa
Ltd., said by phone from Nairobi.  Uganda’s currency weakened for a fourth day, the longest
losing streak since Jan. 22, depreciating by 0.5 percent to
2,680 per dollar, while the Tanzanian shilling fell 0.2 percent
to 1,621.03 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  