-- Kerry Says Well-Funded Foreign Policy Crucial to Security
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-02-20T18:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/kerry-says-well-funded-foreign-policy-crucial-to-security.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  urged
Americans to see foreign policy as an integral part of U.S.
economic health, offering an extended defense of his agency’s
funding as the federal government faces budget cuts.  Kerry, in his first major address as secretary of state,
said that an internationally engaged U.S. fills a vacuum that
would otherwise be occupied by “those whose interests differ
dramatically from our own” and gives U.S. businesses a leg up
in global competition.  “Every time a tough fiscal choice looms, the easiest place
to point fingers is at foreign aid,” Kerry said today at the
University of Virginia in Charlottesville.  With the U.S. budget facing $85 billion in across-the-board
budget cuts effective March 1 for the current fiscal year, Kerry
said that all foreign policy spending amounts to a little more
than 1 percent of the federal budget.  The forced budget cuts, known as sequestration, would
reduce State Department operations by $850 million and foreign
assistance by $1.7 billion, according to a letter Kerry sent
Congress on Feb. 11. Before those cuts, Obama  requested  a total
of $51.6 billion for fiscal 2013 for the State Department and
the U.S. Agency for International Development.  “There is nothing in this current budget fight that
requires us to make bad decisions that would force us to
retrench or retreat,” Kerry said. “This is a time to continue
to engage, for the sake of the safety and economic health of our
country. This is not optional. It’s a necessity.”  Restrained Role  Even as he argued for robust engagement, Kerry tacitly
acknowledged the more restrained role President  Barack Obama  has
chosen to take overseas in comparison to the administration of
President  George W. Bush .  “We’ll continue to help countries provide for their own
security, use diplomacy where possible, and support those allies
who take the fight to the terrorists,” he said.  In a hat tip to one of the State Department’s fiercest
critics, Kerry quoted a former colleague, Republican Senator
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, as he argued that “deploying
diplomats today is much cheaper than deploying troops
tomorrow.”  “It’s national security insurance that we’re buying,”
Kerry quoted Graham as saying.  While the speech emphasized the domestic arguments for
international engagement, Kerry also stressed the importance of
exporting U.S. values. The State Department promotes human
rights, democracy, health and nutrition, education and gender
equality, he told the audience of students and politicians.  U.S. Outreach  Kerry said his agency bolsters U.S. security by investing
in the economic and democratic development of other countries.  He pointed to the “deserts of Mali, the mountains of
Afghanistan and the tribal areas of Pakistan,” all impoverished
areas where Islamic militants have flourished. And he flagged
the challenge of creating jobs to offer an alternative to
frustration and radicalism in the Middle East and North Africa,
where “about half” the population is under the age of 20.  Kerry delivered the remarks on the eve of his first  trip 
overseas as secretary, with stops planned in the U.K., Germany,
Italy, France, Turkey, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Qatar.  The work he will do on such trips yields benefits for
businesses and workers at home, Kerry said. In Virginia, he
said, international trade supports one in five jobs.  Satellite Contract  He cited Dulles, Virginia-based  Orbital Sciences
Corporation , which recently beat out French and Russian rivals
to win a contract to build Thailand’s newest broadcast
satellite. The U.S. embassy in Thailand helped secure the $160
million deal for Orbital Sciences and a partner, Space
Exploration Technologies of Hawthorne, California, Kerry said.  The investment “goes right back into American communities
from coast to coast,” Kerry said. Every billion dollars of
goods and services exported create more than 5,000 jobs at home,
he said.  Continued engagement means the creation of new markets for
the U.S., Kerry said. He pointed to the return on the massive
investment the U.S. made around the world after World War II,
including support for former enemies Japan and Germany.  “If you told someone that Japan and Germany would today be
our fourth- and fifth-largest trading partners, they’d have
thought you were crazy,” Kerry said.  His decision to make his first major remarks at home -- and
at a university founded by  Thomas Jefferson , the first secretary
of state -- was a deliberate choice, said Kerry, the 68th person
to hold the position. A conversation about global engagement has
to begin with a conversation about the national budget, he said.  “I’m particularly aware that in many ways the greatest
challenge to America’s foreign policy today is in the hands not
of diplomats, but of policy makers in Congress,” Kerry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  