-- King Defeated in QE Vote as BOE Broadens Policy Debate: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-20T12:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/king-fisher-miles-defeated-in-qe-push-as-boe-debate-widens-1-.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
was defeated in a push for more stimulus this month as officials
considered options including a rate cut and expanding the range
of assets purchased as ways to help the economy.  King,  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles  wanted to increase the
target for bond purchases by 25 billion pounds ($38 billion) to
400 billion pounds on Feb. 7, though they were outvoted by the
remaining six members of the Monetary Policy Committee. The
pound fell after the release of the minutes in London today.  Officials said they “stand ready” to increase
quantitative easing to support the recovery, though they still
questioned the effectiveness of current policy tools for easing
credit strains in the economy. In a wide-ranging discussion on
the need for “targeted” measures, they said some may be beyond
the scope of the central bank and fall under the province of
other government departments.  “Growth remained subdued and the economy continued to face
a number of headwinds,” the MPC said. “A case could be made
that, if further stimulus was required, policy interventions
more targeted at particular frictions or market failures in the
economy were likely to be more effective in current conditions
than further asset purchases”  The pound tumbled to a 15-month low against the euro after
the minutes and fell to the lowest since June versus the dollar.
It depreciated 0.7 percent to 87.48 pence per euro as of 12:30
p.m. London time and fell 0.9 percent to $1.5292.  BOE Shift  This month’s meeting signals a shift in the MPC’s stance,
as Miles had been alone in calling for more stimulus in January.
King was last defeated in a vote in June, when he also pushed
for more QE. A month later, the MPC expanded stimulus.  The February decision also marks the fourth time King was
overruled since he became governor. He is due to retire in June
and will be replaced by Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney .  On the case for more QE, the minutes said the “degree of
slack in the economy, and the likely positive response of supply
capacity to increased demand, meant that higher output growth
would not necessarily lead to any material additional
inflationary pressure.” This could help rebalancing “and avoid
potentially lasting destruction of productive capacity and
increases in unemployment,” it said.  Still, the MPC said it “seemed possible that a further
broad-based monetary stimulus would on its own be insufficient
to transform the outlook for growth.”  “In that context, the committee also discussed other
potential policy measures that the bank, together with other
U.K. authorities, might deploy to address particular frictions
or market failures,” it said. “These included measures to
increase the flow of credit.”  Rate-Cut Discussion  Policy makers also considered lowering the  benchmark
interest rate  from its record-low 0.5 percent at the meeting,
purchasing assets other than gilts and changing the remuneration
on bank reserves. These options had been considered in the past
and the drawbacks noted previously remained, they said.  “The bank’s message couldn’t be any clearer - the MPC has
shifted significantly in a more dovish, pro-active direction,”
said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London. This is “in part we surmise to facilitate the
transition toward Mark Carney’s term.”  On the need to boost credit, the MPC said its Funding for
Lending Scheme appeared to be operating as expected.  Still, it said that “consideration of measures to support
the flow of credit more broadly, including from non-bank
lenders, was also warranted.” It said “targeted” steps to
boost demand and the supply capacity of the economy “might be
entertained, but many of these fell to other U.K. authorities.”  Wage Growth  Separately today, data showed that unemployment claims fell
12,500 in January, more than twice as much as forecast. In the
quarter through December, unemployment as measured by
International Labour Organisation methods dropped 14,000 to 2.5
million.  Employment  jumped 154,000, the biggest gain since the
middle of last year.  The labor-market report also showed that wage growth
remains weak, with average weekly earnings rising 1.3 percent.
That compares with inflation of 2.7 percent in January.  Noting the higher  inflation outlook  in its new forecasts
last week, the MPC said that the pound’s recent decline has
added to upward inflation pressure. It added that trying to slow
price growth by removing stimulus “more quickly than currently
anticipated by financial markets” could derail the recovery.  “Higher gilt yields represented a tightening; the more
recent depreciation of sterling’s effective exchange rate had
imparted an expansionary impetus, but it has also added
materially to inflationary pressure in the near term,” the
minutes said.  Japan Trade  In Japan, the finance ministry said the trade deficit
swelled to a record 1.63 trillion yen ($17.4 billion) in January
on energy imports and a weaker yen. Exports climbed 6.4 percent
from a year earlier, the first rise in eight months, while
imports increased 7.3 percent.  Also in Asia, Thailand held its benchmark interest rate at
2.75 percent. Malaysia’s economy grew at the fastest pace in 2
1/2 years last quarter, expanding 6.4 percent from a year
earlier. That compares with the median estimate of a 5.5 percent
advance in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists.  U.S., new  residential construction  probably cooled in
January from a four-year high, economists forecast ahead of a
report due today. Builders broke ground on houses at a 920,000
annual rate, down from December’s 954,000 pace, according to the
median estimate of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Housing
permits, a proxy for future construction, probably rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  