-- Nabors Industries Falls as Drilling Margins Shrink: Dallas Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-02-20T21:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/nabors-industries-falls-as-drilling-margins-shrink-dallas-mover.html
Nabors Industries Ltd. , the world’s
largest land-rig contractor, fell the most in more than a year
after forecasting a lower margin for its largest drilling unit
this quarter.  Nabors dropped 7.4 percent to $16.67 at the close in New
York, after earlier falling as much as 8 percent, the  biggest 
intraday decline for the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company since
Nov. 1, 2011.  Normalized margins for the company’s drilling business in
the U.S. lower 48 states are expected to fall by about $1,000 a
day as rigs roll off expiring higher-rate contracts and work for
lower “spot” prices without long-term agreements, Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Petrello  told analysts and investors
today on an earnings conference call.  “We’re still in an environment where E&P operators don’t
feel any sense of urgency to necessarily contract rigs,”  Byron Pope , an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston, said
in a telephone interview. He rates the shares at accumulate,
which means investors should buy the stock, and owns none. “You
still have a fair number of idle rigs out there that are
competing for work. That’s reflective of the dynamics in the
spot market.”  The number of land  rigs  working in the U.S. fell 12.2
percent to an average of 1,763, according to Baker Hughes Inc.,
which tracks global rig use.  Nabors, the second-worst performer in the Philadelphia Oil
Service Index last year after falling 17 percent, reported
yesterday after the close of regular trading that fourth-quarter
total revenue dropped 6.5 percent to $1.6 billion compared to a
year earlier.  The company is  expected  to earn $1.29 a share this year,
after excluding one-time items, according to an average of 28
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  