-- NATO Readiness May Be Hurt by U.S. Cuts, Official Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-02-20T17:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/nato-readiness-may-be-hurt-by-u-s-cuts-official-says.html
Automatic U.S. budget cuts set to go
into effect March 1 are likely to affect the Pentagon’s ability
to train alongside its NATO allies, undermining the  alliance’s
readiness, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said.     Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and General  Martin Dempsey , 
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have said budget cuts
would affect U.S. training and “because training is likely to be 
affected in the U.S., we think the alliance readiness could be 
diminished,” Little told reporters en route to Brussels.  The U.S. would be restricted in its ability to train with
allies “and bilateral training equals input to alliance
readiness,” Little said. “We are also talking about the
prospect of not being able to engage in rotational deployments
in Europe. That’s another possibility.”  The Pentagon faces about $46 billion in spending reductions
in the final seven months of this fiscal year if Congress and
President Barack Obama fail to reach agreement on an alternative
to the across-the-board cuts known as sequestration.  Panetta, who vacated his Pentagon offices last week in the
hope of retiring to his home in California, returned to work
this week after Republicans in the Senate blocked action on the
nomination of former Senator  Chuck Hagel  as the next defense
secretary. Obama asked Panetta to travel to Brussels, where
defense ministers of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization are
meeting this week, Little said.  Afghanistan War  Panetta will meet individually with his counterparts from
Afghanistan, the U.K., France, Italy and Australia, as well as
participate in the NATO meeting, Little said.  They’re likely to discuss progress of the war in
Afghanistan as well as troop levels, Little said. Obama
announced last week that 34,000 U.S. troops of the 66,000 now in
Afghanistan will return by the end of the year. Panetta also
will discuss with NATO allies the presence of foreign troops in
Afghanistan beyond 2014, Little said.  The U.S. and Afghanistan are negotiating a bilateral
security agreement that will determine the size and scope of
U.S. presence in the country beyond 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam en route to Brussels at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  