-- Natural Gas Supplies Declined Less Than Average, Forecasts Show
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-02-20T22:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/natural-gas-supplies-declined-less-than-average-forecasts-show.html
Natural gas inventories declined by
less than average last week as mild weather reduced demand for
the heating fuel, analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stockpiles  fell by 124 billion cubic feet to 2.403 trillion
in the seven days ended Feb. 15, based on the median of 16
estimates. The five-year average stockpile change for the period
is a decline of 140 billion, according to the Energy Information
Administration, an arm of the Energy Department. Last year,
supplies fell 155 billion cubic feet that week.  Temperatures were above normal from the Northeast to the
Midwest last week and seasonal across most of the other lower-48
states, according to Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland. A  gas surplus  versus the five-year average has
expanded since the end of November as moderate weather reduced
demand for the heating fuel.  “We had some mild temperatures last week and it’s going to
show up in the inventory number,”  Aaron Calder , senior market
analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston. “There are tons of
gas in the market and the demand response is struggling to keep
up with it, which is why we are having less than stellar
withdrawals.”  Stockpile estimates were for decreases ranging from 116
billion to 129 billion cubic feet. The EIA’s weekly supply
report is scheduled for release at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in
Washington.  Gas inventories during the week of Feb. 8 were 16 percent
above the five-year average for the period, up from 4.6 percent
on Nov. 30, EIA data show.  Natural gas futures this week have risen 12.6 cents, or 4
percent, to  3.279 per million British thermal units on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. Prices are down 2.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  