-- NCAA Sues Pennsylvania Over $60 Million Sandusky Fine
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-02-21T16:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/ncaa-sues-pennsylvania-over-sandusky-child-abuse-fines-1-.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  filed a lawsuit accusing Pennsylvania of trying to
confiscate a $60 million sanction imposed against  Pennsylvania
State University  in the Jerry Sandusky child-abuse case.  A new law that lets the state control the use of the funds
violates the U.S. Constitution and can’t be enforced, the NCAA
said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The bill, passed this month and
enacted today, applies to all large fines levied against state-
supported institutions.  The state is “attempting to legislate where private
parties spend their money, and to confiscate funds intended for
the victims of child sexual abuse nationwide,” the NCAA, the
governing body for most U.S. college sports, said in the
complaint.  Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett’s office is reviewing the
complaint, spokeswoman Janet Kelley said yesterday in an e-mail.  Corbett supported and signed the law “because he believes
it is important to keep this money in Pennsylvania,” Kelley
said in the e-mail. “He believes it makes sense and is the
right thing to do.  Corbett sued the Indianapolis-based NCAA in January,
challenging the fine levied against the school for its failure
to prevent sexual abuse by Sandusky, a former  Penn State 
assistant football coach who was convicted of molesting 10 boys.
The governor accused the NCAA of using the Sandusky offenses as
a “pretext” to impose unprecedented sanctions in violation of
antitrust laws.  ‘Freely Entered’  The NCAA countered in papers filed this month that Corbett
has no standing to bring the case and is seeking to undo an
agreement “freely entered into” by Penn State.  The Pennsylvania Institution of Higher Education Consent
Decree Endowment Act attempts to “negate a valid contract”
between the NCAA and Penn State, the sports association said in
court papers. The act, which says that fines levied from a
school become property of the state, “amounts to a taking of
private property without just compensation,” the NCAA said.  The governing body is asking a judge to declare the law
unconstitutional and bar its enforcement.  The case is NCAA v. Corbett, 13-00457, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of  Pennsylvania  (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  