-- Netanyahu Seeks Broader Coalition After Teaming With Rival Livni
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-02-20T13:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/netanyahu-seeks-broader-coalition-after-teaming-with-rival-livni.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  moved forward with efforts to assemble a broad
governing coalition after recruiting former Foreign Minister
 Tzipi Livni  with a promise to let her manage peace talks.  Livni, who heads the Hatenuah party, said today that she
will not serve as a “fig leaf” for stalling peace efforts with
the Palestinians, as she accused Netanyahu of doing during last
month’s campaign. She was nevertheless roasted by many Israeli
media commentators for the turnabout, after rebuffing
Netanyahu’s invitation to team up four years ago and turning
into his harshest critic as the parliamentary opposition leader.  “Livni learned the hard way that she made a mistake last
time and she can accomplish more by being inside the
government,”  Avraham Diskin , a political scientist at the
Hebrew University in Jerusalem, said today in a telephone
interview.  Netanyahu, whose pact with Livni adds only six parliament
seats to the 31 his Likud-Beitenu ticket won in the election,
still has to woo bigger parties such as Yesh Atid, Jewish Home,
Shas or Labor to reach the threshold of 61 in the Knesset needed
to form a government. Some of them oppose the two-state solution
advocated by Livni and the U.S., Israel’s main ally.  The premier’s coalition negotiator said earlier efforts to
build the coalition around the second-place Yesh Atid party and
settlement-advocating Jewish Home had become too tense, and led
him to start with Livni.  Tension Aside  “The prime minister put the tension aside” and will
continue negotiating with other parties, negotiator David
Shomron said in an interview with Army Radio.  Netanyahu has said he intends to have his new government in
place before President  Barack Obama  visits in late March.  Gabi Gazit, a popular radio host on 103 FM, started his
morning program today with a mock funeral to mourn the “death
of shame” that he said was demonstrated by the Livni-Netanyahu
alliance.  Yossi Verter , a commentator in the Haaretz newspaper,
described the press conference at the Knesset late yesterday
where the agreement was announced as a “chilly ceremony that
looked like it came out of both their nightmares.”  Livni, who will become justice minister in Netanyahu’s
government, said she and the premier agreed to put aside
bitterness from the campaign and work together on the peace
process. Her party will also run the Environmental Protection
Ministry, according to the coalition agreement, which may be led
by former Defense Minister  Amir Peretz .  Ending Isolation  “We have to go forward with a common understanding that in
order to pull Israel from its isolation, we have to start a
diplomatic process,” she said today in an interview with Israel
Radio.  Livni turned down Netanyahu’s invitation to team up after
the 2009 elections when she was head of the Kadima party. Even
though Kadima won the most seats, Netanyahu outmaneuvered her to
form a coalition, leaving Livni as opposition leader, a post she
quit in frustration last year.  Yair Lapid ’s Yesh Atid party, which finished second in the
vote and was named as a possible coalition ally by Netanyahu,
has expressed support for a two-state solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. Other parties including Jewish Home, a
member of Netanyahu’s outgoing coalition, and some members of
the premier’s own Likud bloc are opposed to it.  ‘Not Happy’  “We’re not happy that Livni’s going to run diplomatic
talks” with the Palestinians, “but there is still a chance
that we’ll enter the coalition,” Uri Orbach, a Jewish Home
legislator, told Israel Radio.  Peace talks broke down in 2010 and Palestinian leader
 Mahmoud Abbas  says he won’t resume them unless Israel stops
adding to settlements in the West Bank. Livni, who led
negotiations with the Palestinians under former Prime Minister
 Ehud Olmert , has criticized new settlement plans announced by
Netanyahu’s government.  Abbas issued a statement today that he would not respond to
the Livni appointment because the coalition negotiations are an
internal Israeli affair. A member of the Palestine Liberation
Organization’s policy making Executive Committee, Wasel Abu
Yusef, said “it’s impossible to go back to negotiations without
a complete settlement freeze.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  