-- Netflix Sued for Allegedly Misleading Investors on Growth
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-02-20T21:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/netflix-sued-for-allegedly-misleading-investors-about-growth-1-.html
Netflix Inc ., the film-streaming and
mail-order DVD service, was sued by a shareholder who accused
the company of intentionally misrepresenting subscriber growth.  On July 3  Netflix  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings 
posted on the company’s public Facebook page that Netflix
“monthly viewing exceeded 1 billion hours for the first time
ever in June,” according to the complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in San Jose, California.  The company’s  stock price  rose on July 5 from $72.04 to
close at $81.72 a share, a 13.4 percent increase, according to
the complaint.  Hastings’s Facebook statement “led the market to believe
that Netflix was on target to achieve the 7 million net
additions in domestic subscribers” for 2012 that Hastings had
predicted earlier, according to the complaint.  The company, Hastings and Chief Financial Officer  David Wells  “intentionally misrepresented the impact of the 1 billion
hours of viewing on subscriber growth,” according to the
complaint.  Joris Evers , a Netflix spokesman, declined to comment on
the lawsuit.  Hastings said last month that he will keep posting on
Facebook even as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
weighs whether to file a lawsuit over a disclosure he made on
the social network.  Wells Notice  In December, Hastings and Netflix each received a Wells
Notice, indicating SEC staff had determined sufficient
wrongdoing occurred to warrant a civil claim against Hastings
and his Los Gatos, California-based company for allegedly
violating selective  disclosure rules . The SEC is weighing
whether to bring a case.  The incident, which could result in sanctions, has led to
calls for the SEC to broaden its rules to allow social media
such as Facebook and Twitter to be used to communicate to
investors. Hastings said in December that posting to his
Facebook contingent of 200,000 followers “is very public.”
Hastings also argued that the information wasn’t material,
because he had said on his  company blog  several weeks earlier
usage was approaching 1 billion hours a month.  The case is Schulthes v. Netflix Inc., 13-00712, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  