-- Neuberger Fund Best on Prime Real Estate: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-02-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/neuberger-fund-best-on-prime-real-estate-riskless-return.html
Neuberger Berman Group, an
investment unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. until that firm
succumbed to the U.S. subprime crisis, produced the best real-
estate returns of the past five years by betting on less-
indebted companies that could survive tough times.  The $843 million  Neuberger Berman Real Estate Fund , run by
 Steve Shigekawa  and  Brian Jones , posted the best risk-adjusted
returns among U.S. real estate funds over the past five years,
according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. Shigekawa
and Jones bought companies such as Boston Properties Inc. and
Public Storage, allowing them to outperform in 2008 and then
keep pace with rivals during the economic recovery that
followed.  “We’re most comfortable owning companies with high-quality
assets and lower leverage,” Jones said in a telephone
interview. “They may trail a bit when markets are improving
rapidly, but they will hold up better at times of financial
distress.”  Boston Properties and Public Storage, which fit the
managers’ definition of high-quality companies, were among the
biggest contributors over the past five years to the fund’s
returns.  Real estate investment trusts  have more than tripled
since the market bottomed in March 2009, driven by low interest
rates, rising rents and an improving economy. Shigekawa and
Jones say those trends will continue in 2013 and that investors
in REITs could see returns of 10 percent to 13 percent.  Employee Buyout  Neuberger, which is majority-owned by its employees, is in
the process of buying out the remaining stake in the firm held
by Lehman Brothers, which acquired the money manager in 2003.
Neuberger, based in New York, managed $205 billion as of Dec.
31. Lehman Brothers, one of the biggest casualties of the
financial crisis fueled by slumping real estate prices and bad
mortgage debt, filed for bankruptcy in September 2008.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  While  real-estate companies  in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  have performed twice as well as the broader stock market
since March 9, 2009, their volatility is the third-highest among
the 24 industry groups in the U.S. market benchmark. The
emphasis of the Neuberger Berman managers on companies with
well-maintained properties in markets where supply is
constrained and rents have the potential to climb has helped
them curb price swings.  Neuberger Best  The Neuberger Berman fund gained 1.25 percent, adjusted for
price swings in the five years ended Feb. 15, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That was the best performance of 28 U.S.
equity real estate funds with more than $250 million in assets.
The fund had the greatest total return with lower-than-average
volatility.  The $4.4 billion  Nuveen Real Estate Securities Fund 
returned 1.2 percent and ranked second on a risk-adjusted basis,
with the second-best absolute return and less volatility than
peers. The $1.1 billion Cohen & Steers Realty Income Fund
returned 1.07 percent over the five years, ranking third.  Biggest Contributors  Public Storage and Boston Properties made the second-and
fourth-biggest contributions to the Neuberger Berman fund’s
returns in the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Boston Properties  is the biggest U.S. office REIT by market
value. The management team of the Boston-based company has been
able to expand in cities with significant barriers to adding
supply, Shigekawa said.  “They own buildings at great locations in what are
arguably the best four markets in the country, New York,
Washington, Boston and San Francisco,” said Shigekawa.  In October, Boston Properties and Hines formed a joint
venture to develop San Francisco’s tallest office building, a
61-story tower. San Francisco’s office market has the best
rental growth forecast of any U.S. city, according to Green
Street Advisors, a research firm in Newport Beach, California.  Boston Properties’ shares have returned 43 percent over the
past five years, including reinvested dividends.  Public Storage  is the largest owner of self-storage
facilities in the U.S. As Americans have chosen to rent
apartments rather than buy homes over the past few years, their
need for self-storage has grown, said Jones.  Brand Name  Public Storage has done better than rivals by exploiting
its size to attract customers via the Internet, Jones said. In
an August conference call with investors, Chief Executive
Officer Ronald Havner said the Glendale, California-based firm
gets most of its leads from Internet inquiries, “which means we
don’t have to pay for them, and that’s certainly attributable to
the brand name.”  Public Storage has something else the managers look for: a
low level of debt, which allows a company to ride out difficult
times and make acquisitions when competitors may not have the
resources.  The Neuberger Berman fund’s  ratio  of total debt to total
assets is 48 percent compared with 50 percent for its benchmark
index composed of REITs. Public Storage’s ratio is just 3.75
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Its shares returned 147 percent over the past five years,
more than triple the gains of the  FTSE NAREIT All Equity REITs
Index.   UBS Investment Research last week cut Public Storage to
sell from neutral, saying stock prices in the self-storage
business are too high given prospects for revenue and profit
growth.  Spotting Opportunities  Shigekawa and Jones will relax their standards when they
spot a real-estate company they consider undervalued.  In late 2009, the fund invested in General Growth
Properties Inc., the second-largest U.S. shopping mall owner, as
the Chicago-based firm was working its way through the
bankruptcy process. The company filed for Chapter 11 protection
in April 2009 after saddling itself with $27 billion in debt.  “We were able to see that the assets weren’t
deteriorating,” said Jones.  The managers concluded that General Growth would emerge
from bankruptcy as a strong competitor. General Growth gained 73
percent in 2010.  Shigekawa, 42, has worked at Neuberger since 2002 and has
been a manager on the fund since 2005. Jones, 41, joined the
firm in 1999 and the fund in 2008.  Shigekawa and Jones arrive at their selections by studying
both individual companies and economic indicators such as
housing starts and the volume of containers entering U.S. ports.
Their analysis of regional markets often drives their picks.  EastGroup Properties  The managers in the fourth quarter of 2010 began adding to
shares of EastGroup Properties Inc., a Jackson, Mississippi-
based owner of warehouses in Sun Belt states, because the area’s
population growth is increasing demand for distribution
facilities. The shares have returned 71 percent since then,
including reinvested dividends.  Shigekawa and Jones also like  Essex Property Trust Inc. ,
which owns apartments in Northern California, where a growing
technology industry and high home prices have created “the
strongest apartment market in the country,” Shigekawa wrote in
an e-mail.  The economic analysis doesn’t always translate into good
stock picks. In a letter to shareholders for the year ended Aug.
31, 2011, the managers said they invested in Bethesda, Maryland-
based hotel chain Marriott International Inc. on the expectation
the firm would benefit from an improving economy. The stock had
fallen 7.4 percent during the period, including reinvested
dividends, when the U.S. economy grew more slowly than
anticipated.  Hard Times  Still, the emphasis on stronger companies helped the
Neuberger Berman managers as the real-estate market started
deteriorating five years ago. In 2008, concerned that the
economy and the real estate market were slowing, the managers
positioned the fund for hard times.  “We bought companies we thought would protect the
portfolio in a period of heightened volatility,” said
Shigekawa.  The pair bought health-care REITs and firms that owned real
estate in Washington, D.C., on the belief that both markets were
relatively well-insulated from the impact of a recession. The
fund lost 32 percent in 2008, better than 99 percent of peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund trailed a majority of rivals in 2009 and 2012 when
the benchmark index rose 28 percent and 20 percent respectively.  “This past year, you were paid more handsomely to invest
in lower quality real estate with higher leverage,”  Jim Sullivan , managing director at research-firm Green Street
Advisors, said in a telephone interview.  Downside Protection  The Neuberger Berman fund did roughly as well as its
benchmark index in periods of rising markets over the past five
years, while suffering only 94 percent of the losses in falling
markets, according to data from Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  Shigekawa and Jones expect the REIT market to do well in
2013, in part, because the supply of property is being added
slowly. Developers are still having trouble getting financing
for construction projects, a plus for existing real estate, said
Shigekawa.  Others share their optimism. UBS AG analyst Ross Nussbaum
predicted a 9 percent total return for REITs in 2013 in an
outlook note published in December. Nussbaum described supply as
“constrained,” across most property types.  Favorable Economy  Economic conditions this year should also be favorable. The
U.S. is expected to expand 1.8 percent in 2013, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note will average 2.32 percent, according to the same
survey.  Low rates allow REITs to refinance maturing debt on more
favorable terms. They also make the dividends that REITs pay
attractive on a relative basis. The dividend yield on the
benchmark FTSE REIT index is 3.3 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We think REITs are still early in the recovery period,”
said Jones. “This should be an attractive investor story for
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  