-- New York State Teachers Union Sues Cuomo Over Tax Cap
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-02-20T19:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/new-york-state-teachers-union-says-it-sues-cuomo-over-tax-limit.html
A  New York  state teachers’ union
sued Governor  Andrew Cuomo  over a measure that limits property-
tax increases for school funding, calling the cap
unconstitutional and unfair to low-income students.  Cuomo, a Democrat, pushed the tax limit through the
legislature in June 2011, and it took effect on Jan. 1, 2012. It
caps real-estate tax increases at 2 percent or the rate of
inflation, whichever is lower. School districts can exceed the
limit with the backing of 60 percent of voters. Towns can raise
it with 60 percent support of elected officials.  The governor has said the cap is needed to hold down state
property taxes, which are among the highest in the U.S. In its
lawsuit filed today in state court in Albany, New York State
United Teachers said the measure widens existing school funding
disparities.  “The tax cap has a particularly negative impact on the
state’s poor and minority school children, denying them the
educational opportunities provided by other, wealthier
districts, and denying all local school boards and their voters
of the right to close existing funding and achievement gaps or
to provide enhanced educational opportunities to school
children,” according to a copy of the  complaint  posted on the
union’s website.  Court Declaration  The union, which said it represents more than 98 percent of
the state’s public school teachers, is seeking a court order
declaring the measure unconstitutional for violating children’s
right to equal protection.  “I’m not going to go to New Yorkers today and ask for tax
increase after tax increase,” Cuomo, 55, said at a press
briefing in the Bronx today. “We want to improve education, but
we also want to make sure we’re not raising taxes to the point
that people are leaving the state.”  The case is New York State United Teachers v. State of New
York, 963-13, New York State Supreme Court, Albany County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Freeman Klopott  in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  