-- Bowles-Simpson’s Less-Grand Bargain
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-20T01:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/new-bowles-simpson-gives-obama-congress-sequester-escape.html
Erskine Bowles  and  Alan Simpson , the
indefatigable odd couple of U.S. fiscal policy, are at it again,
offering their third deficit-cutting plan in four years. You’ve
got to admire their effort, if not their success rate.  Clearly, Simpson and Bowles have learned some hard lessons
on the state of American politics: Their latest iteration, a
$2.4 trillion package of 10-year spending cuts and tax
increases, is less ambitious and more politically feasible than
the $4 trillion grand bargain of 2010, the last big Simpson-
Bowles blueprint.  “The idea of a grand bargain is at best on life support,”
Bowles, a White House chief of staff under President  Bill Clinton , now concedes.  Sadly, even this new $2.4 trillion package seems beyond
what a divided Congress can achieve. Yet it does offer lawmakers
and President Barack Obama a way out of the corner into which
they’ve painted themselves with the automatic spending cuts set
to take effect March 1. This coming sequester of $85 billion
will lop off funds indiscriminately -- “the meat-cleaver
approach” is how Obama put it this week. Such abrupt cuts would
drag down the economy, pushing more people onto still swollen
unemployment rolls.  Sequester Hammer  Neither the White House nor congressional Republicans are
willing to break the impasse. Republicans won’t agree to tax
increases, and Democrats won’t cut Medicare, Medicaid and Social
Security benefits.  With nine days before the sequester deadline, the new
Simpson-Bowles proposal substitutes some smart (though painful)
cuts for the mindless ones and therein contains the makings of a
deal that could break the logjam. It contains more health-care
savings than the Democrats would like, and more revenue
increases than Republicans can stomach.  In particular, the plan calls for $600 billion in health-
care spending reductions and another $600 billion in new tax
revenue over 10 years. It’s no coincidence that the entitlement
cuts and tax increases offset each other; they must for each
side to claim it forced the other to absorb a body blow.  On health care, the new-model Simpson-Bowles would improve
the financial incentives that Medicare offers doctors and
hospitals to cut costs, increase cost-sharing by raising
Medicare premiums for high earners, and reduce payments to drug
companies. The proposal lacks detail, but budget analysts in and
out of government have been kicking around similar ideas for
months.  A  report  issued in November by the Center for American
Progress, for example, outlines $385 billion in entitlement
savings over 10 years. Competitive bidding for medical devices,
lab tests and imaging services would cut $38 billion. Reforming
the way Medicare covers the cost of graduate medical education
would trim $28 billion. And increasing premiums for high-income
Medicare recipients would cut $25 billion more.  As for new revenue, numerous Republicans agree that cuts in
tax expenditures, including deductions for home-mortgage
interest, should be on the table. That’s where the big money is.
Other options, as we have endorsed, include ending some forms of
corporate welfare, including closing the carried-interest
loophole, for savings of about $14 billion. Eliminating special
 tax breaks  for the oil and gas industry could bring in $35
billion.  Simpson and Bowles find additional savings by revising an
inflation gauge called the chained consumer price index, which
would slow the growth in  Social Security  cost-of-living
payments. They would also reduce federal pensions. We’ve
endorsed these ideas, but agree they are politically explosive
and less likely to win congressional support.  In fits and starts, Congress has made progress on the
deficit since 2011. To lift the debt ceiling, lawmakers  enacted 
spending cuts worth about $1.5 trillion over the next decade.
And to avoid the fiscal cliff, they adopted  tax measures  to
bring in $600 billion. Further savings of $1.2 trillion would be
enough to cancel the full 10-year sequester, beyond just this
year’s $85 billion.  Coincidentally (or not), the latest Simpson-Bowles plan
would cut entitlements and raise new revenue by $1.2 trillion.
How convenient.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 