-- Newfield Falls on Earnings, Timing on Asset Sale: Dallas Mover
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-02-20T21:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/newfield-falls-on-earnings-timing-on-asset-sale-dallas-mover.html
Newfield Exploration Co.  tumbled the
most in three months after reporting fourth-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates and saying efforts to sell
international holdings will go into the third quarter.  Newfield, based in The Woodlands, Texas,  dropped  9.3
percent to $24.75 at the close in New York, the most since Oct.
24.  The shares  have declined 7.6 percent this year.  According to calculations by Simmons & Co. International,
Newfield’s per-share earnings excluding one-time items was 28
cents in the fourth quarter. That was 15 cents less than the
 average  of 26 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Newfield said on Feb. 13 it was exploring strategic
alternatives for its international assets, which include
offshore oil and natural gas holdings in Malaysia and China. The
company said on a conference call today the sales process may go
into the third quarter.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said today it’s revising
its credit outlook on Newfield to negative from stable, citing
in part “uncertainties regarding the timing and proceeds from
planned asset sales.”  The company will be patient in looking to sell
international assets, and it will seek “top dollar” for the
holdings, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Lee Boothby  said
today in a telephone interview.  The company plans to focus on oil and liquids production
onshore in the U.S., such as at the Uinta, Cana Woodford,
Williston and Eagle Ford areas, Boothby said.  Newfield had a fourth-quarter net loss of $1.4 billion, or
$10.39 a share, compared with net income of $68 million, or 51
cents, a year earlier, according to a statement yesterday. The
company has said the quarterly results were affected by a non-
cash $1.5 billion writedown related to the value of proved
reserves and a $550 million charge mostly related to the
repatriation of international profits.  Newfield has estimated domestic production may  rise  from a
range of 37 million to 40 million barrels of oil equivalent this
year to as much as 57 million barrels in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  