-- Nigerian Index Rises to 4-Year High Before Results: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-02-20T14:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/nigerian-index-rises-to-4-year-high-before-results-lagos-mover.html
Nigeria’s  benchmark stock index  rose
to the highest in more than four years as investors speculated
that lenders will post positive year-end earnings.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index advanced 1.4
percent to close at 33,814.56 in Lagos, the commercial capital,
the highest since Nov. 25, 2008. Of 198 securities on the gauge,
25 gained while the same number retreated, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are expecting “good results for the end of 2012
and to be delivered a good dividend,”  Femi Ademola , an equity
analyst at BGL Plc, said by phone from Lagos today. Nigeria’s
banks may start reporting year-end earnings in March “and the
next few weeks will be very interesting,” he said.  Nigeria implemented banking reforms following a debt crisis
in 2008 and 2009 triggered by loans given to stock market
speculators. The central bank fired eight chief executives of
the country’s 24 banks and set up a company to buy lenders’ bad
debts and stabilize the industry, reducing toxic assets the
banks were holding.  FBN Holdings Plc , Nigeria’s second biggest bank by market
value, gained 0.9 percent today, extending its rally this year
to 27 percent. Nine-month profit climbed 49 percent to 66.26
billion naira ($421 million), the Lagos-based bank said in
October.  Access Bank Plc , the country’s sixth-largest lender,
gained for a second day, increasing 0.6 percent.  The index of Africa’s biggest oil producer and second-
largest bourse has jumped 20 percent this year, the second-best
performer globally.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with more than 160
million people, increased equity investment limits for pension
funds to 50 percent from 25 percent to help boost trading in the
stock market, Ehimeme Ohioma, head of investment supervision of
the Nigerian Pension Commission, said in November.  Pension funds in the West African country have 3 trillion
naira ($19 billion) of assets, according to Ohioma.  “Local pension funds seem to be shifting into equities,
and global investors -- including many first-time visitors to
Lagos -- are interested in Nigerian assets, but without market
over-excitement that would worry us,”  Charles Robertson , the
London-based chief economist at Renaissance Capital, wrote in a
research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  