-- Nigeria Arrests Iran-Linked Suspects Planning Attacks
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-02-20T17:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/nigeria-arrests-iran-linked-suspects-planning-attacks.html
Nigeria arrested three people
suspected of being members of an Iran-linked terror cell
planning attacks on U.S. and Israeli interests in Lagos, the
commercial capital, state security police said.  The group is led by a local Shiite leader from the central
Nigerian city of Ilorin, who received training in Iran in armed
combat and the use of improvised explosive devices, said Marilyn
Ogar, spokeswoman of the state security unit also known as the
Department of State Services. The group was planning attacks on
the Lagos offices of the U.S. Agency for International
Development, the Haifa-based ZIM Integrated Shipping Services
Ltd. and the Jewish Cultural Center, she said without giving
further details.  A fourth member of the group is now at large, according to
Ogar. Deborah MacLean, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in
Abuja, said she had no information on the allegations when
contacted by Bloomberg. Phone calls made after office hours to a
number listed for the Israeli Embassy in Abuja went unanswered.
Phone numbers listed for the Iranian Embassy in Abuja didn’t
connect.  Nigeria is Africa’s largest oil producer and most populous
country with more than 160 million people. It is almost evenly
split between a mainly Muslim north and a largely Christian
south. The West African country’s authorities have been battling
Boko Haram, a northern-based Islamist group, which has carried
out gun and bomb attacks in the north and Abuja that killed
hundreds of people since 2009.  A shipment of Iranian weapons, including rockets, grenades
and mortars, was seized in 2010 by Nigerian customs who said
they were labeled as “packages of glass wool and pallets of
stone.” Azimi Aghajani, an Iranian national, and Nigerian Aliyu
Jega are facing trial for illegally shipping the weapons into
the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  