-- Nvidia Plans New Office Campus in Santa Clara, California
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-02-20T19:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/nvidia-plans-new-office-campus-in-santa-clara-california.html
Nvidia Corp. , a maker of graphics
processors, is planning to build a new headquarters office
campus near its current base in Santa Clara, California, Chief
Executive Officer  Jen-Hsun Huang  said today.  The campus, to be built on a 24-acre (9.7-hectare) parcel
that Nvidia purchased in 2008, will consist of two buildings,
each with 500,000 square feet (46,000 square meters), the
company said in a statement. It will use its cash reserves to
pay for the first building, with construction scheduled to begin
in June and occupancy planned for July 2015,  Hector Marinez , a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail. He declined to disclose
the cost.  “The new Nvidia building will capture the ambition and
imagination of our people,” Huang wrote in a blog post on
Nvidia’s website. “It will stand at the intersection of science
and art, just as our work in visual computing does.”  The first building will have two levels of offices and
laboratories and two floors of underground parking. The second
building doesn’t have a timetable and will be constructed “when
growth requires it,” Marinez said.  The project’s architect is Gensler, led by Hao Ko,
according to Huang’s posting. The site in Santa Clara is west of
San Tomas Expressway and bordered by Central Expressway and
Walsh Avenue, Nvidia said.  Commercial-property sales in the San Jose area, the center
of Silicon Valley, advanced 38 percent last year to $1.85
billion, while office sales in San Francisco surged 93 percent
to $6.37 billion, according to preliminary data from Real
Capital Analytics Inc. Office sales in the San Francisco
metropolitan area, including North Bay cities such as Santa
Rosa, increased 81 percent to $9.35 billion, the highest total
since $21 billion of deals in 2007, according to the New York-
based research firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  