-- Oaktree Said to Seek Capital for European Lending Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-02-20T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/oaktree-said-to-seek-capital-for-european-lending-fund.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, plans to raise a fund
designed to take advantage of a pullback in European lending,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Oaktree European Dislocation Fund LP will lend to companies
with low levels of debt, said the people, asking not to be named
because the information isn’t public. The fund could be in the
range of 250 million euros ($335 million) to 500 million euros,
they said.  Some asset managers are seeking to step in after banks
scaled back lending following the 2008 financial crisis. In
Europe, Haymarket Financial LLP, a London-based specialist
finance company, and  BlueBay Asset Management LLP  are both
seeking 500 million euros for funds that will lend to so-called
middle-market companies. A larger group of firms including  KKR &
Co.  and  Carlyle Group LP  are seeking capital to lend to U.S.
mid-size businesses.  Andrea Williams, head of investor relations at Los Angeles-
based Oaktree, declined to comment on the fundraising plans.  The new fund will make primary investments and lend
directly rather than purchase secondary debt, two of the people
said. The firm has the ability to leverage the fund as much as
30 percent, two of the people said.  Fund Manager  The fund will be managed by  Caleb Kramer , a portfolio
manager for Oaktree’s control-investing strategy in Europe, the
two people said.  Oaktree raised 3 billion euros in 2011 for its  third 
European-focused fund that focuses on taking control of
distressed European companies through debt or equity. Kramer,
who joined Oaktree in 2000, previously co-founded private-equity
firm Seneca Capital Partners LLC.  Howard Marks founded Oaktree in 1995 with Bruce Karsh and
five other partners from investment firm TCW Group Inc.  The firm, which managed $77.1 billion as of Dec. 31, plans
to raise $3 billion for its next global fund that will seek to
take control of companies through purchases of loans and equity
stakes, two people with knowledge of the matter said this month.
Last year, it raised $4.8 billion for its latest fund that seeks
to purchase debt from ailing companies without taking control.  The firm also manages strategies dedicated to the emerging
markets, and has funds for real estate, corporate debt and
mezzanine investing, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  