-- Obama to Argue for Spending Deal in Local TV Interviews
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-20T12:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/obama-to-argue-for-spending-deal-in-local-tv-interviews.html
President  Barack Obama  will answer
questions from local television journalists today as part of his
campaign to pressure Congress to avoid $1.2 trillion in
approaching spending cuts, according to a White House official.  In conversations with eight news anchors at television
stations from across the U.S., Obama will describe the harm that
the reductions would bring if lawmakers fail to reach a deal and
the cuts kick in as scheduled on March 1, according to the
official, who asked to not be named ahead of the interviews.  During the sessions, the president will back a plan from
congressional Democrats to delay the cuts by 10 months and warn
Republicans that they would be blamed for any failure to reach a
deal, the official said.  Yesterday, Obama said the reductions would cost the U.S.
hundreds of thousands of  jobs  and hamper military readiness, and
he urged lawmakers to at least approve a temporary package that
buys time for negotiation.  “These cuts are not smart, they are not fair, they will
hurt our economy, they will add hundreds of thousands of
Americans to the unemployment rolls,” Obama said in Washington.
“This is not an abstraction, people will lose their jobs.”  During the interviews scheduled for today, the president is
also expected to reveal more details about the $50 billion
infrastructure spending proposal he announced in last week’s
State of the Union speech, according to the White House
official. Obama will unveil plans to speed federal reviews for
permits of transportation, water and energy projects, the
official said.  Boehner Op-Ed  Republicans are also taking their case to the public with
an opinion article by House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio in
today’s Wall Street Journal, in which he called the sequester
“the product of the president’s own failed leadership.”  “So, as the president’s outrage about the sequester grows
in coming days, Republicans have a simple response: Mr.
President, we agree that your sequester is bad policy. What
spending are you willing to cut to replace it?” he wrote in the
op-ed article, published on the paper’s website last night.  The U.S. economy stalled in the last three months of 2012,
marking the worst quarter since the recession ended three and a
half years ago, as defense spending fell by the most since 1972.
Without action by Congress, the across-the-board cuts represent
another potential drag on growth.  By law, the cuts, spread over nine years, would be equally
divided between  defense  and non-defense spending. While both
parties agree the reductions may damage the recovery and hamper
national security, neither side has moved to break the impasse
as the deadline nears.  Political Posturing  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, released a statement before Obama spoke yesterday,
accusing the president of engaging in political posturing rather
than negotiations.  “Today’s event at the White House proves once again that
more than three months after the November election, President
Obama still prefers campaign events to common-sense, bipartisan
action,” McConnell said in a statement.  The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the
reductions would reduce annual gross domestic product growth by
0.6 percent this year, enough to eliminate 750,000 jobs.  Administration officials said the White House would back a
proposal advanced by Senate Democrats that would delay the
automatic reductions by 10 months. Their alternative $110
billion plan would cut defense spending, end direct-aid payments
to farmers and set a minimum income-tax rate on top earners.  The president said yesterday he would insist on combining
higher  revenue  through tax code changes with spending cuts that
won’t harm the economy, and that cutting alone would hinder
growth.  “Deficit reduction is not an economic plan,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  