-- Obama Can Bend Cuba Embargo to Help Open Economy, Groups Say
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-20T12:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/obama-should-bend-cuba-embargo-to-buoy-free-markets-reports-say.html
President  Barack Obama  should break
free of the embargo on Cuba and assert his authority to promote
a free-market overhaul taking place on the communist island.  The recommendation is contained in concurrent reports to be
published today by the  Cuba Study Group  and the Council of the
Americas, two groups seeking to end a decades-old deadlock on
U.S. policy toward Cuba.  Among steps Obama can take without violating sanctions
passed by Congress are opening U.S. markets, as well as
authorizing the sale of American goods and services, to the
estimated 400,000 private entrepreneurs that have arisen since
Cuban President  Raul Castro  started cutting state payrolls in
2011. The reports also recommend allowing U.S. credit card and
insurance companies to provide basic financial services to
licensed U.S. travelers to Cuba.  “We’ve been sitting on the sidelines with our hands tied
by an antiquated law that’s being too strictly interpreted,”
said  Chris Sabatini , an author of the report and senior policy
director for the Council of the Americas, a business-backed
group based in New York. “There’s more Obama can do to be a
catalyst for meaningful economic change.”  Obama in 2009 allowed companies for the first time to
provide communications services to the Caribbean island of 11
million and lifted a travel ban for Cuban-Americans. The
loosening of restrictions, while heralded by the White House as
a way to undermine the Castro government’s control of
information, was seen as insufficient by potential investors
including Verizon Communications Inc. and AT&T Inc.  Economic Overhaul  Now, in a second term, and with private business expanding
in Cuba, Obama has a freer hand to do more, said Sabatini. An
exception to the embargo allowing U.S. businesses and consumers
to trade with non-state enterprises in Cuba would be small in
scale though help empower a growing, viable constituency for
change on the island, he said.  Since his brother  Fidel  started handing over power in 2006,
Castro has relaxed state control of the economy in the biggest
economic overhaul since the 1959 revolution. To provide jobs for
the 1 million state workers being laid off, the government began
allowing the buying and selling of homes and the creation of
farming co-operatives and other private businesses.  The latest sign of change are new rules that took effect in
January allowing most Cubans to bypass requirements they obtain
an exit visa or invitation from abroad to leave the island.  Castro in December said that he hopes that productivity
gains will boost economic growth this year to at least 3.7
percent. Gross domestic product expanded 3.1 percent in 2012.  Repeal Legislation  The Washington-based Cuba Study Group urges Obama to gain
even more leverage by getting Congress to repeal the so-called
Helms-Burton act of 1996 and other legislation that conditions
the easing of sanctions on regime change.  Any move to ease the five-decade-old embargo would probably
encounter anti-Castro resistance in Florida, one of the biggest
prizes in recent presidential elections, and opposition from key
lawmakers including Senator  Robert Menendez , the Democratic
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  A bill introduced by Representative  Jose Serrano , a New
York Democrat, in the 112th Congress to dismantle the web of
legislation governing relations with Cuba since as early as the
1960s received no co-sponsors.  Another obstacle to an improvement in relations is the fate
of U.S. contractor  Alan Gross , who remains jailed in a Havana
prison three years after he was arrested on charges of spying
for carrying telecommunications equipment to the island.  A delegation of U.S. lawmakers led by Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Democrat from Vermont, is in Cuba this week and is
expected to meet with Gross and seek his immediate release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 