-- Obama’s Short Game Impresses Tiger Woods in Florida Golf Round
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-02-20T16:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/obama-s-short-game-impresses-tiger-woods-in-florida-golf-round.html
Tiger Woods  said U.S. President
 Barack Obama  is a “pretty good” athlete with a good touch
around the greens, skills that helped the duo win their first
match together.  Woods and Obama paired for the first time during the
President’s Day holiday two days ago at the Floridian, a private
golf course and club in Palm City, Florida.  The 14-time major tournament winner said he and Obama
teamed up to defeat a two-man team of  Jim Crane , who owns the
course as well as the Houston Astros baseball team, and U.S.
Trade Representative  Ron Kirk .  “Playing with Mr. President was pretty cool,” Woods told
reporters yesterday in Marana, Arizona, site of the U.S. PGA
Tour’s Match Play Championship. “He’s just a wonderful person
to be around. We won.”  Woods didn’t say what the pair shot or what, if anything,
they won.  Woods, who previously played a round of golf with former
U.S. President  Bill Clinton , said the invitation to play with
Obama was one he couldn’t refuse.  “He calls up and says, ’Hey Tiger you want to play?’”
Woods said. “Obviously, there is a process that’s involved, and
I was invited to play, and it was an invitation that certainly
you don’t turn down. He’s an avid golfer, and so am I. So we
went out there and we had just a great round of golf. It was a
good day.”  The group also included Anthony Chase, former deputy
chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas ; Milton Carroll,
chairman of  Centerpoint Energy Inc. (CNP) ; Eric Whitaker; a friend of
Obama from Chicago; and presidential aide Marvin Nicholson,
according to White House spokesman  Josh Earnest .  Presidential Golf  Golf getaways are part of presidential tradition. Dwight Eisenhower, the 34th U.S. president, was such an avid golfer
that he had a putting green installed on the White House lawn
and was elected to the World Golf Hall of Fame. Former President
 George H.W. Bush  is in the hall as well. Obama, 51, paid for his
own expenses, including green fees, lodging and food, Earnest
said. Taxpayers pay for presidents’ travel and that of his
entourage of staff and Secret Service personnel.  Woods, 37, said he was impressed with Obama’s golf skills.  “He’s a pretty good athlete, and we all know he played a
lot of hoops,” Woods said. “To see him out there hitting shots
-- he hit it well, and we didn’t play under the easiest
conditions.”  The round was played in cold temperatures for  Florida  and
gusting winds, making for “some tough conditions,” said Woods,
the No. 2 player in the Official World Golf Ranking.  “He’s got amazing touch,” Woods said. “He can certainly
chip and putt. After these four years, if he spent more time
playing the game of golf, I’m sure he could get to where he’s a
pretty good stick.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  