-- Office Depot-OfficeMax CEOs Face Off in Unorthodox Search
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/office-depot-officemax-ceos-face-off-in-unorthodox-leader-search.html
Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and OfficeMax Inc.
set up a competition of the bosses, saying they’ll wait to pick
whether either of their chief executive officers will be in
charge when the companies merge.  The decision not to decide may lead to management
challenges later, said executive recruiters and  corporate
governance  experts who were unable to recall a similar case. The
shares of both companies declined yesterday, with Office Depot
dropping 17 percent in the biggest plunge since April 2010.  “We always tell our students that you need to decide three
things before a merger: price, board of directors and CEO,”
said  Jay Lorsch , a professor at  Harvard Business School  in
 Boston  who has studied boards and management for 25 years. “I
don’t think this bodes well for the merger if they can’t agree
on a CEO. I’ve never seen anything like it.”  A board with equal representation from each company will be
created and a new CEO will be chosen after the deal is complete.
Neil Austrian, Office Depot’s 72-year-old chairman and CEO, and
Ravi Saligram, the 56-year-old president and chief executive of
OfficeMax, will both be considered in the search and maintain
their jobs through the process, the companies said yesterday in
a statement.  Questions of leadership are usually decided before a deal
is finished. Creditors of bankrupt AMR Corp., the parent of
 American Airlines , picked US Airways Group Inc. CEO Doug Parker
to run the merged company. They made that call even after
American’s chief executive,  Tom Horton , pushed to retain the
job, people familiar with the decision said last week.  Regulatory Approvals  Office Depot  agreed to buy  Naperville, Illinois-based
OfficeMax for $1.17 billion after losing sales to online rivals
and to Staples Inc., the largest U.S. office-supplies chain.
Regulatory approvals, including one from the Federal Trade
Commission, will take seven to nine months and the companies
will operate as competitors until then, Office Depot’s Austrian
said yesterday on a conference call.  “It would be premature to select a CEO until we understand
what the FTC is going to do,” Austrian said in response to
questions from analysts about the decision not to select a new
CEO.  Office Depot slumped 17 percent to $4.18 yesterday.
 OfficeMax (OMX)  dropped 7 percent to $12.09, below the $13.50-a-share
value of the stock-swap agreement, based on Office Depot’s
closing price yesterday. OfficeMax is still 12 percent higher
than its Feb. 15 close, before reports of merger talks.  Unusual Structure  Austrian came out of retirement in November 2010 to lead
 Boca Raton , Florida-based Office Depot temporarily and was given
the job full-time in May 2011. Saligram took the helm at
OfficeMax in November 2010 after serving as executive vice
president at Aramark Corp.  The structure of yesterday’s announcement is very unusual
and may signal that directors aren’t convinced they currently
have the right leader for the combined company, said Pat Cook,
an executive recruiter who runs Cook & Co. in Bronxville,  New
York .  “Usually the acquiring company decides who will be CEO
before they make any announcement about the deal, so this is a
very odd happenstance,” said Cook, adding she isn’t aware of a
similar structure in past mergers. “If directors don’t think
they have a CEO who can run a company that’s become much larger
and more complex, the best thing to do is an outside search.”  Questions about leadership present a big stumbling block
toward a successful merger, Harvard’s Lorsch said, pointing to
the CEO controversy after Duke Energy Corp.’s $17.8 billion
takeover of Progress Energy Inc. last year.  Split Board  Progress CEO  Bill Johnson , previously selected to run the
combined companies, was ousted hours after the merger was
announced and replaced by Duke’s chief executive,  Jim Rogers .
Regulators objected to the boardroom coup. Rogers agreed to step
down by the end of this year in a regulatory settlement.  Even the decision to split the board isn’t good governance,
said  Charles Elson , who is director of the John L. Weinberg
Center for Corporate Governance at the  University of Delaware 
and has been studying governance for more than 20 years. He
pointed to the deal between Time Warner Inc. and AOL as an
example.  “You end up with a clash of cultures,” said Elson, who
added he’s not aware of a similar case where a CEO was picked
after the merger by a split board. “You usually decide these
things at the time of the merger, not after. This is just going
to create turmoil when stability is key.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  