-- OGX Rebounds After Five-Day Rout as Reserves Seen Solid
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-20T21:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/ogx-rebounds-after-five-day-rout-as-reserves-seen-solid.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA 
rebounded after a five-day slide on speculation the Brazilian
oil producer’s crude reserves will insulate it from eroding
confidence in controlling shareholder Eike Batista.  The shares jumped 2.2 percent to 3.22 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. It was the best performer on the benchmark
 Bovespa index , which declined 2 percent. The Rio de Janeiro-
based company’s stock had tumbled 18 percent in the previous
five sessions.  Many investors have lost confidence in Batista’s capacity
to provide financing to his companies if needed, said  Rodolfo Amstalden , an analyst at Sao Paulo-based consulting firm
Empiricus Research. OGX tumbled 68 percent last year, the worst
performance on the Bovespa.  “OGX’s oil reserves are substantially more solid than Eike
Batista’s” finances, Amstalden, who recommends clients  buy  the
stock, said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Batista, 56, has seen his net worth plunge more than 70
percent since March, dropping him from among the world’s 100
richest people, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
shares of its startup commodities companies tumbled. He’s
currently worth about $10.1 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires index.  Last year, Batista granted OGX a put option that could
require him to buy as much as $1 billion in new stock. As part
of the accord, OGX will have the right to exercise the put
option anytime through April 2014 should it need additional
capital.  The press office at Batista’s holding company, EBX Group
Co., didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  