-- Older U.S. Drivers Can Dodge Insurance Penalty on Tickets
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-02-20T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/older-u-s-drivers-can-dodge-insurance-penalty-on-tickets.html
Older drivers in the U.S. are more
likely to avoid higher premiums after getting a traffic ticket
because they’re seen as less likely to have accidents, according
to a Web-based insurance marketplace.  Fifteen percent of drivers age 50 and older reported
increased premiums after a citation, compared with 41 percent of
drivers between 18 and 29, InsuranceQuotes.com, a site owned and
operated by North Palm Beach, Florida-based  Bankrate Inc. , said
in a survey set for release today.  Older drivers receive less scrutiny from insurance
companies because they don’t get as many tickets, Laura Adams, a
senior insurance analyst at InsuranceQuotes.com, said in a phone
interview. Insurance companies check the records of younger,
less-experienced drivers frequently and are more likely to see
citations and raise premiums, Adams said.  “The motor-vehicle-record check is very expensive,” Adams
said. “Insurance companies try not to pull it more than they
absolutely need to.”  Allstate Corp. , the largest publicly traded U.S. home and
auto insurer, said it doesn’t differentiate between old and
young drivers.  “Any MVR ‘check-up’ is based more on claim activity than
age,” Justin Herndon, a spokesman for the Northbrook, Illinois-
based insurer, said in an e-mail.  The survey of 1,000 adults living in the continental U.S.
shows that fewer than a third who received traffic tickets in
the past five years are paying more for car insurance as a
result. An older driver’s ticket will probably go unnoticed
unless there are “several of them in a short period of time,”
Adams said.  Steven Weisbart,  vice president and chief economist at the
Insurance Information Institute, said it would be difficult to
isolate a reason for a boost in the price of coverage.  “To single out traffic tickets and say that increases are
attributable to that, is really misunderstanding how the system
works,” he said.  Princeton Survey Research Associates International
conducted the telephone survey between Jan. 31 and Feb. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in New York at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  