-- Toll Brothers Falls After Earnings Miss Analyst Estimates
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-02-20T23:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/toll-brothers-earnings-miss-estimates-as-home-prices-decline.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, tumbled the most in four years after
reporting fiscal first-quarter earnings that trailed analyst
estimates and projecting narrower margins.  Net income for the quarter ended Jan. 31 was $4.4 million,
or 3 cents a share, compared with a loss of $2.8 million, or 2
cents, a year earlier, the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based company
said today in a statement. The average of 16 analyst estimates
was for earnings of 10 cents a share, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Toll’s biggest market is from  Boston  to  Washington , where
 new-home  sales have lagged behind growth nationwide amid rising
foreclosures in the area and threats of  federal budget  cuts. The
company delivered 746 homes in the quarter, about 100 fewer than
analysts projected, said Robert Wetenhall, an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets LLC in New York.  “The Street thought they would deliver 850,” Wetenhall
said in a telephone interview. “Expectations for Toll’s
operating performance appear to be ahead of fundamentals.”  Toll fell 9.1 percent to $33.56 in New York trading, the
largest one-day decline since December 2008. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding  Index (S15HOME)  lost 6.7 percent, the
biggest drop since June 1.  “I think there was a bit of an overreaction,” Chief
Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr. said in a Bloomberg
Television interview after the market closed. “We picked a bad
day to report with a lot of other things going on.”  Housing Starts  Builders  broke ground  on new homes in January at an annual
rate of 890,000, the Commerce Department reported today. That
was less than the 920,000 average economist estimate and down
from a revised pace of 973,000 in December  “We believe the decline in homebuilder shares pertains to
below-consensus housing starts and earnings guidance causing
forward expectations to moderate,” Jade Rahmani, an analyst
with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., wrote in a note today from
 New York .  Builders in the Northeast had the lowest confidence level
of any U.S. region this month, according to a National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index  released
yesterday. The national gauge unexpectedly dropped from a six-
year high.  Higher Revenue  Toll’s first-quarter revenue rose 32 percent to $424.6
million, compared with the average analyst estimate of $503.6
million. Deliveries increased from 564 a year earlier. Net
signed contracts climbed 49 percent to 973 homes with a value of
$614.4 million.  The average price of homes delivered fell to $569,000 from
$571,000 a year earlier. Average prices were down because year-
earlier sales included more New York City condominiums, which
cost more and have higher profit margins.  The builder expects margins to drop 100 basis points, or 1
percentage point, in the second quarter from the previous three
months, before the company is able to deliver homes with higher
prices and bigger profit margins later this year, Chief
Financial Officer  Martin Connor  said during a conference call
with investors.  Toll’s gross margin of 18.7 percent for the first quarter
missed analyst estimates, Adam Rudiger, an analyst with  Wells
Fargo & Co . in  San Francisco , wrote in a note to clients.
Selling and administrative costs relative to sales were higher
than his estimate.  Slower Turnover  “Gross margin is not likely to expand, given mix issues,”
said Rudiger, who has a market weight, or hold, rating on Toll
shares. “We also believe it is unlikely that Toll will surprise
to the upside in a significant way on revenue in 2013, given the
slower backlog turnover and longer cycle times than peers.”  Toll Brothers, best known for its large single-family
houses, has diversified into investing in distressed real estate
and developing urban high-rise condos, apartments and
dormitories as Yearley seeks seeks steadier revenue through
housing booms and busts. The company has a pipeline of sites for
rental apartments totaling about 4,000 units, as well as two
student-housing projects, Yearley said in the statement.  Toll Brothers raised prices at about 60 percent of its
communities this year, Yearley said on the conference call.  It takes the company eight or nine months to deliver a new
home, about twice the time of other public builders, which means
Toll will take longer than its peers to recognize revenue from
higher-cost homes, Yearley said.  Toll Brothers shares have gained 40 percent in the past 12
months, compared with a 57 percent advance in the S&P
homebuilders index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  