-- London’s Battersea Subway Link Gets $1.5 Billion Funding Plan
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-02-20T11:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/london-s-battersea-subway-link-gets-1-5-billion-funding-plan.html
London’s proposed subway link to
16,000 new homes near the U.K. capital’s iconic Battersea Power
Station would be financed by local developers and companies
under a plan announced today.  The two-mile spur from the existing Tube will be funded via
a 1 billion-pound ($1.53 billion) loan raised by the  Greater
London Authority  and backed by the government. Repayments would
come from local business rates, made available using legislation
on so-called enterprise zones, Wandsworth Council said today.  Linked to the Northern Line at Kennington, the new route,
which could open by 2019, will have stops at Battersea and Nine
Elms, serving London’s largest redevelopment area. Buyers
reserved three-quarters of homes to be built on the site of the
renovated power station within five days of them going on sale
in January, and the area will also house the new U.S embassy.  “Over the long term the scheme would pay for itself while
delivering a major economic and inward investment stimulus for
London,” Ravi Govindia, leader of Wandsworth Council, said. “It
would give Battersea its first underground station and help
bring an underused part of the Thames riverside back to life.”  Battersea Power Station, featured on the cover of Pink
Floyd’s 1977 album “Animals,” has frustrated developers since it
closed more than 29 years ago. Malaysia’s SP Setia Bhd. and Sime
Darby Bhd. bought the site for 400 million pounds in July after
its previous owner was put into administration.  Chancellor  George Osborne  signaled that the government
would underwrite the subway project in a Dec. 5 budget
statement. Wandsworth Council’s executive will reach a final
decision on backing the plan on March 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  