-- Hong Kong Lawmakers Defeat Motion to Probe Leader Leung
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-02-20T08:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/hong-kong-lawmakers-debate-motion-to-probe-leader-leung.html
Hong Kong’s legislature defeated a
motion to investigate allegations that Chief Executive  Leung Chun-ying  promised a government position to a member of a
committee that picked him as city leader last year.  The motion, the second opposition attempt in as many months
to start an investigation against Leung, comes before Leung’s
government delivers its first budget next week. Since he took
office last July, opposition lawmakers have sought Leung’s
resignation over the alleged job offer and illegal additions at
his home.  The political battle has hindered Leung’s effort to focus
on bridging Hong Kong’s record wealth gap and making homes more
affordable. In a policy address last month, Leung pledged to
increase the housing supply, provide more elderly care and clean
up pollution.  Last month, Lew Mon-hung, a member of the election
committee that picked Leung as the city’s top official last
March, told magazine iSunAffairs Weekly that Leung promised him
a government position and recommendation to China’s political
advisory body.  “The new information points to very serious criminal
offenses, and we can’t sit back and do nothing,”  Cyd Ho , a
lawmaker from the Labour Party who introduced the motion, said
at the opening of the debate. “Hong Kong shouldn’t be governed
by a chief executive who leaves such serious doubts in the
people’s minds.”  Lew’s allegations were “nothing new and nothing true,”
Leung said in an interview broadcast on ATV’s Newsline program
Jan. 27. The Hong Kong government said Feb. 8 it will delegate
powers to a prosecutor to decide whether action is needed in the
case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  