-- Monti’s Market Votes Worthless as Berlusconi Gains: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-02-20T14:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/monti-s-market-votes-worthless-as-berlusconi-gains-euro-credit.html
Bondholders would deliver a
landslide victory for  Mario Monti  at this weekend’s election,
based on the drop in yields during his premiership.
Unfortunately for them, Italy’s voters are less keen.  While Monti’s austerity program has rewarded investors with
a 28 percent  gain  in the nation’s debt since he became prime
minister, it is less popular with the electorate. His coalition
was in fourth place in the final polls before voting scheduled
to end Feb. 25, trailing  Pier Luigi Bersani , former premier
 Silvio Berlusconi  and comedian-turned-politician  Beppe Grillo .  “The dream outcome would be a Monti-led government,” said
 Kasper Ullegaard , head of fixed-income at Sampension AS, which
oversees about $36 billion in assets, including Italian bonds,
from Copenhagen. “We would like a continuation of the current
administration which will continue its reforms. That may be a
low possibility event, but even a coalition with more Bersani
and less Monti is better than the alternative.”  Monti succeeded Berlusconi in November 2011, inheriting
 two-year yields  approaching euro-era highs of 8.12 percent. Now,
in what could the final week of his premiership, yields are
within 35 basis points of an all-time low at 1.61 percent,
helped by European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s pledge
to defend the common-currency bloc.  Populism  Berlusconi, who is appealing an October tax fraud
conviction, has gained popularity with promises to cut taxes and
reverse austerity. The former premier’s rise in the polls
reflects growing discontent among Europe’s citizens with
spending reductions, with workers from Spain and Greece to the
U.K. striking in protest against jobs cuts and wage decreases.  “When it comes down to it people don’t like the
austerity,”  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research
at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, said. “Monti’s been blindsided
by the populist policies and proposals of Berlusconi.”  Italy’s 10-year borrowing costs  have climbed 31 basis
points since reaching a two-year low on Jan. 25, as the 76-year-
old billionaire’s re-emergence stokes concern improved investor
confidence in bonds since Draghi’s July 26 pledge to do
“whatever it takes” to protect the euro may dissipate.  Narrowing Spread  Under the leadership of Monti, 69, the yield difference
between 10-year debt and similar-maturity German bunds has
plunged and is now below the target of 287 basis points Monti
set in December. It had risen to a euro-era record of 575 basis
points in November 2011. The spread, a measure of how much
riskier investors perceive lending to Italy rather than Germany
is, is currently about 271 basis points.  Italians vote with unemployment at a 13-year high of 11.2
percent and the economy mired in its  fourth recession  since 2001
after contracting for six quarters through the end of last year.  Against that backdrop, Monti’s austerity measures,
including increasing the retirement age and overhauling labor
rules, have provided ammunition for his political opponents.  Bersani, 61, who has reiterated the need to continue
Monti’s economic approach, has seen his lead narrow to about six
percentage points, according to the average of five polls Feb.
8, the day before a polling blackout. That’s down from about 14
percentage points a month earlier.  A survey of voting intentions on Feb. 6 had Berlusconi
trailing by less than the 4 percentage-point margin of error.  ‘Too Relaxed’  With the polls published Feb. 8 reporting about 30 percent
of undecided or abstentions, investors have underestimated the
potential for an uncertain result, according to  Michael Riddell ,
a London-based fund manager at M&G Group Plc.  “The market is being far too relaxed about peripheral
political risks,” said Riddell, who helps oversee $324 billion
and sold his holdings of Italian debt in January. “Given how
I’m positioned, and purely speaking in terms of fund performance
versus benchmark, I want the election to be a total mess.”  Italian bonds handed investors a return of 1.3 percent this
year through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  Even if Berlusconi fails to close the gap and win the vote,
his gains may prevent Bersani from winning an outright majority
in the Senate because Italy’s electoral law assigns seats in
that house on a regional basis.  Bersani may turn to Monti to form a post-vote alliance, a
move that should help allay bond market fears, according to
 Georgios Tsapouris , an investment strategist at Coutts & Co,
which oversees $49 billion. Coutts owns Italian bonds and would
look to increase its holdings should investor concern push
prices lower before the election, he said.  “A coalition between the parties led by Bersani with the
center parties under Monti should be the most market favorable
outcome,” Tsapouris said. “Bersani is generally in favor of
the current reform agenda, but Monti’s participation in the new
government would increase the government’s credibility that it
will implement the structural reforms promised.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  