-- Moon-Sized Planet Becomes Smallest Found Outside Solar System
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-02-20T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/moon-sized-planet-becomes-smallest-found-outside-solar-system.html
A planet the size of our moon has
become the smallest found outside the solar system, scientists
from the U.S. Kepler space mission said.  The new planet, called Kepler-37b, is probably rocky with
no atmosphere or water, like Mercury, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration researchers said in a paper published
today in the journal  Nature . It’s one of three planets orbiting
a star that’s smaller, denser and cooler than the sun.  Discoveries of small planets had been handicapped by the
limitations of scientists’ instruments, said Thomas Barclay, a
research scientist at the NASA Ames Research Center in Moffett
Field, California, and an author of today’s report. Most stars
aren’t stable or bright enough for planets this small to be
detected, he said.  “This was a great test case, and the fact that we found a
planet this size on one of the few stars where we can find one
hints that small planets like this may be extremely common,”
Barclay said in a telephone interview. It’s too early to say how
many such planets there might be, he said.  NASA’s Kepler mission is designed to discover Earth-size
and smaller celestial bodies in regions around their stars,
particularly those where liquid  water may exist . The spacecraft
was launched in March 2009 and has found about 2,400 planet
candidates.  The planet Kepler-37b was detected through comparing the
light captured when it passed in front of its star to the star’s
usual light. The planet’s star is well-characterized so
scientists were able to determine its size with greater
certainty, Barclay said.  The previous smallest planets discovered outside the solar
system were orbiting a red dwarf, the most common type of star
in the Milky Way. The red dwarf was about twice the size of
Jupiter. The smallest of those planets was about 0.57 the times
of the radius of Earth, or about the size of Mars, according to
a NASA announcement from January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  