-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Fluctuates After Rising Most in Week
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-02-20T07:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/top-oil-market-news-crude-fluctuates-after-rising-most-in-week.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Fluctuates After Rising Most in a Week; Seaway Flow Climbs  West Texas Intermediate crude fluctuated after rising the
most in a week as Enterprise Products Partners LP said supplies
through its Seaway pipeline will increase, helping reduce a glut
in the U.S. Midwest.  Oil Inventories Climb for Fifth Week in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. oil supplies probably rose for a fifth week, the
longest streak of advances since May, as output climbed to a 20-
year high and limits to the Seaway pipeline curbed the flow out
of a key storage hub, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Seaway Crude Oil Pipeline to Operate Below Planned Capacity (3)  Enterprise Products Partners LP’s Seaway crude oil pipeline
will operate below its stated capacity for the foreseeable
future, denting hopes of clearing a glut of supply in the U.S.
Midwest.  BP Wins U.S. OK to Cut Potential Spill Fine by $3.4 Billion  U.S. agrees captured oil won’t count for Clean Water Act
fines; BP claimed 810k bbls captured before reaching water.  European Naphtha Cargoes to Asia Rise to 14 for February Loading  European naphtha shipments to Asia in February rose to 14
cargoes from 11 a week earlier, shipping data showed.  Japan Imports Record LNG in January on Winter Heating Demand (1)  Japan’s liquefied natural gas imports rose to a record 8.23
million metric tons in January, as most of the nation’s nuclear
plants remained idled and below- average temperatures boosted
energy demand for heating.  Petronas Said to Sell April Labuan Crude at About $8.20 Premium  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the Malaysian state oil company
known as Petronas, sold 300,000 barrels of its Labuan crude
loading in April at a premium of about $8.20 a barrel to Dated
Brent, said two people who participate in the market. They asked
not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to
the media.  Brent Oil May Drop in 2Q as Support Fades, Morgan Stanley Says  Sees potential for “modest correction” in Brent prices in
2Q on seasonally weaker demand, returning supply and higher
refinery runs today  Leaking U.S. Radioactive Sludge Seen Threatening Columbia River  News that a storage tank at a shuttered federal nuclear
facility in Washington state is leaking radioactive sludge has
raised fears that the toxic stew could reach the Columbia River
as a U.S. cleanup effort drags on.  Fisker Technology Shouldn’t Go to Chinese, Grassley Says (1)  The technology of Fisker Automotive Inc., the U.S. plug-in
hybrid carmaker that owes American taxpayers about $200 million,
shouldn’t be sold to Chinese companies, U.S. Senator Charles
Grassley said.  Fisker Plug-In Technology Shouldn’t Go to Chinese, Grassley Says  The technology of Fisker Automotive Inc., the U.S. plug-in
hybrid carmaker that owes American taxpayers about $200 million,
shouldn’t be sold to Chinese companies, U.S. Senator Charles
Grassley said.  Fisker Plug-In Technology Shouldn’t Go to Chinese, Grassley Says  The technology of Fisker Automotive Inc., the U.S. plug-in
hybrid carmaker that owes U.S. taxpayers about $200 million,
shouldn’t be sold to Chinese companies, U.S. Senator Charles
Grassley said.  Natural Gas Gains as Colder U.S. Weather Spurs Heating Demand  Natural gas futures rose in New York by the most in more
than five weeks on speculation that colder weather across the
U.S. in early March will spur fuel use.  SK Innovation Said to Sell Naphtha Cargo to Glencore for March  SK Innovation Co. sold a naphtha cargo for March loading to
Glencore International Plc, according to two traders who
participate in the market.  No Women on Glencore’s Board Marks Mining Imbalance: Commodities  Glencore International Plc’s $36 billion takeover of
Xstrata Plc will unite about 130,000 employees that operate in
more than 40 countries. The proposed board of directors doesn’t
include a single woman.  OPEC  OPEC Seen Cutting by Morgan Stanley as Tanker Charters Slump (3)  OPEC may be extending the longest stretch of production
cuts since the 2009 global recession as fewer oil tankers are
booked to ship Middle East crude to Asia, according to Morgan
Stanley.  Brent Crude Capped at $140 This Year, $175 in 2017, BofA Says  The upper limit for Brent crude will rise from $140 a
barrel this year to $175 in 2017 because of constraints on
supply, Bank of America Corp. estimates.  Oil-Tanker Charters Seen by Morgan Stanley as Sign of OPEC Cuts  A slump in the number of oil tankers booked to ship Middle
East crude eastbound may be a sign OPEC members are extending
production cuts, Morgan Stanley analyst Fotis Giannakoulis said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  BP Has Emissions at Prudhoe Bay Oilfield Plant: NRC Filing  BP has leak of natural gas liquids from a flange during
maintenance at Prudhoe Bay Oilfield in Arkansas, according NRC
filing.  Gulf Gasoline Extends Longest Winning Streak Since ’02 on Motiva  U.S. Gulf Coast gasoline strengthened for ninth consecutive
day, extending its winning streak to the longest since 2002 as
Motiva Enterprises LLC was said to shut a unit at its Port
Arthur, Texas, plant.  Gasoline Pump Prices Soaring on Refinery Repairs, Oil Rally (1)  U.S. consumers facing the highest gasoline pump prices ever
for February may see further increases as global crude oil
futures climb and breakdowns and seasonal maintenance at
refineries reduce fuel supplies.  Premium for Gasoline in San Francisco Strengthens a Third Day  Spot gasoline in San Francisco gained against futures for a
third day after a hydrocracker shutdown at Tesoro Corp.’s Golden
Eagle refinery was seen cutting supplies in Northern California.  Retail Gasoline in U.S. Rises to Four-Month High, EIA Says  Average retail gasoline in U.S. rose to $3.747/gal., up
3.8% from week earlier and 4.3% from year earlier, Energy
Information Administration said on website.  BP Working to Minimize Impact of Union Strike at Grangemouth  BP Plc has been notified that Co.’s tanker drivers at
Grangemouth, Scotland, plan to walk out for three days beginning
Feb. 22, Co. said in e-mailed statement.  Phillips 66 Sweeny Refinery Reports Emissions on Pressure Drop  Sweeny refinery in Texas reported emissions from coker
flare, fluid catalytic cracker stack after a drop in pressure,
Phillips 66 said in filing with state regulators.  Regina Refinery Crude Unit 2 Will Reach Full Rates by Feb. 21  Consumers’ Co-Operative Refineries Ltd.’s Regina plant
expects to increase rates at crude unit 2 to 34,000 b/d by Feb.
21 at the latest. • The unit, which returned to service Feb. 11
after fire, is currently processing about 31,000 b/d • Crude
Unit 1 is shut for an “indeterminate” amount of time • SOURCE:
Vic Huard, vice president, comments in e-mail • NOTE: Refinery
has capacity of 130,000 b/d in Saskatchewan, Canada  Motiva Port Arthur Said to Shut Catalytic Cracker for Repairs  Motiva Enterprises LLC shut the fluid catalytic cracker at
its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery for unplanned repairs, a person
familiar with operations said.  Europe Gasoline Drops; Diesel Climbs as Vitol Buys: Oil Products  Gasoline in Europe drops from a four-month high. Naphtha
gains as Statoil buys a cargo.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  TOP Oil Market News: WTI Oil Advances on Seaway Pipeline Flows  The following is a selection of the most important news
affecting the oil market.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Rise 8.0 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
Japan rose 8.0 percent to 8.63 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Rises 1.0% to 32.06 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained 1.0 percent to
32.06 Worldscale points, according to the Baltic Exchange in
London.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Tudor Alumnus McMillan Said to Hire Lee for Investment Firm (3)  Andrew McMillan, who ran a commodity team at Tudor
Investment Corp., hired Singapore lawyer Amy Lee to help run the
investment firm he plans to start this year, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  BMW Taps Wind to Guard Profits in Merkel’s Nuclear Switch: Cars  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG will harness winds whipping
across eastern Germany to secure power -- and defend profits --
as costs rise due to Germany’s 550 billion-euro ($740 billion)
shift away from nuclear energy.  Dakota Oil Rush Fuels Chihuahua Bond Bidding War: Mexico Credit  North Dakota’s oil rush is being felt in the Mexican
desert, where a 72-year-old cement-making company has parlayed
its link to the shale-fracking industry into a debut overseas
bond sale that investors are bidding up.  China’s Shale Gas No Revolution as Price Imperils Output: Energy  China, consuming energy at the fastest pace among major
economies, has set ambitious targets to exploit its reservoirs
of shale gas, the same fuel the U.S. touts as the means to
energy independence. It won’t meet them.  Wind Blows German Power Swings to Five-Year High: Energy Markets  Germany is getting more power than ever before from sources
dependent on wind and sunshine, pushing short-term price swings
to the biggest in five years and boosting volume as utilities
increase trading.  Harvesting Sewage Signaling Boon for Utilities to Skiers: Energy  United Utilities Plc and Severn Trent Plc, Britain’s
biggest publicly traded water companies, are increasingly
feeding human waste into tanks of bacteria whose methane
emissions generate electricity.  BP Ready for Trial After Failing to Find ‘Reasonable’ Settlement  BP Plc will defend itself against claims over 2010’s Gulf
of Mexico oil spill at a trial next week after failing to reach
a settlement with the U.S. and individual states.  Enbridge Turns to Unused Pipe for Activist Remedy Amid Oil Boom  Enbridge Inc. sees reversing and upgrading pipelines to
transport growing volumes of North American crude as a way to
address public opposition that is slowing new projects.  Energy Future Utility Chief’s Pay Triple That of Parent CEO  The chief executive officer of Energy Future Holdings
Corp.’s Oncor utility received $20 million last year, nearly
three times the compensation paid to parent company CEO John
Young.  North Sea Crude Benchmark Change Gains Momentum on Platts (2)  Liquidity in North Sea benchmark Dated Brent crude is set
to be boosted after Platts, a global pricing agency, announced
changes in conjunction with an earlier modification by Royal
Dutch Shell Plc.  OTHER MARKETS  Asia Stocks Rise 3rd Day With Won on Economic Data as Kiwi Drops  Asian stocks rose for a third day, with the regional
benchmark index poised for the highest close in more than 18
months, while copper and soybeans advanced. New Zealand’s dollar
tumbled and the euro strengthened.  Currency Intervention Heats Up as Wheeler Warns Traders on Kiwi  New Zealand’s central bank governor said he’s ready to
intervene in foreign-exchange markets, the latest in a string of
countries from South Korea to Brazil warning their currencies
are too strong even as Group of 20 nations pledge to refrain
from competitive devaluation.  Japan Sends Money Abroad as Weaker Yen Spurs Growth: Currencies  Japan’s residents are pouring money into investment trusts
at the fastest pace in almost two years, supporting the nation’s
assertion to Group of 20 peers that policies weakening the yen
will boost global growth.  Asian Stocks Extend 18-Month High on Global Outlook; BHP Falls  Asian stocks rose for a third day, with the regional
benchmark index extending an 18-month high, amid signs the
global economy is recovering.  Thai Stocks to Extend Rally to Record on Spending, Top Fund Says  Thailand’s best-performing fund this year is forecasting
the benchmark stock index will rally a further 17 percent to a
record in 2013 as government infrastructure spending boosts
earnings.  Palm Oil Imports by China Climbing as Quarantine Concern Eases  Palm oil imports by China, the biggest cooking oil
consumer, may jump 14 percent in February on optimism stricter
quarantine inspections won’t hurt trade.  Gold Snaps Five-Day Losing Streak Amid Fed Stimulus Speculation  Gold advanced, snapping a five-day losing run, on
speculation that the U.S. central bank may prolong stimulus in
the world’s largest economy amid a weaker- than-expected
recovery.  Obama Pressures Congress for Deal to Avert Automatic Cuts (2)  President Barack Obama stepped up pressure on Congress to
avert a “brutal” automatic $1.2 trillion in budget cuts set to
kick in March 1, saying it would harm the economy and curtail
vital services.  Tunisia Premier Jbeli Quits After Failing to Form New Government  Tunisian Prime Minister Hamadi Jbeli announced his
resignation last night after failing to form a technocratic
government to ease political tensions after the assassination of
an opposition leader.  SPORTS  Real’s Di Maria Offered to Manchester Utd., PSG: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Bayern Munich Beats Arsenal in Champions League as Porto Wins  Bayern Munich won 3-1 at Arsenal in their Champions League
round of 16 soccer opener as Porto defeated Malaga 1-0.  Bayern Munich Beats Arsenal 3-1 in Champions League; Porto Wins  Bayern Munich beat Arsenal 3-1 in their Champions League
round of 16 soccer opener, as Porto defeated Malaga 1-0.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       96.82  +0.16  +0.2  Nymex    March
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    117.42  -0.10  -0.1    Ice    April
Gasoil ($/Ton)         999.75  +4.75  +0.5    Ice    April
Gasoline (c/Gal)       311.91  -0.21  -0.1  Nymex    March
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.28  +0.01  +0.3  Nymex    March
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    118.43  +0.18  +0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            318.90  +0.84  +0.3  Nymex    March
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.32  -0.2
Gold ($/Oz)          1,604.20  -0.3
MSCI World Index     1,423.01  +0.2
Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  Copy and paste this link for Table: NI $789 FJM  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  