-- Orix Climbs After $2.6 Billion Deal to Buy Robeco: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-02-20T01:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/orix-climbs-after-2-6-billion-deal-to-buy-robeco-tokyo-mover.html
Orix Corp.  rose the most in two
weeks in Tokyo trading after the Japanese financial company
agreed to buy  Rabobank Groep ’s asset-management unit for 1.94
billion euros ($2.6 billion) in its largest-ever acquisition.  The shares climbed as much as 4.3 percent, their biggest
intraday gain since Feb. 4, and traded 3 percent higher at
10,640 yen as of 10 a.m. local time. The benchmark Topix Index
advanced 0.9 percent.  Orix  said yesterday that it will purchase 90 percent of
Robeco Groep NV, gaining a Dutch mutual-fund brand that dates to
1929 as well as Chicago-based Harbor Capital Advisors. The
Tokyo-based company, which also manages Japan’s Buffaloes
baseball team, is buying financial firms to expand abroad as
deflation and a falling population limit opportunities at home.  “This is a very good acquisition,” said  Shiro Yoshioka ,
an analyst at Japaninvest Group Plc in Tokyo, who has a buy
rating on Orix. “Even as it’s a substantial purchase, Robeco’s
asset-management business will help Orix expand in the financial
industry.”  The deal will give Orix control of an asset manager with
growing earnings and 189 billion euros of assets as of the end
of last year. Chief Executive Officer  Yoshihiko Miyauchi  said
the company is looking for more acquisitions.  “We should be able to go for another sizable deal in the
coming year,” Miyauchi told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. He
said he expects to see opportunities in Southeast Asia and South
America, where the company opened a Brazilian unit to seek
acquisitions in September.  Since Sprint  The purchase is the largest overseas acquisition announced
by a Japanese company since mobile-phone operator Softbank Corp.
said it would pay $20.1 billion for control of Sprint Nextel
Corp. on Oct. 15.  Rabobank, the biggest Dutch savings bank and mortgage
lender, will retain 10 percent of Robeco and receive as much as
150 million euros of Orix shares, Orix said in yesterday’s
statement. Rabobank is shedding units to help strengthen its
finances amid slowing asset growth and competition for deposits
in the Netherlands.  Orix was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., it said in
the statement. Rabobank and Robeco were advised by Barclays Plc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  