-- Orrick, Cooley, Jones Day, Linklaters: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-20T20:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/orrick-cooley-jones-day-linklaters-business-of-law.html
Rob McKenna , Washington State’s
former attorney general, joined Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe
LLP as a partner in Seattle and co-chairman of the firm’s public
policy group.  “Rob has been a national leader in the development of data
protection and privacy regulation that promotes innovation while
protecting consumers,”  Mitch Zuklie , chairman-elect of Orrick
said in a statement. “This is an area of significant focus for
Orrick’s technology and other clients, and Rob will be an
invaluable asset to them.”  McKenna, who unsuccessfully ran for governor on the
Republican ticket last year, finished his second term as
attorney general in January. As president of the National
Association of Attorneys General, McKenna led efforts to address
data-protection, privacy, cybersecurity and intellectual
property theft issues, the firm said.  While in office, the state passed anti-spyware and
identity-theft laws. He also argued three appeals before the
U.S. Supreme Court and co-led settlement negotiations of
multistate consumer-protection investigations, the firm said.  “The mortgage lending settlement in 2012 was my most
important case, overall,” McKenna said in an e-mail. “It not
only produced $25 billion in homeowner relief, it resulted in
new mortgage loan servicing rules that are now the industry
standard, protecting all borrowers today and in the future.”  Orrick has lawyers at 25 offices in the U.S., Europe and
Asia.  Cooley Expands Los Angeles Office With Two From Sheppard Mullin  Cooley LLP said C.  Thomas Hopkins  and Ian Smith joined the
firm’s business department as partners in the Los Angeles
office. Both join from Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP,
where Hopkins co-chaired the global corporate practice group.  “Tom and Ian’s substantial experience and expertise
working with growth companies makes them a natural fit with our
strategy,”  David Hernand , partner-in-charge of Cooley’s Los
Angeles office, said in a statement.  Hopkins’s corporate practice focuses on public offerings,
mergers and acquisitions, and public and private company
governance representation. Smith has experience in venture
capital, mergers and acquisitions and representation of growth
companies, the firm said.  Since opening the Los Angeles office in July with four
founding partners, Cooley has added 11 attorneys. Cooley has 700
attorneys in 12 offices in the U.S. and Shanghai.  Tax Lawyer Wilhelm Haarmann Joins Linklaters in Germany  Linklaters LLP named Wilhelm Haarmann, founding partner of
the law firm Haarmann, as a partner in Germany.  “With Wilhelm Haarmann, we are gaining one of the most
renowned advisers at the interface of tax and corporate law,”
Hans-Ulrich Wilsing, head of the German corporate law practice
group, said in a statement.  Haarmann mainly advises on tax mandates and corporate
transactions on mergers and acquisitions, private equity and
venture capital matters, the firm said. He is also an arbitrator
in large-scale arbitration proceedings.  Linklaters has lawyers at 28 offices worldwide.  Jones Day Hires Tax Partner in Columbus Office  Jones Day hired Troy Terakedis in the Columbus, Ohio,
office as a partner in the tax practice. He was formerly a
partner at  Calfee, Halter & Griswold LLP.   Terakedis counsels clients on federal income tax matters
related to partnerships, limited liability companies and
corporations. He has worked with leveraged buyout, venture
capital, and other private-equity funds on formation issues as
well as other tax-related matters, the firm said.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 38 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Deals  TSYS to Buy Prepaid Card Provider NetSpend for $1.4 Billion  King & Spalding LLP advised Total System Services Inc., or
TSYS, which agreed to acquire  NetSpend Holdings Inc. , a provider
of reloadable prepaid debit cards, for about $1.4 billion in
cash. Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP represented
NetSpend.  The King & Spalding legal team involved in the transaction
was led by mergers and acquisitions partners Bill Baxley and
Spencer Johnson, and also consisted of the following partners:
 Chip Conrad  and  Keith Townsend , financing and securities/SEC;
 Eleanor Banister ,  Sam Matchett  and Cheryl Sabnis, employee
benefits and labor; John Sweet, tax;  Scott Petty , intellectual
property;  Jeff Spigel , antitrust; and  Scott Stengel  and Jeff
Telep, financial and regulatory.  Fried Frank corporate partners  Peter Golden  and  Abigail Bomba  led a team which included corporate partner  Amy Blackman ,
antitrust partner  Barry Nigro , tax partner Michael Alter,
litigation partner  David Hennes  and intellectual property &
technology partner  Daniel Glazer .  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch as financial adviser to Netspend. The
Davis Polk corporate team includes partners  George R. Bason Jr .
and  Leonard Kreynin .  NetSpend shareholders will get $16 for each share of the
company they own, according to a statement. Compared with
NetSpend’s closing price of $12.69 on Feb. 15, the offer
reflects a premium of about 26 percent.  TSYS may be betting on NetSpend’s growth prospects. The
Austin, Texas-based company had more than 2.3 million active
cards at the end of the year, and is “poised to capture a
significant portion of this market,”  Andrew Jeffrey , a SunTrust
Banks Inc. analyst, said in a Feb. 14 note.  Spending on prepaid cards in the U.S. in 2011 totaled $186
billion, representing about 2.2 percent of $8.34 trillion in
consumer purchases, and is projected to climb to $274.7 billion
in 2016, according to the Nilson Report, a payments industry
newsletter.  For more, click here.  News  Conrad Black Loses Bid to Void Conviction Because of Counsel  Conrad Black , the former Hollinger International Inc.
chairman convicted in 2007 on fraud and obstruction charges,
lost a bid to void that verdict on grounds he was blocked from
hiring the defense lawyers he wanted.  Black argued that the seizure by federal agents in 2005 of
about $9 million in proceeds from the sale of a Manhattan
apartment left him unable to retain criminal defense lawyers
 Brendan V. Sullivan  and  Gregory Craig , then both with
Washington’s  Williams & Connolly LLP . Craig is a former White
House Counsel under President Barack Obama. Sullivan is known
for defending U.S. Marine Corps Lieutenant-Colonel  Oliver North 
in the Iran-Contra scandal.  U.S. District Judge  Amy J. St. Eve , who presided over the
trial, yesterday rejected Black’s argument and faulted him for
not pressing it earlier.  “I never thought there was much chance that Judge St. Eve
would rule in our favor,” Black, 68, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The entire prosecution was a fraud and a disgrace
and any serious examination of it reveals that.”  Randall Samborn , a spokesman for acting Chicago U.S.
Attorney  Gary Shapiro , declined to comment on St. Eve’s ruling
or on Black’s comments.  Black’s defense at trial was led by  Edward Genson  of
Chicago and  Edward Greenspan  of Toronto.  Black was convicted of three counts of mail fraud and one
count of obstructing a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
probe. He successfully appealed two of the fraud convictions and
won a three-year reduction of his original 6 1/2-year sentence.
He was released from federal custody last year and is now living
in Toronto.  Former U.S. Attorney  Patrick Fitzgerald , who led the office
during the Black case, is now in private practice with New York-
based  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP , where Craig is also
now a partner.  Hollinger International is now known as the  Sun-Times Media
Group Inc .  The case is Black v. U.S., 12-cv-4306, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  NCAA Fires Head of Enforcement After Violations in Miami Probe  The National Collegiate Athletic Association’s head of
enforcement was fired after an independent review by New York
law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP said internal
protocols were violated during the organization’s investigation
into the University of Miami.  Julie Roe Lach was replaced by Jonathan Duncan Feb. 18 as
the vice president of enforcement for college sports’ governing
body. NCAA President  Mark Emmert  declined to comment further on
Roe Lach’s status within the NCAA.  Roe Lach’s ousting came after Cadwalader released the
results of its 27-day review of the NCAA’s investigation into
possible improper benefits provided to Miami athletes. The
review, published Feb. 18 on the NCAA website, found that while
the NCAA did nothing illegal, staff members disregarded legal
advice while using outside counsel and a federal bankruptcy
process to obtain information.  “This is something that is an embarrassment to the
association and our staff,” Emmert said Feb. 18 on a conference
call to discuss the findings. “It’s something that is contrary
to all of the activities and directions that we’ve been engaged
with and all the things that we espouse.”  The NCAA has expunged any information obtained through
these actions from its examination of Miami and will continue
with its investigation, Emmert said.  The NCAA doesn’t have subpoena power, meaning it doesn’t
have the authority to compel testimony during investigations.
Staffers in the organization’s enforcement department used
subpoena authority through bankruptcy proceedings of Hurricanes
booster Nevin Shapiro to obtain information that wouldn’t have
been available otherwise,  Kenneth Wainstein , a partner at
Cadwalader said on the conference call.  The technique, proposed by Maria Elena Perez, Shapiro’s
attorney, was approved by two supervisors in the enforcement
department, despite vocal concern from the NCAA’s legal staff,
Wainstein said. Perez was paid to depose two people in Dec. 2011
using questions proposed by the NCAA, according to the report.  Perez said in a telephone interview that she was never told
that her work with the NCAA was in violation of their own rules
and that she felt “enormously betrayed” by the NCAA.  The actions violated an NCAA policy that says only its
legal staff is allowed to hire outside counsel, Wainstein said.
He added that while it wasn’t illegal, it could be perceived as
a manipulation of the bankruptcy process, and that it showed
disregard for the expectations of the NCAA’s membership.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Kaye Scholer Pays $1.5 Million to Settle GSC Claims  Law firm  Kaye Scholer LLP  agreed to give up $1.5 million to
settle claims by the U.S. Trustee that the firm, as lawyers for
fund manager GSC Group Inc., filed inaccurate and misleading
court papers in connection with the retention of Capstone
Advisory Group LLC and  Robert Manzo  as the company’s financial
advisers.  Assuming the settlements are approved by the bankruptcy
court, the U.S. Trustee will have made $5.5 million in
recoveries for GSC. Earlier last week, the U.S. Trustee
announced settlements where Capstone and Manzo will pay or give
up almost $4 million.  The Justice Department’s watchdog for bankruptcy, the U.S.
Trustee, said that the two firms and Manzo covered up a
prohibited fee-splitting agreement between Manzo and Capstone.  New York-based Kaye Scholer will give back $1.15 million in
fees already paid and will waive $350,000 in fees yet to be
paid.  The firm also agreed to the appointment at its own expense
of an independent expert who will review the firm’s procedures
in connection with the filing of papers to retain professionals
in bankruptcy cases.  Kaye Scholer agreed that a bankruptcy partner not involved
in a case and a member of the firm’s ethics committee will
review and approve all court filings related to retentions of
professionals.  The firm’s general counsel  Aaron Rubinstein  said in an e-
mailed statement that the settlement contains “no
acknowledgement by Kaye Scholer of any wrongdoing.” He said the
firm considered that the settlement wasn’t “unduly burdensome
or intrusive” and allowed the firm to “avoid the distraction
of trial.”  There will be an April 22 hearing to consider approval of
the settlements with the two firms and Manzo. There may be
objections, however.  Black Diamond Capital Finance LLC said in a court filing
last week that it opposes the settlement with the financial
advisers. The firm said that Manzo, as trustee for the
creditors’ trust, is spending several million dollars more than
the trust agreement allows. As part of his settlement, Manzo
will step down as trustee for the trust.  Black Diamond or others can file objections by March 15,
when they can also oppose professionals’ fee requests. If Black
Diamond or others seek larger disgorgements for inaccurate court
filings, papers likewise must be filed by March 15.  Black Diamond was the proponent of the Chapter 11 plan for
GSC that was approved and confirmed in February 2012.  According to the U.S. Trustee, Kaye Scholer incurred fees
of $6.13 million, while Capstone’s were $6.07 million, not
including a success fee not yet granted.  The case is In re GSC Group Inc., 10-14653, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Litigation  Dow Chemical Lawyer Denies Conspiracy to Fix Urethane Prices  A  Dow Chemical Co.  lawyer told a jury that the company
didn’t conspire with other chemical makers to fix the price of
urethane products used in the manufacture of cars, appliances
and furniture.  Lawyers for Dow and suing urethane buyers delivered closing
arguments yesterday in federal court in Kansas City, Kansas, at
the end of a four-week trial. The plaintiffs seek $1.125 billion
in damages, one of their lawyers said.  The case started in 2005 with allegations that Dow plotted
with  BASF SE , Huntsman International LLC and Lyondell Chemical
Co. Only Midland, Michigan-based Dow didn’t settle.  “What kind of cartel is it where everybody is doing
exactly what they would be doing otherwise?”  David Bernick , a
partner at  Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP  and a Dow lawyer, asked
the jury of five women and two men. “There’s a difference
between a conversation and an agreement, this is key,” he said,
denying his client ever made such a pact.  At the center of the case are urethane-based products used
in the automotive, construction, appliance and furniture
industries. The plaintiffs contend that Dow and other companies
illegally plotted to fix product prices in violation of U.S.
law, attorney Joseph Goldberg said in court.  “An agreement can be just a wink and a nod,” Goldberg
told the jury. He said such schemes aren’t agreed upon in
corporate board rooms; rather, they’re hatched in back rooms, on
golf courses and over cocktails.  “If it quacks like a duck and it walks like a duck, it can
be a duck, even if you don’t see it,” he said, calling evidence
of the price-fixing conspiracy “overwhelming.”  Bernick, the Dow lawyer, said the purchasers included
industrial companies such as 3M Corp. and  General Motors Co .  The trial before U.S. District Judge  John W. Lungstrum 
began on Jan. 23. Lungstrum last year denied a motion for
judgment in Dow’s favor, ruling that the claims of a conspiracy
from 1999 to 2003 were sufficient to go before a jury.  The case is In re Urethane Antitrust Litigation, 04-
md-1616, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas (Kansas City).  For more, click here.  BP Ready for Trial After Failing to Find ‘Reasonable’ Settlement  BP Plc  will defend itself against claims over 2010’s Gulf
of Mexico oil spill at a trial next week after failing to reach
a settlement with the U.S. and individual states. The company
will be represented at trial by lawyers from Covington & Burling
LLP, Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Liskow & Lewis.  “We have always been open to settlements on reasonable
terms,”  Rupert Bondy , group general counsel at BP, said in a
statement. “Faced with demands that are excessive and not based
on reality of the merits of the case, we are going to trial.”  A two-phase trial will start at a federal court in New
Orleans on Feb. 25, overseen by Judge  Carl Barbier . The first
phase will determine responsibility for the Deepwater Horizon
accident, which killed 11 rig workers and started the worst U.S.
offshore oil spill. The second will decide the size of fines
under the Clean Water Act.  BP said it won’t be found grossly negligent, a legal
threshold of responsibility that determines the scale of fines
Barbier would be able to levy.  “Gross negligence is a very high bar that BP believes
cannot be met in this case,” Bondy said. “This was a tragic
accident, resulting from multiple causes and involving multiple
parties. We firmly believe we were not grossly negligent.”  BP will also contest U.S. estimates of how much oil was
spilt. The government’s figure of 4.9 million barrels is
overestimated by at least 20 percent, according to the London-
based company. Given BP managed to contain and collect 810,000
barrels of oil, the penalty should be based on no more than 3.1
million barrels, it said.  Podcast  $300 Million Dairy Settlement Will Bring Reform, Lawyer Says  Robert Abrams, chairman of the antitrust group at Baker &
Hostetler LLP, talks about his representation of a certified
class of southeastern dairy farmers in the recently announced
$158.6 million settlement of a continuing antitrust class action
brought by the farmers against major milk producers. Total
recovery for the dairy farmers in this matter is more than $300
million.  Abrams, speaking with Bloomberg Law’s  Spencer Mazyck  in
this “Rainmakers” episode, also explains why there has been an
increase in criminal antitrust enforcement actions under the
Obama administration.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  