-- Total Targets Tajik Gas Linked to Largest Turkmenistan Field
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-02-20T17:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/total-s-tajik-move-aims-for-gas-from-same-basin-as-turkmen-giant.html
Total SA ’s move into Tajikistan, a
former Soviet republic known for growing melons and cotton, is
aimed at producing natural gas for export to neighboring China.  Total’s venture with China National Petroleum Corp. and
 Tethys Petroleum Ltd. , formed in December, is targeting an
estimated 114 trillion cubic feet of gas at the Bokhtar license,
twice Norway’s proven reserves,  according  to Tethys. Bokhtar
shares geology with Turkmenistan’s South Yoloten field and gas-
producing regions of Uzbekistan, said  David Robson , executive
chairman at Tethys. The two nations already pipe gas to China.  The Bokhtar permit is at the eastern end of the Amu Darya
Basin, where “big discoveries” have been made in Turkmenistan,
 Michael Borrell , a senior vice president for Central Asia at
Total, said yesterday in London. The alliance with Beijing-based
CNPC also brings with it a “large market outlet,” he said.  The successful development of gas in Tajikistan, which has
little oil and gas output so far, would further hamper Russia’s
ambitions to supply China, the world’s fastest-growing major
economy.  OAO Gazprom , Russia’s gas-export monopoly, has failed
to reach a deal with Chinese customers after more than a decade
of talks, while other former Soviet republics forged agreements.  Bokhtar Permit  The Bokhtar contract covers 35,000 square kilometers
(13,500 square miles), an area larger than Belgium, and holds an
estimated 27.5 billion barrels of oil and gas resources,
according to Tethys, which already produces light oil from
shallow wells in Tajikistan.  The partners plan to invest about $80 million to explore
Bokhtar in the next two years and expect to sink the first well
as soon as 2014, drilling to a possible depth of more than 6
kilometers. Tethys’s samples show deeper wells may either find
“very light oil” or “very wet gas,” Robson said.  In the former Soviet Union, “Tajikistan was an area where
they produced a lot of cotton, they produced water melons, but
they didn’t really drill for oil and gas” deep underground, he
said in an interview in London. “Now Tajikistan is an
independent country, they want its resource to be developed.”  Should a discovery be made, the producers will pump gas to
China through an existing pipeline or via a new link. They may
also send fuel through the planned Trans-Afghan pipe as far as
India, Robson said.  The Turkmen government  renamed  the South Yoloten gas field,
the world’s second-largest, Galkynysh in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  