-- Hotels Lead Drop on Wen as Sina Rallies: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-20T21:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-20/hotels-lead-drop-on-wen-as-sina-rallies-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  fell for a fourth day
in New York, the longest stretch of declines in five months,
after the nation ordered cities to limit home purchases and data
showed foreign direct investment retreated in January.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. dropped 1.1 percent to a two-month
low of 94.46 yesterday. China Lodging Group Ltd. and Home Inns &
Hotels Management Inc. lost at least 6 percent. Vipshop Holdings
Ltd. slid the most in three weeks before reporting earnings.
 Sina Corp. , owner of the Weibo micro-blogging site, posted the
largest gain in two months on an unexpected profit.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  called on local authorities to
“decisively” curb real estate speculation to rein in the
property market, according to a statement after yesterday’s
State Council meeting, while data showed foreign inflows fell
for an eighth month. The China-US gauge has lost 5.7 percent in
February after a rebound in Asia’s largest economy sent the
benchmark index 8 percent higher in the previous two months.  “There’s a general degree of disappointment which people
have had in terms of investing in China,”  Michael Shaoul , the
chief executive officer of Marketfield Asset Management LLC in
New York, said by phone yesterday. “I don’t think the market
will welcome more government measures on China’s housing sector.
The slowdown in FDI represents an interesting pull-back by
foreign investors.”  ETF Sinks  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., fell for a second day,
tumbling 1 percent to $39.04 in New York, the lowest price since
Dec. 13. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  retreated 1.2 percent
to 1,511.95 in its biggest retreat in three months as minutes
from the Federal Reserve’s last meeting showed a debate over
further stimulus action.  American depositary receipts of China Lodging, a Shanghai-
based budget hotel chain, sank 7.4 percent to $17.84, the
steepest slump since Dec. 17. Home Inns, China’s biggest economy
hotel operator, also based in Shanghai, dropped 6 percent to
$28.94, the lowest close this year.  Record high tourists during the Chinese New Year may not
result in better budget hotel performance in February, as “most
leisure travelers were unlikely to travel long distance
domestically owing to cold weather, shortage of transportation
capacity and holiday customs,”  Tian X. Hou , the founder of T.H.
Capital LLC who has a hold rating on the stocks, wrote in an e-
mailed note yesterday.  Sina Gains  7 Days Group Holdings Ltd., the Guangzhou-based company
that announced a  going-private plan  in September, added 2.2
percent to $12.77, the highest close since April 2012.  Sina’s shares climbed 5.4 percent to $56.35 in New York,
the biggest gain since Dec. 17. The shares have rallied 12
percent this year.  The Shanghai-based company said  first-quarter sales  at
Sina, which also owns an online news portal, is expected to
range from $115 million to $119 million, representing at least
an 8 percent growth from a year earlier, according to a Feb. 19
statement. That compared with the $117.4 million average
estimate of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg before the
release.  Registered users for Sina’s Twitter-like Weibo service
increased 73 percent from a year earlier to 503 million by the
end of 2012 and daily active users rose 82 percent to 46.2
million, Chief Executive Officer  Charles Chao  said on a
conference call on Feb. 19.  ‘Sounded Positive’  “The management sounded positive on Weibo’s trajectory,”
 Andy Yeung , a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. who
rates the stock the equivalent of buy, wrote in an e-mailed note
yesterday.  Vipshop, the Guangzhou-based company that runs a discount
online store for luxury-brand fashion, lost 4.2 percent to
$23.36, extending is decline into a fourth day. The company is
scheduled to report fourth-quarter result today after the close
of U.S. trading.  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd. , an automation system
maker based in Beijing, jumped 4.4 percent to $13.47 in New
York, the highest price since April 2011. The stock’s price
target was raised to $15 from $13 at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Trading volume on its shares was 4.3 times the daily average
over the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Hollysys said sales in the 2013 fiscal year will be as much
as $410 million and adjusted profit is expected to reach $67
million, according to a Feb. 19 statement.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  added 1.4 percent to
11,683.04, rebounding from this year’s low, while the Shanghai
Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares climbed 0.6 percent
to 2,397.18, after a two-day decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  